08 July 2020||VIJAITA SINGH,||Army pulls back 1.5 km from clash site||Indian troops have moved back 1.5 km from the site of the June 15 clash at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, creating a buffer zone, which will be off-limits for foot patrolling by them for the next 30 days, a senior government official has told The Hindu . This is as per the agreement reached during the Corps Commander-level talks on June 30. According to a defence source, the Chinese have fully moved out of the Patrol Point 14 area, the clash site, and thinning down of troops is under way at Hot Springs and Gogra, which could take two or three days to complete. Marginal at Pangong Tso However, sources termed the disengagement by China at Pangong Tso as marginal. “At Galwan, only 30 people on each side are deployed now; the distance between them is 3.6-4 km, the agreed buffer zone. The primary objective of the first phase of disengagement was to have no eyeball-to-eyeball positions, which has been achieved through this arrangement. The next layer of deployment of 50 personnel on each side is about 1 km further behind. Within 6 km, there are just 80 people on both sides,” the official said. The Indian Army, which used to patrol till Patrol Point 14 until the recent stand-off, could lose that right if a final solution is not found, said an official. The official said this was a cause of concern as the Chinese had entered well within the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The defence source cited above said that the initial process of disengagement at several places and the verification is expected to take two weeks, stating that it is going to be a long process for full disengagement. Another round of talks will be held after that to take the process forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-pulls-back-15-km-from-clash-site/article32017552.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE reduces syllabus by 30%||The Central Board of Secondary Education has reduced syllabi for Classes 9 to 12 by 30% this year as the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted regular classes. However, core concepts will be retained, Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Tuesday. The CBSE has advised school principals and teachers to ensure that “the topics that have been reduced are also explained to the students to the extent required to connect different topics. However, the reduced syllabus will not be part of the topics for internal assessment and year-end Board examination,” an official statement said. The National Council of Educational Research and Training has provided inputs on strategies to teach this curriculum, given the disruptions to regular classroom teaching caused by the pandemic. The council has also prepared an alternative academic calendar for Classes 1 to 12 to support pedagogy in affiliated schools. In June, Mr. Nishank invited suggestions for syllabus rationalisation from educationists. More than 1,500 suggestions were received. The final changes have been finalised by the respective course committees of the CBSE, with the approval of its Curriculum Committee and Governing Body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbse-reduces-syllabus-by-30/article32017550.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre to lay down vaccine trial norms||The government is readying a document that will lay down guidelines for companies and institutions working on potential COVID-19 vaccines. The COVID-19 pandemic has prompted regulators across the world to issue emergency use authorisation for certain drugs and trials on potential vaccines to accelerate the approval process without compromising on objectively assessing whether the potential vaccine or investigational drug provides some additional benefit or reprieve over being defenceless. “There is likely to be a guidance document for COVID vaccines in a couple of days issued by the Central Drug Standards and Control Organisation,” said Renu Swarup, Secretary in the Department of Biotechnology. There are five promising candidate vaccines from India, including Covaxin from Bharat Biotech and one from Zydus Cadilla, which were cleared by the Drug Controller General of India for early human trials. Trials under way in India were “adaptive” trials, Ms. Swarup said. “The guidance document outlines how to maintain rigour while also fast-tracking the process,” Ms. Swarup told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-to-lay-down-vaccine-trial-norms/article32017549.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,||CBI agrees to take over probe into custodial deaths||The Central Bureau of Investigation has consented to taking over the inquiry into the sensational case of the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj, 58, and his son J. Benicks, 31, in Sattankulam. Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy confirmed that a formal communication had been received from the Centre in this regard after the Tamil Nadu government issued an order transferring the case to the CBI for investigation. The Crime Branch-CID, which has been investigating the incident, will hand over the case to the central agency. The CB-CID has arrested five suspects, including the then Sattankulam inspector Sridhar and two sub-inspectors — Raghu Ganesh and Balakrishnan — so far. The agency has also made some seizures and recorded the statements of eyewitnesses and others with knowledge of the events that took place after the arrests of Jayaraj and his son on the night of June 19. Fake news Meanwhile, the CB-CID, in a note, said that a lot of fake news regarding the custodial deaths was being circulated on social media platforms in recent days. It said Anbazhagan, the editor of an online portal, had published photographs of bodies with cuts on the chest, neck and other areas, claiming that the bodies were of Jayaraj and Benicks. Following the registration of a case, he appeared for an inquiry at the CB-CID headquarters on July 6. ‘Sourced via WhatsApp’ A press release said he had confessed to having obtained the photographs through a WhatsApp group and having published them without checking if they were genuine. “Publishing of fake news in any medium will hamper the investigation, and has the potential to create law and order problems. It is also seen that malicious and fake news and photographs are being posted and circulated on social media by individuals and groups without checking or knowing the facts. Strict action will be taken as per law against all those circulating and posting such false information,” the note added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-agrees-to-take-over-probe-into-custodial-deaths/article32017644.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Expert committee gives nod to online learning, sets norms||The 14-member expert committee formed by the State government to look into the modalities of online learning submitted its report on Tuesday, allowing both live as well as pre-recorded classes, but with caveats and guidelines. The government will study the report and take a call on the matter. The report titled, ‘Continuation of Learning in School Education of Karnataka’, bats for mandatory parental supervision for students up to class two. Screen time The maximum screen time recommended per session is 30 minutes, but 15 minutes extra will be allowed for students from class six and above. The report also specifies the frequency of classes that can be held every week and the maximum number of sessions per day. It suggests that schools can conduct classes on alternate days for students up to class two. For higher grades — three and above — online classes can be conducted five days a week. At the same time, the report states, “Two days of the week should be strictly non-screen time.” While schools can conduct up to four sessions a day for students in class nine and ten, they can conduct only three daily sessions for those in class six to eight. It recommends two online sessions of 30 minutes each for students in class one to five. The committee has also recommended that access to recordings of live sessions should be provided with adequate cyber protection to prevent any misuse. Inclusive approach Although it has come up with guidelines for online classes, the committee has said that schools should adopt a “blended” approach and use different modes of teaching. “When technology is used, no child must be deprived of access to education – if a child, for whatever reason, is unable to access through technology, the school should provide ways in which the key learning objectives of that session/module is accessible to the child,” the report states. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said, “We will study the recommendations of the report. We are also waiting for the High Court verdict on the same. Based on it, we will decide the next course of action.” The State government had banned online classes till class five. The department later permitted online classes temporarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/expert-committee-gives-nod-to-online-learning-sets-norms/article32017596.ece
08 July 2020||Kolkata,||State to impose strict lockdown from July 9||Battling a surge in COVID-19 cases and deaths, the West Bengal government on Tuesday decided to impose a strict lockdown from 5 p.m. on July 9 in containment zones and buffer zones after merging them. “These broader containment zones may be subjected to strict lockdown,” State Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said in an order addressed to officials, including district magistrates, the municipal commissioner of Kolkata and the city police commissioner. The lockdown will impose tough restrictions on the functioning of government and private offices, non-essential activities, public gatherings, transportation and marketing of goods, and industrial and trading activities. The order said, “Residents of containment zones may be exempted and prohibited from attending government and private offices. In fact, their ingress and egress may be strictly regulated.” The order said local authorities could make arrangements to home deliver essentials to residents of containment zones. Firhad Hakim, chairman of the board of administrators, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), said there was an urgent need to restrict movement of people, particularly in markets. According to the KMC, 33 areas have been declared as containment zones based on the tally of cases in these areas between June 22 and July 4. A total shutdown will also be imposed in parts of Englishbazar in Malda district, and Barrackpore and Bidhnanagar police commisionerates in North 24 Parganas district. Earlier, State BJP president Dilip Ghosh raised concerns over the State government’s approach in dealing with the pandemic. “The novel coronavirus cases are rising at a rate of 1,000 a day. Yesterday, the number of deaths was 22, but the government is only allowing more relaxations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-impose-strict-lockdown-from-july-9/article32017921.ece
08 July 2020||GUNTUR,||30 lakh people to get house site pattas on August 15: Jagan||Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday said over 30 lakh people living Below Poverty Line would be given house site pattas on Independence Day. “This Independence Day will be unique as lakhs of poor families will be given freedom as they will become owners of house sites. They will be freed from years of oppression and constant insecurity. I am happy that these 30 lakh people will be owning properties worth Rs. 20,000 crore,” he said. The Chief Minister said the distribution of house site pattas should have taken place on July 8, coinciding with the 71st birth anniversary of his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, but a slew of cases filed by Opposition parties in the Supreme Court delayed the programme. The apex court had not disposed of the cases due to the COVID -19 situation. “We could have given D-pattas, assigned lands to the poor but that would force them to run around courts to dispose them of. I have asked my officers to ensure that only registered lands are allotted to the poor,” he said. The government had purchased 62,000 acres of land at a cost of Rs. 7,500 crore.. This was in contrast to the TDP government which had claimed that it would construct 7 lakh houses, but ended up building only 3 lakh, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30-lakh-people-to-get-house-site-pattas-on-aug-15-jagan/article32017486.ece
08 July 2020||Pune,||State hits 2.17 lakh cases but hope floats in capital||Maharashtra recorded 5,134 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, pushing its cumulative tally to 2,17,121. The State also reported 224 more fatalities, taking its death toll to 9,250. Mumbai, however, saw an improvement with just 785 new cases being recorded, taking its case load to 86,509. With 64 more deaths, the city’s death toll has touched 5,002. Of the total cases, 89,294 are active ones in the State, while the figure is 23,359 in Mumbai. State Health Department officials said 3,296 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the tally of recoveries to 1,18,558. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said that the State’s recovery rate stands at 54.6%, while its case fatality is 4.26%. Pune district reported more than 550 new cases as its total case tally reached 30,131. As many as 37 deaths were reported from Pune, taking the district’s toll to 926. Of the case tally, 14,892 are active ones, according to State health officials. The Pune district administration, however, said only 11,135 cases are active. Surges in deaths were also reported from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Thane reported 20 more deaths, pushing its toll to 599, while Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 13 fatalities as its death toll rose to 161. Mira-Bhayander reported 11 deaths, taking its total to 179. Thirteen more deaths were reported from Nashik, a hotspot in north Maharashtra, pushing the district’s death toll to 255. Nashik district saw a surge of 338 cases, taking its total cases to 5,816. Spikes in cases were reported across the MMR. Thane reported 528 new cases to take the district’s total tally soaring over 19,000, while Kalyan-Dombivli reported 389 new cases, pushing its total case tally to 11,243. Navi Mumbai added 126 fresh cases, taking its cumulative case tally to 9,426. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar recorded sharp spikes as well, reporting 140 and 157 cases, respectively, to take their tallies to 4,995 and 6,474, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-hits-217-lakh-cases-but-hope-floats-in-capital/article32017997.ece
08 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Highest single-day spike with 272 new cases||Kerala on Tuesday recorded the highest single-day spike with 272 new cases ever since the COVID-19 outbreak. However, more than the number of new cases, it is the rising trend in cases occurring in the community through local transmission that is ringing the alarm bells as far as the Health Department is concerned. On Tuesday, the number of cases reported in the community through local transmission was 77. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan confirmed that at least 15 of these cases had no known source of infection. These cases also include the infection reported in seven health-care workers, including doctors, one Central Industrial Security Force jawan, and one from the Defence Security Corps in Kannur. The rest of the 195 new cases are all imported. Worsening situation Justifying the concern expressed by the Chief Minister about the worsening situation in the capital district, 47 of these local transmission cases, including that of five health-care workers, have been reported in Thiruvananthapuram. The district also has the second highest caseload of the day with a total of 54 new cases. The disease is spreading fast and wild in the coastal area of Poonthura in the capital, with 22 cases reported on Tuesday. Mr. Vijayan warned that the epidemic was reaching a stage wherein the disease transmission was fast and intense and that it was the laxity on the part of the people as far as the safety precautions or physical distancing were concerned which was now turning the situation worse. On Tuesday, with 111 recoveries, the number of active cases in the State stood at 2,411. A total of 5,894 people have tested positive for COVID-19 till date in the State and there have been 3,454 recoveries so far. Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases on Tuesday with 63 cases, followed by Thiruvananthapuram (54), Palakkad (29), Ernakulam (21), Kannur (19), Alappuzha (18), Kozhikode (15), Kasaragod (13), Pathanamthitta (12), Kollam (11), Thrissur (10), Kottayam (3), Wayanad (3) and Idukki (1). Eighteen new regions were newly designated as hotspots on Tuesday. The number of hotspots in the State now is 169.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highest-single-day-spike-with-272-new-cases/article32017864.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Family waiting to bury woman learns she has already been cremated||The family members of a 35-year-old woman who died of complications related to COVID-19 were in for a shock on Tuesday when they saw someone else’s body at the graveyard. The body was allegedly brought from the AIIMS Trauma Centre. The family has lodged a complaint at Safdarjung Enclave police station, alleging negligence on the part of the hospital. A senior police officer said they are looking into the matter. AIIMS Trauma Centre Public Relations Officer B.N. Acharya, when contacted, said he was still ascertaining the facts of the matter at the time of filing of this report. Came from Bareilly Sharif Khan, 22, a resident of Bareilly, said his sister Anjum was suffering from jaundice for a fortnight and when her condition worsened, he brought her to Delhi and got her admitted to the AIIMS Trauma Centre on Saturday. “The next day, they told me she was COVID-19-positive and on Monday night, they said she was dead and asked me to take her body the next morning.” Around 7 a.m. on Tuesday, Mr. Sharif reached the hospital’s mortuary where the staff allegedly told him to book a place in the graveyard so that they could bring the body. “We went to the graveyard at ITO and completed the preparations. Two persons came to the graveyard with the body,” he said. The brother went close to the body to see the face. “I couldn’t believe my eyes. It wasn’t Anjum’s body but of a woman named Kusum Lata,” he said. The ambulance staff told him “there might have been a mix-up” and left with the body, promising to return in an hour. “I kept waiting but they did not come. When I called, they gave me excuses. It was then that I called the police and reached the mortuary,” said Mr. Sharif. The brother was allegedly informed at the hospital that Anjum’s body had been cremated by the family of the woman whose body he saw at the graveyard. “I had called Anjum’s children [two sons and a daughter] to see their mother for the last time and they couldn’t even do that,” he said. This is the second incident of bodies being swapped at a hospital. In June first week, the body of a man named Moinuddin was allegedly swapped with that of a namesake at Lok Nayak Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/family-waiting-to-bury-woman-learns-she-has-already-been-cremated/article32017744.ece
08 July 2020||Kolkata,||25 die of COVID-19||West Bengal recorded 25 more COVID-19 fatalities in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s death toll to 804. While 10 deaths were reported in Kolkata, nine were reported from North 24 Parganas district. The State also recorded 850 new cases in the past 24 hours. Of the total case tally, 7,243 are active. The testing rate in the State remains low, with only 10,130 tests being conducted in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/25-die-of-covid-19/article32017920.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Rahul Gandhi questions govt.||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi asked why India did not insist on restoring status quo ante and mention sovereignty over the Galwan Valley and allowed China to “justify” the clash.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rahul-gandhi-questions-govt/article32017546.ece
08 July 2020||Mumbai,||Only one new case in Dharavi||Dharavi reported only one new COVID-19 case on Tuesday, taking its tally to 2,335. The last time the area recorded a single new case was on April 5. The civic body said there are only 352 active cases in Dharavi, while 1,735 patients have been discharged so far. The first case in Dharavi was reported on April 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-one-new-case-in-dharavi/article32017998.ece
08 July 2020||Kolkata,||Bangladeshis caught crossing India border in goods trains||Over the past two weeks, the Border Security Force (BSF) personnel have intercepted six people trying to cross the India-Bangladesh border by travelling on goods trains. Checks were stepped up after a 12-year-old Bangladeshi boy was rescued at Petrapole from an empty goods train on June 22. Though passenger train services remain suspended, goods trains have been allowed to run through Petrapole and Benapole, the border checkpoints on the Indian and the Bangladeshi sides respectively. “Six Bangladeshi nationals have been apprehended by the BSF personnel in five incidents since June 20. Two of them were below 18 years of age and were being brought by human trafficking brokers to India, but were caught. Three Bangladeshi nationals were hiding in mirchi (red chilli) bags in a cargo train going to Bangladesh,” S.S. Guleria, DIG and public relations officer, South Bengal Frontier of the BSF, told The Hindu.  Meanwhile, trade between the two countries through Petrapole has resumed. “Today, 250 trucks from our side and 50 trucks from Bangladesh entered either country,” Mr. Guleria said. The BSF has also increased its vigil over cattle smuggling. “Every year, incidents of animal trafficking increase along the border before Eid,” the South Bengal frontier of the BSF said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bangladeshis-caught-crossing-india-border-in-goods-trains/article32017922.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||12 LG Polymers officials arrested||A day after the High Power Committee (HPC) submitted its report to Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the LG Polymers styrene monomer vapour leak incident, 12 officials of the South Korea-based chemical company were arrested by the police here on Tuesday. The arrested included Sunkey Jeong Managing Director and CEO; D.S. Kim Technical Director; P.P. Chandra Mohan Rao, Additional Director, and nine others, said Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena. It may be recalled that styrene monomer vapour leaked from a storage tank on May 7, killing 12 persons and hospitalising over 550. The Andhra Pradesh government had formed a HPC to probe the incident and the committee, after a detailed inquiry, submitted a report to the Chief Minister on Monday. The 4000-page report found fault with the functioning of the company and stated that human negligence and serious lapses in safety and security had led to the accident. “Poor design of the storage tank, inadequate refrigeration and faulty cooling system, absence of circulation and mixing systems, inadequate measures and parameters, poor safety protocol, inadequate safety awareness were found to be reasons that led to the accident,” the panel said. Accepting the report, Mr. Jagan Reddy ordered necessary legal action against those responsible under relevant Sections. Tuesday’s arrest appears to be fallout of that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/12-officials-of-lg-polymers-arrested/article32017498.ece
08 July 2020||BENGALURU,||Govt. to allow ‘permanent grant’ of leased land||In yet another controversial move, the cash-strapped State government has decided to raise resources by allowing “permanent grant” of its land leased out to various private organisations by prescribing rates on a par with the guidance value or higher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-allow-permanent-grant-of-leased-land/article32017592.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,||HC notice to IRDAI on insurance for seniors||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday ordered issue of notices to the central and State governments and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) on a PIL petition seeking measure for medical insurance for senior citizens either free of cost or at affordable rates, including for COVID-19 treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-notice-to-irdai-on-insurance-for-seniors/article32017593.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Newborns bring cheer to COVID-19 ward||A total of 49 babies were born at the Trauma and Emergency Care Centre (TECC) located on the Victoria Hospital premises, from May 8 till July 7. Although the State-run Vani Vilas hospital, a speciality maternity facility, is located adjacent to the TECC, it is not a designated COVID-19 facility. Hence, COVID-19 positive pregnant women admitted at TECC have given birth at the centre itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/newborns-bring-cheer-to-covid-19-ward/article32017595.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||G.V.K. Reddy faces ED case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a money laundering case against G.V.K. Reddy, promoter of GVK Group and whole-time director of Mumbai International Airport Ltd., and others in connection with alleged loss of about Rs. 705 crore to the exchequer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gvk-reddy-faces-ed-case/article32018001.ece
08 July 2020||Mumbai,||Revenue from excise duty drops by 50%||The Maharashtra government has earned only Rs. 2,400 crore through excise duty since May 4, which is almost 50% lesser than the expected revenue during this period. As per data from the Excise Department, ever since the lockdown was announced in March, the State has lost Rs. 7,000 crore in revenue. Since May 15, when the government allowed home delivery of liquor, 29,88,090 deliveries have been completed across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/revenue-from-excise-duty-drops-by-50/article32018000.ece
08 July 2020||Pune,||‘Oxford COVID-19 vaccine at least six months away’||The Oxford COVID-19 vaccine is at least six months away from its launch, said Adar Poonawalla, CEO of the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), on Tuesday, adding that SII would not rush until the vaccine was tested on humans for safety and efficacy. The Oxford COVID-19 vaccine trial is currently in its Phase 3 or human trial stage, and will be administered to around 8,000 people in the U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oxford-covid-19-vaccine-at-least-six-months-away/article32017999.ece
08 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||Bidar dist. reports four deaths, Kalaburagi two||Bidar reported four COVID-19 deaths and and Kalaburagi two on Tuesday, taking the toll to 48 in Bidar and 29 in Kalaburagi. As per a bulletin, five of the six people who died in the two districts were aged over 60. The other victim was a 40-year-old with liver cirrhosis. Meanwhile, Kalaburagi district reported 51 new cases taking the total number of infected persons to 1,750. Bidar reported 51 new cases taking the total number of infected persons to 850. Ballari reported 45 new cases taking the total to 1,388.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bidar-dist-reports-four-deaths-kalaburagi-two/article32017783.ece
08 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||57 new cases in Dharwad||North Karnataka continued to register an increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases with three districts crossing the half-century mark on Tuesday. Dharwad district recorded the highest number of cases in a single day on Tuesday with 57 cases, Uttara Kannada recorded 35, Bagalkot 26, Raichur 23, Vijayapura 22, Belagavi 20, Yadgir 10, Haveri six and Gadag four.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/57-new-cases-in-dharwad/article32017784.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC asks for probe records in Vinod Dua case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Himachal Pradesh police to hand over the complete records of its investigation into the sedition case against senior journalist and Padma Shri awardee Vinod Dua.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-asks-for-probe-records-in-vinod-dua-case/article32017748.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘New Parliament should be visible from roads’||The new Parliament building should be visible from the adjoining roads with public art installed at the corner of the plot and a multilevel parking structure nearby should be considered, the Delhi Urban Art Commission observed while approving the proposal last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-parliament-should-be-visible-from-roads/article32017747.ece
08 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||IPS officer seeks probe into slain CO’s complaint||A senior IPS officer in U.P. on Tuesday demanded a “high-level and immediate” probe into the alleged report against the Chaubeypur SHO submitted to the then district police chief by Circle Officer Devendra Mishra, who was killed last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ips-officer-seeks-probe-into-slain-cos-complaint/article32017746.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi gets respite as active COVID cases fall||Delhi, which saw nearly 4,000 new COVID-19 cases on June 23, reported below 3,000 cases for the 11th consecutive day on Tuesday. Of the total 1,02,831 cases, 74,217 have recovered and 25,449 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-gets-respite-as-active-covid-cases-fall/article32017749.ece
08 July 2020||TIRUCHI,||Police rule out rape in minor girl’s death||The Tiruchi rural police on Tuesday ruled out rape in the death of a 14-year-old schoolgirl, whose partially charred body was found at Adhavathurpalayam on Monday, even as they were investigating the other angles in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-rule-out-rape-in-minor-girls-death/article32017696.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,||There may not be another lockdown: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami hinted that there may not be another lockdown, putting the onus on the public to adhere to safety norms to prevent the transmission of COVID-19. “I think there is no chance for it. It is completely in the hands of the people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/there-may-not-be-another-lockdown-cm/article32017640.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Government set to sign 20 more MoUs soon||The State government will soon sign 20 MoUs with various firms, according to Industries Minister M.C. Sampath. The Minister said the government is taking steps to address problems faced by the MSMEs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/government-set-to-sign-20-more-mous-soon/article32017642.ece
08 July 2020||Chennai,||3,616 test positive for COVID-19 in the State||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday saw a marginal dip in the number of fresh infections, with 3,616 persons testing positive for COVID-19. Chennai, in parti- cular, continued to witness a fall in new cases, compared to the previous days, while the cases remained high in districts, especially Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3616-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-the-state/article32017639.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Corporation drive to rescue homeless people||The Greater Chennai Corporation has launched a drive to rescue homeless people to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among them. Officials said they had rescued 24 homeless persons so far and taken them to a shelter on Wall Tax Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corporation-drive-to-rescue-homeless-people/article32017641.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||We can’t let pandemic stop us: Vardhan||India had supplied hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to more than 100 countries till now, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday. “We cannot let the pandemic stop us,” he said. Dr. Vardhan made the remarks during a discussion with Swedish Minister for Health and Social Affairs Lena Hallengren on the status and containment measures for COVID-19 in the two countries, and the future vision for handling the virus. Dr. Vardhan said India currently had a recovery rate of more than 61% and a mortality rate of as low as 2.78% in spite of being a country of 1.35 billion. “India has rather used the novel coronavirus outbreak as an opportunity. From January 8, one day after China alerted the world to the novel pathogen, the government has coordinated among its different branches for point-of-entry surveillance at sea and land ports, and airports. It strengthened its community surveillance, issued detailed health and travel advisories, and also evacuated thousands of citizens and foreign nationals too. India now has over 100 PPE [personal protective equipment] manufacturing units manufacturing 5 lakh PPE a day and has also similarly ramped up its production of N95 masks and ventilators,” he noted. The Union Health Ministry said that early detection and timely effective clinical management of COVID-19 cases had resulted in increasing daily recoveries. India was now working on ramping up hospital infrastructure to adequately and effectively manage the COVID cases load. “Preparedness included arrangement of oxygen support, ICU and ventilator facilities, and as on July 7, there are 1,201 dedicated COVID hospitals, 2,611 dedicated COVID healthcare centres and 9,909 COVID care centres to look after patients from those with very severe to very mild symptoms,” the Ministry stated. Reusable masks It added that people have been advised to wear at least home-made, reusable face-cover/mask properly and at all times when interacting with others. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that in the last 24 hours, 2,41,430 samples had been tested and the country currently has a testing lab network of 1,115 labs, including 793 in the government sector and 322 private ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-cant-let-pandemic-stop-us-vardhan/article32017522.ece
08 July 2020||Mumbai,||NRIs desperate to return to work in UAE||Hundreds of non-resident Indians (NRIs) working in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and stuck in India for over three months due to the prolonged lockdown and suspension of regular air services have urged the government to allow them to fly out urgently to join work, failing which they could be rendered jobless. They have appealed to the Indian government to settle differences with the UAE and allow limited charter flights so that they can save their jobs. Following the UAE’s objection to Air India, India’s national carrier, flying UAE-bound passengers in outgoing Vande Bharat repatriation flights, the Indian Ministry of Civil Aviation banned UAE-based airlines from operating chartered flights to India. The UAE government has announced a policy by which Indian nationals can fly into the UAE only through the UAE’s national carriers, which has not been accepted by India. A query to the Ministry of Civil Aviation on the likely timeline for the resumption of normal flights and the reason to ban chartered flights from the UAE remained unanswered.  Since March 2020, a lot of people who had visited India for various reasons have not been able to get back to work overseas, and many remain separated from their families. Many of them have already overshot their return dates. As offices in the UAE have started functioning normally, people are afraid of losing their jobs and visas. Prashant Krishnan, 44, originally from Kerala, said, “We had come here [to India] in early March and were to return on March 21, but just two days before, on March 19, the UAE suspended all its flights [India suspended all international flights from March 23]. Like us, over 1,000 people who have been cleared by the UAE to return are affected. The UAE is ready to take us but our government is not allowing [us to leave]. People are suffering without money.”  Families separated Sindhu Nirmalan, 51, also from Kerala, said, “Please keep aside the differences and help people leave. While coming [from Dubai], we brought our 18-month-old granddaughter, who is stuck here without her mother for nearly four months.” Similarly, Dr. Mariam Zainab is seeking to return as she needs to appear in an examination in the UAE. “The charter flights are very expensive. Only those who could afford it paid up to Rs. 2 lakh to fly in a private charter aircraft. The whole world is opening up. The Indian government should open up airports responsibly to allow us go and join work,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nris-desperate-to-return-to-work-in-uae/article32017541.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Top priority’ to complete strategic roads||Defence Minister Rajanth Singh on Tuesday directed the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) that work on the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi (DSDBO) road be completed by October, a defence source said. This was conveyed at a meeting to review the progress of the construction activities in the border areas with BRO Director-General Lieutenant General Harpal Singh. “On the 255-km Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi (DSDBO) road, the ongoing construction is almost done. About 45 km of black topping work is pending. Mr. Singh conveyed that this has to be completed by October,” the source said. Stating that an alternative route is also being made here, the source said there was full focus on connectivity, terming it a “top priority”. China has been objecting to Indian road and infrastructure development at several points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). A road branching from the DSDBO road towards the Galwan Nalah is believed to be one of the reasons for their objections here. In May, as the stand-off was under way, the BRO began efforts to fully resume construction work on all roads delayed due to the pandemic. It is also building the 61 strategic Indo-China Border Roads (ICBRs), measuring 3,323.57 km, under the direction of the China Study Group (CSG). In March, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence was informed that the BRO has completed 75% of the construction work on the 61 Indo-China Border Roads (ICBRs). Of these, 12 roads measuring about 1,064 km, are in the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, while three roads measuring about 62 km are in Sikkim. Expeditious clearance The BRO has executed 30% more works in the Financial Year (FY) 2019-20 as compared to FY 2018-19, the Defence Ministry said in a statement. “Despite the unprecedented snowfall, breaking a 60-year-old record, all strategic passes and roads were cleared this year for traffic about one month before their average yearly opening dates,” it said. The BRO executed snow clearance works on 149 roads (3,965 km) in all border States, which ensured rapid and early movement of troops and logistics to forward areas, it said. The Ministry said the BRO has also inducted the latest equipment to expedite work on surfacing with cement base, use of plastics, geotextiles and various techniques for slope stabilisation. Trials have also been carried out successfully for indigenously produced modular bridges in collaboration with the Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE), the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/top-priority-to-complete-strategic-roads/article32017507.ece
08 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Highest single-day spike in Kerala at 272 cases||It was another single-day high for new COVID-19 cases in Kerala on Tuesday as 272 people tested positive. The rising trend in community-linked transmission rang alarm bells for the Health Department. On Tuesday, there were 77 such cases reported in the community. Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, confirmed that at least 15 cases had no known source of infection. These included seven health-care workers, including doctors, one CISF jawan, and one from the Defence Security Corps in Kannur. The rest of the 195 new cases were imported. Confirming the concerns, 47 local transmission cases, including that of five health-care workers, were from Thiruvananthapuram. The district also had the second highest case load with 54 new positive results. The virus was spreading fast in the coastal Poonthura area in the capital, with 22 new cases. Mr. Vijayan said the epidemic was reaching a stage of fast disease transmission and that it was the general laxity among people on safety precautions and physical distancing that was making the situation worse. On Tuesday, with 111 recoveries, active cases in Kerala stood at 2,411. A total of 5,894 people tested positive till date and there were 3,454 recoveries. Malappuram reported the highest new cases at 63, followed by Thiruvananthapuram (54), Palakkad (29), Ernakulam (21), Kannur (19), Alappuzha (18), Kozhikode (15), Kasaragod (13), Pathanamthitta (12), Kollam (11), Thrissur (10), Kottayam (3), Wayanad (3) and Idukki (1). Persons under State surveillance and quarantine stood at 1,83,576 of whom, 3,034 with mild COVID-like symptoms were isolated in hospitals. Also, 7,516 samples were tested in 24 hours. Andhra Pradesh reported 13 new deaths and 1,178 fresh cases, taking the death toll to 252 and the tally to 21,197 on Tuesday. The Health Department said 825 persons had recovered. The new deaths occurred in Kurnool (4), Anantapur (3), Chittoor (2), Visakhapatnam (2), Prakasam (1) and West Godavari (1). Of the cumulative tally, 18,520 were locals and the remaining imported cases including 2,257 of other State returnees and 420 of foreign returnees. Guntur district reported 238 fresh local cases. Next was Anantapur with 153 fresh cases. They were followed by Visakhapatnam (123), East Godavari (112), Srikakulam (104), Krishna (100), Kurnool (84), Chittoor (66), West Godavari (49), Nellore (39), Vizianagaram (30), Prakasam (29) and Kadapa (28). The tally in Karnataka rose with 1,498 new cases, the total touching 26,815. Of this 11,098 were discharged. With 15 more deaths, the toll touched 416 apart. Bengaluru Urban recorded a rise with more 800 patients testing positive, and raising total cases to 11,361.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/highest-single-day-spike-in-kerala-at-272-cases/article32017505.ece
08 July 2020||Pune,||‘Oxford vaccine at least 6 months away’||The Oxford COVID-19 vaccine is at least six months away from its launch, said Adar Poonawalla, CEO of the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Tuesday, adding that SII would not rush until the vaccine was tested on humans for safety and efficacy. “Recently, there was news about a vaccine candidate [referring to Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin being pushed by the Indian Council of Medical Research] being rushed to expedite the vaccine testing process... We are in no such hurry. It will be at least six months until we launch our vaccine,” said Mr. Poonawalla, emphasising that SII’s objective was to provide a safe and efficient vaccine. The Oxford COVID-19 vaccine trial is currently in its Phase 3 or human trial stage, and will be administered to around 8,000 people in the U.K. Mr. Poonawalla was speaking at the unveiling of the Pune-based molecular diagnostics company Mylab’s ‘Compact XL’ — touted as India’s first fully-automated Sample-to-PCR-ready system for molecular diagnostics. The machine is designed to automate lab operations from sample handling to RT-PCR ready tube preparation, and perform these operations on a single, compact bench-top machine. ‘Not testing enough’ The SII CEO further called on the Central government to have a rethink on its testing policy. “We are certainly not testing enough. The government has placed a number of barriers for testing, like securing a doctor’s prescription or telling asymptomatic patients that they had no business getting tested. We feel the government should review its policy on this,” Mr. Poonawalla said. He further urged the Central government to allow exports of test kits after building sufficient buffer, remarking that entrepreneurs had moved so fast with these capacities that there was no place to sell them. In April this year, Mylab Discovery Solutions, which became the first indigenous manufacturer to secure commercial approval for deploying its kits for COVID-19 testing, had tied up with SII and AP Globale to escalate the delivery of these kits to combat the contagion. While Mylab — which is offering its test kit at less than Rs. 1,000 — has the capacity to produce about two million RT-PCR test kits per week, it is producing less than half owing to the low rate of testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oxford-vaccine-at-least-6-months-away/article32017530.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. stance on CAATSA unchanged||Despite a change in the ground realities following the deadly clash between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) last month, the U.S’s message to countries, including India, on sanctions for the purchase of Russian arms has not changed. This message was reiterated in the context of India’s planned jet fighter deal with Russia at an estimated Rs. 18,148 crore. “We urge all of our allies and partners to forgo transactions with Russia that risk triggering sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA),” a State Department spokesperson told The Hindu . Last week, the Defence Acquisition Council approved the procurement of 21 MiG-29 fighter jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF), an upgrade for 59 of these Russian aircraft and the acquisition of 12 Su-30 MKI aircraft. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had discussed defence cooperation with Russia while on a visit to Moscow two weeks ago. The State Department spokesperson said a decision had not been made regarding the specific transaction. “We are aware of reports regarding India’s planned defense purchase from Russia. We cannot prejudge whether a specific transaction would result in sanctions. The Secretary of State has not made any determination regarding the significance of any transaction involving India.” The statement was made in response to a query from The Hindu on whether the U.S. position had shifted due to the conflict between India and China. “There are strict criteria for considering a waiver, and each transaction is evaluated on a case by case basis,” an unnamed State Department official told Janes (a defence and security magazine) on June 26. ‘Monitoring situation’ The U.S. was continuing to “closely monitor” the situation and supported a “peaceful resolution”, the spokesperson said. The U.S. itself has become increasingly wary of China, with which it has an extensive but increasingly strained economic relationship. Two American aircraft carriers recently entered the South China Sea and conducted exercises on July 4, the U.S. Independence Day. “Our military might stands strong and will continue to stand strong, whether it’s in relationship to a conflict between India and China or anywhere else,” White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows told Fox News on July 6. Indian and U.S. bureaucrats are scheduled to meet at the India-U.S. Foreign Office Consultations on Tuesday afternoon (India time). The CAATSA issue was not on the agenda, but the U.S. was free to raise any issues, said an Indian official. The U.S. President was given the authority in 2018 to waive CAATSA sanctions on a case by case basis for fiscal year 2019. However, U.S. officials have repeatedly stated that India should not assume it will get a waiver. These remarks were made in the context of India’s planned purchase of the S-400 Triumf missile defence system from Russia for about $5 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-stance-on-caatsa-unchanged/article32017516.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||Jairam urges Venkaiah to conduct panel meet online||In a renewed demand for holding meetings of parliamentary standing committees through videoconference, Chairman of the Standing Committee on Science and Technology and Congress leader Jairam Ramesh wrote to Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu asking for a virtual sitting of the committee. The committee on Petroleum, headed by BJP MP Ramesh Bhiduri, met on Tuesday. The panel on Science and Technology is scheduled to hold a meeting on July 10 to deliberate on the “preparedness to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic”. The meeting so far has not been cancelled or deferred. Only two members have confirmed attendance. “I am doubtful if we can muster up a quorum,” Mr. Ramesh wrote to Mr. Naidu. But every member, irrespective of party affiliation, has asked for a virtual sitting of the committee, he said. Both Houses of Parliament have emphatically ruled out holding virtual standing committee meetings, claiming that the process violates the confidentiality norm. And the meetings can be held virtually, only if the relevant rules of procedure are amended with the approval of both Houses. This however, can be done only when Parliament meets. Mr. Bhiduri told The Hindu that 14 out of the 31 members of the panel on Petroleum attended the Tuesday meeting. Out of these, though the majority were from the BJP, one each from the SP, the BSP and the AAP attended the meeting. Many of the members from the southern States could not manage to join the meeting. Meanwhile, the Standing Committee on Home Affairs is scheduled to meet on July 15. Its earlier meeting was cancelled due to unavailability of members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jairam-urges-venkaiah-to-conduct-panel-meet-online/article32017535.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Demolition of old secretariat begins in Telangana||The stage is being set for commencement of works on the new Secretariat complex as the demolition of the old Secretariat premises started early Tuesday morning. The State government has decided to construct a swanky state-of-the-art Secretariat complex. Rs. 400 crore budget Expected to be spread over 20-acre area, the new complex is planned as a rectangular block with a plinth of around 7 lakh sq.ft. To be taken up at an estimated cost of around Rs. 400 crore, the new complex is being designed to be equipped with plug and play systems and is expected to be completed within a year from the day of commencement of works. The government has examined different designs submitted by various architects and it has reportedly zeroed in on the design submitted by a reputed architect in the traditional Deccan Kakatiya style. The design is said to be compliant with fire safety norms as well as those prescribed by the National Building Code and Indian Green Building Council. Vaastu compliant The new complex would be Vaastu compliant and is expected to consume less than one-third of the total area while leaving the remaining space for landscaping with native plants and fountains. With six to seven floors including the ground floor, the new building is designed with proper ventilation and wind movement while it is expected to be designed in a manner that would allow tapping more natural sources of energy. Landscaping is expected to cover more than 60% of the total area so that it would act as carbon reducing agent in the entire premises. The government has decided to construct the new complex with around 5.5 lakh sq.ft area so that it will have adequate space for accommodating the secretariat offices as well as the offices of the heads of departments in the same premises. With the present offices operating from 3.81 lakh sq.ft area, the government will be able to utilise another 1.7 lakh sq.ft area for accommodating all the key departments within the same premises. Since the existing 25.5-acre land was unevenly distributed, the government has reportedly initiated the process for acquiring some land owned by the Southern Power Distribution Company Limited and the Government Mint abutting it. The acquisition would help the government make the 20-acre land a perfect rectangle for the construction of the new complex while the remaining little over five acres would be allotted for parking, canteens, cafeteria and other facilities. The demolition of the existing secretariat follows the go ahead given by the High Court for construction of the new secretariat complex. The government has taken into consideration the report submitted by the technical committee consisting four engineers-in-chief which made a detailed study of the existing structures in the old secretariat complex. The committee has come to a conclusion that there was no scope for altering/modifying the existing structures in respect of fire safety or other requirements. There was no scope for making some of the existing blocks including A, B, C. D, H (north), J and K fire safety compliant and these blocks could not be accessed by fire tenders in the event of a mishap. In addition, none of the buildings has meeting hall which could accommodate more than 150 persons at any given point of time. There was no grand foyer or the reception area while the parking too was haphazard. Security for the VIPs and VVIPs was one more area of concern as a majority of these blocks have single entry/exit making it difficult to provide foolproof security to VVIPs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/demolition-of-old-secretariat-begins-in-telangana/article32017491.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Student groups slam UGC decision on final year exams||Political student groups linked to the Congress and the Left have slammed the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) decision to conduct final year examinations, saying it ignores concerns about students’ health and fair access to online teaching and examinations, while encouraging rote learning by overemphasising the importance of a final examination. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s student wing welcomed the decision, saying assessment of graduating students was crucial for future studies or employment. Top five hashtags Meanwhile, #StudentsLivesMatter and #cancelfinalyearexams were among the top five trending hashtags on Twitter on Tuesday, jointly garnering over 1,50,000 tweets. The Akhil Bhratiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), which is linked to the ruling party, said it had reached out to more than 8 lakh students and arrived at the opinion that assessment of final year students is in their own best interest. “ABVP has been consistent in its opinion that assessment of graduating students is crucial for their further studies or employment,” said a statement from the organisation’s official Twitter handle. The Students Federation of India (SFI), which is affiliated to Left parties, noted that given the increasing trend of COVID-19 cases, “it is almost unthinkable that examinations can be held physically while maintaining social distancing. It is clear by the disparities of infrastructure and the laxity generally shown towards marginalised students in government operated institutions that neither physical distancing will be followed nor will students who stay in different places from their place of study will be able to come back and give examinations,” it said in a statement. ‘Only the affluent’ With regard to the online mode, SFI noted that “NSSO (National Sample Survey Office) data on Internet connectivity and access in Indian households points to the fact that only affluent urban households would have unlimited access to high speed internet. Most of the students would never be able to attend online classes (requiring high speed unlimited data for video conferencing software) and neither able to download videos.” Students in Kashmir, where only 2G services are allowed, would be especially affected, along with students grappling with quarantine, mental health issues, caring for sick relatives, and economic stress, it added. The National Students’ Union of India, affiliated to the Congress, said the government has been deaf to the concerns of students. “We won’t let you play with students’ future,” said a tweet from the official handle, noting that India currently has the world’s third highest number of COVID-19 cases. “If IIT Bombay can cancel final year exams and extrapolate from previous assessments, why can’t other universities? Education [is] much more than exams and this narrow-minded view will endanger student health,” tweeted Ruchi Gupta, National Students’ Union of India national in-charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/student-groups-slam-ugc-decision-on-final-year-exams/article32017511.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,||507 contract doctors to stop work in Karnataka||The functioning of nearly 600 primary health centres (PHCs) in the State might be hit from Wednesday onwards with the 507 contract doctors going ahead with their plan to stop work. Most of them work in two or three PHCs. However, some doctors who are on emergency duty in isolation centres, ICUs and swab collection centres will continue working for some time. Although the Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Ministers, along with the Chief Secretary and other top officials, met the doctors and assured them that they would be given weightage depending on the number of years of their service during direct recruitment and a few representatives who attended the meeting agreed, the Contract Doctors’ Association said refused to accept this assurance. “The government has not given us a clear deadline by when the direct recruitment committee would be set up and when we would be considered for absorption. Also, when the Finance Secretary announced two days ago that the government would not go in for direct recruitment any more, how can we believe we will be considered?” asked Nithin Kumar, who works in a PHC in Hassan. “As the meeting was called all of a sudden, only a few representatives who were closer to the city attended. All of us will come down to Bengaluru on Wednesday and submit our individual resignations en masse,” he said, speaking on behalf of the 507 doctors. “While the government is citing the Supreme Court verdict in a case pertaining to Uma Devi, a Group ‘D’ worker in 2006 that said there are no rules to regularise a contract worker but it can be done if the government wanted, in Karnataka the process of regularisation began in 2007 and till 2017 over 2,000 contract doctors have been regularised. Only 507 of us have been left out and we want our regularisation also in a similar manner. The government has already called for applications for appointing 2,000 doctors,” he said. “Most of the permanent doctors on roll with the Health Department now, are those who were on contract earlier and have been regularised,” he pointed out. However, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar and Health Minister B. Sriramulu said their discussions with the contract doctors were fruitful. “We have decided to regularise the services of all the 507 doctors working on a contract basis,” Mr. Sudhakar said. “However, the regularisation is a process that has to be in sync with law. The government has to follow some procedures and guidelines in this process,” he pointed out. The State government last week hiked the salaries of the 507 contract doctors by Rs. 15,000 on the condition that they should not insist on regularisation and the doctors had refused to relent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/507-contract-doctors-to-stop-work-in-karnataka/article32017597.ece
08 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Employers reach out to labourers in Odisha||They fled their workplaces from Rajasthan to return to their home State after the lockdown was announced in March. But barely three months later, the migrant workers from Odisha’s Balangir district are making their way back to find employment and stave off hunger. Damodar Pradhan, 40, and Bikash Patra, 30, from Dunguripali and Badimunda blocks of Loisingha, had no second thoughts in boarding the bus sent by their employer — a carpet maker — to take them back to the Bikaner-based facility. Eighteen workers from different blocks of Balangir undertook the 1,800-km journey to Rajasthan last month even though the fear of COVID-19 infection was uppermost in their minds. In coastal Jagatsinghpur district, some young men contacted a labour agent for work in a bag-making unit in Udaipur. Within a week, a bus reached Ersama block to take eight workers to Rajasthan. “My four brothers are all migrant workers as our one acre of ancestral land cannot feed all members of the family,” said Mr. Pradhan. Better wages “This time we have been assured better payment on the condition that we cannot step out of factory premises,” said Mr. Patra. In Jagatsinghpur, 22-year-old Sisir Swain said the Udaipur-based bag maker had, for the first time, paid advance wages for three-months before employing them. Umi Daniel of Aide et Action, an international voluntary organisation, said, “This time, the government must keep in mind that labour migration should be streamlined. Workers should return to their workplace through registered labour agencies so that wage as well as working hours could be fixed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/employers-reach-out-to-labourers-in-odisha/article32017537.ece
08 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Big flap: golden birdwing is India’s largest butterfly||A Himalayan butterfly named golden birdwing is now India’s largest, a record the southern birdwing held for 88 years. With a wingspan of 194 mm, the female of the species is marginally larger than the southern birdwing (190 mm) that Brigadier William Harry Evans, a British military officer and lepidopterist, recorded in 1932. But the male golden birdwing ( Troides aeacus ) is much smaller at 106 mm. The new measurements of this and 24 other species of butterflies were published in the latest issue of Bionotes , a quarterly newsletter for research on life forms. Shristee Panthee of the University of Chinese Academy of Sciences in Yunnan and Peter Smetacek of the Butterfly Research Centre at Bhimtal in Uttarakhand are the authors of the study. Brigadier Evans’s record “The hitherto largest Indian butterfly that Brigadier Evans recorded in 1932 was an individual of the southern birdwing ( Troides minos ), which was then treated as a subspecies of the common birdwing,” Mr. Smetacek told The Hindu on Tuesday. “But the specimen he measured was unknown, and no other butterfly measured as much as the 190 mm that he recorded,” he added. While the female golden birdwing was recorded from Didihat in Uttarakhand, the largest male was from the Wankhar Butterfly Museum in Shillong. According to the authors, the only measurement used in the study of Lepidoptera is wingspan — a simple concept with various interpretations of the term. “Some older authors measured a straight line between the forewing apices (pointed ends or tips) of pinned specimens. This was controversial, since the same butterfly could have different wingspans, depending on the position of its forewings in relation to each other,” the study says. More reliable method Brigadier Evans followed a more reliable method. He measured a butterfly from the centre of the thorax to the tip of the forewing apex and doubled the result. His contribution was to provide the wingspans of all butterfly species then known from the Indian subcontinent and his book is still the standard work on the subject. The updated wingspan of three species — all from Uttarakhand — after the golden birdwing are the common windmill ( Byasa polyeuctes ) at 98 mm, the great windmill ( Byasa dasarada ) at 96 mm, and the common peacock ( Papilio bianor ) at 78 mm. The smallest is the quaker ( Neopithecops zalmora ) with a wingspan of 18 mm and forewing length of a mere 8 mm. The largest female golden birdwing’s forewing length is 90 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/big-flap-golden-birdwing-is-indias-largest-butterfly/article32017591.ece
08 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Gold smuggling scandal leads to Sivasankar losing key posts||The government on Tuesday removed M. Sivasankar from the post of Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He has also ceased to be Principal Secretary, IT. K. Muhammad Y. Safirulla has replaced him in both the key posts. “I have applied for leave for a year,” Mr. Sivasankar told The Hindu . The bureaucrat had arguably come under a cloud after the Opposition attempted to associate him and, by extension, the CM’s Office with gold smuggling case suspect Swapna Suresh. Mr. Sivasankar was also at the centre of the government’s controversial decision to engage a U.S.-based data analytics firm to process the private medical information of citizens to predict how the COVID-19 pandemic would behave in Kerala. Street protests Mr. Sivasankar’s removal came close on the heels of the Congress and the Bharathiya Janata Party (BJP) accusing the CMO of having played host to anti-national elements. They organised street protests across Kerala and burnt Mr. Vijayan and Ms. Suresh in effigies as a mark of protest. The photographs and videos of Ms. Suresh socialising with top ruling front politicians, bureaucrats and ranking officials went viral on social media, putting the government on the back foot. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala accused Mr. Vijayan of having made Mr. Sivasankar a scapegoat by laying the blame for the alleged attempt to extricate Ms. Suresh from the smuggling case at his Secretary’s doorstep. Mr. Chennithala has petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation. He said the Congress would organise protests at the booth level on July 8 to highlight the government’s alleged attempt to shield gold smugglers. Person of interest The Customs Department had named Ms. Suresh a “suspect and person of interest” in the case relating to the seizure of 30 kg of contraband gold from an air shipment addressed to the UAE consulate here on Sunday. She was an employee of the consulate until the government appointed her as marketing liaison officer of the Space Park project under the IT Department’s Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited. The government terminated her services as a contract employee after the controversy broke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gold-smuggling-scandal-leads-to-sivasankar-losing-key-posts/article32017496.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana HC notices to govt., four private hospitals over treatment, billing||Telangana High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the State government, the Centre and four private hospitals in Hyderabad in a PIL petition over lack of transparency in treatment and billing of COVID-19 patients. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to file a counter affidavit in response to the petition. The bench ordered that ‘emergent notices’ be issued to the Chief Medical Officer of the State Council of Clinical Establishment (Medical and Health department) along with the private hospitals of Medicover-HiTec City, Yashoda-Raj Bhavan, Sunshine-Secunderabad and Care-Banjara Hills. The AG sought one week to file the counter affidavit while Assistant Solicitor General of India N. Rajeshwar Rao accepted notices on behalf of the Centre. Posting the hearing to July 14, the bench sought explanation of all the respondents over the points raised by the petitioner. A lawyer, Srikishan Sharma, filed the petition stating that in the backdrop of rampant spread of coronavirus cases, the governments were not ensuring the enforcement of different provisions of the Disaster Management Act-2005, the Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Act-2010 and the Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics) Regulation-2002. The lawyer told the bench that not implementing sections of these laws was illegal and unconstitutional. The bench sought to know from the government if it had initiated any action against Thumbe Hospital in Chaderghat from where a doctor of Fever Hospital, Asra Sultana, was not discharged for nearly two days over payment of bill. Citing media reports, the bench said the hospital management reportedly refused to discharge the doctor until she paid Rs. 1.4 lakh towards charges for COVID-19 treatment. “This is a matter of grave concern. On one hand, government issued a GO clearly stating a particular sum to be charged for treatment of COVID-19 patients and on the other, private hospitals are flouting rules,” the bench observed and hoped that action is initiated against the hospital. The bench called for a report from the government by July 14 if no action is taken against the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-notices-to-govt-four-private-hospitals-over-treatment-billing/article32017818.ece
08 July 2020||AHMEDABAD,||6 policemen in Gujarat booked for death of Telangana man||Six policemen in Vadodara have been booked for their alleged role in the killing a person from Telangana in their custody. The incident occurred last December. As per the FIR lodged by the Vadodara police, the six personnel disposed of the victim’s body and destroyed evidence after allegedly killing him while he was in their custody. Babu Sheikh Nisar was allegedly killed by the policemen in custody at the Fatehgunj station in Vadodara. The police probe revealed that the victim was picked up last year on suspicion of theft. He reportedly went missing on December 10, 2019. Mr. Nisar’s son also alleged foul play in his father’s disappearance and submitted an application to the Vadodara City Police Commissioner demanding a probe. According to the details, Mr. Nisar used to sell bedsheets and clothes on a lorry. He had come to Vadodara from Ahmedabad with his son-in-law Ibrahim and the two had departed for their work areas and were scheduled to meet again in the evening after the day’s work. However, when Mr. Nisar did not show up, Mr. Ibrahim informed his son in Telangana’s Kamareddy and left for Ahmedabad. Based on the victim’s son’s complaint, a probe into the missing person complaint was initiated by the city police. “Police teams looked for him in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana, and Rajasthan where there have been cases of house break-ins against him. But he could not be found,” said officials. The accused include inspector D.B. Gohil, sub-inspector D.M. Rabari and four constables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-policemen-in-gujarat-booked-for-death-of-telangana-man/article32017528.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC admits plea for full refund on cancelled flight tickets||The Supreme Court on Tuesday admitted a writ petition filed by the Air Passengers Association of India for a full refund on tickets for domestic and international flights cancelled during the lockdown period. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan issued notice to the government and the DGCA on the petition filed by the association through its president Sudhakar Reddy, represented by senior advocate C.A. Sundaram and advocate Rohit Rathi. The association, which protects the interests of fliers, said airlines were compelling passengers to acquiesce to a “credit shell” system in “blatant disregard” for an April 16 circular of the Ministry of Civil Aviation. “The April 16 circular requires airlines to refund the money of passengers for the cancelled flights scheduled during the lockdown period within three weeks from the date of requests for cancellation, without levying any cancellation charges,” the petition said. Refusal of the airlines to refund the ticket amount was “arbitrary and ultra vires,” it said. The petition said opening a credit shell would hardly bring any succour for the passengers, as they might have originally booked their flights for a definite purpose which had now become redundant. The court is likely to hear the case later in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-admits-plea-for-full-refund-on-cancelled-flight-tickets/article32017533.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||UAE probe on in gold seizure case||The Ambassador of the United Arab Emirates said on Tuesday that the diplomatic missions of the country had nothing to do with the gold smuggling case in Kerala. Dr. Ahmed Al Banna said the UAE authorities had begun investigations to identify the persons who used diplomatic baggage to send 30 kg of gold that was seized by the Customs authorities at the Thiruvananthapuram airport on Sunday. “Initial inquiries conducted by the mission revealed that a former locally hired employee of the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram was responsible for this act. The employee in question was fired for misconduct long preceding this incident,” said Mr. Al Banna in a statement to The Hindu . He said the UAE was willing to cooperate with Indian authorities to thoroughly investigate this case. On Sunday, Customs officials announced the seizure of the gold that had arrived earlier in a chartered aircraft used to carry material for the officials of the Consulate. “The Embassy of UAE in Delhi firmly rejects such acts and unequivocally affirms that the mission and its diplomatic staff had no role in this matter,” Mr. Al Banna said. Following the declaration by the Customs authorities, investigation focused on the role played by Swapna Suresh, a former employee of the UAE’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, and her possible links to the case. The ambassador said Sunday's incident was an attempt to tarnish the reputation of the UAE mission in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uae-probe-on-in-gold-seizure-case/article32017501.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Command posts ruling will be followed soon’||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed a one-month extension to the government to implement its February 17 judgment to grant permanent commission/command posts to eligible women officers in the armed forces. Appearing before a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indu Malhotra, the Centre, represented by senior advocate R. Balasubramanian, said the process of implementation of the judgment was at an “advanced state” and a circular would be issued soon. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, for petitioner Babita Puniya, and Meenakshi Lekhi said the government was creating hurdles in the implementation of the judgment. However, Mr. Balasubramanian dismissed the contentions as “wild apprehensions”, and assured the court that the government was fully complying with the judgment. On February 17, the court dismissed the government’s submissions that women were physiologically weaker than men as a “sex stereotype” and declared that Short Service Commission (SSC) women officers were eligible for permanent commission and command posts in the Army irrespective of their years of service. “The time has come for a realisation that women officers in the Army are not adjuncts to a male dominated establishment whose presence must be ‘tolerated’ within narrow confines,” Justice Chandrachud had observed in a 54-page judgment in the Army case. Navy case Similarly, a month later, on March 17, the court upheld the right of serving Short Service Commission women officers of the Navy to be granted permanent commission. “The battle for gender equality is about confronting the battles of the mind. In the context of the Armed Forces, specious reasons have been advanced by decision makers and administrators. They range from physiology, motherhood and physical attributes to the male dominated hierarchies,” Justice Chandrachud observed in a 64-page judgment in the Navy case. The Supreme Court at the time ordered the government to implement its decision in three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/command-posts-ruling-will-be-followed-soon/article32017539.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear on July 15 plea on Maratha quota||The Supreme Court fixed July 15 to hear and pass interim orders on a batch of appeals challenging a Bombay High Court decision upholding a State law providing reservation to Maratha community in education and government jobs in Maharashtra. The appeals filed by individuals from all walks of life and NGOs have challenged the High Court decision allowing 12-13% quota to the Maratha community under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act. They have argued that the High Court decision is seriously erroneous as the State law has breached the 50% cap on reservation fixed by a Constitution Bench in the Indira Sawhney judgment. Initially, a three-judge Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao on Tuesday suggested hearing the pleas on merits on a day-to-day basis from early August. But senior advocates Shyam Divan, Mukul Rohatgi and P.S. Patwalia said virtual court hearings may not be sufficient, considering the complicated nature of the case. Finally, Justice Rao acquiesced to the lawyers and said the case would be listed on Wednesday next week before the virtual court for passing interim orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-on-july-15-plea-on-maratha-quota/article32017527.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,||HC for probe into deaths of 2 COVID-19 patients||Terming as ‘a sorry state of affairs’ the deaths of two COVID-19 patients after the failure to get admission in hospitals, including government hospitals in the city as reported in the media, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday asked the State government to look into the issue and hold necessary inquiry. Also, the HC asked the government whether any centralised mechanism existed to notify the public in advance about the availability of beds for treating COVID-19 patients, and to avail the bed in a particular hospital soon after testing positive for COVID-19 to ensure that the patients get immediate medical care. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the directions while hearing through video conferencing a PIL petition initiated suo motu by the court based on separate letters written to the Chief Justice by the Advocates Association, Bengalur, and Anu Chengappa, a city-based advocates, and two other petitions filed by Geetha Misra and the Bharath Punaruthana Trust. The Bench also asked the government to provide details of total beds available in public and private hospitals, particularly in the jurisdiction of Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike, and the number of ICUs with or without ventilators available for COVID-19 treatment. Referring to claims made on non-availibility of ambulances in one of the PIL, the Bench asked whether the facility of ambulance is extended to COVID-19 patients and in what manner people can avail ambulance service as regular ambulances cannot be used for transporting COVID-19 patients. The Bench directed the government to provide details of facilities, like the number of doctors, nurses and other para medical staff, food and medicines available at COVID-19 facilities and the hospitals. As one of petitions referred to the instance of dumping of dead bodies of COVID-19 victims in Ballari district recently, the Bench asked the government whether any protocol or Standard Operating Procedure existed for decent burial/cremation of dead bodies of COVID-19 persons; and whether scientific opinion was available to show that if a person, who touches the dead body of a COVID-19 person, has a chance of contracting the disease. The government has also been directed to inform whether any embargo has been imposed on rates for treating COVID-19 at private hospitals. Hearing has been adjourned till July 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-for-probe-into-deaths-of-2-covid-19-patients/article32017488.ece
08 July 2020||KOCHI,||Face trial, Kerala High Court tells former bishop||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition filed by Franco Mulakkal, former bishop of the Catholic diocese of Jalandhar, seeking to discharge him from a case relating to the rape of a nun. The court, while dismissing the petition, observed that the contentions raised by him were untenable. Opposing the petition, the prosecutor argued that there was enough material to prove that Franco Mulakkal had raped the nun. The statement of the survivor was enough to frame charges against him. The accused was trying to delay the trial proceedings, the prosecutor submitted. The court observed that when there were sufficient materials before the court to show a prima facie case to proceed against the petitioner, he, definitely, was not entitled to a discharge. Precarious situation “The precarious situation of the Sister has to be taken into account prima facie to find that whether there are grounds for the delay in lodging a criminal complaint against her superior officer that too the bishop, who is the supreme authority of the congregation,” it observed. The bishop, arrested on September 21, 2018, is currently out on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/face-trial-kerala-high-court-tells-former-bishop/article32017493.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Army pulls back 1.5 km from clash site||On the activity at Finger 4 area of Pangong Tso, two defence sources independently said while some tents have been removed and some troops and vehicles have moved back, the movement is marginal unlike other areas and is being closely watched. The level of disengagement so far at Finger 4 is minuscule, considering the heavy buildup the Chinese have undertaken between Finger 4 to Finger 8, the defence source stated. “Till that bend (PP 14), where the clash took place, India has built a road. The point where the Indian troops have retreated now is the point where the Army used to initiate its patrols. As per the moratorium, India will not be able to patrol the distance now and this will have to be seriously worked out. It cannot be turned into a permanent arrangement,” said the official. Rivers in spate The official added that with the Galwan and Shyok rivers in spate due to the monsoon, it was not in the interest of both India and China to stay put there. “The Chinese are now claiming the entire Galwan Valley but this was not the case earlier. They transgressed when they saw culverts, bridges and roads being constructed this side...culminating in the June 15 violent clashes,” said the official. While the disengagement is underway, defence sources have expressed caution on the outcome. A second defence source cited three cases as reason for exercising extreme caution. The first instance is of Chinese claims on Galwan Valley. In 1959, China had agreed to area of Patrolling Point (PP) 14 and there has been no cases of faceoffs, no patrolling by China and very rare helicopter recce till recently, he said. “In April 2020, China started objecting to construction of a bridge at the mouth of the Galwan and now are claiming beyond earlier stance of 1959 stating entire Galwan belongs to China. As the events unfolded, PLA claim shifted to Nala junction which is 800m on the Indian side of China’s claim of 1959,” the source stated. The other instance is of Naku La in North Sikkim where China is creating a dispute by disregarding “principle of watershed”. The third instance is of China pushing Nepal to not only make claims in Lipulekh area and publish new maps but also to deploy new border posts, , the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-pulls-back-15-km-from-clash-site/article32017502.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre to lay down vaccine trial norms||Adaptive trials have been tried out for HIV vaccines and could include “... vaccinating the placebo group for immune correlate analyses, adding a booster vaccination if vaccine efficacy appears to wane, or expanding the trial design to include a higher risk population,” according to a review article on such trial designs published on April 4, 2013, in the journal Science Translational Medicine. Importantly, they allow investigators to shift goalposts based on data. While not seen as ideal, researchers consider them acceptable in emergencies. Last week, scientists and several medical researchers had questioned a letter by Director General, ICMR, Dr. Balram Bhargava, that exhorted institutions involved in the Covaxin trial to ready the vaccine for “public health use by August 15.” The next day the ICMR backtracked from this date. No process in vaccine developmment trials would be skipped, said Ms. Swarup. However it was possible for different phases of the trial to be conducted in parallel. Generally, data from a Phase-1 trial — where a vaccine candidate is tested on few people to test if it’s safe — informs a Phase-2 trial, where it is again tested on new group of people to check whether it stimulates the immune system to produce antibodies. It is based on this that companies progress to a Phase-3, where the vaccine is tested in thousands in real world settings, to evaluate if it is working. Before each of these phases, usually, investigators must furnish data from the previous phase to regulators. “No phase can be skipped but regulators can give approvals to two phases together,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-lay-down-vaccine-trial-norms/article32017500.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||CBSE reduces syllabus by 30%||The council has also prepared an alternative academic calendar for Classes 1 to 12 to support pedagogy in affiliated schools. In June, Mr. Nishank invited suggestions for syllabus rationalisation from educationists. More than 1,500 suggestions were received. The final changes have been finalised by the respective course committees of the CBSE, with the approval of its Curriculum Committee and Governing Body. The reduction in syllabus means Class 11 students of political science will not study about federalism in the Constitution during the academic year of 2020-21. Political theory sections on citizenship, secularism and nationalism have also been removed, according to the details on deleted sections available on the CBSE website. In Class 12, the topic of India’s relations with neighbours has been deleted, along with sections on social movements, regional aspirations, the changing nature of India’s economic development, and the Planning Commission. Business studies students will not study the concept of demonetisation, Goods and Services Tax, or the impact of government policy changes on business with special reference to liberalisation, privatisation and globalisation in India. In history classes, students will not study chapters on understanding partition, or on peasants, zamindars and the state. For Class 11 students, the core English course will not include exercises to write a letter to the editor, or apply for a job with a resume. For Class 10 students, the social science chapter on forests and wildlife in contemporary India has been deleted, along with chapters on democracy and diversity; gender, religion and caste; popular struggles and movements; and challenges to democracy. In science, the chapter on the functioning of the human eye has been removed, along with a section on the basic concepts of evolution. A number of practical experiments — which will be harder to conduct when students are able to spend limited time in the laboratory — have been removed, including tests on acetic acid, mounting a leaf peel, and studying comparative cleaning capacity of soap in hard and soft water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-reduces-syllabus-by-30/article32017503.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||RJD opposes changes in postal ballot facility||Joining forces with other Opposition parties, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) wrote to the Election Commission of India (ECI) on July 7, opposing the panel’s move to extend the postal ballot facility to voters who are 65 years or above. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury was the first to flag the issue. The Congress, the Trinamool Congress and the CPI too have written to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, opposing the move. In the letter to Mr. Arora, senior RJD leader and Rajya Sabha member Manoj K. Jha said that changes in established democratic procedures should take place only after building a broad consensus among all stakeholders. He asked the ECI to withdraw the changes and called for an all-party meeting to discuss the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rjd-opposes-changes-in-postal-ballot-facility/article32017514.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Why was China allowed to justify Galwan clash’||A day after India and China announced disengagement and de-escalation at the Ladakh border, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked why India did not insist on restoring status quo ante , allowed China to ‘justify’ the Galwan Valley clash and did not mention territorial sovereignty over the Valley. In a tweet, he said the Government of India was duty-bound to protect national interest. The Congress had insisted on restoring the status that existed on the borders before May 5. Lok Sabha member and former Minister of State for External Affairs Shashi Tharoor too stressed on restoring status quo ante . “Disengagement is welcome, but means little unless the status quo ante is restored. Otherwise we’ll yet again see both sides declare peace, with China having changed the facts on the ground & moved the LAC closer to where it wants. The May-June status cannot become the ‘new normal’ ”, tweeted Mr. Tharoor. Mr. Gandhi asked on Twitter: “National interest is paramount. GOI’s duty is to protect it. Then, 1. Why has Status Quo Ante not been insisted on? 2. Why is China allowed to justify the murder of 20 unarmed jawans in our territory? 3. Why is there no mention of the territorial sovereignty of Galwan valley?” Sharing the Indian and the Chinese press statements, Mr. Gandhi highlighted a sentence from the China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs that read, “The right and wrong of what happened in the Galwan Valley on the western sector of the China-India boundary is very clear. China will continue safeguarding our territorial sovereignty as well as peace and tranquillity in the border areas”. On Monday, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma described it as a positive development but sought to praise the armed forces for “standing firm to protect India’s territory”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-was-china-allowed-to-justify-galwan-clash/article32017513.ece
08 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. IPS officer for probe into slain CO’s complaint||A senior IPS officer in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday demanded a “high-level and immediate” probe into the alleged report against the Chaubeypur SHO submitted to the then district police chief by Circle Officer Devendra Mishra, who was killed last week. The demand came after the present Kanpur SSP Dinesh Kumar said the file of the alleged report was not found despite searches at the offices of the SSP, CO Bilhaur and SP Rural. The CO, who was among eight policemen killed in the attack on a police team in Kanpur’s Bikru village on July 2, had in March allegedly alerted the district police chief that the SHO of Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari had been protecting the main accused Vikas Dubey. In his report, which surfaced on Monday, Mishra had written to then SSP Kanpur and presently present DIG STF Anant Deo Tiwari on March 14 and accused Tiwari of being sympathetic to Dubey and displaying a “doubtful integrity”. IG, Joint Director Civil Defence, in Lucknow, Amitabh Thakur has written to DGP U.P. H.C Awasthi demanding a probe into the complaint. Mr. Thakur said the probe was needed to the look into the “nexus between criminals and the policemen”. Amid questions over his handling of the Dubey case, DIG Anant Deo Tiwari was transferred to Moradabad as PAC DIG on Tuesday evening.  (With inputs from   Anuj Kumar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-ips-officer-for-probe-into-slain-cos-complaint/article32017518.ece
08 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||K-RERA to hold virtual hearing of disputes||With no let-up in the COVID-19 situation, the Kerala Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA) is organising virtual hearings of cases related to real-estate disputes. Although the first online hearing was scheduled on Monday, it was put off due to the triple lockdown introduced in the capital city region. It will be resumed after the lockdown was lifted, a K-RERA official said. “In view of the current situation, no physical hearing of complaints is possible for the time being. In order to ensure accessibility to justice, the Kerala Real Estate Regulatory Authority has decided to conduct the hearings of the complaints filed under Section 31 of the Act through videoconferencing,” the State regulator said. Both parties and their advocates can join the hearing via Google Meet application. After its formation in January, the authority had received more than 100 complaints. It is mandatory to register all real estate projects where the land area under development is above 500 sq m or the number of apartments being developed is more than eight, inclusive of all the phases with RERA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/k-rera-to-hold-virtual-hearing-of-disputes/article32017867.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Spiritual disciplines||Many caught in samsara are desirous of getting out of it. But the way out is not easy at all. It requires much determination along with tremendous and continuous effort. It can be achieved by consciously cultivating excellent disciplines of body and mind which sastras have explained with great clarity, pointed out Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. Known as Sadana Chatushtaya, it provides the spiritual aspirant with a comprehensive and graded approach to practise the fourfold qualifications and qualities that are indispensible for sadana. The first of these is ‘nitya-anitya’ viveka, the sense to evaluate what is lasting and eternal. Any keen observer easily perceives the world of change and the limitations imposed by time. This engenders a strong dislike for worldly attainments. The wise person seeks the permanent alone and rejects all else as passing and fleeting. When he begins to feel tempted, he detaches himself from these. Vairagya is extolled for its great merit as it tries to remain averse to strong worldly pulls and also tries to sustain this perspective. The practice of the six virtues, ‘Samadhi Shatsampati’ is advised. These are Sama, turning away from sense objects, dama, controlling the karmendriyas and the jnanendriyas, ‘Uparati,’ giving up desire for the fruits of one’s actions, Titiksha, the ability to bear discomforts and sufferings with patience and acceptance of one’s lot as prarabdha, samadana, fixing the mind on the permanent alone and all that is conducive for spiritual practice, and sraddha, faith in God, the guru and the sacred texts. Along with these, one should have the tenacious desire for moksha, mumukshutva. A person in whom the sense of urgency to get liberated is always dominant is known as a mumukshu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spiritual-disciplines/article32017520.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||G.V.K. Reddy, others face ED case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a money laundering case against G.V.K. Reddy, promoter of GVK Group and whole-time director of Mumbai International Airport Ltd. (MIAL), and others in connection with alleged loss of about Rs. 705 crore to the exchequer. The probe is based on the corruption case lodged by the CBI last month. Among the accused are MIAL, its managing director and Mr. Reddy’s son, Venkata Sanjay Reddy, GVK Airport Holdings Limited and several other private companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gvk-reddy-others-face-ed-case/article32017523.ece
08 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Process for vaccine trials begins at NIMS||The process of conducting clinical trials for Covaxin, a vaccine candidate for COVID-19, began on Tuesday at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) here, a top official of the state-run medical facility said. “We will select healthy individuals and draw blood and send the blood samples to designated labs in New Delhi. They will give the green signal. Then the medicine people will examine and the first shot of the vaccine will be given due observation,” NIMS director K. Manohar told PTI. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has identified 12 clinical trial sites such as medical institutions and hospitals, including NIMS, and has asked their principal investigators to ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated no later than July 7. “Everything will be sent to ICMR, where data is analysed. We have already started the screening of individuals. We will first take audio-visual consent of the individual,” the medical officer added. Asked about the total number of individuals required for the clinical trial, Manohar said at least 30 are needed. The clinical trials proposal was already placed before the NIMS hospital ethics committee. The Drug Controller General of India recently granted permission to initiate Phase I and II human clinical trials for COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin being developed by Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with ICMR and National Institute of Virology.  We will select healthy individuals, draw blood and send blood samples to designated labs in New Delhi. They will give the green signal. K. Manohar, NIMS director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/process-for-vaccine-trials-begins-at-nims/article32017819.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC asks for probe records in Dua case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Himachal Pradesh police to hand over the complete records of its investigation into the sedition case registered against senior journalist and Padma Shri awardee Vinod Dua, saying it will quash the FIR against him if the documents justify his contention that the case is merely a ruse to harass him. The court also said it will quash Mr. Dua’s writ petition, alleging intimidation by the State, if it is satisfied with the probe records. A three-judge Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit scheduled the case for final disposal on July 15. It extended protection from arrest for Mr. Dua in the meantime. The case concerns an FIR filed against Mr. Dua for his YouTube show telecast on March 30. The FIR, registered in Kumarsain outside Shimla, accused Mr. Dua of blaming the government about its COVID-19 preparedness and alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had “garnered votes through acts of terrorism”. ‘Why this delay?’ During the virtual court hearing, Justice Lalit wondered aloud whether the Himachal police were actually earnest about the case. “The telecast was on March 30. The complaint was filed 24 days later. The FIR was registered days later on May 7. Investigating Officer visited the Cyber Crime division only on May 11. A communication was sent to HW Network [which telecast Mr. Dua’s show] only on June 11... Why this delay from May 11 to June 11? You [police] have to satisfy this court that you are in right earnest about this case,” Justice Lalit said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-asks-for-probe-records-in-dua-case/article32017508.ece
08 July 2020||Srinagar,||One more held in Pulwama blast case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday arrested one more accused from Pulwama involved in the 2019 car blast case which left 40 jawans dead in the district. A NIA spokesman said the accused, Bilal Ahmed Kuchey, a resident of Hajibal, Kakapora, Pulwama, was produced before the NIA’s Special Court in Jammu and was taken “for custodial interrogation”. It is the seventh arrest made by the NIA in the case so far. “Kuchey, who is running a sawmill in Pulwama, is a terror associate,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-more-held-in-pulwama-blast-case/article32017509.ece
08 July 2020||Srinagar,||Militant killed in gunfight in Pulwama||A militant was killed and two soldiers and a policeman were injured in a gunfight in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Tuesday.  The encounter started in the morning when hiding militants opened fire on a search party in Goosu village. “One militant has been killed in the encounter and one AK-47 recovered from the spot”, a police official said. The two soldiers and the policeman sustained bullet injuries when they were conducting a door-to-door search, the official said. The slain militant was not identified by the police. According to locals, around four civilians were hit by pellets in the clashes. The police did not confirm the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/militant-killed-in-gunfight-in-pulwama/article32017519.ece
08 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha bans creation of new posts||The Odisha government on Tuesday announced austerity measures in the wake of shortfall in realisation of resources and requirement of higher spending for COVID-19 management for the next two years. The government has banned creation of new posts except for the Health and Family Welfare Department. Travel abroad and air travel in business class using government funds has been prohibited while officers have been asked to avoid air journey, said Ashok Meena, Finance Secretary, in a letter to all departmental heads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-bans-creation-of-new-posts/article32017751.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED to record Congress leader’s statement in Sterling Biotech case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) will again record the statement of senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel in the Sterling Biotech Limited case on July 9. The agency has questioned Mr. Patel thrice in the past couple of weeks. He has denied any links to the case. The investigation is based on one of the two FIRs registered by the CBI against Sterling Biotech and others in October 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-to-record-congress-leaders-statement-in-sterling-biotech-case/article32017525.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||Extend working days under MGNREGA, says CPI MP||CPI MP Binoy Viswam, in a letter to the Prime Minister, urged him to extend the quota of working days under the MGNREGA scheme to a minimum of 200 days and to extend the limitations of the scheme to per adult individual rather than per household. Quoting a The Hindu report, Mr. Viswam said MGNREGA is the only hope left for a majority of the migrant workforces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/extend-working-days-under-mgnrega-says-cpi-mp/article32017526.ece
08 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Nadda attack on Rahul to distract from failure at Galwan: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said BJP president J.P. Nadda’s verbal attack on former Congress president Rahul Gandhi over the India-China stand-off, was an attempt to distract the public from the Centre’s failure in the Galwan Valley. The Chief Minister said that having failed to respond to his questions on Galwan Valley, the Centre was now trying desperately to distract the people with its personal attack on Mr. Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nadda-attack-on-rahul-to-distract-from-failure-at-galwan-amarinder/article32017531.ece
08 July 2020||Guwahati,||Pastor angers Arunachal indigenous faith followers, FIR lodged||Organisations of the followers of Donyi-Polo, an indigenous faith in Arunachal Pradesh, have lodged a police complaint against a pastor for hurting their sentiments. The complaint was lodged in East Kameng district after a video uploaded on social media showed members of the Pentecostal Church allegedly burning an image of deity Ane Donyi and other materials used by Donyi-Polo followers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pastor-angers-arunachal-indigenous-faith-followers-fir-lodged/article32017544.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. to come up with SOP for shooting films in India: Javadekar||The Central government is coming up with a standard operating procedure (SOP) for shooting films in India during the COVID-19 pandemic and is also set to provide incentives for production to accelerate the restart of filmmaking, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday. He was speaking at the inauguration of ‘FICCI Frames 2020’, a convention on the business of entertainment.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-to-come-up-with-sop-for-shooting-films-in-india-javadekar/article32017543.ece
08 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha encounter: One more Maoist found dead||Security forces are believed to have surrounded a group of over 30 to 35 Communist Party of India (Maoist) ultras in a forested area of Odisha’s Kandhamal district, and both sides continued to exchange fire on Tuesday. One more CPI (Maoist) ultra was killed on Monday evening. A total of five extremists have so far been killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-encounter-one-more-maoist-found-dead/article32017545.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka sees 33% fall in sale of liquor in first quarter of 2020-21||The lockdown and restrictions in movement of people caused a sharp dip of 33.88% in the sale of Indian-made liquor (IML) in Karnataka during the first quarter of 2020-21. The revenue of the Excise Department saw a decline of 33.22% in the first quarter of the fiscal compared to the same period last year. Official sources in the department said the revenue collected during April, May and June was Rs. 3,846.76 crore, as against Rs. 5,760.14 crore during the same months in 2019-20 — a decline of Rs. 1,913.18 crore. The first quarter’s revenue collection constituted a mere 16.95% of the total revenue of Rs. 22,700 crore estimated in the State Budget from excise in 2020-21. Last year’s first quarter revenue collection (Rs. 5,760.14 crore) constituted 27.49% of the total estimated revenue of Rs. 20,950 crore for 2019-20. The sale of IML during the first quarter, up to June-end, was 100.76 lakh case boxes, as against 152.38 lakh case boxes during the same period in 2019 — a decline of 51.62 lakh case boxes, according to officials. The closure of bars and restaurants since the announcement of the nationwide lockdown on March 25 was a major cause for the decline in liquor sales in the State. Moreover, the fall in the number of tourists to cities such as Bengaluru, Mysuru, and the hill stations and the coastal belt of Karnataka was another factor. Hike in duty In the 2020-21 State Budget, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa increased the excise duty on IML by 6% to compensate for the sharp reduction in the State’s share in the Central pool of taxes as well as allocation in the 15th Finance Commission. Because of the increase in excise duty, the Chief Minister had increased the revenue mobilisation target from Rs. 20,950 crore in 2019-20 to Rs. 22,700 crore in 2020-21.  Falling behind The closure of bars and restaurants since the announcement of the nationwide lockdown on account of the spread of COVID-19 on March 25 was a major cause for the decline in liquor sales in Karnataka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-sees-33-fall-in-sale-of-liquor-in-first-quarter-of-2020-21/article32017489.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Marginal dip in cases; Chennai’s daily tally continues to fall||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday saw a marginal dip in the number of fresh infections, with 3,616 persons testing positive for COVID-19. Chennai, in particular, continued to witness a fall in new cases, compared with the previous days, while the cases remained high in districts, especially Madurai. With the new cases, the State’s overall tally stood at 1,18,594*. Of these, 45,839 persons were under treatment. The total number of recovered patients increased to 71,116, with another 4,545 discharged from hospitals across the State. In fact, this was the highest figure on a single day so far, taking the overall recovery rate close to 60%. The State’s toll rose to 1,636, with 65 more persons succumbing to the infection. The number of new cases continued to fall in the city, which recorded 1,203 fresh cases and 39 deaths. Of the 4,545 persons discharged in the State on Tuesday, 2,853 were from city hospitals. Districts’ case counts Madurai reported 334 cases and eight deaths, while Virudhunagar recorded an increase in cases, with 253. Tiruvallur recorded 217 cases and Tirunelveli 174. There were 141 cases in Thoothukudi, 120 in Ranipet, 117 in Kanyakumari, 114 in Vellore, 105 in Kancheepuram and 94 in Theni. After several days, Chengalpattu saw a dip in cases, reporting 87. A total of 65 returnees tested positive. These included 25 persons who returned from Karnataka. With the new cases, Chennai has a total of 71,230 cases, followed by Chengalpattu, 6,942, Tiruvallur, 5,205, and Madurai, 4,674. The overall tally went past the 2,000-mark in Vellore. As of date, 18 districts have recorded more than 1,000 cases. Co-morbid conditions Of the 65 persons who died, 52 had co-morbidities. A 25-year-old woman with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus and chronic kidney disease died at the Government Chengalpattu Medical College and Hospital on July 6 owing to viral pneumonia, respiratory failure, seizure disorder and COVID-19. A 30-year-old man with no co-morbidities died at the Government Headquarters Hospital, Ramanathapuram, on July 5, owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome. He had complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for five days. The samples of three persons, who were declared brought dead, returned positive. Among them was a 83-year-old woman from Chennai. She was declared brought dead to the Government Royapettah Hospital on July 3. Her death was due to viral pneumonia and COVID-19. Another 36,938 samples were tested during the last 24 hours in the State. This took the total number of tests to 14,13,435. As of date, a total of 13,52,360 individuals was tested. One more government testing facility has been approved: the Government Hospital, Padmanabapuram. With this, there are 50 laboratories in the government sector and 46 in the private sector.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection.)   As many as 4,545 persons were discharged from hospitals across the State. In fact, this was the highest figure on a single day so far||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marginal-dip-in-cases-chennais-daily-tally-continues-to-fall/article32017688.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A.P.’s response awaited on Krishna water||The Water Resources Department is holding talks with its counterpart in Andhra Pradesh seeking release of the Krishna water for the spell beginning this month. However, the department is yet to receive any assurance from the neighbouring State on water discharge from the Kandaleru reservoir. Chennai received 8.05 tmcft. of the Krishna water since September-end last year. This is one of the highest quantity of water received since the commissioning of the Krishna Water Supply Project in 1996. Water flow at the State’s entry point at Uthukottai in Tiruvallur district stopped after June 24 this year. With the water release due for the next spell between July and October, the WRD recently wrote to the A.P. authorities. The Kandaleru reservoir has about 20 tmcft. of water. “But, we are yet to receive any official response on the date of water release from A.P. We are in touch with the officials to provide water to Chennai,” said a senior WRD official. The neighbouring State may decide on the water release based on its irrigation needs and the southwest monsoon. As of now, Chennai’s reservoirs have a combined storage of 4.95 tmcft., which is sufficient for drinking water supply till the year-end. As the Kandaleru-Poondi canal bed does not have any flow, the department has initiated maintenance work on the 25-km stretch between Uthukottai and Poondi reservoir, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aps-response-awaited-on-krishna-water/article32017661.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation launches drive to pick up homeless people||The Greater Chennai Corporation has launched a drive to rescue homeless persons to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among them. The city has 9,087 homeless people. On Tuesday, the Corporation took to social media to announce its initiative. Officials said they rescued 24 homeless persons — 20 men and four women — from the MGR-Chennai Central Railway Station and Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Monday and took them to an interim shelter on Wall Tax Road. Eight of the rescued persons, including a woman, are aged above 60. Schools prepared The interim shelter had been developed on the premises of a Corporation school in Royapuram zone. Many of the 281 Corporation schools have been prepared for housing homeless residents during the pandemic. “We have given them nutritious food, zinc supplements andkabasura kudineer. On Wednesday, we will screen them for COVID-19. Food, shelter and medical care will be provided to all homeless persons free of cost,” said an official. Most of those rescued on Monday spoke Tamil. Scared, some of them requested the officials to let them remain on the pavement and on the hospital premises. But officials explained to them the risk of infection. The city has 51 shelters for the homeless, and 1,051 people are sheltered in them free of cost. Each shelter can accommodate 50 persons. Owing to the need for physical distancing, the civic body has reduced the number of inmates and identified more buildings to accommodate homeless people. “We will rehabilitate all the homeless people. We have planned to reunite the homeless people with their families. So far, we have rehabilitated 2,369 people. At least, 3,872 people have been restored to their families. Many of them are employed,” said an official. The civic body has arranged rental accommodation for the homeless people after getting them jobs. The Corporation will screen all of them for COVID-19 and provide treatment this week. But manpower remains a challenge. The civic body is planning to get support from NGOs. A few NGO representatives have given suggestions to the Corporation on containment measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-launches-drive-to-pick-up-homeless-people/article32017650.ece
08 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM lays foundation stone for Ariyalur Medical College Hospital||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday laid the foundation stone (through video-conferencing) for the construction of a Government Medical College Hospital in Ariyalur district, and inaugurated several other infrastructures in various hospitals across the State. To come up at Ariyalur South village at a total cost of Rs. 347 crore, the medical college and hospital would have an intake of 150 MBBS seats, an official release said. Mr. Palaniswami also inaugurated the CT scan equipment and linear accelerator installed at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai at a cost of Rs. 40 crore. Likewise, he inaugurated a linear accelerator installed in Coimbatore Government Medical College & Hospital at a cost of Rs. 25 crore and CT scan equipment in government hospitals in Tiruppur, Erode, Perambalur and Kancheepuram districts at a total cost of Rs. 2,475 crore. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and senior officials attended. In another event, the Chief Minister flagged off quick-response vehicles of the Fire and Rescue Department, which are to be used for anti-COVID-19 efforts in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy and senior officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-lays-stone-for-ariyalur-medical-college-hospital/article32017693.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patients irked by lack of transport from hospital after testing||When people test positive for COVID-19, they are picked up from their doorstep and transported to the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, for further investigation. But once the investigation is completed, they are having to wait endlessly to get transported back home. A week ago, Preetha (name changed), who had undergone the test on June 24, had been diagnosed as positive. While her eight-year-old daughter tested positive, her 13-year-old son was negative. Preetha’s husband is working in another city and could not travel owing to the lockdown. Early last week, she complained of chest congestion following which she was advised to undergo investigations at the government hospital. She was picked up by an ambulance and brought to the hospital. After X-ray and scan, she was told to return home and remain in quarantine. But the hitch was that she did not have a vehicle to return home at Velachery. She asked officials in the hospital counter for transport, pointing out that she had been brought in by an ambulance. After nearly two hours of waiting, she was transported back home. A few days earlier, eight patients who were picked up from various streets at T. Nagar had a similar experience. The patients were all asymptomatic, and asked to undergo home quarantine. Though their investigations had been completed in two hours, they waited for two more hours as no ambulance was available to transport them. One of the patients, a 79-year-old, said: “We took turns to speak into the mike in front of the counter. Finally as the oldest among the patients who travelled with me I said I will talk to them. I told them we had left home in the morning around 10 and the senior citizens all had different co-morbidities as well. We asked them to take us home immediately.” According to her, the policemen offered to provide them food at this point, but she said, “It is not about food. We want to go home.” Finally the patients were dropped at home around 4 p.m., she added. S. Smruthi, a resident of T. Nagar, had a similar experience. Four of her family members had tested positive, and were taken in an ambulance to the Omandurar hospital. After testing, they had to wait for two hours for a vehicle to drop them back home. They were told that the drivers had gone for lunch. They had left in the morning and returned around 5 p.m., she said. Increased case load Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) officials said they had made arrangements for 80 ambulances to transport patients to hospitals. “An ambulance is not used to transport patients from hospitals. Instead, we use 60 vehicles, including MTC buses, to take patients from hospitals to their homes for isolation. There may be a delay in taking the patients home. But we ensure that all patients get transportation to return home safely from the hospital. The delay is because of the increase in the number of patients. Vehicles are used to help residents reach 12 screening centres and hospitals,” said an official. Recently, the Greater Chennai Corporation also launched 200 vehicles with a seating capacity of 10 patients each to transport patients under the supervision of the 200 sanitary inspectors of the city wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patients-irked-by-lack-of-transport-from-hospital-after-testing/article32017685.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jump in cases prompts govt. to step up efforts in districts||Fresh COVID-19 infections may have fallen in the city in the past few days, but the situation remains grim in many districts. With the surge in cases in Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Tiruvannamalai and Vellore, the Health Department is stepping up surveillance of Influenza Like Illness and testing. While Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and, to some extent, Kancheepuram have been witnessing a high number of cases along with Chennai, there has been a sudden surge in Madurai, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, Ranipet, Ramanathapuram, Villupuram, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar in the past few weeks. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said these districts were directed to strive for bringing positivity rate to below 10%. “This should be done by focussing on 100% containment measures, and covering cases identified through fever camps,” he said. The Department has increased the testing capacity in these districts. “Around two lakh RT-PCR test kits were recently moved to districts. Of these, more kits were provided for districts that are witnessing a surge in cases,” an official said. With this, the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation has 2.24 lakh RT-PCR testing kits, while 2.7 lakh kits are with hospitals as of now. An order was placed last week for 10 lakh more kits, he added. Prabhdeep Kaur, scientist E/deputy director of the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology, underscored the need to increase surveillance and testing in districts recording an increase in cases. “There should be restrictions on public transport, gatherings, and the need to promote the use of masks. There has to be rigorous data analysis to identify hotspots...,” she said. Experts said Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Madurai, Ramanathauram and Tiruvannamalai should be closely monitored. An official of the Directorate of Public and Preventive Medicine said surveillance, early identification of cases and containment measures were important to break the chain of transmission. “We are tightening surveillance of Influenza Like Illness and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection cases. We are taking containment measures and concentrating on contact-tracing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jump-in-cases-prompts-govt-to-step-up-efforts-in-districts/article32017679.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Extending lockdown will cause economic slowdown, says CM||Noting that Tamil Nadu had been under a lockdown for nearly 105 days, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday hinted that there may not be another shutdown, thereby putting the onus on the public to adhere to safety norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19. When asked if there would be another lockdown, he said, “I think there is no chance of it [happening]. It is completely in the hands of the people... If they follow the norms laid down by the government, COVID-19 transmission will decline gradually, and there is a chance that normalcy will return.” He underscored the need for people to wear masks and maintain physical distance and personal hygiene. He was interacting with journalists after inaugurating a COVID-19 facility at the National Institute of Ageing in Guindy, Chennai. “Livelihood is a big challenge. On the one hand, we need to prevent the spread of the infection. On the other, it is the government’s duty to ensure livelihood of the people. We have been under lockdown for nearly 105 days, and continuing it will affect livelihood and lead to an economic slowdown. That is why we have taken measures to control COVID-19 as much as possible through the lockdown, even while ensuring livelihood of people. It has fetched good results,” he said. He said the complete lockdown had led to a gradual decline in fresh cases in the Greater Chennai Corporation limits. “Cases have dipped in the last two days. The results will start showing gradually,” he said. He reiterated that there was no community transmission in the State. Mr. Palaniswami said 10,000 persons with COVID-19 symptoms were identified through fever camps in Chennai. A total of 22,595 beds were ready at government hospitals and 9,073 at private hospitals across the State. In total, there were 31,668 hospital beds in the State, he said. The COVID-19 facility at the National Institute of Ageing has 750 beds. Mr. Palaniswami said 100 doctors, 90 staff nurses and 100 hospital workers had been posted at the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extending-lockdown-will-cause-economic-slowdown-says-cm/article32017683.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The rare bond between a musician and a writer||Though music is the recurring theme of the works of Tamil writer T. Janakiraman whose centenary celebration has begun, he never openly identified his choice of musicians other than vocalist Madurai Mani Iyer and violinist Thiruvalangadu Sundaresa Iyer.  Concert commentaries Now his commentaries on the concert of Madurai Mani Iyer, broadcast by the All India Radio (AIR) in the national programme, reveal why Mani Iyer’s music was close to his heart. The concert begins with the song Rama bhakti in the raga Suddha Bangla . “None would have missed the ease and grace of the swaraprastharam even in an rare raga like Suddha Bangala . Mani Iyer’s swara elaborations have rare smoothness and flow in what is called by Carnatic musicians sarvalagu ,” says Janakiraman, who worked as a chief producer, education broadcast, AIR, in his speech in English. The concert and the commentary were recorded by Thiruvanathapuram-based nonagenarian A.S. Arumugam Pilla, a fan of Janakiraman. Writer Lalitharam obtained the cassettes from him, and has made them public. Mani Iyer was accompanied by Lalgudi Jayaraman on the violin, Pazhani Subramania Pillai on the mridangam and Umayalpuram Kothandarama Iyer on the ghatam. Mani Iyer had shared a rare bond with Janakiraman and agreed to give a concert at Uchipillaiyarkoil in Tiruchi to collect funds for Tamil writer Ku.Pa. Rajagopalan, a writer of the Manikodi magazine. “Freedom fighter Swaminatha Sastray, who spoke at the end of the concert, described Madurai Mani as Madura (sweet) Mani Iyer,” Janakiraman had recalled in his article in the commemorative issue of the 15th Rama Navami Mahotsava in Tiruchi Manimandapam in Apri,l 1960. Finest exponent While talking about Mani Iyer’s sarvalagu (free flow), Janakiraman explains that it had a finest exponent in Mazhavarayanendal Subbarama Bhagavathar, and Mani Iyer added a number of creative silences, pauses and sudden surprises. Before the commencement of Saint Thiyagaraja’s Suddha Saveri keerthana Darini Telusukonti , Janakiraman points out that Mani Iyer had a great respect for the composer in the elaboration of the composition and sangathis. “He never overdid the embellishments in the composition. Overdoing of composition is a temptation against which St Thiyagaraja himself was reported to have warned his disciples,” he said. About the accompanying artistes, Janakiraman says they are renowned for their clarity, and are ideal accompanists. The concert ends with Muthuswami Dikshitar’s memorable keerthana Meenakshi Memudhum in the raga Gamakapriya . “We are told that Muthuswami Dikshitar has this composition sung to him by his disciples in his last moments, and at the end of it, he merged himself into final peace and silence,” Janakiraman says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-rare-bond-between-a-musician-and-a-writer/article32017674.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK working on revamping district units||With Assembly elections due in about 10 months, the ruling AIADMK is working to complete early the process of revamping party’s district units, which is pending for long. On Monday, the “Group of Five,” — Ministers S.P. Velumani and P. Thangamani; deputy coordinators K. P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam and organisation secretary Natham R. Viswanathan — met at the party headquarters for nearly for four hours and discussed “organisational issues.” As the discussions remained inconclusive, the group may meet once again before submitting its proposals to the party coordinator and co-coordinator, O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister and Chief Minister respectively. There has been a perception among several sections in the AIADMK that the party is lagging behind the arch rival, DMK, with regard to the formation of new district units as the latter had carried out the work long ago. The announcement on the formation of new units was anxiously expected throughout June, says a party functionary from the southern districts. The creation of new district units in the party has been compelled by the State government establishing new revenue districts. For example, the revenue district of Vellore has been trifurcated into Ranipet and Tirupattur. But, the party has only two district units — Vellore (East and West). To take care of Tirupattur, one more district unit has to be formed. Likewise, new party units will have to be set up for the fresh revenue districts of Kallakurichi and Tenkasi, which have been carved out of Villupuram in the north and Tirunelveli in the south. At present, there are 56 district units in the party. Though there is a consensus that the number has to be increased, there is still lack of clarity how much should be the rise. According to another office-bearer, the total number can go up to 64. There are political reasons too. At present, most of the district secretaries are those who are perceived to be followers of the Chief Minister. The creation of new units can accommodate some of those who stood by the Deputy Chief Minister at the time of his “dharma yudham” in 2017. In addition, the party would like to remain a cohesive force if and when V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the party, comes out of Bengaluru jail, a few months ahead of the end of her term, and seeks to enter into politics again, a veteran points out.  Ministers S. P. Velumani and P. Thangamani; deputy coordinators K. P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam and organisation secretary Natham R. Viswanathan met at the party headquarters for nearly four hours and discussed “organisational issues.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-working-on-revamping-district-units/article32017694.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two recovered civic workers allay patients’ fears||A. Arun Kumar and Khader Basha, both conservancy workers in Kolathur, contracted COVID-19 in May. After being discharged in June, they have rejoined work, and now are using every available opportunity to create awareness about the infection in the locality they work in. The two workers in division 65, Zone 6, were given a grand welcome on Tuesday for having recovered from COVID-19. Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar felicitated them in Kolathur. “We have only seen senior officers being welcomed like this. We were moved,” said Mr. Arun, a 32-year-old from Thattankulam, Pulianthope. Both Mr. Kumar and Mr. Basha are in charge of providing garbage bags to quarantined houses and disinfecting the area with bleaching powder. “I was frightened initially as I was admitted in the ICU for a few days. Now, when I visit people under quarantine, to provide garbage bags, I share my experience and tell them not to worry. It gives them confidence,” said Mr. Kumar. Mr. Basha, too, does the same. “I ask them if they need groceries or medicines. I have experienced the pain and tension they are undergoing now. So, I try to allay their fears and give them hope,” said the 45-year-old from Sowcarpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-recovered-civic-workers-allay-patients-fears/article32017648.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||They struggle to iron out wrinkles in life||A few weeks back, 40-year-old P. Perumal called his regular customers and went knocking on doors to politely ask if they had clothes for him to iron. “Most of them flatly refused, saying they didn’t have any and some were even scared to let me in,” he says. Now, with no income for nearly three months, he has been delivering water cans, for which he gets paid Rs. 60 a day. From giving a pleated pinafore a perfect press to running the coal iron over a crumpled shirt for a crisp look, cloth pressers, their carts parked in several street corners of the city, have long been indispensable for residents. But with schools turning to online classes and professionals working from home, the humble ironwallahs in the city have been struggling without income for months now. “I have to pay rent for my shop and also my house. I dread to think how I am going to manage in the coming months,” he adds. N. Ramamoorthy, who has a cart in Nanganallur for nearly 10 years now, says his primary customers include students and those working in the Airports Authority of India. “Not only that no one is going out for work, people are also scared to give their clothes now. We used to get huge piles of clothes because of social gatherings but we barely see any now. My savings are also getting exhausted. I am clueless and only wondering if I should take up other work to make ends meet,” he adds. Savings dry up M. Kaliaperumal has pledged his wife’s jewellery, besides using the savings to support his family for the last three months. “I enrolled my children in private schools and with great difficulty paying their fees by running this ironing business. I somehow borrowed money and paid fees for one child in March itself; and we have been given time for the other child. But when the time comes, I have to seek help again from someone. I don’t know whether to pay rent for the house or remit school fees or run the family,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/they-struggle-to-iron-out-wrinkles-in-life/article32017659.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu to sign 20 more MoUs: Industries Minister||The Tamil Nadu government will soon sign 20 MoUs with various firms, according to Industries Minister M.C. Sampath. “Even in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, we recently signed 17 MoUs and will soon be signing 20 more,” he said at a virtual meeting organised to release a report, ‘Covid-19 Outbreak and the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs): A Study of Tamil Nadu’. He said the State was taking measures to address the problems of the MSME sector. The report, authored by Subash Sasidharan and Santosh Kumar Sahu of the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, and R.K. Jeyabalan of ConsoTree, a private agency, details cash flow, labour issues and layoffs, future prospects, and awareness of policy support programmes. The report, based on the data from over 1,200 MSMEs of the manufacturing, trading, and services sectors, shows these units are struggling to recover in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. Credit support The study suggests that there be targeted credit support policies for the micro segment; credit be extended not just to the existing borrowers but also new borrowers, given that funding needs are likely to increase with the looming economic crisis; and the payment of the pending GST compensation. The study notes the MSMEs are confronted with high business costs, especially rents and electricity expenses. This can harm profitability and sustainability in the State. Concessions to reduce such costs/reduction in power tariffs for the MSMEs should be considered and income support and temporary direct cash payments should be provided to vulnerable workers, including women and migrant workers. The study suggests subsidy be given to the MSMEs to make personal protective equipment, masks, gloves and medical kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-to-sign-20-more-mous-industries-minister/article32017689.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Education Plus Webinar on July 11||The Hindu Education Plus will host a webinar on July 11 as part of its career counselling webinar series, presented by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology. The third webinar in the series will focus on the impact of COVID-19 and psychological situations. Students of Classes 9 to 12, who aspire to pursue medical and health sciences, can participate. Dr. Ravikumar Arunachalam, Pro Vice-Chancellor, Medical and Health Sciences, SRM Institute of Science & Technology; Dr. M. Thirunavukarasu, Professor and Head of the Department of Psychiatry, SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Center; Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, founder, SNEHA, a Chennai-based NGO for the prevention of suicide and Subhashini Gopal, psychologist, Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF); will speak as a part of the webinar. Through its sessions, the webinar series aims to cover a range of topics, including engineering, medicine, humanities and science. On Saturday, the webinar will be held from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. To register, students can log ontohttps: //bit.ly/2Z3wuPSor scan the QR code given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-education-plus-webinar-on-july-11/article32017654.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC questions legality of Friends of police||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has called for a report from the State government seeking to know whether the Tamil Nadu Police had any legal sanction to use the ‘Friends of Police’ movement for official functions. SHRC acting chairperson D. Jayachandran also sought a report from the Home Secretary and the Director-General of Police within four weeks. The Commission also sought to know whether using the ‘Friends of Police’ movement for discharging the official functions of the Tamil Nadu Police was not a violation of human rights and also the judgment laid down by the Supreme Court of India in the Prof. Nandini Sundar Vs. State of Chhattisgarh case dated July 5, 2011. The Commission’s directions followed a complaint raised by E. Adhisayakumar of Thoothukudi before it seeking to permanently disband the ‘Friends of Police’ movement, contending that its volunteers harassed and attacked victims. He cited the recent two custodial deaths in Sattankulam Police Station. He also submitted an audio recording in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-questions-legality-of-friends-of-police/article32017690.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kodanad accused cannot be kept indefinitely in custody, says High Court||The Madras High Court on Tuesday wondered as to how long the State can keep the 2017 Kodanad Estate heist-cum-murder case accused K.V. Sayan and Valayar Manoj in judicial custody, unless there were materials to prove that letting them out on bail would affect the ongoing trial or lead to disturbance of witnesses. Justice R. Subramanian said, “Either they get bail or they don’t. We can’t keep them in suspended animation forever. Whether enlarging them on bail will affect the trial or witnesses is the only thing that has to be seen. We may either dismiss their bail petitions or allow them. Let’s see who goes to Delhi (Supreme Court, on appeal).” ‘Counter ready’ The judge made the observations when Additional Public Prosecutor C. Iyyapparaj sought time to file a counter affidavit. The APP said the counter had been prepared by the police in the Nilgiris district but it could not be filed in court because of the recent heavy rains in Udhagamandalam. He sought two week for filing the counter. Surprised that the prosecution had been seeking more time though the bail petitions were filed a month ago, besides being listed before two other judges of the High Court so far, Justice Subramanian said it must not be forgotten that the petitioners had actually been granted bail within months of their arrest. However, the bail got cancelled in February 2019 after they gave a televised interview regarding the crime. The ground for cancellation was that they had attempted to influence the witnesses in the case. Now that the trial was in an advanced stage even as per the prosecution, the plea for grant of bail should be decided at the earliest, the judge said. He directed the Registry to list both the petitions for hearing on July 16 and instructed the APP to serve copies of the counter affidavit on senior counsel N.R. Elango, representing the accused, well in advance so that he and State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan could commence arguing the matter without the need for any further adjournments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kodanad-accused-cant-be-kept-indefinitely-in-custody-says-hc/article32017695.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic policemen to wear body cams||New Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) N. Kannan has asked traffic police personnel to wear body cameras ‘extensively’ while on duty to maintain transparency while dealing with motorists on roads. Prior to his present posting, Mr. Kannan was with the State Intelligence. Talking to The Hindu , Mr. Kannan said: “There may be complaints of excesses, corruption or aberrations on the part of police personnel. In order to avoid those unsavoury circumstances, we told our personnel to be courteous and wear body-borne cameras extensively. We have also advised them to stand near CCTV cameras while checking the vehicles on roads.”  Stating that the traffic system would be modernised, Mr. Kannan said he would update the Facebook page and Twitter accounts to make them more useful to the public via quick updates and forecasts through social media. Suggestions were invited to streamline the traffic system and resolve issues quickly, and the traffic control room (Ph: 103) was more responsive, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-policemen-to-wear-body-cams/article32017645.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘159 cases filed for linking M uslims with COVID-19’||The Tamil Nadu Director General of Police (DGP) on Tuesday informed the Madras High Court that 159 cases had been booked against 356 people across the State for spreading fake news, bigotry and communal hatred against Muslims by linking them with COVID-19. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha were told that 86 had been arrested and 270 were at large. The information was provided in response to a public interest litigation petition filed by ASA. Umar Farooq of the Social Democratic Party of India. The litigant stated that scores of Muslims tested positive after attending a conference of Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi early this year. This led to a hate campaign on mainstream and social media, levelling false accusations against the Muslims, in general, he alleged. His counsel A. Raja Mohamed said some national television news channels began using terms such as ‘Corona jihad’, ‘Corona terrorism’, ‘Corona bombs’ and ‘Islamic insurrection’ while reporting news linking Muslims to the spread of the pandemic. Hence, he sought for a direction to the Centre to act against television channels which carried such news apart from a direction to the State police to register cases against those who were undertaking a malicious campaign against Muslims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/159-cases-filed-for-linking-m-uslims-with-covid-19/article32017670.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dengue case scope can’t be expanded: HC||The Madras High Court on Tuesday refused to expand the scope of a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed in September last for controlling the spread of dengue in Chennai city and issue a direction to the government to provide face masks free of cost to all people in the State to safeguard themselves from COVID-19. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy rejected the request made by advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam who insisted upon expanding his case and issuing certain directions to the government on COVID-19 since people were wearing non-reusable face masks for months together. The lawyer told the court that he had also filed a sub-application in February this year with respect to COVID-19 and hence some directions could be issued to the government. He said the number of tests being done were not sufficient and there was a great amount of fear and anxiety among senior citizens. Opposing his plea, State Government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan said the advocate should file a separate PIL petition seeking such a relief and not in a case related to dengue. In response, Mr. Suryaprakasam wondered how could the government harp on technicalities in issues related to public health. However, the Chief Justice decided to stick to the issue of dengue in the present case since many cases on COVID-19 were being dealt with by other judges of the court. He directed the Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner to file an action taken report within four weeks on the steps taken so far to control the spread of dengue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dengue-case-scope-cant-be-expanded-hc/article32017680.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. will support film industry’||Information and Publicity Minister Kadambur Raju and Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar on Tuesday said the State government will extend support to the film industry. The Ministers distributed herbal concoction Kabasura Kudineer and homoeopathy tablets to the heads of 24 film crafts affiliated to the 25,000-strong Film Employees Federation of South India in Chennai. With curbs being removed, FEFSI president R.K. Selvamani said five teams will be set up by FEFSI to ensure that State Government’s COVID-19 guidelines and precautions are being followed at the shooting spots. Shooting for television serials is likely to restart from Wednesday. He also requested the help of State government to further provide relief to 25,000 FEFSI workers many of whom have suffered due to total shutdown of the film industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-will-support-film-industry/article32017681.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri warns Centre, State over SCs indentification||The Central and State governments should announce that seven Scheduled Castes in south Tamil Nadu will henceforth be identified as Devendrakula Vellalars or get ready to face protests in the Assembly and Parliament, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said. “If this is not announced immediately, the Congress will protest in the Assembly and after discussions with the parties in the Secular Progressive Alliance, all MPs from the alliance will raise the issue in Parliament as well,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alagiri-warns-centre-state-over-scs-identification/article32017691.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central team arriving today||A high-level Central team, led by senior IAS officer Arti Ahuja, Additional Secretary in the Union Ministry of Health Family Welfare, is scheduled to arrive here on Wednesday. During its three-day visit, the team will assess the COVID-19 situation in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-arriving-today/article32017651.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police officials pay tributes to cop who died of COVID-19||Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy and Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Tuesday paid floral tributes to G. Nagarajan, an Armed Reserve constable, who died of COVID-19. G. Nagarajan, 32, died in Government Medical College Hospital at Omandurar Estate. He was a native of Otthakadai in Madurai district and was sent to Vepery police station on deputation. He was in a quarantine facility on IIT-Madras campus since July 3. As his condition deteriorated, he was admitted to the hospital where he died without responding to the treatment. “He was attending to corona-related duties for the last three months,” Mr. Aggarwal tweeted. Nagarajan is the third victim in the city police after S. Balamurali, a Mambalam police inspector, and Manimaran, a special sub-inspector of Pattinampakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-officials-pay-tributes-to-cop-who-died-of-covid-19/article32017982.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two undergo renal transplant at Apollo||Two persons from Mauritius with end-stage kidney disease recently underwent renal transplant at Apollo Hospitals. Sunita Soomaroo, 45, and Gneshan Munisamy, 58, were referred by the Health Minstry of Mauritius. The patients arrived in the city early in March, just before the first lockdown. Their health deteriorated and the lockdown extensions led to a long wait. A team led by nephrologist M. Saravanan and transplant surgeon Deepak Raghavan took care of them until the State government granted permission for transplant. The transplant was done in the first week of June. Dr. Deepak said the patients and their donors were counselled before getting clearance from the Mauritius Health Ministry and the Tamil Nadu State Organ Transplant Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-undergo-renal-transplant-at-apollo/article32017669.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ad Club’s E-Gyan session on July 10||The Advertising Club Madras will hold the second edition of its E-Gyan Series, a knowledge sharing initiative, on July 10. The discussion will focus on “Artificial Intelligence in Advertising Creativity! Is it Real or a Fad?” The E-Gyan series is held with senior professionals from the advertising and media fields. The event will begin at 4 p.m. with a discussion between Anil K. Nair, CEO, VML Y&R, and P.G. Aditiya, ECD, Dentsu Webchutney, on how AI is making its way into advertising. Registration is free and on first-come-first-served basis. For details, call 81754426372 or emailadmin@adclubmadras. com. The Hindu is the Print Media Partner for the series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ad-clubs-e-gyan-session-on-july-10/article32017646.ece
08 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5 rounded up in Vyasarpadi murder case||The city police apprehended five suspects who allegedly hacked a 22-year-old youth to death in Vyasarpadi. The police said the victim, Prasanth, 22, son of fish vendors, was studying second year B.A. Tamil at a private college in Arumbakkam. On Sunday night, his mother asked him to pick up her friend from the adjacent street and go buy fish in Kasimedu. While he was going on his bike, Prasanth was waylaid on Sundaram Powerline Road and indiscriminately attacked with knives. Following a tip-off, a special team of police personnel apprehended five youth, who have been identified as Balachandran, 19, Bharath, 21, Socrates, 20, Sudhakar, 19, and Surya Prakash, 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-rounded-up-in-vyasarpadi-murder-case/article32017657.ece
08 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies, Coimbatore sees 43 new cases||A 58-year-old woman from Ondipudur in Coimbatore died of COVID-19 at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, and the district saw 43 new positive cases on Tuesday. The woman was admitted to the hospital on June 28. Her condition deteriorated on Monday night and she died on Tuesday morning, Health Department officials said. Her husband and son are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Though there was a rumour that a 58-year-old man from Periyanaickenpalayam died of COVID-19 in Coimbatore late on Monday, hospitals handling COVID-19 cases and Health Department officials denied it. With the death of the woman from Ondipudur, the number of COVID-19 deaths notified by the Health Department increased to five in the district. Two other deaths, that of a 77-year-old man of Velandipalayam on June 20 and a 90-year-old man from Perur on June 28, were due to Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). On Tuesday, the magistrate of Fast Track Court II (magisterial level) at the combined court complex in Coimbatore tested positive for the disease. A release issued by the court said that it would remain closed till July 10. The Judicial Magistrate Court, Sulur, would also remain closed till July 10 as the magistrate of Fast Track Court II was in charge of it. Podanur police station in Coimbatore was closed for fumigation after a 45-year-old woman head constable tested positive. The station was earlier closed in April after four personnel contracted the disease. They later recovered. More cases in Selvapuram Of the 43 new cases on Tuesday, five were from Selvapuram and five from Podanur. After 35 persons tested positive in Selvapuram on Monday, District Collector K. Rajamani visited the place and issued instructions to officials to ensure safety. The Collector pulled up a person in charge of a jewellery unit for alleged negligence in ensuring the safety of employees, as many of them tested positive. Health workers carried out house-to-house visits in the containment zone. Thirty-three persons recovered from the disease and were discharged from the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore on Tuesday. Hospital Dean A. Nirmala said a 25-year-old COVID-19 patient gave birth to a male baby on Tuesday. The mother and the baby were fine, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-dies-coimbatore-sees-43-new-cases/article32017707.ece
08 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Asymptomatic patients shifted to COVID-19 Care Centre||In a move to de-congest the COVID-19 nodal treatment centre at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, 115 asymptomatic patients were shifted from the hospital to the COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) at Codissia Trade Fair Complex on Tuesday. The patients, 98 men and 17 women, who do not have symptoms of COVID-19 or co-morbid conditions that require treatment were shifted to the CCC. Official sources said that patients who require treatment for co-morbid conditions, breathing difficulty and other life-saving support remain at ESI Hospital. Pregnant women, elderly patients and children also remain at the hospital. The D-hall of the trade fair was converted to CCC by the district administration, Health and Revenue Departments. As of now, 150 beds were ready at the centre which the district administration was planning to increase up to 400. Entertainment facilities, including projectors for screening movies, were arranged at the centre. On Monday, a section of the patients protested over the plans by the authorities to shift them to the CCC. Authorities convinced the patients and shifted 115 of them to the centre on Tuesday morning. Some of the patients expressed concern over accommodating them in a hall, though beds are having enough spacing, and use of common toilets at the centre, according to the official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asymptomatic-patients-shifted-to-covid-19-care-centre/article32017718.ece
08 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Retail vegetable traders begin functioning from GCT ground||Coimbatore Corporation on Tuesday allowed retail vegetable traders to set shop at the Government College of Technology ground, Thadagam Road. It also allowed the wholesale vegetable traders to resume business at the MGR Wholesale Vegetable Market on Mettupalayam Road. The corporation had closed the Market and asked the retail traders to stop using the Ramalingam Chettiar Higher Secondary School ground on Alagesan Road, Saibaba Colony, after a few traders had tested positive a fortnight ago. The Corporation sources said though it had kept ready the college ground for sometime, the report of positive cases from among the retail traders forced it take the step. It had earmarked selling space of 8x8 feet for a trader with space measuring an equal area between two traders. In this fashion the civic body had created space for 190 traders, whom it expected to shut shop by around noon. At the wholesale market, the traders would have to finish business by 7 a.m., the sources said. The corporation expected to sell vegetables and load vegetables between 4 a.m. and 7 a.m. but they could unload goods any time during the day but not sell those. The corporation decided against placing restriction on unloading goods from lorries because if it were to do so it would load to lorries parked alongside road and lead to traffic congestion. Moreover, the arrival of vegetables in lorries from afar was not time specific as it depended on traffic and other factors and traders themselves could not give a time schedule. The sources said by reopening the Market, it also reopened the Mettupalayam Road Bus Stand for the traders to unload and sell tomatoes and onions. In allowing the traders to resume business, the corporation had ordered them to abide by all COVID-19 safety precautions, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retail-vegetable-traders-begin-functioning-from-gct-ground/article32017702.ece
08 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Goldsmiths seek permission to reopen workshops||With nearly 25,000 gold jewellery making workshops and smithies closed from Tuesday, the small-scale jewellery making goldsmiths have appealed to District Collector K. Rajamani to reopen the workshops. S.M. Kamal Hasan, president of Coimbatore Goldsmiths’ Association, said a team of goldsmiths met the Collector on Tuesday. “We wanted permission to reopen the workshops. The cases reported on Monday were from factories. In the workshops, the goldsmiths work at home. Hence, there is very little possibility for the workers or goldsmiths going out. However, the Collector has said he will not be able to do so till the spread is contained,” he said. “It is only in the factories that there are more number of workers. Hence, restrictions should be for these units. We (goldsmiths) explained the problems that we face to the Collector. The government should, otherwise, provide adequate financial support to the goldsmiths,” he added. Acording to B. Muthuvenkataraman, president of Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers’ Association, the goldsmiths are the worst affected. However, it is essential to contain the spread of COVID-19. The Collector has assured that he will relax the containment restriction in phases. The goldsmithies and factories have limited access to visitors. However, the workers and goldsmiths should not go out much even if the restrictions are removed. “We expect more orders as Chennai market is re-opening. But, all the workshops and factories are closed here now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goldsmiths-seek-permission-to-reopen-workshops/article32017706.ece
08 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Maintain calm and composure while dealing with public’||Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan on Tuesday urged the police personnel to maintain calm and composure while dealing with the public and those accused of various crimes, reportedly in the wake of Sattankulam custodial deaths that drew nationwide public ire. Mr. Sharan stressed the need for policemen to be polite to public even in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic duties, at a special meeting held for officers of the rank of inspector and above at PRS Grounds. Physical distancing He urged the personnel to ensure that all the members in the force wore mask and strictly followed physical distancing at stations and public places. He lauded the police personnel for spending more hours for COVID-19 management duties even in the midst of regular works. He distributed special masks bearing the police emblem to the personnel. The mask made of khaki will help the public identify police personnel even if they are in mufti. Mr. Sharan told The Hindu the COVID-19 management works of the police including crowd management, vehicle checks, containment monitoring and patrols would continue as usual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maintain-calm-and-composure-while-dealing-with-public/article32017726.ece
08 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on career counselling on July 11||The Hindu Education Plus and SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) will organise a webinar on career counselling for school students and parents on Saturday. The webinar series will discuss the career opportunities available in four streams namely Engineering, Medicine, Humanities and Social Sciences, and Sciences. In this series, the third webinar on July 11 will focus on ‘Medical and Health Sciences’. The topic of discussion will be ‘Impact of COVID-19 and Psychological Situations.’ The speakers for this webinar are Ravikumar Arunachalam, Pro-Vice Chancellor, Medical and Health Sciences, SRMIST; M. Thirunavukarasu, Professor and Head of the Department of Psychiatry, SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre; Lakshmi Vijayakumar, founder of NGO SNEHA and Head of Department of Psychiatry, Voluntary Health Services, Chennai, and Subhashini Gopal, a psychologist with Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF) and a part-time psychologist at Sundaram Medical Foundation, Chennai. The two-hour webinar will begin at 3 p.m. on Saturday. Those interested may register using the link https://bit.ly/2Z3wuPS or by scanning the QR code using their smart phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-career-counselling-on-july-11/article32017728.ece
08 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cargo air-lifted to Muscat||A chartered flight of SalamAir lifted 7.5 tonnes of cargo from Coimbatore to Muscat on Tuesday. According to sources, the cargo was mainly perishables - fruits and vegetables, including nearly two tonnes of curry leaves. Limited volume The cargo volume was limited as it was loaded only in the lower deck of the aircraft. This was an evacuation flight that took cargo on its return flight and hence, the rates were viable. The potential to air-lift cargo from Coimbatore to Muscat was huge as there were export products from all the western districts of the State. The queries were encouraging. There was potential to operate regular flights for cargo from Coimbatore to Muscat, the sources said. As many as 184 Indians stranded in Muscat reached Coimbatore on the repatriation flight on Tuesday. The passengers reached Coimbatore on a flight operated by SalamAir that landed here at around 8 p.m. Sources at the airport said the passengers included four infants. The flight was to return to Muscat at 10.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cargo-air-lifted-to-muscat/article32017735.ece
08 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. deploys medical teams in Kembatty Colony||After 35 persons tested positive and it declared several streets in and around Kembatty Colony as containment zones on Monday, the Coimbatore Corporation on Tuesday deployed medical teams to hold medical camps. According to sources, the Corporation sent two medical teams along with a few surveyors to the area to conduct door-to-door survey, identify people with fever, cough, breathlessness and phlegm, and give immunity-boosting medicines and monitor the health of all the people in the area. The surveyors tested all residents within containment area on Sullivan Street, Telugu Street, Edayar Street, Marakara Nanjappa Gounder Street, Sundaram Street, Raja Street and a few other areas for fever and sent to the medical teams the persons with high fever. Simultaneously, they also distributed zinc tablets, kabasura kudineer and other immunity-boosting medicines. The Corporation also lifted 365 samples from people it had identified as vulnerable in the area and those who could have come in contact with the 35 persons who had tested positive. The sources also said the Corporation had, after barricading the aforementioned areas, asked all commercial establishments to remain shut, including neighbourhood grocery stores, after it had asked only jewellery showrooms and gold smithies to remain shut on Monday. The Corporation would deploy vehicles in the containment zones to distribute milk, vegetables and other essential items. In a related development, the civic body in the small hours of Tuesday – by 1 a.m. – sent the 35 persons who had tested positive on Monday and their close contacts to the COVID-19 Care Centre in Codissia Trade Fair Complex. The sources said the civic body had sent over 125 persons. Though the initial plan was to isolate and house them in a wedding hall near Kembatty Colony, the Corporation decided against it and shifted them to the Complex as residents near the wedding hall objected to the move. The addition of Kembatty Colony and other areas takes the total containment zones in the city to 30 – three in East Zone, six in West, 10 in South, three in North and six in Central.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-deploys-medical-teams-in-kembatty-colony/article32017700.ece
08 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industrial e-pass issued from Chennai: officials||Industrial e-passes are issued from Chennai and not by the Coimbatore District Industries Centre (DIC) since Saturday, according to officials. Industries ask for e-pass for movement of employees from one district to another, for marketing, payment collection, to bring workers to industries here, to assess products, to inspect machinery, maintenance of machinery, etc. Since movement to adjoining districts has been restricted now, there is more need for the e-passes. The number of industrial e-passes issued in the district were reduced from June 19 or so in an effort to keep track of those who entered or left the district. From June 19 to July 4, 200 passes were issued here. The approving authority for the e-passes has been moved to Chennai from the DIC here from July 4. If the applicants have problems they should dial the helpline, official sources said. Meanwhile, industry sources said there were challenges and delays in getting the e-pass now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrial-e-pass-issued-from-chennai-officials/article32017723.ece
08 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Sweet-maker claims ‘mysurpa cure’ for COVID-19||Even as efforts are on worldwide for a potential vaccine for COVID-19, a sweet-maker in Coimbatore has claimed that the mysurpa he makes with special ingredients can cure patients of the disease and boost immunity in others. The person, who runs a shop named “Mr. Mysoorpa”, even has a dosage chart for the special sweet named “photon speed corona cure mysurpa”. As per the chart, each bite of the sweet “should be chewed 13 times with lips closed”. It prescribes a three-day dose for persons with symptoms of COVID-19 and a daily dose for others to boost immunity. The chart said the mysurpa would taste bitter on the first day of intake. The sweetness would increase as the immunity of the person improved, it claimed. K. Tamilselvan, Designated Officer of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India in Coimbatore, said he would inspect the sweet shop on Wednesday. “Appropriate action will be taken after the inspection,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sweet-maker-claims-mysurpa-cure-for-covid-19/article32017737.ece
08 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||EPFO grievance meet||The Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) will conduct a grievance redress meeting through webinar for its members, trade unions and employers on July 10. Titled 'Nidhi Aapke Nikat', the meet will be held at the Regional Office in Dr. Balasundaram Road, according to a press release. Those participating in the meet must furnish the details of their grievances along with the PF account number, Universal Account Number (UAN), establishment's name, mobile number and email address to the EPFO Public Relations Officer by July 8. The link for webinar will be sent via email, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/epfo-grievance-meet/article32017721.ece
08 July 2020||CORRESPONDENT,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu grain merchants plan stir||Wholesale grain merchants at Koyambedu plan to go on a fast in a few days to draw the attention of the State government to their problems. Permission to keep their business open on alternate days is one of their main demands. The Koyambedu market, which emerged as a COVID-19 cluster, was closed on May 5. While vegetables and fruits markets were functioning from alternative spaces, the grain market remained closed. Inaugurated in 2015, the food grains market has about 500 shops. However, the wholesale merchants said only 240 shops were functioning and the remaining were closed due to various issues, including sale deed documents. On average, about 1,500 customers visit the market daily. Several merchants were operating from rented spaces. With the market shut for the last two months, they were burdened with high rent. P. Muthupandian, secretary, Koyambedu Food Grains Market General Traders’ Association, said unlike the other three markets, the grain market was less crowded and had better planned infrastructure. “We mostly deliver groceries on order basis and have relatively fewer customers visiting the market earlier. We will continue to operate with physical distancing norms if the government reopens the section and allows us to function in batches on alternate days,” he said. The grain market cannot operate from an alternative space as the shops sold items that were covered under the Goods and Services Tax. It would be difficult to function from a different billing address. Several representations had been made to the government in this regard, he added. Other associations belonging to the vegetables and fruits market planned to join the demonstration if the issue was not resolved. They had complaints about inadequate infrastructure in temporary markets, members said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-grain-merchants-plan-stir/article32017656.ece
08 July 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Quarantined patients break open lock to play Kabaddi||A group of COVID-19 patients broke open a lock and went to the terrace of a quarantine centre at Annamalai University, Chidambaram, to play kabaddi. After a video of the match was shared on social media, Chidambaram Sub-Collector Vishu Mahajan visited the centre and warned the patients. An official said 30 of the 90 patients at the centre in the Golden Jubilee Hostel Block went to the terrace and played kabaddi two days ago. The video, filmed by a patient, drew the attention of the police and Revenue Department officials.  Second time This is the second time the lock was broken open by patients, Mr. Mahajan said. Another group had earlier broken open the lock to reach the terrace. “The lock has been replaced and the entry to the terrace barricaded. We have issued a stern warning to the patients and asked them not to go to the terrace again,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quarantined-patients-break-open-lock-to-play-kabaddi/article32017666.ece
08 July 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Toll in NLCIL boiler blast rises to 13||T. Ananda Padmanabhan, 44, a worker attached to the Industrial Cooperative Service Society (Indcoserve) of NLC India Ltd (NLCIL), who had suffered severe burns ina boiler blastat Unit V of Thermal Power Station-II in Neyveli on July 1, succumbed to injuries at a private hospital in Chennai on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 13. Ananda Padmanabhan, along with 15 others, were admitted to Apollo Hospital in Chennai with severe burns following the boiler blast accident that had taken place on Wednesday last. The tragedy at the plant occurred when the employees and workers attempted to revive the boiler after it had tripped last Tuesday. The accident at NLC India Ltd took place just a month after five workers died in an explosion at the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-in-nlcil-boiler-blast-rises-to-13/article32017663.ece
08 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Over 3,000 test negative in two hotspots in Erode||With 50 COVID-19 cases being reported from Periyar Nagar and Rajajipuram areas here, swab samples lifted from over 3,000 people in these areas tested negative here on Tuesday. Of the 200-odd cases reported in the second wave of virus spread across the district, 124 cases were reported in corporation limits. While 30 cases were reported in Rajajipuram, 20 in Periyar Nagar and other cases were reported at Surampatti, Thindal, Moolapalayam, Marapalam, Nadarmedu and a few other areas. Both these areas were sealed and declared as containment zones with workers carrying out disinfections twice a day besides all the residents given health drinks to boost their immunity. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that after positive cases were reported in the two areas last week, swab samples were collected from all the other residents in the areas and tested. Results have come as negative and there is least possibility of emergency of new cases in these areas, he added. He said that 1,200 conservancy workers were given face shields on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-3000-test-negative-in-two-hotspots-in-erode/article32017704.ece
08 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Licence of marriage hall cancelled at Perundurai||The district administration has cancelled the licence issued to a marriage hall on Kanjikovil Road at Karumandichellipalayam village in Perundurai block after its owner refused permission to government officers for converting the hall as quarantine centre to accommodate asymptotic patients here. A communication sent to the owner by Perundurai Tahsildar said that licence under the Tamil Nadu Public Buildings (Licensing) Act, 1985 was granted to the hall from May 2, 2018 to May 1, 2021. Since the hall, which could accommodate 2,500 persons, is located near the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai, officials after following the guidelines, inspected it for converting it as a centre. But officials were prevented from discharging their duty. The communication, dated July 6, 2020, said that when the virus is fast spreading, the owner is non-cooperative to the steps taken by the government and has set a bad precedent. Hence, the licence granted to the hall stands cancelled. The letter said that action will be taken according to the law if violations are found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/licence-of-marriage-hall-cancelled-at-perundurai/article32017705.ece
08 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||12,000 under home quarantine||Collector C. Kathiravan said that 12,000 people were home quarantined at 51 locations across the district as on Monday. He inspected the disinfection measures being taken at the Government Headquarters Hospital and also a private company at Perundurai on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12000-under-home-quarantine/article32017698.ece
08 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Kodumudi sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 8 at Kodumudi, Salai Pudur, Kuppampalayam, Rasampalayam, Othakadai, Unjalur, Pilikalpalayam, Thamaraipalayam, Thaluvampalayam, North Moorthipalayam, Arasampalayam, North Pudupalayam, Solakalipalayam and Nagamanaickenpalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32017722.ece
08 July 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||It is a tightrope walk for Karaikal administration||The Karaikal district administration is understood to be giving a strong push to make business establishments comply with safety protocol for preventing spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The change in approach is stated to be visible after the visit of Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy last week. During his visit to take stock of the measures taken for containment of the pandemic, Mr. Narayanasamy advised officials to act courteously towards business establishments with an explanation that the Puducherry administration was pushed into a situation of depending on tax revenue in the absence of adequate funding from the Central Government for undertaking relief measures. Over the last fortnight, a grocery shop, a travels agency, a jewellery showroom and an optical shop were among the business establishments that were sealed by official teams undertaking surprise inspections for not following social distancing norms. Sealing of shops will henceforth be carried out only as a last resort, sources said, adding that the emphasis now was on imposing fines on the shops and on customers found flouting the safety protocol. The Karaikal Chamber of Commerce had, a week back, expressed resentment over what it described as drastic action by the district administration and had sought deft balancing of enforcement of lockdown restrictions and relaxations for economic revival. The Chamber is understood to have given a written representation that the business establishments will be forced to carry out a total strike if the trend of sealing of shops continued. A. Muthaiya, president, Karaikal Chamber of Commerce, said the business establishments, on their part, were conscious about adherence to various safety parameters. The partial unlocking of restrictions since July 3 has resulted in marginal improvements in transactions. As the business establishments are now permitted to function till 8 p.m., they are able to realise 40 to 50 % of the usual transactions. But, the scope for complete revival of business activities in the near future was dismal since the district borders have been sealed, limiting the movement of floating population that drive the local economy in Karaikal, Mr. Muthaiya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-a-tightrope-walk-for-karaikal-administration/article32018027.ece
08 July 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Safety of home during pandemic not a choice for these siblings||Ikkiya, with her cropped hair, clad in full-sleeved shirt and trousers could be mistaken for a boy. As she pours dry ginger tea ably assisted by her younger brother Yousuf, the safety of home in the face of a killer virus sticks out as the preserve of only children with means. For 13-year-old Ikkiya and her brother Mohammad Yousuf, being on the streets selling tea during COVID-19, is the only way to support their family. When Ikkiya’s mother Rehmat Banu was pregnant with Yousuf, their father Ayub Basha died in an accident at Shoolagiri. Rehmat Banu had raised her four children, three daughters and one son since. Ikkiya’s dress code is a defence code, to ward off unsolicited male gaze, says Rehmat Banu. Rehmat Banu’s struggle to raise her children has been a never ending one. She had applied for allotment of an Aavin milk booth to her. But each time she zeroed in on a location, within few months a booth was allocated to someone in the same location, she says. Last week, Municipal Commissioner Chandra bought tea from the two children, who were spotted selling from a small flask in the Municipality campus. At that time, they were on foot carrying a flask and paper cups. Commissioner Chandra took interest in them and sponsored a tea drum, a filter and 10 stainless steel tumblers from her own pocket. On Tuesday, the children were seen lugging the tea drum in a borrowed cycle. Once the schools open, they will be back to their studies. Yousuf is entering class II, while Ikkiya is entering class 8 this year. For now, Ikkiya and Yousuf have stolen many a heart through their perseverance driven by their love for their family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-of-home-during-pandemic-not-a-choice-for-these-siblings/article32017730.ece
08 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||8,210 found having influenza-like illness||A total of 8,210 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) have been identified in Madurai city through fever camps as on July 5, according to data obtained from Madurai Corporation. Out of them swabs were lifted from 5,630 persons, with around 50% of the cases testing positive for COVID-19. With fever camps helping in early identification of COVID-19 cases, the Corporation has decided to introduce 54 more fever clinics in the city. It has also been decided to ramp up the testing of cases identified through fever clinics. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan, who assumed office a few days ago, said that door-to-door fever surveillance and testing has been intensified since the imposition of complete lockdown from June 24. Out of the 8,210 persons identified through fever camps, the contribution of the intensified lockdown period is around 85%. “The rest belongs to the camps held at Urban Primary Centres (UPHC) since March,” he added. Fever clinics are an important intervention in containing the COVID-19 pandemic, said Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan. “By early identification of fever cases, we can immediately isolate them and treat them. With the rising COVID-19 cases, we have decided to test all those who have fever symptoms,” he said. A health official said that till now samples were lifted from persons with fever who also had comorbidities or had travel history. “But, from now on we have decided to test all fever cases, even if the number of negative COVID-19 cases are high. This targeted testing will help us to identify cases, isolate them and contain the spread of the virus,” said the CHO. Currently, a total of 95 fever clinics are conducted in the city every day. Fever clinics are held at 31 UPHCs in the city. In addition, 16 mobile vehicles are deployed in high risk areas to conduct 64 fever clinics every day. “We will now introduce extra 40 fever clinics through additional 10 mobile vehicles. There will be eight AYUSH clinics and six ESI dispensaries will also be used as fever clinics,” said the Commissioner. Additional doctors and medical staff, including Siddha professionals, are being roped in for the fever clinics, he added. A source privy to the recent meeting of the Health Secretary in Madurai said that more emphasis was given on testing and screening through fever camps in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8210-found-having-influenza-like-illness/article32017972.ece
08 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Skeletal remains of another child excavated at Keeladi||Skeletal remains of another child were excavated at Konthagai as part of the sixth phase of ongoing excavations in the ancient site of Keeladi. The child’s skeleton was located only around 0.5 metres from the remains of the first child which were found on June 19. Deputy Director of Archaeology and in-charge of the excavations R. Sivanandam said it was found around two weeks ago because of its proximity to the skeleton of the first child. It was 95 cm in height and located about one metre below ground. This too, like in the case of the first child they found, was a surface burial, he said. It took the team around 10 days to expose the remains carefully. “Skeletons can be cleaned only if there is no direct exposure to sunlight. Otherwise, it may affect the DNA samples. We have been utilising our time between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m., and 5.30 p.m. and 7 p.m. and covering the area above with a black tarp to ensure that the DNA of the skeletal remains can be collected properly and sent to Madurai Kamaraj University for analysis,” he said. It would be premature to speak about the sex of the two children, he added. Unlike the skeletal remains of the first child whose skull was crushed, the second child’s skull, teeth and face were all intact, said a source involved in the excavation. Konthagai village, which is part of the sixth phase of excavations at Keeladi, is said to be a burial site. A source from the Archaeology Department said they had found two urns with remains near the skeletons apart from the remains of animals and adults in the area. “This proves that different types of burials had taken place in Keeladi. There was an institutional lifestyle and a specific place for the dead to be buried. Some were buried in urns, others just under the surface,” the source said. Recently four weighing stones of varying sizes made out of basalt were found at Keeladi as part of the excavation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skeletal-remains-of-another-child-excavated-at-keeladi/article32017985.ece
08 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes case against man with special needs||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has set aside a chargesheet pending against a Madurai-based man with special needs. In 2018, the Madurai police booked the man for unlawful assembly after he was found amidst a group of protesters, who were raising slogans, in Madurai against the Thoothukudi firing incident. Perusing the certificate issued by a psychologist who had assessed the man in 2010, Justice B. Pugalendhi took cognisance of the fact that the man then aged 20 years and 10 months had a mental age of 11 years and two months then. His overall I.Q. was found to be 79, which indicated borderline intellectual capacity and features of behaviour problems. Taking note of the fact that the man was under continuous treatment, the court said that as per Section 83 of the Indian Penal Code, an act of a child above seven years and under 12 years who has not attained sufficient maturity of understanding to judge the nature and consequences of his conduct on that occasion, cannot be considered as an offence. Further, the judge said that as per Section 84 of the Indian Penal Code, nothing is an offence which is done by a person, who at the time of doing it by reason of unsoundness of mind, is capable of knowing the nature of the act or that he is doing what is either wrong or contrary to law. The court set aside the chargesheet pending against the man. The court said that to attract an offence under Section 143 of the Indian Penal Code, the person must have participated in an unlawful assembly with certain ill motives when the prohibitory orders are in existence. The allegation against the man was that in 2018, he had participated in the protest against the Thoothukudi firing incident that was organised by Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam. Earlier, the court had observed that the implication of the man in the criminal case can only be characterised as most unfortunate and police will have to be duly sensitised in such matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-quashes-case-against-man-with-special-needs/article32017957.ece
08 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Need to patronise indigenous medicines, says High Court||Lamenting the fact that the Central and State governments were spending huge amounts from their exchequer only on modern medicines, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that there was a need to patronise indigenous system of medicine after a Madurai-based Siddha doctor’s herbal concoction was found to have an anti-viral effect. Taking into account the fact that the Siddha doctor’s medical preparation and the documents pertaining to it were sent to the Central Council for Research in Ayurveda and Siddha (CCRAS) by the State government, a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi directed the CCRAS to test the preparation and file a report by August 3. An expert committee of the Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homeopathy, Chennai, tested ‘IMPRO’, the herbal concoction prepared by S. Subramanian and submitted that the preparation had an anti-viral effect. Mr. Subramanian, previously the Medical Officer of the Siddha dispensary at the High Court Bench, had sought a direction to the Centre to test and see if his herbal concoction, a mixture of 66 herbs, could be used as a cure for COVID-19. The court observed that every country had its own indigenous medicines and with those medicines the ancestors had led healthy lives. Everyone at some point of time had experienced the benefits of indigenous medicines. ‘Siddha’ was one such system of medicine that boosted immunity. However, the present day generation was switching to fast food and readymade meals and grandmother’s treatment or medicine was slowly vanishing, the court observed. The judges said the Indian system of food itself provided sufficient immunity and pointed to the low COVID-19 death rate in India. Tamil Nadu had effectively handled dengue fever by promoting nilavembu kudineer and now kabasura kudineer was being promoted as an effective immune booster, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-to-patronise-indigenous-medicines-says-high-court/article32017987.ece
08 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police with ailment told to go into self-quarantine||In order to insulate elderly police officials and personnel and also those with comorbidities against COVID-19 infection, Madurai City Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha has asked them to self-quarantine themselves for two weeks. The Commissioner had asked each police station and units to identify those aged 57 years and above. “The Inspectors were asked to identify such people and only those who are healthy among them were advised to report for work and others to quarantine themselves,” Mr. Sinha said. Similarly, the stations have also been asked to identify police personnel with comorbidities and get a health check-up at the police hospital. Those identified with ailments have been asked to take rest at home. This move comes after death of three police personnel in Chennai and Virudhunagar reported due to COVID-19 infection. With no major law and order duty under the lockdown, the city police could afford to give rest to the aged and those who are vulnerable, he added. Besides, the services of Armed Reserve police are also being used for policing. Meanwhile, the officials have also been asked to strictly enforce lockdown norms to curtail unnecessary movement of vehicles. All the police stations were disinfected as a precautionary measure. Over 160 city police personnel have been infected so far. Among them 60 are still active patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-with-ailment-told-to-go-into-self-quarantine/article32017977.ece
08 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Call for due process in developing vaccine||All India People’s Science Network has called for due process of scientific trials to be followed in a strict and transparent manner in the development of COVID-19 vaccines and drugs. In a press release, its general secretary P. Rajamanickam said the recent letter from the Director General of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), directing Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech India Limited (BBIL) to complete clinical trials for a COVID-19 vaccine before August 15, was tantamount to undermining the scientific process. BBIL, which is working along with National Institute of Virology under ICMR, had submitted to the Clinical Trials Registry of India (CTRI) that the duration of the trial covering three stages would be 15 months. “However, the Director General of ICMR had asked the 12 hospitals across the country to expedite the vaccine testing process and complete it within six weeks. But, completing vaccine trials in a short period is scientifically dangerous and will damage the reputation of the Indian scientific community,” he said. The rush to produce the vaccine by ICMR suggests politics drove science, which was extremely dangerous. Profits must not be the motive while developing vaccines and it must be ensured that drugs were affordable. There must also be no political pressure on scientists who were coming up with COVID-19 vaccines as not following due process would compromise the safety of people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-due-process-in-developing-vaccine/article32017967.ece
08 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers challenge Sarabanga project||The Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam challenged the Rs. 565-crore Sarabanga Lift Irrigation Project, which will see surplus water from Mettur reservoir diverted to dry lakes in the Sarabanga basin in Salem district, before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday. Its president P.R. Pandian said the government had passed an order to divert water directly from Mettur dam to develop new ayacuts irrigating 4,238 acres of land at Edappadi, Sankagiri, Omalur and Mettur taluks, which were not covered under Mettur Irrigation Project. The move would affect delta farmers who were suffering due to lack of adequate water in the Cauvery. Moreover, records on availability of water in Mettur reservoir in the last few decades would show that there had never been excess water. He said the proposed project was vague and would turn the delta region into a desert. The farmers would be deprived of their livelihood. No expert body was constituted to study if the water could be diverted to develop new ayacuts and there was no debate in the Assembly to know the views of the members representing the delta region, he said, and sought a stay on the project. Taking up the public interest litigation petition for hearing, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam issued notices to the Central and State governments, and adjourned the case till August 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-challenge-sarabanga-project/article32017954.ece
08 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Education Plus webinar on July 11||The third webinar in the series of The Hindu Education Plus career counselling will focus on the impact of COVID-19 and psychological situations between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. on July 11. The webinar series, presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, envisages discussions on topics, including engineering, medicine, humanities and social sciences, and sciences. The line-up of speakers for the third webinar comprises of Dr. Ravikumar Arunachalam, Pro Vice-Chancellor, Medical and Health Sciences, SRM Institute of Science and Technology; and Dr. M. Thirunavukarasu, Professor and Head of the Department of Psychiatry, SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre. Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, who is the founder of SNEHA, a Chennai-based NGO for the prevention of suicide, and Head, Department of Psychiatry, Voluntary Health Services, Adyar, Chennai, is another speaker. Subhashini Gopal, a psychologist who has been working with Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF) for the past 15 years and also practises as part-time psychologist at Sundaram Medical Foundation, Anna Nagar, Chennai, will be the last speaker. Aspiring participants can register athttps://bit.ly/2Z3wuPSor scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-education-plus-webinar-on-july-11/article32017975.ece
08 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL petitions filed against illegal sand quarrying||Taking a serious view of the fact that illegal sand quarrying was continuing in Virudhunagar and Sivaganga districts, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the district administrations to file their counter affidavits. Hearing two separate public interest litigation petitions, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the two district administrations to file their counter affidavits and adjourned the hearing till July 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-petitions-filed-against-illegal-sand-quarrying/article32017966.ece
08 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 1.03-cr. crop insurance sanctioned for 1,890 farmers||Crop insurance compensation to the tune of Rs. 1.03 crore has been sanctioned under Prime Minister Fasal Bima Yojana for 1,890 farmers in the district for the kharif season of 2019. An Agriculture Department official said crop insurance of Rs. 13.42 lakh had been sanctioned for cotton, Rs. 2.47 lakh for groundnut, Rs. 87.29 lakh for maize, Rs. 33,000 for paddy and Rs. 860 for gingelly.  Though crop insurance for 2019-2020 had been sanctioned, farmers were still awaiting disbursal of crop insurance for maize for 2018-2019. “It was during 2018-2019 the Fall Armyworm attack destroyed the crop and reduced the yield in the district. While 16,362 maize farmers had paid the insurance premium, only 3,292 of them had received the compensation. We are working to ensure that all get compensation,” said the official. Till now, 32 farmers had insured 59 acres of paddy, maize and jowar for kharif 2020, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-103-cr-crop-insurance-sanctioned-for-1890-farmers/article32017970.ece
08 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Auditor killed||An auditor G. Selvakumar (52) was killed in a road accident near Othakadai on Tuesday afternoon. The police said that the car, which he was driving, got upset near Idayapatti following a tyre burst. His friend Sakthi (55) was injured. The body was taken to Government Rajaji Hospital. Othakadai police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auditor-killed/article32017978.ece
08 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two cops booked||Three persons, including, two police constables were booked for abusing and damaging the windscreen of a truck in a drunken brawl near Tirumangalam on Monday night. The police said P. Sivakarthi (21) of Nagamalaipuram was waylaid by P. Alagupandi attached to Madurai City Armed Reserve and P. Jayakumar attached to Virudhunagar Armed Reserve. All the three, who were reportedly under the influence of alcohol, abused and assaulted him after a quarrel. Meanwhile, Sivakarthi’s friend, Jayapandi, came to the spot in a truck. He questioned the trio for their behaviour. Angered by his questioning, the trio damaged the windscreen of the truck with stones. Based on the complaint by Sivakarthi, the Chekkanoorani police have booked the trio, including one Ramu of Anuppanadi, for wrongful restraint, abusing, assault and damaging the truck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-cops-booked-for-drunken-brawl/article32017980.ece
08 July 2020||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Madurai’s single day tally crosses 300 yet again||A total of 334 people – all indigenous cases – tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai on Tuesday, taking the tally to 4,674. The fresh cases included those with influenza-like illness (ILI), those waiting for different surgeries, pregnant women and frontline workers. The district, which marked eight deaths to have a toll of 77, has 3,486 active cases. In the biggest single day spurt registered since March-end, Virudhunagar reported 253 fresh cases on Tuesday. However, Collector R. Kannan said it was due to the results of backlog samples of around 2,000 tests coming from laboratories of different districts. “Actually, the positivity rate today has been only around 11.2%. The overall positivity remains at 5.2% out of the 24,000-odd tests conducted so far,” he added. The district still has a backlog of over 3,000 samples. It has 670 active cases and reported the 10th death. Meanwhile, Narikudi police station was closed as a policeman tested positive. Sundarapandiyam town panchayat office too was closed after its executive officer tested positive. Tirunelveli  recorded 181 new cases – 174 of them indigenous – on Tuesday. The district now has 591 active cases. Thoothukudi added 144 cases to its tally. There are 535 active cases in Thoothukudi district. Kanniyakumari, which reported 119 fresh cases, has 438 active cases. Sixty-two cases were added to the tally of Tenkasi, which now has 273 active cases. Theni  district recorded 94 new cases – 54 men, 31 women and nine children. Theni reported 40 of the fresh cases and Cumbum 16 cases. Sivaganga There were 12 new cases from Manamadurai, Devakottai and Tirupuvanam in Sivaganga district. Ramanathapuram  reported 25 new cases on Tuesday, and its tally rose to 1,479. The new cases were from Mudukalathur, Ramanathapuram, Rameswaram, Kilakarai and Devipattinam. Five cases were cross-notified to other districts. Dindigul Five cases were recorded in Dindigul, which has a total of 730 positive cases. Three deaths were reported from Dindigul, Athur and Oddanchatram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurais-single-day-tally-crosses-300-yet-again/article32017969.ece
08 July 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t turn away patients’||The Joint Director of Health Services has warned private hospitals here not to refuse or avoid patients visiting for treatment. In a release, health authorities advised hospitals to ensure patients and their bystanders wear masks and ensure physical distancing. The hospitals have also been asked to ensure proper hand sanitation facilities at its entrance and maintain proper information about the patients. They are advised to record the patient’s phone number after confirming them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-turn-away-patients/article32017712.ece
08 July 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel get certificates for good work||Certificates appreciating the good work of police personnel serving in the district were given to them at the monthly crime review meeting that was held here on Tuesday. The meeting was presided over by Superintendent of Police Nisha Parthiban by ensuring personal distancing in the wake of the spread of COVID-19. The meeting discussed steps to be taken to prevent crimes and curb road accidents. Personnel who had done good work in crime detection and in nabbing an accused involved in a hit-and-run case besides a police constable who had donated blood and saved the life of a woman patient were given appreciation certificates by the Superintendent of Police, a police press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-personnel-get-certificates-for-good-work/article32018032.ece
08 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals will set up COVID-19 testing facility soon: Narayanasamy||Private medical colleges have agreed to establish COVID-19 testing facilities in a week, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said here on Tuesday. In an audio message, the Chief Minister said he had detailed discussions with the representatives of private medical institutions on partnering with the government in fighting the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-will-set-up-covid-19-testing-facility-soon-narayanasamy/article32017677.ece
08 July 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19-infected renal patient recovers||An 18-year-old COVID-19 infected renal failure patient was resuscitated by government doctors in Pudukottai. The patient Michael Williams hailing from Kattubawa Pallivasal in the district had suffered renal failure. He was undergoing hemodialysis in a private nursing home at Madurai for the past one year. Michael had undergone hemodialysis 62 times and had spent nearly Rs. 5 lakhs When he was found to be COVID-19 positive, the private nursing home refused to treat him and sent him back. The 18-year-old patient was admitted to the Government Ranees Isolation Hospital in Pudukottai on June 27. After 10 days of treatment and dialysis, the patient was discharged in a good condition, a press release from the Government Medical College, Pudukottai said. Hospital Dean AL. Meenakshi Sundaram said Michael Williams was the first patient to be treated in Pudukottai district with COVID-19 infection and renal failure. He further said there were two dedicated dialysis machines available at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-infected-renal-patient-recovers/article32018041.ece
08 July 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Rameswaram fisherman dies||A 27-year-old fisherman died at sea while he was fishing along with three other fishermen. His body was brought ashore in the early hours of Tuesday. Fisheries Department officials said 626 mechanised vessels ventured into sea on Monday with over 4,000 fishermen after obtaining the requisite permission. They were scheduled to return late on Wednesday or early on Thursday. In a mechanised boat, owned by A. Marcopolo, four fishermen had gone to sea. They were identified as Subash Chandrabose, Tamilselvan, Cycil Dennis and Sesu Alangaram, all from Rameswaram. It was said Subash Chandrabose suddenly fainted while working. The others returned to shore and rushed him to the Rameswaram Government Hospital. However, the doctors said he was ‘brought dead’. The body was sent to the GH for a post-mortem. The cause of the death was not immediately known. The police have registered a case and are investigating. After the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the government accorded permission to fishermen to venture into sea from June 1. However, fishermen here set off for fishing from June 13 due to various reasons. Four fishermen went missing on the first day. After rescue operations went on for about two days, only one of them was saved while the rest had died. Their bodies were found by Thanjavur fishermen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rameswaram-fisherman-dies/article32017955.ece
08 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Field workers conduct survey in Salem||Salem Corporation has deployed field workers to conduct door-to-door survey in its limits as part of COVID-19 containment measures. According to officials, 680 field workers have been deployed and the residents will be checked for COVID-19 symptoms or any other co-morbidities. Each field worker would cover 100 houses and collect health details of the residents. Swab samples would be collected from persons with symptoms for COVID-19 tests, the officials said. The field workers had been provided with all safety gadgets and they had been advised not to enter the residence or touch anything on the premises, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/field-workers-conduct-survey-in-salem/article32017716.ece
08 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Corporation files complaint against silver trader||The Salem Corporation has filed a complaint against a silver trader residing on Sri Rangan Street, who had visited Maharashtra a month ago and returned without an e-pass. The Corporation filed a complaint against the person after a cluster of about 25 positive cases were reported from the same street. As part of the door-to-door survey, health workers visited the residence of the silver trader and collected swab samples. Health workers on enquiring him found that the trader had visited Maharashtra a month ago. The test results of the trader and his wife, two children also tested positive. According to Corporation officials, none of the residents in the area informed them about such a person residing in the place. The workers collected swab samples from over 100 persons residing in the street on Sunday and Monday and about 25 persons have tested positive. Following which the civic body filed a complaint against the person with Shevapet police allegedly for causing spread of COVID-19 disease. Corporation officials have cordoned off the street and set up containment zone here. According to Corporation officials, till date case has been registered against 41 persons for entering into Corporation limits without e-pass and they have covered over 60,000 houses till Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-files-complaint-against-silver-trader/article32017711.ece
08 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Former MP, K. Arjunan, granted anticipatory bail||Former Parliamentarian, K. Arjunan, who is facing charges for entering into a quarrel with police personnel near Omalur toll gate recently, was granted anticipatory bail with various conditions by the Salem district court. According to police, Mr. Arjunan entered into a quarrel with police personnel during vehicle checks near Omalur toll booth recently, when his vehicle was stopped and he was asked to show identity proof. The video of the altercation went viral on social media. Karuppur police registered a case and are investigating. Hearing the anticipatory bail plea, the Court directed the applicant to pay Rs. 20,000 towards the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund and report and sign at Karuppur police station at 10.30 a.m every day until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mp-k-arjunan-granted-anticipatory-bail/article32017664.ece
08 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||27 cases registered in Namakkal||The Namakkal district police on Monday registered 27 cases against 33 persons for violating prohibitory orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-cases-registered-in-namakkal/article32017713.ece
08 July 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Jal Jeevan Mission: 645 hamlets in Thanjavur to be covered||It has been proposed to provide protected drinking water supply connection to all households in 645 hamlets coming under 182 village panchayats in Thanjavur district in the first phase of the Union Government sponsored ‘Jal Jeevan Mission’, a project to provide Functional Household Tap Connections (FHTC) in rural areas. According to official sources, a total of 2,260 hamlets exists in rural areas in Thanjavur district with 6.50 lakh houses. They come under the purview of 589 village panchayats. Under the Jal Jeevan Mission, each house would be getting protected drinking water supply of 55 mld per day per person by tapping the local water resources and from new waterbodies/sources to be created or by rejuvenating existing water bodies for improving the groundwater table. Village-level water sanitation committees would be formed to prepare action plans and participatory rural appraisals to implement the scheme effectively so that the hamlets remain free from water shortage problems during summer. As part of the exercise, Collector M. Govinda Rao had recently visited Kovilur Village Panchayat to interact and create awareness among the villagers about the scheme. After explaining the scheme, Collector M. Govinda Rao said that the objective of the scheme was to ensure uninterrupted protected water supply to every household in rural areas. He called upon the people to set up rainwater harvesting systems in their houses. The Collector also asked them to protect the waterbodies in their areas to ensure a good and reliable groundwater table.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jal-jeevan-mission-645-hamlets-in-thanjavur-to-be-covered/article32018038.ece
08 July 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Mixed reaction over opening of DPCs||The functioning of Direct Purchase Centres (DPC) set up in delta districts to help farmers sell their paddy harvest has evoked mixed reactions from the farmers associations. While the Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam has called upon the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation to enhance the daily target of paddy procurement to 2,000 bags, the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Nala Sangam has urged the Corporation to close down the DPCs that was functioning at the places where there were no harvest. In a statement issued on Sunday, P. R. Pandian, general secretary, Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam, claimed that ‘pre-kuruvai’ cultivation had been taken up in about 1.50 lakh acres in the delta region through lift-irrigation and the harvest had commenced. About 10,000 bags of paddy were lying in the open near the centres leading to a situation where grains have started sprouting due to the occasional showers in the delta region. Hence, the Corporation should ensure that at least 2,000 bags of paddy was procured in each centre so as to avoid wastage of grains. He also suggested that moving the paddy to the modern rice mills directly from the DPCs would help reduce transportation loss of grains and expenses. Mr. Pandian also urged the Corporation to ensure disruption-free internet connectivity at the DPCs so as to expedite the procurement process and to form a committee of farmers and local elected body representatives to monitor the functioning of the DPCs. On the other hand, members of TNVS led by its president G. Sethuraman and general secretary, Kudavasal Sethuraman held a demonstration near the DPC at Mottathur near Poonthottam in Tiruvarur district on Monday demanding the closure of DPCs which were opened in the places where there was no harvest. Stating that harvesting of kuruvai crop was yet to commence, the demonstrators said that functioning of DPCs at a time when there was no harvesting at several places has led to the suspicion that these centres were functioning to help the traders sell the paddy that they had procured from farmers in other districts by paying a paltry amount. Instead of opening the DPCs in large numbers, the Corporation should open centres in other districts where summer crop harvest was on, they said. Closure of DPCs functioning in unwanted places would also reduce the risk of staff getting exposed to COVID-19 virus, they contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mixed-reaction-over-opening-of-dpcs/article32018037.ece
08 July 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||As staff test positive, some govt. offices shut||A few offices and certain sections in government departments in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts have been shut temporarily after staff attached to these establishments tested positive for COVID-19. The COVID-19 control room at the District Collectorate, Thanjavur, was shut temporarily following a male nursing assistant attached to the Primary Health Centre, Vallam, who was on deputation at the control room, tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The village administrative office at Koothanallur in Tiruvarur district was closed after a staff at the office tested positive. As a fallout, public have been barred from entering Koothanallur taluk office as the infected staff used to visit the taluk office regularly. Co-occupants of the room in which he was staying along with a few other government staff at Koothanallur were also subjected to COVID-19 test on Monday. Similarly, the pharmacy unit at a GH in Thanjavur was closed as a woman staff tested positive on Monday. Meanwhile, the taluk office at Orathanadu has also been shut temporarily as a staff tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-staff-test-positive-some-govt-offices-shut/article32018035.ece
08 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen protest against ban on fishing||Protesting the district administration’s decision to ban fishing indefinitely, mechanised boat fishermen blocked vehicular traffic on New Harbour Road in front of the fishing harbour here on Tuesday. The administration organised a special camp at Terespuram. Of 200 samples taken from suspected cases, 40 of them were found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2 virus. A few streets of the highly congested Terespuram have become containment zones. Since more than 95% of residents of Terespuram are fishermen, the administration banned fishing activities in this area, with over 1,500 country boats, in a bid to check entry of outsiders, particularly fish traders, who may contract the infection here and pass it on to others. Moreover, fishing operations from Thoothukudi Fishing Harbour were also stalled as a good number of fishermen from Terespuram are working in mechanised boats. So, country boats of Terespuram and the Fishing Harbour’s mechanized boats abstained from fishing operations on Tuesday. While country boat fishermen accepted the fishing ban, fishermen of mechanised boats from other areas refused to accept it and staged a road roko in front of the fishing harbour. “After losing income for about 90 days, we started fishing operations on June 1. The ban will affect mechanised boat fishermen. The administration may tell boat owners not to employ workers from containment zones while allowing others to continue fishing operation,” the protesting fishermen said. When the police and fisheries department officials held talks with the protesters, it was decided to allow fishing operations by mechanised boats from Wednesday strictly with fishermen from non-containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-protest-against-ban-on-fishing/article32017961.ece
08 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID hands over case of custodial death to CBI||The CB-CID office here that was bustling with activity ever since it was entrusted with the investigation of Sattankulam twin custodial deaths fell silent on Tuesday as the Tamil Nadu Government formally handed over the case to the CBI, as announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Even as the custodial death of trader P. Jayaraj of Sattankulam and his son J. Benicks triggered nationwide anger against the police, the CB-CID was given the assignment of unraveling the ‘mystery’ behind the duo’s death under judicial custody. After the first day of investigation, led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Anil Kumar, the case, which was registered under Section 176 of Indian Penal Code, was altered into a case of murder under Section 302 of IPC. With Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, K. Shankar and Superintendent of Police Vijayakumar monitoring and coordinating the investigation carried out by 12 teams, the CB-CID men arrested Inspector of Sattankulam police station Sridhar, Sub-Inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj within next 72 hours. Moreover, the investigating agency recorded the statements of constable Revathi, Special Sub-Inspector Pauldurai, who were present in Sattankulam police station on June 19 night and was witness to the alleged police torture by her senior colleagues. They also grilled the members of ‘Friends of Police’ and the COVID -19 volunteers, who, along with the police, allegedly thrashed Jayaraj and Benicks even as they were in Sattankulam police station. Since the investigators have almost completed more than 70% of their work, they were busy preparing documents to be submitted in the court during this week seeking the custody of the five accused arrested in this case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-hands-over-case-of-custodial-death-to-cbi/article32017962.ece
08 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi police rule out rape in minor girl’s death||The Tiruchi rural police on Tuesday ruled out rape in the death of a 14-year-old schoolgirl, whose partially charred body was found at Adhavathurpalayam on the city’s outskirts on Monday, even as they were investigating the other angles in the case. Post-mortem findings  “The death of the girl was due to burn injuries,” the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, Z. Annie Vijaya, said citing the findings of the post-mortem performed at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. The body was handed over to the parents in the afternoon and cremated at Adavathurpalayam amid heavy police deployment to prevent any incidents. Ten special teams were constituted to probe the case and focus was now on how the victim ended up in the condition they found her in, Ms. Annie Vijaya told The Hindu on Tuesday. The Somarasampettai police registered a case under Section 174 (iii) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. After combing the crime scene and its vicinity, investigating teams had recovered a plastic bottle that smelt of kerosene and a match box.  CCTV footage Nothing concrete could was found in the footage from the CCTV camera installed inside the saw mill behind which the body was discovered, police sources said. Inquiries were being conducted and a couple of persons were also said to have been quizzed by the teams. Ms. Annie Vijaya said intelligence teams were tasked with collecting evidence and were reconstructing the crime scene. The death under suspicious circumstances was being probed in various angles as there was no direct evidence, she said, adding that all-out efforts were on to crack the case. A heavy posse of police was deployed at Adavathurpalayam and in its vicinity in the fallout of the incident. P.Ve. Arun Sakthikumar, Superintendent of Police, Pudukottai, who was investigating the recent death of another minor girl near Aranthangi, was also at the Somarasampettai police station to assist the Tiruchi rural police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-rural-police-rule-out-rape-in-minor-girls-death/article32017672.ece
08 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths and 163 more positive cases||While two more patients succumbed to COVID 19 in Tiruchi district, 163 fresh positive cases were reported in central districts on Tuesday. According to sources, a 55-year-old male patient belonged to Mannarpuram and a 70-year-old female patient belonged to Sembattu in the city died after being treated at the K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical college Hospital. Both of them had co morbidities before being admitted to the hospital. The woman was admitted to the hospital 12 days ago with fever, sore throat and breathlessness. She had high blood pressure and was under treatment for diabetes. The male patient was admitted to the hospital seven days ago with breathing trouble and fever. He was affected with vascular disease too. Among the central districts, Tiruchi recorded the maximum number of positive cases on Tuesday, followed by Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts, according to the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. While Tiruchi recorded 55 new cases, Pudukottai added 43 cases. A total of 34 patients tested positive for the virus in Thanjavur district and 23 in Tiruvarur district. Nagapattinam and Karur recorded four cases each. No fresh case was reported in Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. In Tiruchi district, more than two cases were reported from Srirangam, Thennur, Ariyamangalam, Pirattiyur, Kattur, Woraiyur and Chinthamani. Of the 55 cases, maximum cases were reported in Kanavaipatti village. Six patients were diagnosed for the virus in Kanavaipatti alone. Meanwhile, 77 patients were discharged from K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital and the COVID care centre at Khajamalai in the city on Tuesday. While 68 patients were from Tiruchi district, the others hailed from Chennai, Madurai, Kallakurichi, Coimbatore and Pudukottai. Of them, 55 patients, who had tested positive for the virus, were discharged from K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital.  Nagapattinam With the addition of four cases on Tuesday, the total number of cases in the district has gone up to 310. According to sources, out of four cases, one case was transferred from Tiruvarur district and one case each was transferred from Maharashtra and Chengalpattu. The other patient, who belonged to Nagapattinam, was reported to have contracted the virus from a COVID-19 positive patient.  Karur A 36-year-old female patient of Bandarinathan Street, a 78-year-old male patient of Velauthampalayam and an 8-year-old boy from Thirukambuliyur were among the four patients who tested positive for COVID-19 in Karur district on Tuesday. They were admitted to the Government Karur Medical College Hospital.(GKMCH) Four patients, who had tested positive for the virus, were discharged on Tuesday after being treated at the GKMCH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-deaths-and-163-more-positive-cases/article32018040.ece
08 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-Tiruchi signs MoU with IIT-Delhi||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi, and National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, (NIT-T) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding for collaboration on academic activities. The MoU will facilitate direct admission of NIT-T’s B.Tech students to IIT Delhi’s Ph.D. programme, foster academic and research collaboration in areas of mutual interest and lead to exchange of faculty and students. The MoU was signed by V. Ramgopal Rao, Director, IIT Delhi, and Mini Shaji Thomas, Director, NIT-T. “The key feature of the MoU is the opportunity for bright undergraduate students to get direct Ph.D. admission at IIT-Delhi. We are very positive that the MoU will encourage academic partnership and fruitful research collaboration between NIT-T and IIT-D. The NIT-T is looking forward for joint research projects and faculty exchange programmes,’ Ms. Mini Shaji Thomas said. Prof. V. Ramgopal Rao, Director, IIT Delhi , termed it a good opportunity for the faculty and students of both the institutes to collaborate in the research and development. Under the MoU, meritorious B.Tech students of NIT-T will be provided an opportunity to carry out part of their studies, including project work at IIT Delhi and then they will be offered direct admission to Ph.D. without the need to qualify in GATE or any other national level examination. NITT students with a CGPA of 8.00 at the end of their 6th semester will be eligible to apply for a project in summer and complete their fourth year (7 th and 8 th semesters) at IIT Delhi. The students need to submit their transcript, academic records and achievements and documentary evidence of any research or internship experience along with their application. The students are expected to demonstrate sufficient merit in coursework and research during their 7th and 8th semesters of the B.Tech to continue to join the Ph.D. programme. After the successful completion of their fourth year, they would be considered for an early admission to the Ph.D. programme at IIT Delhi. The requirement of GATE is waived off since they will enter IIT Delhi with a minimum CGPA of 8.00. It is envisaged that this scheme will also help NITT B.Tech students to enhance their chances for qualifying for the PMRF fellowship for Ph.D. at IIT Delhi. During their stay as visiting students, IIT Delhi will not be charging any academic fees, since they will be paying their regular academic fees at NIT-T. They, being B.Tech degree students, will also be provided either on-campus or off-campus paid hostel accommodation by IIT Delhi for one-year. The MoU also provides for B.Tech, dual degree M.Tech students, research scholars and faculty. The special exchange students will be permitted to take courses on credit/audit, as well as participate in research activities/internships and project works. The selection and nomination of students will be open throughout the academic year. The faculty of NIT-T can also apply for suitable post-doctoral positions or any other opportunities available at IIT Delhi. The faculty from both the institutes will also collaborate in joint submission of research project proposals, supervision of exchange students and joint research in disciplines of mutual interest, a NIT-T press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-tiruchi-signs-mou-with-iit-delhi/article32018033.ece
08 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Police rule out rape in minor girl’s death||The Tiruchi Rural Police on Tuesday ruled out rape in the death of a 14-year-old schoolgirl whose partially charred body was found at Adhavathurpalayam on the city’s outskirts on Monday evening. “The death of the girl was due to burn injuries,” the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range Z. Annie Vijaya said citing the findings of the post mortem done at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here. The body of the minor was handed over to her parents in the afternoon after completion of post mortem and cremated at Adavathurpalayam amid heavy police deployment at the village to prevent any untoward incident. Ten special teams have been constituted to probe the case from various angles and the focus was now on how the victim suffered the burns, DIG Annie Vijaya told The Hindu on Tuesday. The Somarasampettai police had registered a case under section 174 (iii) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Investigating teams, after combing the scene of crime and its vicinity, had recovered a plastic bottle with kerosene odour and a match box. Nothing concrete could emerge from the surveillance camera installed inside the saw mill behind which the charred body of the girl was found by her family members, said police sources. Inquiries were being conducted with a couple of persons. Ms. Annie Vijaya said intelligence teams had also been tasked with collecting evidence and the teams were on the job of reconstructing the scene of crime in an effort to achieve a breakthrough. The death under suspicious circumstances was being probed in various angles as there was no direct evidence, she said and adding that all out efforts were on to crack the case. A heavy posse of police personnel was deployed at the village and in its vicinity as a fall out of the girl’s death. P.Ve. Arun Sakthikumar, Superintendent of Police, Pudukottai, who has been investigating the death of a minor girl near Aranthangi recently, was also at Somarasampettai police station to assist the Tiruchi Rural Police in the case and in maintenance of law and order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-rule-out-rape-in-minor-girls-death/article32017981.ece
08 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Corporatisation of Ordnance Factory Board flayed||Trade union federations have slammed the notification issued by Ministry of Defence inviting expression of interest from interested parties to provide assistance for corporatisation of Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). The All India Defence Employees Federation, the Indian National Defence Workers’ Federation and Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh have decided to oppose and reject any recommendations of the consultant to corporatise the OFB, a conglomerate of 41 factories, nine training institutes, three regional marketing centres, and five regional controllers of safety. “The Centre was staging a drama by engaging the federations through the High Level Official Committee on the one hand and going ahead with its policy decision for corporatisation on the other. The game plan has been totally exposed,” General Secretary of AIDEF C. Srikumar said. Opposing what he described as a ‘retrograde steps’, Mr. Srikumar said the struggle of the federations against the corporatisation plan will be intensified. The EOI cum Request for Proposal notified by the Department of Defence Production, Ministry of Defence, invites guidance from India-based consulting agencies to provide management consulting services covering topics like strategic future growth, optimal operational strategy, organisational restructuring and other related implementation issues with respect to transition management, financing, and legal aspects, in keeping with its announcement to convert OFB into one or more Government-owned corporate entities registered under the Companies Act, 2013. Strike ballot Citing the strike ballot conducted recently in which there was overwhelming support of employees to take part in an indefinite strike against the corporatisation plan, Mr. Srikumar said the decision of the EOI had come at a time when the federations were expecting a favourable decision to the letter they had sent to the PM seeking withdrawal of the decision, in the backdrop of the COVID-19 situation, economic problems and the border stand-off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporatisation-of-ordnance-factory-board-flayed/article32018021.ece
08 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||National rights body seeks report||The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has taken suo motu cognisance of the suspected murder of a 14-year-old girl near Tiruchi on Monday and issued notice to the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police seeking a report on her death. R.G. Anand, member of the Commission, told The Hindu that the matter had come up for discussion in the urgent virtual meeting held on Tuesday. “It is really shocking to hear of the death of yet another minor girl,” he said and added that the NCPCR was expecting the report within seven days. Similar notices had also been issued to the Tiruchi Collector, the Deputy Inspector General of Police and the Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, to furnish information on the incident and the action taken to arrest the culprits, he said. “We are told that 10 teams were formed to nab the culprits. It seems that the investigation is on the right track. But we have stressed the need to immediately bring the culprits to book,” Dr. Anand said.  The matter had come up for discussion at the urgent virtual meeting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-rights-body-seeks-report/article32017668.ece
08 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Rockfort to get a glow with multicoloured illumination||Rockfort, the city’s famous landmark, is all set to turn more attractive with multicolour illumination. The beautification is one among the important projects proposed under the Smart City Mission by the Tiruchi Corporation. After completing the tender process, the civic body has awarded the project to Chennai based M/s. Sabari Electricals. S. Amuthavalli, City Engineer, Tiruchi Corporation, told The Hindu that work order had been issued to the firm, which has been asked to complete the project within six months. A sum of Rs. 11.36 crore had been sanctioned for the project. The Chennai firm would execute the beautification project under a design, build, operate and transfer (DBOT) model. Besides designing and executing the project, the company would take care of operation and maintenance for five years. It would hand over the project to the Corporation after five years. A total of 18 high mast poles would be erected around the Rockfort hillock. Each pole would have four Light Emitting Diode (LED) bulbs. The projection of lights would add beauty to the famous hillock, Mrs. Amuthavalli said. The Archaeological Survey of India had laid a few conditions to preserve the Rockfort hillock while implementing the project. The proposed illumination plan would in no way affect the historic structure. The City Engineer said that the idea was to popularise the iconic symbol among tourists. The illumination would be a value addition and it was expected that the Rockfort would be clearly visible from all corners of Tiruchi in the night hours once the project was completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rockfort-to-get-a-glow-with-multicoloured-illumination/article32018031.ece
08 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling webinar on July 11||The third in the series of The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling webinar presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology from 3 to 5.00 p.m. on July 11 will focus on the higher education guidance for students of levels IX to XII aspiring for courses in medical and health sciences. The webinar envisages envisages discussion on a range of topics including engineering, medicine, humanities and social sciences and science. Experts are to provide guidance to the students factoring in the impact of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions and psychological situations. The speakers comprise Ravikumar Arunachalam, Pro Vice-Chancellor, Medical and Health Sciences, SRM Institute of Science and Technology; M. Thirunavukarasu, Professor and Head, Department of Psychiatry, SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Center; Lakshmi Vijayakumar, founder of SNEHA, a Chennai-based NGO for the prevention of suicide, and Head, Department of Psychiatry, Voluntary Health Services, Adyar, Chennai; and Subhashini Gopal, a psychologist who has been working with Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF) for the past 15 years. For participation, register at https://bit.ly/2Z3wuPS or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-education-plus-career-counselling-webinar-on-july-11/article32018026.ece
08 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not accommodate more traders at temporary flower market’||The Srirangam Flower Dealers Association has expressed reservations over the reported move to accommodate more retail flower traders at Srirangam Boys Higher Secondary School grounds where the flower market has been functioning temporarily since early May. The flower market which had been functioning at the Sathara Veedhi was shifted to the school grounds after it was found that the market was attracting heavy crowd and social distancing norms were not being adhered too. After talks with Revenue, Corporation and police officials, the flower commission agents and traders functioning at Sathara Veedhi agreed to shift to the temporary market and adhere to the safety norms stipulated by the government. “Twenty-three flower commission agents and 10 traders moved to the school grounds, where a temporary vegetable market is also functioning. But now about additional shops for about 20 more retail flower traders are being created at the grounds by erecting pandals. Adding more shops will defeat the very purpose of asking us to move to the school grounds,” said V. Varadharajan, president, Srirangam Flower Dealers Association. Contending that more shops would resulting in overcrowding, making it difficult to maintain social distancing norms, Mr. Varadharajan maintained that they were not opposed to allowing more retail traders to operate. “But let them be given some other space. Or let the authorities allow us to move to Sathara Veedhi or an alternative site such as the Devi Elementary School grounds,” he suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-accommodate-more-traders-at-temporary-flower-market/article32018047.ece
08 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NCPCR seeks report||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has taken suo motu cognisance of the suspected murder of a 14-year-old girl near Tiruchi on Monday and issued a notice to the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police, seeking a report on her death. R.G. Anand, Member of the Commission, told The Hindu that the matter had come up for discussion at the Commission’s urgent virtual meeting held on Tuesday. “It is really shocking to know the death of yet another minor girl within a short span of time,” Mr. Anand said. He said that the NCPCR had sent a notice to the Chief Secretary and the DGP on action taken on the death of the minor girl. The report had to be submitted within seven days. Similar notices have also been issued to Tiruchi Collector, the Deputy Inspector General of Police and the Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, to furnish information on the death and the action taken to arrest the culprits, he said. “We are told that 10 teams have been formed to nab the culprits. It seems that the investigation is on the right track. But, we have stressed the need to bring the culprits to book immediately,” Dr. Anand said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncpcr-seeks-report/article32018029.ece
08 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Abandoned baby rescued||A girl baby that was found abandoned in a bush at Thuvarankurichi was rescued by the police on Tuesday. A local who heard the cries of the baby, believed to be nine months old, lying in the bush, alerted the Thuvarankurichi police personnel. A police team immediately came to the spot and rescued the baby. The baby was then sent to the Government Hospital at Manapparai. Subsequently the baby was handed over to the Child Welfare Committee, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/abandoned-baby-rescued/article32018049.ece
08 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Will border stand-off favour BHEL, wonder ancillary units||The implications of the Central Government’s decision not to import power plant equipment from China, amid the border stand-off at Ladakh, are not yet clear for the ancillaries of the public sector major, BHEL. As many as 450 ancillary units in Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts employ close to 40,000 workers. But, the capacity-utilisation of most of the steel fabrication units has dropped drastically due to dwindling orders from BHEL. Though the Centre has also advised the State governments to make sure that the power distribution companies do not place orders for Chinese equipment, the ancillaries are in a ‘wait and watch’ mode. Most of the ancillaries that have been pushed into a situation of less than 25 capacity utilisation due to decline in the order-book position of BHEL in recent years, in a large measure due to increasing competition from Chinese companies, are not certain if the emerging situation will turn advantageous for BHEL. Citing the National Electricity Plan 2018, which estimates that the share of electricity generated from coal-based power plants would come down to 58 % by 2027, vendors said India’s shift from thermal power to renewable energy does not augur well for BHEL’s recovery in the long-term. In fact, public sector enterprises including BHEL started losing their competitive edge a decade back when the power utilities started ignoring the purchase preference policy after it was scrapped by the Central Government. Gone are the days when BHEL used to wrest large orders owing to the 10% price preference from the lowest quoted bid for any government contract. But then, the government's ‘Make in India’ slogan would make real sense only if the central public sector enterprises are patronised in some way or the other, according to BHEL Small Industries Association and the Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries’ Association that have ancillaries of BHEL as the member units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-border-stand-off-favour-bhel-wonder-ancillary-units/article32018028.ece
08 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Virus cases increase in southern districts||Though COVID-19 threatens southern districts with a sudden surge in the number of positive cases especially in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts over the past few days, it has not deterred the public as many residents are seen moving around as usual to shop and dine with their families. After breaching the 1,000-mark recently, Thoothukudi district, with more infections, recorded 109 cases on Monday and crossed the three-digit figure on Tuesday also with 130 positive cases. In all, the district has 1,400 cases. Tirunelveli district closely follows it with 1,200-odd infections as it added over 80 cases on two successive days in the past 48 hours. Kanniyakumari district, which initially managed to put brakes on the spurt in cases, has apparently lost its control, as the rise in fresh cases shows the alarming trend in store. With 638 infections till Monday, the district is adding more than 50 cases on an average over the past few days. When Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi district administrations clamped complete lockdown on Sunday, an unusual crowd could be seen before all shops, especially grocery shops, on Saturday evening as if indefinite curfew would be enforced. The crowd, which has moved to panic mode following the announcement, was seen hurriedly buying grocery items needed for the next one month or so in trolleys. Since Gandhi Market in Palayamkottai was closed for a week since last Saturday in view of rise in positive cases within the corporation areas, those who used to visit this market moved to already crowded nearby supermarkets where physical distancing went for a toss. Another group of people was seen before mobile phone service providers for reasons best known to them. The situation in Thoothukudi is worse where people can be seen moving around casually as if they are living in safest ambience with residents enjoying their cup of tea with a ‘vada’ or ‘bhaji’ in front of roadside shops with their friends, youths chatting without masks on the roadside and men and women visiting the market for their week-end shopping. “Tea shops were closed in the town to check uncontrolled movement of people and unwanted roadside gathering. Even after witnessing adverse effects of flouting safety rules in the form of rise in the number of fresh cases, some people are not in a mood to follow the norms,” said a senior doctor attached to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, who anticipates more cases in the days to come. The only solace is the Tenkasi district’s tally which has just crossed 400 mark after initially struggling to contain a massive outbreak at Puliyangudi, a small town in the new district. “In Tenkasi, the police took earnest steps to check unwanted movement of people. When the police seized more than 6,000 two-wheelers for violating lockdown, those who dared to move around without any reason confined themselves in their houses. As officials deployed around containment zones were empowered to deal with violators at Puliyangudi, the rate of infection came down drastically,” said a tahsildar. Having witnessed the ‘success formula’ of Tenkasi in strictly dealing with rise in fresh cases, the other three southern districts are likely to emulate the strategy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virus-cases-increase-in-southern-districts/article32017964.ece
08 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Lawyer booked under SC/ST Act||The Dharapuram police have registered a case against a lawyer under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on charges of insulting an employee of Dharapuram Sub-Registrar Office in Tiruppur district. P. Dhanapal (55), an assistant, was allegedly insulted by lawyer F. Syed Bakrutheen on multiple occasions. He also attempted to attack Dhanapal, the police said. Based on Mr. Dhanapal’s complaint on July 4, the police registered a case. The lawyer was yet to be arrested, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lawyer-booked-under-scst-act/article32017724.ece
08 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tribal villages in MTR lead the way in ensuring COVID-19 safety protocols among residents||The Irula tribal residents of Siriyur and Anaikatti in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) have imposed strict rules including ban on outsiders entering the villages, and following protocols to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among residents. Around 200 families reside in the two villages. The residents said they had become extremely concerned about the COVID-19 pandemic, especially as they felt that an outbreak among indigenous tribal communities could lead to many fatalities. “We have been reading up that in other countries COVID-19 was disproportionately leading to more fatalities among indigenous communities, so our village heads got together and decided to impose a total ban on outsiders from entering our villages,” said a resident of Siriyur. Bharath, a resident of Anaikatty, said barricades have been erected at the entrance of the village, with clear warnings that outsiders were not allowed. “We had imposed these restrictions as soon as the first case was reported in the Nilgiris, but relaxed the rules for a few weeks as there had been no new infections in the district for over a month. However, the recent spike in the number of cases has forced us to impose these strict measures once again,” said Bharath. Village elder Bommarayan said vehicles belonging to people from outside the village were also not allowed, while those belonging to local residents would be stopped at the entrance, disinfected and then allowed inside. While eco-tourism to the village has already been stopped, the residents said that they would continue to put pressure on the forest department to cease all forms of eco-tourism into their villages indefinitely. “We have conducted awareness campaigns among the residents, clearly defining protocols they should follow, such as personal distancing, hand-washing and other measures when they venture out of the village and go to work,” said Mr. Bommarayan. The villagers are also procuring provisions through special trucks that are not allowed to enter the village. Local residents instead go out to the truck, procure the vegetables and enter only after washing the vegetables and washing their hands with soap and water, local residents said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-villages-in-mtr-lead-the-way-in-ensuring-covid-19-safety-protocols-among-residents/article32017733.ece
08 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Licences of 18 biofertilizer units and instant tea factories cancelled||The Tea Board India’s Zonal Office in Coonoor has cancelled the licences of 18 biofertilizer units and instant tea factories. The cancellation comes in the wake of allegations that the biofertilizer units were procuring “tea waste,” and supplying it to tea manufacturers as an adulterant Tea waste is described as “tea sweepings, tea fluff, tea fibre or tea stalks or any article purporting to be tea which does not confirm to the specification for tea laid down under the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act,1954 (37 of 1954), has been used to adulterate tea. “The instant tea manufacturing units and biofertilizer units use tea waste as their raw material…of late, it was observed that some of the instant tea manufacturers and biofertilizer units were not exactly adhering to the norms and conditions,” a statement from the Tea Board in Coonoor said. Licences had been granted to at least 15 companies to procure tea waste for use in their biofertilizer plants. However, an RTI application revealed that many of these companies had failed to acquire permits to even run any such facilities, raising serious questions as to whether the tea waste was instead being procured by these companies and sold to tea manufacturers as an adulterant. Executive Director of the Tea Board, Coonoor, M. Balaji, in a press release, said that the 18 biofertilizer units and instant tea factories that had their licences cancelled had failed to maintain “proper accounts in respect of purchase of tea waste, transaction details, purchase of other ingredients, sale of biofertilizers, its disposal etc.” The Tea Board has also stated that the licence of one instant tea manufacturing company has been suspended due to their non-operation for the last few years and non-compliance of terms and conditions. In addition, three instant tea manufacturing companies have been issued with advisory notices to follow the stipulations laid down under Tea Marketing Control Orders. Tea Board officials had inspected the units in February 2020 and had served show-cause notices on 22 units for deviations reported during the inspection. Following this action, the licences of 18 units were cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/licences-of-18-biofertilizer-units-and-instant-tea-factories-cancelled/article32017734.ece
08 July 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Five held for attempting to enter the Nilgiris with forged e-pass||The Nilgiris district police arrested five persons, all Nepali citizens, who were attempting to enter the district with a forged e-pass from Bengaluru recently. Besides, cases have been registered against two persons, including a private contractor in Chennai whom they were working for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-for-attempting-to-enter-the-nilgiris-with-forged-e-pass/article32017709.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||52 new cases in Salem, 48 of these are indigenous||Salem district recorded 52 new positive cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, with 48 being indigenous cases. The other four had travel history to Tiruvallur, Madurai and Cuddalore. Namakkal had five new cases, including a person employed with the Home Guards. Two of the fresh cases had come from Maharashtra. A 65-year-old man from Shevvapet in Salem, who was in home quarantine after treatment at an isolation ward for COVID-19, was found dead in his house. Police said the man had undergone treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, and had tried to escape from the ward in the middle of the treatment and was brought back. He was discharged from the hospital on July 4 upon testing negative after treatment. He was, however, advised home quarantine. Officials said the man, who was addicted to alcohol, was found dead in the early hours of Tuesday. Tiruppur district had 17 new cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s overall tally to 237. Health Department sources said 12 out of the 17 cases were from Tiruppur Corporation limits, from areas such as Velliyangadu, Kangeyam Road, Dharapuram Road, K. Chettipalayam, Rakkiyapalayam and Samundipuram. The rest of the cases were from Permanallur in Avinashi Block, Kunnathur in Uthukuli Block and Kundadam. Meanwhile, a COVID-19 patient from Tiruppur allegedly escaped from the ward at ESI Hospital on Tuesday evening and attempted to go back to his place. He was later traced and admitted back to the hospital. A total of 813 swab samples were lifted as part of contract tracing in the district on Tuesday. Out of the 237 cases in Tiruppur district so far, 94 are active cases and 141 have recovered. Two patients from the district died of COVID-19, but the media bulletin issued by the State government did not declare the deaths as on Tuesday. Five persons tested positive in the Nilgiris on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the district so far to150. All the five latest cases were secondary contacts of an infected person who worked at a private company in Yellanalli. Erode district saw four employees, including a couple, of the Head Post Office on Gandhiji Road tested positive on Tuesday. Officials said 212 persons were tested at the post office, which was closed on July 3 after an employee tested positive earlier. It would remain closed till July 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/52-new-cases-in-salem-48-of-these-are-indigenous/article32017708.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||588 employees of textile showroom to be under home quarantine||As a precautionary measure to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus virus, Collector S. Sivarasu on Tuesday directed all 588 employees of a leading textile showroom on NSB Road in Tiruchi to be under home quarantine after an employee of the showroom tested positive for the virus. A revenue official, who visited the showroom, conveyed the message and informed the management to ask its employees to be in isolation in their respective homes in Tiruchi, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. Following the order, the showroom has been closed temporarily. Mr. Sivarasu told The Hindu that the move was aimed at controlling the spread of the virus. The employees were strictly asked to remain in isolation. Out of 588 employees at the showroom, 533 belonged to Tiruchi district and remaining were from the two neighbouring districts. Revenue and police officials of the respective blocks, where the employees resided, have been asked to monitor them. Justifying the action, Mr. Sivarasu said that it has been found that textile showroom employee had contracted the virus from an employee of a nearby utensils and jewellery showroom who had tested positive for the COVID-19 a few days ago. More than 100 persons, many of them his colleagues, had apparently contracted the virus from him and this showroom also remains closed. Most of them were from Musiri, Thuraiyur and neighbouring villages. Hence, it has been decided to keep the employees of the textile showroom under strict home quarantine. Swab samples would be collected from them for tests shortly, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/588-employees-of-textile-showroom-to-be-under-home-quarantine/article32018034.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 7    No. of persons tested +ve so far: 839 Indigenous cases: 820 Imported cases: 19 No. of active cases: 548 No. of persons died: 5 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala)    House quarantined: 3,286 Positive: 237 (17 fresh cases on Tuesday) Discharged: 141 Active cases: 94 Deaths: 2 (Yet to be officially declared in bulletin)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article32017720.ece
08 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Doctor, X-ray technician test positive||A doctor who served in the isolation ward of the district designated COVID-19 hospital and an X-ray technician were among the 20 who tested positive for coronavirus in Belagavi district on Tuesday. With this, the number of positive cases has gone up to 414 and there are 94 active cases in hospital. The doctor’s family members have said that she was not given a two-week home quarantine holiday, as mandated by the State’s regulations. Her brother said that the doctor was made to work in the rural primary health centre in Mutaga village, immediately after her hospital duty. He said that he would complain to the Deputy Commissioner about this. Officials have begun tracing the primary and secondary contacts of the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctor-x-ray-technician-test-positive/article32017789.ece
08 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two COVID-19 deaths in two days in Belagavi||Two persons died of COVID-19 related causes in the last two days in Belagavi district. This takes the toll to eight in the district. While seven persons have died of breathlessness and other problems accentuated by COVID-19, one died from SARI. Sources said that a 60-year-old woman with co-morbidities and a 48-year-old woman without co-morbidities died of COVID-19 in the designated hospital. As of now, there are 74 active cases. Of the 396 persons who tested positive for the virus, 316 have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-covid-19-deaths-in-two-days-in-belagavi/article32017788.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Amidst pandemic, newborns bring cheer to COVID-19 ward||Syeda Sakina Fatima and Syeda Saima Fatima are the first set of twins to be born in Trauma and Emergency Care Centre (TECC) in the midst of a pandemic in Karnataka. The twins are among the 49 babies born at the centre located on the Victoria Hospital premises, from May 8 till July 7. Although the State-run Vani Vilas hospital, a speciality maternity facility, is located adjacent to the TECC, it is not a designated COVID-19 facility. Hence, COVID-19 positive pregnant women admitted at TECC have given birth at the centre itself. Although most of the mothers were from containment zones and had high viral load, none of the babies are positive. Mothers are all praise for the hospital’s team of infection control nurses led by TECC nodal officer Asima Banu, who is also the infection control officer at the facility, and the operation theatre team from TECC led by Imanuel P. and OBG and paediatric doctors from Vani Vilas Hospital. On May 8, when the first two COVID-19-positive pregnant women from Padarayanapura, a containment zone then, delivered through C-Section at TECC, hospital authorities scrambled to realign nursing and Group ‘D’ staff and guide them on infection-control practices. Then the Septic OT was converted into a labour room and the C-Section was done in the Major Operation Theatre on the third floor. S. Balaji Pai, Special Officer at TECC, said although OBG does not come in the scope of activities at the Trauma Centre, it was important that an OT for C-Section deliveries, apart from a labour room and a dialysis ward, be set up there. “I got these set up in our facility as there is every chance of pregnant women and renal patients turning positive,” Dr. Pai told The Hindu.  Stating that one baby was born almost every day since May 8, the doctor said, “Now we have set up the normal labour room opposite the C-Section OT so that if any patient has a difficulty in normal delivery she can be immediately wheeled into the C-Section OT. We have been using disposable kits in the C-Section OT and have been taking utmost care to ensure that the babies do not get infected. So far, none have been infected.” Of the 49 babies that include three sets of twins, 40 were born through C-Section. As many as 23 of the 49 are male babies, said Dr. Banu. She said almost all of them have been separated from their mothers soon after the delivery and kept under isolation at Vani Vilas till a family member or relative of the patients take them home. “This is required as the mothers have to stay in the hospital till they test negative. Those who did not have anyone to take them home are being taken care of at Vani Vilas,” she said adding that there are more than 26 antenatal cases in TECC anticipating a good pregnancy outcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amidst-pandemic-newborns-bring-cheer-to-covid-19-ward/article32017618.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to IRDAI on plea for insurance for senior citizens at affordable rates||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday ordered issue of notices to the central and State governments and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) on a PIL petition seeking measure for medical insurance for senior citizens either free of cost or at affordable rates, including for COVID-19 treatment. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order on the petition filed by Letzkit Foundation, Bengaluru. The petitioner pointed out that a large number of senior citizens in the country, who are not covered under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and other health schemes aimed at economically weaker sections, either have no health insurance facility as they can’t afford it or are paying high annual premium to get health insurance coverage from public or private health insurance service providers. Even in health insurances provided to senior citizens above 60 years after collecting high premium amount, the insurance companies impose several conditions to exclude pre-existing ailments and diseases and use these conditions to narrow down the claims, the petitioner said, while pointing out that CGHS and health schemes for the poor does not exclude pre-existing ailments and diseases from health coverage. Pointing out that around 8% of the country’s population was above 60 years as per the 2011 census data, the petitioner said that shockingly, the IRDAI’s recent directive to insurance companies to provide COVID-19 health insurance excludes senior citizens aged above 65. The petitioner also pointed out that senior citizens, who are covered under health insurance, are not given benefits for COVID-19 for various reasons or were asked to pay additional premium. “It is not enough for authorities to just make available medical instance policies but such policies should affordable to every citizen irrespective of their place of living and avocation,” the petitioner contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-to-irdai-on-plea-for-insurance-for-senior-citizens-at-affordable-rates/article32017621.ece
08 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. to allow ‘permanent grant’ of leased land||In yet another controversial move, the cash-strapped State government has decided to raise resources by allowing “permanent grant” of its land leased out to various private organisations by prescribing rates on a par with the guidance value or higher. In a notification issued on Monday, the Revenue Department referred to the practice of the State government leasing out land to private, voluntary, religious and charitable organisations, besides educational institutions and industrial bodies, for 30 years under provisions of Section 19 of Karnataka Land Grant Rules, 1969. The Deputy Commissioners of districts have the power to extend the lease by another five years. Now the government will allow aone-time permanent grant of land by prescribing rates on a par with the guidance value to “stabilise the State’s financial condition”, the order issued by the Undersecretary to the Revenue Department, C. Balaram, said. Two rates The order has prescribed two slabs of rates for the permanent grant of leased land. If the organisation wants to use it for the purpose for which it was leased, then it has to pay on a par with the guidance value. The organisation will have to pay double the guidance value if it wants to use the land for any other purpose. The order has asked the Deputy Commissioners concerned to send a proposal to the government on permanent grant of leased land by making use of the provisions under Section 27 of Karnataka Land Grant Rules. They officers have been instructed to inspect the leased land of those who do not want to exercise the option of outright grant. They have been asked to find out the exact quantum of land that has not been put to use by the organisations and to initiate measures to withdraw the unused land. Critical voices The move has sparked off concern in some sections. Farmers’ leader Kurubur Shanthakumar expressed apprehension over the manner in which the leased land was being allowed to be purchased by private organisations through an outright grant. “Our concern is over the methods of assessing the actual market value of the land. There is a huge difference between guidance value and market value. There will be a large-scale loss to the State exchequer if the government just grants land on the basis of guidance value,” he said. He said that if the government has genuine intentions of raising resources, it should opt for public auctioning of the leased land in a transparent manner, without allowing the district administration to transact merely on the basis of gui dance value.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-allow-permanent-grant-of-leased-land/article32017633.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Javadekar urged to reject railway line||A group of 120 ecologists and activists has written to Prakash Javadekar, Union Minister for Environment, Forestand Climate Change, urging him to reject the proposal for the Hubballi-Ankola railway line, days ahead of a second hearing on the project in the High Court of Karnataka. The letter, dated July 6, has among the signatories Anindya Sinha, former member of the State wildlife board, ecologists Harini Nagendra and Divya Mudappa, and Uttara Kannada activist Jayanand Derekar. They have said that the railway line would cause irreversible damage, diminishing the already receding forest cover in Uttara Kannada region. “On March 20, days before the lockdown began, the Karnataka State Board for Wildlife approved the Hubballi-Ankola railway line that is set to destroy 596 hectares of forest in the Western Ghats. It is a threat to 1.58 lakh trees that will be cut in one of the most vital, biodiverse and pristine ecosystems in our country, as well as in the world. The execution of the project will spell disaster for the local wildlife and humans, worsening the climate crisis we are facing,” the letter stated, adding that despite being rejected by several bodies such as the Forest Advisory Committee, Ministry of Environment and Forests, and National Tiger Conservation Authority, the project had still found its way back. The letter stated that the primary objective of the project was to accommodate the increase in iron ore freight capacity from the Ballari-Hosapete region to the Western coastal ports, though the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests has pointed to the existence of several rail options for the transport of iron ore. Effect on wildlife Expanding on the ecological dangers of the project, the signatories mentioned that the region to be affected by the project was home to more than 300 species of animals that come under the red list of the International Union for Conservation of Nature. They pointed out that fragmentation of the forest by the railway line would restrict the movement of tigers, elephants, and lion-tailed macaques. In addition to this, forest-dwelling communities such as Gowlis, Siddis, Kunbis, and Halakkivokkaligas who depend on collected forest produce such as honey, wax, shikakai, cane, and cashew will be affected. The project also raises fears of erosion, flooding and landslips, seen in parts of Karnataka and Kerala owing to large-scale deforestation, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/javadekar-urged-to-reject-railway-line/article32017630.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1 held for fraud in TV sets||The City Crime Branch (CCB) on Tuesday arrested a man for allegedly selling TV sets using logos of well-known brands. The accused, Suresh, 45, is a resident of Chamarajapet. Changed labels He bought ordinary TVs and replaced their logos with that of well-known companies before selling them at higher rates. The CCB team seized 15 TV sets and Rs. 75,000 from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1-held-for-fraud-in-tv-sets/article32017602.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka reports 1,498 new cases and 15 more deaths||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State continued to rise with 1,498 new cases reported on Tuesday. With this the total number touched 26,815 of which 11,098 have been discharged. With 15 more deaths reported on Tuesday, the toll touched 416 apart from four non-COVID-1 deaths. As many as 155 of the total 416 deaths are from Bengaluru. While four deaths each have been reported from Mysuru and Bidar, two have been reported from Kalaburagi. One death each has been reported from Bagalkot, Hassan, Dharwad, Davangere and Belagavi. For a change, Bengaluru Urban did not report deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the media bulletin issued by the Health Department on Tuesday. Overall, the State had been reporting an average of 30 deaths since the beginning of this month. Tuesday saw a reduction in number of deaths.  15,297 active cases The number of active cases crossed 15,000 and touched 15,297 on Tuesday. Of these, while 279 patients are being monitored in the ICU, the condition of the rest is stable, according to the media bulletin. Bengaluru Urban continued to record an increased number of cases with 800 patients testing positive in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of cases in Bengaluru Urban touched 11,361 of which 1,810 have been discharged so far. While Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad reported 83 and 57 new cases respectively, Kalaburagi and Bidar reported 51 cases each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-reports-1498-new-cases-and-15-more-deaths/article32017614.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dy. CM launches locally-made products to tackle pandemic||In an attempt to boost efforts to tackle COVID-19 in Karnataka, six products have been developed locally by startups with support from the government. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who launched the products on Tuesday, said it was a matter of pride for the State as the role of Kannadiga scientists, innovators and research professionals in developing the products was significant. The products have been developed by the startups incubated and mentored at the Bangalore Bioinnovation Centre (BBC) to fight the pandemic. “The products will reduce our burden of importing expensive equipment and tools in fighting this pandemic. This initiative of developing products locally is in line with India’s Aatma Nirbhar Abhiyaan. We must take pride that we have reached this level of innovating and producing locally,” said Mr. Narayan, who is also Minister for IT & BT. They include products for sterilising surfaces, virus detection, remote monitoring of foetus, cleaning face, virus detector, and for transporting samples. All products have been approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for immediate use. They will also be commercially available. The government will support and promote these products. Mr. Narayan lauded the efforts of the startups and scientists in developing the products in a short time. “The products are of superior quality and will contribute in tackling COVID-19 across the country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dy-cm-launches-locally-made-products-to-tackle-pandemic/article32017623.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Central team hails State’s contact tracing||While Karnataka has been witnessing a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in the last one week, a Union Health Ministry team that visited the State has appreciated its efforts to contain the pandemic, especially contact tracing and measures to create a database of people with co-morbidities and other vulnerabilities. A team of officers from the Ministry met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa at his home-office on Tuesday as part of their two-day visit to the State. According to a release from the Chief Minister’s Office, the central team advised that the government should strictly follow guidelines for containment zones. The State government has been maintaining that the death rate has been lower here when compared with other States and that Karnataka has good recovery rate. The central team comprised Aarti Ahuja, Additional Secretary to Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and P. Raveendran, Director of Emergency Medical Response Centre, among others. Health Minister B. Sriramulu, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, and other senior officers were present. The State government informed the central team that high-flow oxygen systems were being installed at district and taluk hospitals for around 15,000 beds to handle COVID-19 patients. It will be ready by August 15, according to the release. Medical experts who recently participated in a meeting convened by the Chief Minister had suggested creation of such facilities. ‘Increase testing’ Mr. Sudhakar told mediapersons that the central team told the State government to increase testing. More number of tests would mean more positive cases, but there was no need to panic, he said. Identifying more cases would actually help in preventing the spread of the pandemic as well as deaths, the team said. It told the State that the main aim should be to reduce the death rate below 1%. It also suggested that Bengaluru should learn from other cities, including Mumbai, which have handled a large number of positive cases, especially those in slums, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/central-team-hails-states-contact-tracing/article32017627.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mayor under quarantine after PA tests positive||Mayor M. Goutham Kumar is under home quarantine, after his personal assistant tested positive for COVID-19. According to highly-placed sources in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the Mayor’s personal assistant went on leave after developing some symptoms. Swab samples were collected and the test results came in on Tuesday. “Mr. Kumar, who is a primary contact, has isolated himself at his residence. His family members, who are considered to be secondary contacts, too are under home quarantine,” a source said. Incidentally, the Mayor attended a meeting with Revenue Minister R. Ashok and several councillors on Monday. This means that the Minister too will be considered as secondary contact. However, sources said that social distancing norms were followed and all councillors, including Mr. Kumar, wore masks. “There is very little chance of transmission in this case,” the source said, clarifying that the Mayor did not know of his personal assistant’s test result when the meeting was held. The Mayor’s office in the BBMP head office is yet to be sealed and sanitised. Opposition Leader Abdul Wajid said the Mayor should best put rumours to rest by giving a statement about going into home quarantine. “There is nothing wrong in clarifying. The Gandhinagar MLA and his family are also under home quarantine after two of his gunmen and staff tested positive for COVID-19,” he said. Mr. Kumar was not available for comment despite several attempts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mayor-under-quarantine-after-pa-tests-positive/article32017611.ece
08 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||No water supply today||Owing to repairs, water will not be supplied on Wednesday between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. in Yeshwantpur, Bashyam Park, Malleswaram, Seshadripuram, Okalipura, Srirampura, Mathikere, Sadashivanagara, K.G. Tower, Seshadripuram, Jayamahal, Palace Guttahalli, RMV 2nd Stage and surrounding areas, R.T. Nagar, Hebbala, Dinnur, Sanjaynagara, Manorayanapalya, Ganganagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-water-supply-today/article32017601.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Businessman murdered||A 35-year-old businessman was stabbed to death in his shop in Vijayanagar on Tuesday evening. The deceased has been identified as Hanumesh Gowda, who was running a pest control shop in RPC Layout. According to the Vijayanagara police, Hanumesh was attacked inside his shop at around 4 p.m. “We do not know if the murder was committed by one person or a group of people,” a police official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/businessman-murdered/article32017600.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||15 police personnel test positive in Bengaluru||The city police continue to be vulnerable to COVID-19. As many 15 personnel in the Whitefield division tested positive on Monday. Of these, 12 were attached to HAL police station. According to an official, a policeman from the station had first tested positive on June 27. The station was subsequently sealed and sanitised. “The last arrest by the HAL police was on June 15, and all those who were arrested had tested negative,” said the senior police officer. This is not the first time that several policemen from one station have been infected. At least 23 personnel attached to Kalasipalyam police station tested positive recently. To date, 27 police personnel and other staff members working in various police stations in Whitefield division have contracted COVID-19. “So far, five personnel have been discharged,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/15-police-personnel-test-positive-in-bengaluru/article32017628.ece
08 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fever clinics screen over 20,000 citizens||More than 20,000 citizens with COVID-19 symptoms, such as fever, cough, cold, throat irritation and breathing issues, have been screened at fever clinics in the city to date. According to a press release here on Tuesday, swab samples of those suspected to have COVID-19 have been collected at the 133 fever clinics and six referral hospitals. Fever clinics operate between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., while swab samples are collected on token basis from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. The release added that vehicles had been arranged to take the samples to the laboratories. The COVID-19 tests are performed free of cost, the release also stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fever-clinics-screen-over-20000-citizens/article32017609.ece
08 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Murder accused arrested||The Dharwad Police have arrested an assailant who on Sunday shot dead one and injured two persons in a brawl over a property dispute. The arrested person has been identified as Shrishail Ganiger of Navalgund taluk in Dharwad district. The accused had shot dead 40-year-old Shivayogi Bhavikatti on Sunday and he was arrested on Monday. Accordingly to the police, Iranna Hebballi, who had a property dispute with Shrishail Ganiger, had brought his friends Shivayogi Bhavikatti and Sunil to sort out the issue at Ganesh Nagar near Madihal in Dharwad on Sunday. The three reportedly picked up quarrel and allegedly tried to attack Shrishail Ganiger, when the accused opened three rounds of fire from his licensed revolver at them. While Shivayogi Bhavikatti died of a bullet injury on the way to hospital, the other two are recuperating at KIMS Hospital in Hubballi. The Dharwad Town Police have taken up further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/murder-accused-arrested/article32017796.ece
08 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two more patients die||Two more people died of COVID-19 infection in Hassan, taking the total number of deaths to 11 in the district. An 88-year-old person from Holenarsipur taluk was admitted to hospital on June 29. He was under dialysis and had other health issues. As his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to ICU on July 4 where he died on Tuesday. The other person, aged 47, was a native of Arsikere taluk. He was admitted to hospital on June 27 and he died of acute respiratory distress (ARDS) on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-patients-die/article32017790.ece
08 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Distribute relief under package, officials told||Minister for Labour Shivaram Hebbar has instructed officers to distribute compensation package announced for workers who had no income during the lockdown. Construction workers, hair-cutters, farmers and other beneficiaries would get the benefit soon, he said in a press conference here on Tuesday. He said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has announced Rs. 5,000 each for construction workers. So far, 14 lakh workers have received the money in the State. There had been a delay in transferring the amount to some beneficiaries among hair-cutters and washermen due to discrepancies in their Aadhaar cards and bank accounts. Efforts were being made to reach them the benefit within a week, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/distribute-relief-under-package-officials-told/article32017792.ece
08 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Gas leak plugged||Fire and Emergency Services personnel completely plugged a chlorine gas leak at a water purification plant near Konapura village in Hassan taluk on Tuesday evening. As a precautionary measure, a few families residing in Beekanahalli have been shifted to a safer place. The gas leak was spotted on Sunday causing worry among residents. The Hassan City Municipal Council staff and Fire and Emergency Services personnel plugged the gas leak the same day. However, leakage was noticed again on Tuesday, forcing the officials to rush to the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gas-leak-plugged/article32017791.ece
08 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||There is no community spread, more tests being done: Joshi||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that just because a number of COVID-19 positive cases is being recorded it should be not seen as community spread of the pandemic. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi on Tuesday after symbolically handing over keys of a bus for visually challenged children, Mr. Joshi said that one of the reasons for the increase in the number of such cases was that the administration had extensively taken up contact tracing and testing. Consequently, more number of tests is being conducted even for asymptomatic people resulting in an increase in such cases, he said. “In a country with 130 crore population, over seven lakh positive cases have been reported and of them, over four lakh people have already recovered. And, it cannot be termed as community spread,” Mr. Joshi said. He, however, said that it was only through people’s cooperation and their joining hands with the government by strictly following the guidelines that the pandemic could be controlled. “I appeal to the people not to panic but follow the government directions strictly,” he said. Ayurvedic remedy On the claims about successful treatment of COVID-19 through Ayurvedic treatment, Mr. Joshi said that any successful treatment plan should be checked and authenticated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Regarding the possibility of release of vaccine for COVID-19 by August 15 in India, the Minister said that there was no such plan as of now. Donated Earlier, the Union Minister symbolically handed over the keys of the bus donated by ONGC under its CSR initiative to Aroodha School for the Visually Challenged in Hubballi. Briefing about an incident that led to the donation, Mr. Joshi recalled his visit to the school on his birthday during which the students had impressed him with their mesmerising musical rendition and had also appealed for a mode of transport. The Minister said that the official handing over was delayed due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Management committee members of the school received the keys from the Minister and thanked him. MLA Amrut Desai and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-no-community-spread-more-tests-being-done-joshi/article32017798.ece
08 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Coal blocks to pvt. players for self-reliance: Minister||Clarifying that allotment of coal blocks to private players was not a step towards privatisation, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi said on Tuesday that the move was part of a plan to make India “ atma nirbhar ” (self-reliant) in coal production. Speaking to presspersons after attending a symbolic handing over of a bus to a school of visually challenged children in Hubballi, he said that India had the most coal reserves but was yet to harness its full potential. “India’s coal requirement is 1,000 million to 1,100 million tonnes every year. However the coal production through Coal India is over 700 MT, and we have a shortage. Last year, we imported around 250 million tonnes of coal,” Mr. Joshi said. “Importing coal from other nations even when we have an abundance of coal reserves is a crime according to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. We have already allotted the maximum coal blocks to Coal India Ltd., but we still have a shortfall. So we have opened up the sector to commercial players to enhance coal production in the country.” Coal India protest Regarding the opposition to the move from employees of Coal India and their protest raising concerns over its likely impact on coal production in the country, he said the country already had a coal stock which would be sufficient for another 30 days. “The protesting employees have some apprehensions that they have raised before us. We have already convinced them to some extent. We are confident of convincing them fully and resolving the issue at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coal-blocks-to-pvt-players-for-self-reliance-minister/article32017635.ece
08 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||108 health staff COVID-19 positive in Ballari district||As many as 108 health personnel who were providing healthcare services in Ballari district have thus far tested positive for COVID-19. As per information provided at a meeting of the district’s top bureaucracy attended by Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer K. Nitish, Superintendent of Police C.K. Baba, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Janardhan and others and presided over by Forest Minister and Ballari district in-charge B.S. Anand Singh in Ballari on Tuesday, 43 doctors in government service, four doctors in private service and several staff nurses, lab technicians and Group D employees were among the infected health workers. Terming the development as a serious one, Mr. Singh commended the health workers for their commitment to the fight against the pandemic. “What is required is taking precautions and not panic. However, certain people in the district are indulging in spreading panic instead of spreading awareness about the pandemic. I myself am meeting COVID-19-infected people and instilling confidence in them. I will also meet the health workers who have tested positive now,” he said. When the meeting took up the issue of recruitment of more health staff to handle the pandemic, Mr. Nakul submitted that the district administration did invite applications from doctors and other paramedical servants, but did not receive any. “We had invited applications for the posts of doctors, lab technician, staff nurse and Group D posts. We filled all the posts except the doctors’ as we did not receive any application,” he told the meeting. The authorities concerned said that the administration had detected 1,342 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and identified 8,988 primary contacts and 3,472 secondary contacts of infected persons. Mr. Singh also visited a COVID-19 designated hospital and heard the grievances of the infected persons. He was found instilling confidence among the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/108-health-staff-covid-19-positive-in-ballari-district/article32017787.ece
08 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Cath lab closed in Kalaburagi||The only cardiac catheterisation laboratory (cath lab) available at the Kalaburagi branch of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research (SJICSR) was closed down on Monday evening after a patient who underwent angiogram tested positive for COVID-19. As many as 33 health professionals, including six cardiologists, who attended on him or came in contact with him, have been quarantined. According to sources, the patient had given his throat swab samples to a private hospital in Kalaburagi for COVID-19 test after he developed some of the symptoms of the pandemic. He then went to SJICSR branch in Kalaburagi as he developed chest pain on Sunday. He, however, hid the information that he had sent his throat swab for COVID-19 test and the doctors on duty at the SJICSR admitted him considering his deteriorating health condition and performed angiogram on Monday. After the angiogram surgery was performed, the patient’s throat swab tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cath-lab-closed-in-kalaburagi/article32017793.ece
08 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KRCL launches four steel girders for MSEZ flyover||Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) on Tuesday successfully launched four steel girders for the Mangalore Special Economic Zone Flyover that crosses its line near Jokatte. The corporation, executing the flyover project for MSEZ, deployed two cranes of 500 tonne and 250 tonne capacity to launch the girders, each with 45 m width and 50 tonnes in weight, said a communique here. Before launching the girders, KRCL announced a six-hour line block to regulate movement of trains. The flyover is being constructed on the KIOCL Junction (NH 66)-MSEZ Road via Jokatte to facilitate unhindered movement of vehicles to and from the Economic Zone. The work, started in mid-2017, is expected to be completed by October this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krcl-launches-four-steel-girders-for-msez-flyover/article32017800.ece
08 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kasaragod-Mangaluru daily commuters’ e-passes suspended||Hundreds of daily commuters between Kasaragod district of Kerala and Dakshina Kannada district in Karnataka were in for a shock on Tuesday following an abrupt decision by the Kerala government to suspend their e-passes for daily commute. The two districts that share a strong socio-economic and cultural bond had remained cut off during the lockdown period. After Unlock 1, many who worked either in DK or Kasaragod fought with authorities who finally arranged e-passes for daily commute on the condition that those travelling in the morning should return by night. With Kerala Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekaran on Monday announcing suspension of e-passes with immediate effect and introducing 28-day passes, daily commuters were prevented from crossing the border at Talapady on NH 66 on Tuesday morning. The Minister had held a meeting of senior officials of the district at Kasaragod before announcing the decision, saying that many using the daily pass and returning to Kasaragod had contracted COVID-19. He said neither people from Kasaragod could move to Dakshina Kannada nor those from Dakshnia Kannada could enter Kasaragod using the e-pass. If required, they may obtain the 28-day pass and stay at their respective locations for the period. Commotion on border There was commotion at the Kerala check posts at Talapady as people argued with personnel on Tuesday morning. While Dakshina Kannada administration had issued about 1,300 e-passes to Kasaragod residents for their entry into the district, the Kasaragod administration had issued over 1,000 e-passes to residents of Dakshina Kannada for entry into the district. There were arguments with the personnel at the Kerala check post. Some among them wanted the government to relax the restrictions till July 11. “But we did not budge and told them that these restrictions were in the interest of people’s health. Many left the places after spending time here,” said a Kerala government personnel deputed at the check post. Among those affected by this restriction included a woman from Talapady who earns her living by rolling beedis. She was stopped by the personnel from taking the rolled beedis to the collection point across the border and collecting her wages. It took nearly an hour for her to convince the personnel of the purpose of her movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kasaragod-mangaluru-daily-commuters-e-passes-suspended/article32017616.ece
08 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||University College hosts webinar on artificial intelligence||The Department of Computer Science of University College here recently organised a national-level webinar on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, and a quiz competition. Inaugurating the webinar, Mangalore University Vice-Chancellor P. Subrahmanya Yadapadithaya said that the digital world was not the future but the present. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning were important in day-to-day life, and during technological advancement, access to data and development has also increased, he said. College principal M.A. Uday Kumar highlighted the new dimensions of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, and also of data analysis. “In the period of globalisation to take quick quality decisions, artificial intelligence or similar technologies were needed,” he said. Quiz competition V. Priya Senan from SASSNDP Yogam College, Konni, Kerala, Parag A. Tamhankar from MES Abasaheb Garware College, Veerabhadrappa, University College Computer Science Department Head, Veerabhadrappa, Assistant Professor, Bharathi Pilar and Sharadha Bhat from Ankola Government First Grade College were resource persons. K. Sudheendra conducted the quiz competition. Over 350 students, research scholars and professors from various States participated in the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/university-college-hosts-webinar-on-artificial-intelligence/article32017805.ece
08 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CPCRI scientists visit plantations to study nut dropping||A four-member team of scientists from the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) recently visited some arecanut plantations affected by nut dropping in Dakshina Kannada. Nut dropping has hit arecanut plantations in the coastal belt on a vast scale after a gap of five years, worrying farmers. The team paid the visit on an invitation by the All India Areca Growers Association, Puttur. The general secretary of the association, Mahesh Puchchappady, told The Hindu that the team visited plantations in Sullia, Puttur and Kadaba taluks on Friday. The scientists were from the Vitla station of the CPCRI, Kasaragod. “The team visited 12 plantations for the sample study. According to the scientists a bug menace appears to be the reason for the nut dropping. The institute will send its report to the association by recommending the measures to be taken to control the dropping,” he said. In addition to Mr. Puchchappady, the president of the association, Ashok Kinila, also accompanied the team to the plantations. The incidence of green coloured tender arecanuts dropping (or nut dropping) is high in Sullia, Puttur and Bantwal taluks in Dakshina Kannada and some tracts of Udupi. The association estimates that the nut dropping could reduce the arecanut production by about 30% this year. The general secretary said that normally some amount of nut dropping is common in arecanut plantations. Though it has been attributed to variations in weather conditions the association wants agriculture scientists to find out the exact reason and why it aggravates in some years. “Like the loss due to ‘kole roga’ (fruit rot disease), nut dropping also results in huge loss to farmers, especially small and marginal ones. The association wants farm scientists to suggest how it can be prevented or controlled.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cpcri-scientists-visit-plantations-to-study-nut-dropping/article32017804.ece
08 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||ESIC extends date||Employees State Insurance Corporation has relaxed provisions under ESI Regulations 1950 to allow employers to remit contribution for the period between October 2019 and March 2020, by July 15, 2020. A press release said that the decision will benefit about 5,500 employers registered under the ESI Act in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/esic-extends-date/article32017801.ece
08 July 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Two more RTPS units shut down||All eight power generation units of Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS) were shut on Sunday at Shaktinagar in Raichur district because of the complete dip in demand for power in the State. Meanwhile, one of the two units, with a capacity of 800 mw, at the Yermarus Thermal Power Station (YTPS) generated 421 mw of power on Tuesday. RTPS has eight units, with a total capacity of 1,720 MW. Units 1 to 7 generate a total of 1,470 mw (210 x 7) of power, while unit 8 generates 250 mw of power. YTPS has two units with a capacity of 1,600 mw (800 x 2). In the first week of June, RTPS shut six of its power generation units because of the dip in demand for power. Now, the other two units too are closed as there is no demand for thermal power. An engineer of the maintenance division of RTPS told The Hindu that the demand had not increased as many industries and commercial units have been closed due to COVID-19 outbreak. And, wind and solar power generation have reached a peak due to sufficient rainfall after the onset of monsoon. Hence, the base load of thermal power generation is reduced, he added. Normally, thermal units are shut during annual maintenance or for technical reasons. Now, all eight units of RTPS have been shut down due to no demand.  RTPS has eight units and six of them were shut down in June||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-rtps-units-shut-down/article32017794.ece
08 July 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||23 new cases in Raichur||As many as 23 fresh cases of COVID-19 were registered in Raichur on Tuesday. The total number of such cases has reached 598 and of these, 438 patients have been discharged, Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/23-new-cases-in-raichur/article32017795.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Committee recommends open book examinations for this academic year||The 14-member expert committee appointed by the State government has batted for the final assessment for the 2020-21 academic year to be an open book examination. The committee has said that students can appear for the examination from the comfort of their own homes. It has urged the government to make the announcement at the earliest. “The grades from continuous and comprehensive evaluation and open book assessment can be clubbed for deciding the final grading,” said the committee in its report submitted on Tuesday. The report titled ‘Continuation of Learning in School Education of Karnataka’ lays down guidelines during the COVID-19 pandemic for technology enabled education and beyond. The government will study it before taking a final decision. According to guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, schools cannot reopen till July 31. The report addresses this, and recommends “contextual opening of schools” but only in areas where the risk of infection is low. One suggestion is the opening of schools in batches in a phased manner in low-risk areas. Students can be divided into smaller batches as per their age, and allowed to go to school once or twice a week where teachers engage with them in a constructive manner. Children can be provided learning material till their next visit, and engaged in non-contact sports activities. Such school visits can be conducted at regular intervals and this process can continue till normalcy returns, said the committee in the report. However, it reiterated that this model is feasible only when schools are located in areas that do not have infection and all children come from the same neighbourhood/village or community. Another model mooted by the committee is starting community-based education. A member of the committee said that this type of learning can begin immediately and “school, like platforms, can be created within these communities by mapping the children, the available space, a willing adult who can help them use the learning material.” All resources, including TVs, radios, public address system and at times digital equipment, can be shared. It also suggested that such community schools tap into the expertise of retired teachers.  I am happy that the committee suggests only play, rhymes, stories and other innovative activities for lower classes. No curriculum should be taught via videos Rohan Gowda, parent of a class I student in a CBSE school   For four months, my child has not been engaged in any learning. We hope that the government will start classes on radio or television Prabhu S., parent of a class VI student of a government school   We are glad that the committee has allowed online classes. The school had discontinued classes and students were not engaged in learning Swathi S., parent of a class VIII student of a CBSE school||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committee-recommends-open-book-examinations-for-this-academic-year/article32017606.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Restructure curriculum to adapt to pandemic: Report||While the special committee’s report allows online classes to be conducted during the COVID-19 pandemic, it urges schools to make use of non-technological interventions. Committee members suggested other options that school managements can use, such as worksheets and activity sheets that will enable a more hands-on approach to learning. It also urged schools to re-examine the syllabus and revise the curriculum in the backdrop of the pandemic and resulting restrictions. “The standard syllabus should not be transacted as is. Alternative academic syllabus, calendar and timetable has to be created by every school,” said the report. Teachers should be encouraged to help each and every child create a portfolio of the sessions he or she has attended, activities done, project work attempted, notes on books read and information from newspapers. A member of the committee told The Hindu that these should form a significant part of continuous and comprehensive evaluation. In its report, the committee stated that other modes of teaching should also be used as the Department of Primary and Secondary Education’s survey in June 2020 had revealed smartphone and internet access is not available to a large section of students. In Karnataka, only 58.4% of households with students in classes I to V have access to smartphones and the internet. In grades VI to VIII, it is 57.5% and the figure is 63.8% for those in classes IX and X. In districts such as Yadgir and Chamarajnagar, more than half of the students do not have access to such facilities. In this context, the committee has recommended that the Department of Primary and Secondary Education re-launch its television and radio broadcasts, and curate “meaningful teaching learning material to suit the current times”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restructure-curriculum-to-adapt-to-pandemic-report/article32017608.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Note found in car of former CEO of Raghavendra bank||The police are waiting for the post-mortem report on the death of M. Vasudeva Maiya,70, the former Chief Executive Officer of Sri Guru Raghavendra Cooperative Bank Ltd. He was found dead in his car that was parked in Chikkalasandra on Monday night. According to the police, the post-mortem was conducted on Tuesday. “We are waiting for the final report from the forensic science laboratory. We have recovered a note from the car in the presence of his family,” said Rohini Katoch Sepat, DCP (South division). Senior police officials refused to divulge details of the people named in the note saying that they are investigating its contents. Multiple agencies probing bank’s activities Maiya was among officials of the bank whose premises had been searched by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) of the State on June 18 in connection with alleged large-scale irregularities in the bank. Multiple agencies — Enforcement Directorate, Criminal Investigation Department, Reserve Bank of India, and Registrar of Cooperative Societies — are probing the alleged irregularities and misappropriation of funds to the tune of Rs. 1,400 crore. “The post-mortem and the FSL report are very important. We are closely monitoring them as various agencies, including ACB, CCB, CID and Enforcement Directorate, are investigating the bank,” she said.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/note-found-in-car-of-former-ceo-of-raghavendra-bank/article32017599.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Auction of corner sites by BDA goes for a toss||Online bidding for coveted corner sites of the Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA) was disrupted on Tuesday on account of technical snags. The problem occurred during the last hour of bidding on the e-procurement portal, forcing the authority to postpone the deadline for bids from Tuesday to 6 p.m. on Wednesday (July 8). The BDA had opened the e-auction from June 20 to auction close to 200 corner sites in various layouts in the city. Bidding was scheduled to end on July 7 at 6 p.m. Around 2,000 people had registered for the bidding process. However, just half-an-hour before closing the auction, the e-procurement portal developed a technical snag. Upset bidders posted images of the blank page of the portal on social media. One bidder, who shared his experience on social media, said: “BDA does not have minimum common sense to maintain good server capacity for closure of bids.” BDA officials said that the system developed technical snags as hundreds of people started bidding at the same time. The development authority’s PRO Gireesha L.P. said that the commissioner, after a meeting with officials, extended the deadline. He said that the e-procurement portal is handled by the State’s centre for e-governance. In mid-April, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had said that auctioning of 12,000 BDA sites will help generate Rs. 15,000 crore in revenue for the State government. After his announcement, the BDA took a decision to auction corner sites in H.S.R. Layout, Banashankari, Sir M. Visvesvaraya and other layouts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auction-of-corner-sites-by-bda-goes-for-a-toss/article32017607.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Monsoon mood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/monsoon-mood/article32017803.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. to rope in civil society to allow fatigue-hit warriors rest||The State government has decided to rope in members of civil society, especially those from the medical sector, to reduce the burden on COVID-19 warriors. Announcing this at a press conference on Tuesday, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that “they definitely needed a break”. He appealed to civil society to fill their places. An app will be launched by the government to allow them to register themselves for COVID work, he said. Mr. Sudhakar particularly observed that organisations like RSS, Lions and Rotory clubs could play a key role in helping the government fight against COVID-19. Seeking to downplay the spike in COVID-19 cases, the Minister pointed out that despite this, the State had lower death rates than the country. Only 1% of active cases in the State needed ICU facility as well as oxygen, he said, while pointing out that only 143 COVID-19 patients were in ICU. On the availability of beds for COVID-19 patients, Mr. Sudhakar said COVID care centres in Bengaluru alone would have 7,000 beds in a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-rope-in-civil-society-to-allow-fatigue-hit-warriors-rest/article32017624.ece
08 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||18 cases in Alappuzha||In a worrying trend, 18 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, three contracted the disease through contact. While seven people had returned from abroad, eight came from other States, including four personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP). One of the patients, a young man hailing from Pathiyoor, is a friend of the 65-year-old man from Kayamkulam who tested positive for COVID-19 last week while undergoing treatment for other ailments at a hospital in Kollam. Apart from the sexagenarian, 17 of his family, relations, and friends have so far contracted the disease through contact. His family runs a vegetable wholesale shop at the Kayamkulam market. A 54-year-old fish vendor at Kayamkulam market contracted the disease through contact. He is the second fish merchant associated with the market to contract the disease. The third patient who contracted the disease through contact is a policeman with the Thiruvananthapuram AR camp. A native of Purakkad, he reached the district in a private vehicle from the capital city on July 4. Their source of infection is unknown.  Strict restrictions As two more persons associated with the Kayamkulam market contracted the disease through contact, District Collector A. Alexander has urged the public to maintain utmost caution. “Strict restrictions have been imposed in containment zones. People should abide by the rules to tackle the spread of the disease,” Mr. Alexander said. Among the cases from foreign countries, four had come from Saudi Arabia. They include two young men from Vallikunnam who reached the district on July 2 and a 57-year-old man from Arattupuzha on July 3. A 49-year-old man native of Chengannur came on July 4. Two men hailing from Bharanikavu and Mavelikara reached the district from Oman on July 3 and July 4 respectively. A young man from Puliyoor had come from the UAE on June 18. Of the cases from other States, four are personnel of the ITBP unit at Nooranad who recently travelled from other States. Two persons hailing from Ramankary and Ambalappuzha reached the district from Maharashtra on July 3 and June 25 respectively. A young woman from Thamarakulam had travelled from Chennai on June 28. A 55-year-old man from Alappuzha came from Delhi on July 1.  Four test negative Meanwhile, four people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 219. Ward 9 in Nooranad and ward 6 and 7 in Thamarakulam grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/18-cases-in-alappuzha/article32018015.ece
08 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Nooranad becomes hub of avian beauties||Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic-induced pain and suffering, there is palpable excitement among villagers and birdwatchers at Nooranad, best known as ‘pakshi gramam’ (bird village). According to villagers, a good number of avian beauties, mostly resident birds, nest and breed at Nooranad and nearby areas this season. A jackfruit tree in the compound of V. Rajendran hosts six nests of pond herons. “Initially there was a single nest. But the number has risen to six in recent days. Although bird droppings are an annoyance, it is important to protect them. We are eagerly awaiting to see chicks,” Mr. Rajendran says. Apart from pond heron, intermediate egret, little cormorant, darter are among the bird species nesting and breeding in and around Nooranad nowadays, albeit in fewer numbers compared to past years. 1987 survey The place first came to the limelight in 1987 when birdwatcher P.K. Uthaman conducted a survey and spotted 10,000 birds. “At that time, there were a large number of trees in the area. During the survey, Mr. Uthaman spotted great egret and intermediate egret in Nooranad for the first time in Kerala. The sightings and a report on the survey were published in a journal of the Bombay Natural History Society and Nooranad came to be known as bird village,” says C. Rahim, journalist and conservationist. A survey conducted by Mr. Rahim in 2012 spotted 750 darters in 32 trees in Athikkattukulangara. It was described as the largest colony of darters to be spotted in the entire country. However, he says the number of birds nesting at Nooranad has come down over the years. “Compared to 1987, there is a drastic decline in nesting of birds in Nooranad. This can be attributed to fewer number of trees, climate change, and human interventions. The chopping and uprooting of trees at Nooranad in the past years have created satellite heronries in nearby Karakulam, Kattanam, and Pandalam,” he says. Gramasree Nature Club, a Nooranad-based environmental group, has urged the government to declare Nooranad and nearby areas as a bird sanctuary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nooranad-becomes-hub-of-avian-beauties/article32017950.ece
08 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||No action yet on SC order to demolish Kapico property||Almost six months after the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of illegally constructed villas of Kapico Kerala Resorts Pvt. Ltd on Nediyathuruthu island on Vembanad Lake, no concrete steps have been taken to implement the apex court verdict. The Supreme Court on January 10, 2020, dismissed appeals by Kapico against a Kerala High Court decision banning the construction of resorts and removal of structures on the backwater island. The court observed that the constructions violated coastal and environmental regulations. Local body’s stance Pradeep Koodaikkal, president, Panavally grama panchayat, said the local body was awaiting a response from the government on the matter. “We have received a communication from the District Collector following the Supreme Court verdict. The panchayat does not have the expertise and finance to pull down the illegally constructed villas and the same has been communicated to the district administration in our reply. We are awaiting further direction from the government authorities,” Mr. Koodaikkal said. When contacted, a district administration official said COVID-19 had delayed the process. “A government direction is needed in the matter. We were in the process of preparing a report when the lockdown was declared and the entire process came to a halt. The proposal will be submitted to the government without much delay,” said the official. Meanwhile, the Kerala Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedi (TUCI) said it was planning to file a contempt petition in the apex court. “The delay in the demolition of the structures on Nediyathuruthu island shows that the State government is not sincere in matters related to environment protection. COVID-19 should not be made an excuse for the delay,” said Charles George, president, Kerala Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedi. Kapico constructed 54 villas, a main block, among other facilities, over a period of six years from 2007. In March 2013, the Kerala High Court ordered the demolition of Kapico along with illegal structures constructed by Vaamika Island (Green Lagoon Resort) on Vettila Thuruthu, also on Vembanad Lake. The High Court ordered removal of unauthorised structures within three months. Vaamika then moved the Supreme Court. Their petitions were dismissed by the court stating that Vembanad Lake was an ecologically sensitive area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-action-yet-on-sc-order-to-demolish-kapico-property/article32017905.ece
08 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Couple found dead at Chennithala||A couple was found dead in a rented house at Chennithala, near here, on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Jithin, 30, of Pandalam and his wife Devika Das. The police said that Jithin, a painting worker, was found hanging while Devika was found lying on a bed with bloodstains on her body.  Cause unknown The exact cause of the death could only be ascertained after completing the post-mortem examination, said an official. According to sources, the couple got married on May 6. “Two years ago, Devika had eloped with Jithin. As she had not attained legal age for marriage, the police had then registered a case against Jithin under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The court also sent her to a children’s home. However, they got married recently and moved to a rented house,” the sources added. The police have recovered two letters from their room. Suicide prevention helpline Disha: 1056||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-found-dead-at-chennithala/article32018016.ece
08 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||One in Idukki||One person tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. With this, the active cases rose to 56. Six persons were admitted to hospitals and 761 were in home quarantine. The person tested positive on Tuesday was a 50-year-old man hailing from Kodikulam who arrived from Jeddah on July 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-in-idukki/article32018006.ece
08 July 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Action plan to be readied to tackle man-animal conflict in Wayanad||The Forest and Wildlife Department is gearing up to draft an action plan to mitigate the escalating man-animal conflict in Wayanad district. A meeting of people’s representatives and senior Forest Department officials at Sulthan Bathery in the district decided to draft an action plan to curb the entry of wild animals into human habitats on the forest fringes in the district by segregating human and animal habitats scientifically and effectively. The meeting decided to execute the action plan in five years and the first phase of it would begin this year. The State government had granted a sum of Rs. 40 crore for adopting effective steps to address the issue. The amount would be used for constructing crash guard rope fencing on 32-km stretch of forest boundaries.  While C.K. Saseendran, MLA, sought 200 acres of forestland to relocate the straying simian population in the Kalpetta constituency, I.C. Balakrishnan, MLA, demanded the deployment of three of the nine newly sanctioned rapid response teams of the Forest Department in the district. Devendra Kumar Verma, Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Development and Planning); Rajesh Raveendran, Additional Principal Chief Conservator (Administration); A. Vijayanand,Wildlife Chief Conservator, Palakkad; K. Karthikeyan, Chief Conservator, northern circle, Kannur and other senior Forest Department officials in the district attended the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-plan-to-be-readied-to-tackle-man-animal-conflict-in-wayanad/article32017876.ece
08 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Team to visit DM WIMS||A team of experts will visit the DM Wayanad Institute of Medical Sciences (DM WIMS) at Meppadi in the district on Thursday as part of assessing the feasibility of the institution’s takeover by the State government. The team has been constituted by the government after managing trustee of the institution Azad Moopen had expressed his willingness to hand over DM WIMS Medical College, Nursing and Pharmacy Colleges and its associated institutions in the district to the government. In three weeks The team would submit its report in three weeks to the government. Dr. Moopen had also offered for charity Rs. 250 crore from the amount to be offered by the government for the deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/team-to-visit-dm-wims/article32017910.ece
08 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Telemedicine service for patients at Kannur MCCS||The Malabar Cancer Centre Society (MCCS), Kannur, is arranging telemedicine services for cancer patients and survivors to interact with, consult, and obtain advice from specialist doctors of the Regional Cancer Centre, Thiruvananthapuram. According to D. Krishnanadha Pai, president, MCCS, patients and survivors can avail of the facility from July 15 on a daily basis from Monday to Friday from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. based on pre-registration with the MCCS. He said that the telemedicine facility had been arranged to replace the quarterly follow-up clinic conducted in Kannur by doctors from the RCC who were now unable to travel in the wake of the COVID outbreak. This would also benefit people, especially poor patients, who had to travel all the way to the RCC in Thiruvananthapuram, he said. The telemedicine unit of the MCCS was part of the Onconet India Project supported by the Union Health Ministry, Union IT Dept, C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram, and ISRO, Bengaluru. Mr. Pai said that reports of scans, x-rays and pathology investigations could also be sent and reviewed by the expert doctors at the RCC under the facility. The facility was for RCC patients and survivors of Kannur, Kasargod, Kozhikode, Malappuram, and Waynad districts. They could return home the same day after availing of the service, he said. Prof. Ramdas, Head of Department, Head and Neck, and Additional Professor Arun Sanker of the RCC would provide the telemedicine programme, while V.C. Ravindran, medical director of the MCCS, would assist the patients and survivors. People can register their names by providing the RCC registration number by calling on 0497-2705309, 2703309.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/telemedicine-service-for-patients-at-kannur-mccs/article32017875.ece
08 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Two arrested in youth’s murder case||Two persons have been arrested in the case of a youth’s murder near Kannavam on Tuesday. The police arrested 32-year-old T. Ravindran and P. Babu on the charge of murdering P. Ragesh on July 5.  The police believe that both the suspects, who were relatives, had some dispute with the victim who allegedly took away their baby goats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-in-youths-murder-case/article32017872.ece
08 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Markets reopen amid strict regulations||The Chambakkara fish market and Aluva vegetable and provisions wholesale market reopened after a gap of two days on Tuesday, with severe restrictions on entry into the market area and curtailed business hours. The Chambakkara fish wholesale market remained open from 2 a.m. to 6 a.m. and less than 500 people transacted business. Businessmen were given passes from a counter specially arranged for the purpose. The market operations were closely watched, said V.P. Chandran, councillor of Ward 50 of the Kochi Corporation and chairman of the Chambakkara Market Samrakshana Samithi. The Samithi is overseeing the arrangements for ensuring that business transactions followed COVID-19 regulations. All those entering the market were asked to wear masks and to keep physical distancing norms in mind. Security guards maintained strict vigil as they controlled the entry of people in lots of 50 each. The wholesale transactions ended at 6 a.m. when retail buyers were allowed in. They too were given passes and allowed entry in groups of 50 for half-hour of purchases. The police had on Saturday arrested 20 people from the Chambakkara market for flouting regulations on maintaining physical distancing and wearing masks. They were released on bail later in the day but the functioning of the market came under a cloud as the Kochi Corporation warned of a possible shutdown if action was not taken. The Aluva wholesale vegetables and provisions market reopened only for wholesale business and that too with restricted business hours. Business began at 6 a.m. and the market was closed by 9 a.m. with all transactions being completed by the time, said Venkatachalam, a trader. Aluva municipality councillor for Pulinchuvadu Jebi Mather Hisham said the market opened with severe restrictions and transactions were conducted under supervision of traders and other stakeholders. She said Ward 18 (Nazareth) in Aluva town had also turned containment zone after a person who visited a hospital in the area tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/markets-reopen-amid-strict-regulations/article32017886.ece
08 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Nine more cases of local transmission in district||Of the 21 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday, nine are primary contacts of COVID-19 patients and the source of infection of two persons – a journalist and a headload worker — is unclear. Ten persons who tested positive had returned from outside the State. A 60-year-old resident of Thoppumpady who came in contact with a 66-year-old COVID-19 positive trader from the area has also tested positive. A total of nine primary contacts of the trader who passed away recently, have tested positive so far. Two family members of a building contractor from Keezhmad panchayat who tested positive on Monday, have also tested positive. A 35-year-old worker headload worker at the Old Aluva market has tested positive. He is presumed to have acquired the infection from supply trucks arriving at the market , health officials said. A 38-year-old journalist from Alangad who works in a Malayalam daily, has also tested positive. The source of the infection remains unknown. A 30-year-old family member of a COVID-19 positive child and an infant who had returned from New Delhi to Piravom recently also tested positive. A 52-year-old relative of a Naval Base staffer from Kadavanthra who had tested positive earlier has also been confirmed positive. Three of the Kadavanthra resident’s primary contacts have tested positive. A 6-year-old who was the primary contact of the Paravur resident who had tested positive earlier has contracted the disease. Two family members of a 64-year-old Chellanam native who had tested positive last week have now become COVID-19 patients A 45-year-old auto driver who had ferried the patient to a hospital has also tested positive. Meanwhile, the authorities have declared five more containment zones in different panchayats in the district. They are: ward 3 of Mulavukad, ward 4 of Keezhmad, ward 7 of Alangad, ward 7 of Choornikkara, and ward 17 of Chellanam panchayats.  Pool testing  “Pool testing” would be intensified in the district, health officials said. The method involves pooling five samples together in a single RT-PCR test to cut costs and the number of RT-PCR kits required. If the test returns negative, all samples would be negative. If a pool test returns positive, individual tests would have to done to confirm which of the samples was positive. Following ICMR guidelines, the method would be used to test samples of asymptomatic people or random samples from the community. It would not be used to test samples of returnees from outside the State or symptomatic people, officials said. In a situation where a large number of asymptomatic people from an area might have to be tested, the method could be useful, they said. Call for coordination Mayor Soumini Jain on Tuesday said that the removal of waste and availability of essential items had been hit in containment zones and better coordination among various departments, including the police, Kochi Corporation and district administration was necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nine-more-cases-of-local-transmission-in-district/article32017882.ece
08 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||More women taking up organic farming in State||More women are joining the growing number of organic farmers in the State with the COVID-19 lockdown and subsequent restrictions on free movement of people putting a strain on regular incomes as well as leaving a lot of time on their hands. The trend was obvious at a recent webinar organised under the aegis of the High Range Organic Women Fair Trade Farmers’ Association (HOWFFA) in which around 150 women farmers participated. “It was remarkable because it was the first time that women came together in such strength to organise a webinar on the prospects of organic farming,” said Seetha Thampi of Manarkad Social Service Society, which supported the programme. The aim of the programme was to bring women together and to discuss ways and means to ensure a steady income with small investments, she said.  Sheena Susan Varghese, president of HOWFFA based in Idukki district, said there were around a hundred women farmers already engaged in organic farming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-women-taking-up-organic-farming-in-state/article32017881.ece
08 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Now, police officers deliver groceries at doorstep||Door delivery of groceries is the last thing one associates with the police. But that is exactly what the city police are doing now under the Amrutham project, as the spread of COVID-19 continues and more areas in the city turn containment zones. Under the project, the police will deliver essential goods, including groceries and medicines, and services to residents within containment zones. The project is the brainchild of Inspector General and District Police Chief (Kochi City) Vijay Sakhare, who successfully implemented it in Kasaragod district where he had served as special officer for COVID-19 containment. Mr. Sakhare also launched a poster campaign of Amrutham project on Tuesday. The system was initially introduced in the city when the Thevara division was declared a containment zone after an airline staff was found infected. It was expanded after more containment zones were declared within the city limits from last week onwards. “We have set up a helpline number (85902-02073) to which people from containment zones may send in their requirements along with their addresses as messages on WhatsApp. The messages are then forwarded to police stations concerned, where we have dedicated teams led by assistant sub inspectors to execute the orders,” said G. Poonguzhali, Deputy Police Commissioner, Kochi City. As of Tuesday morning, there were containment zones spread over seven police station limits — Kannamaly, Fort Kochi, Thoppumpady, Palarivattom, South, Central, and Thrikkakara. The number of calls has been gradually increasing over the last couple of days as the police are increasingly publicising the service, including on social media. “We have deployed a home guard to attend the call and have received over 30 calls in the last two days. The most sought after service so far is the delivery of medicines,” said one of the police officers deployed at the COVID-19 control cell, as part of which the service is being operated. On receiving the order, the police station concerned reconfirms the order with the person concerned. The essentials are then collected from the shop and delivered at the doorstep in keeping with physical distancing norms. “We either collect the cash on delivery or, if they prefer card payment, we take a person from the shop with the swiping machine along with us. We have so far delivered everything from groceries and vegetables to medicines,” said Jose Kuruvilla, assistant sub inspector in charge of the Amrutham project at Central station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-police-officers-deliver-groceries-at-doorstep/article32017888.ece
08 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NIAT develops device to sanitise personal belongings||The Naval Institute of Aeronautical Technology (NIAT), under the Southern Naval Command (SNC) here, has designed and fabricated low-cost “germicidal chambers” for arresting the likelihood of secondary mode of transmission through contaminated surfaces used by COVID-19 infected personnel. The chambers have been customised for sanitising personal baggage, office files, personal protective items (masks, gloves, helmets) and electronic items (phones, laptops, chargers) by inactivating micro-organisms such as bacteria, virus, moulds, and other pathogens. The Ultraviolet Germicidal Irradiation (UVGI) is a disinfection method that uses the short wavelength ultra violet (UV-C) light to kill or inactivate micro-organisms by destroying their nucleic acids and disrupting their DNA. The optimal wavelength for disinfection is in the range of 190-280 nm (UV-C). The required dosage of UV-C was formulated using in-house resources based on the study conducted by the Institute of Virology, Germany, said a press release. The customised multi-purpose germicidal chamber has the peculiarity of adjusting the exposure time (operating time) from 10 seconds to 40 minutes with auto cut-off system and has an inbuilt safety mechanism to prevent untoward exposure of UV-C rays. The design has incorporated in-built safety features to avoid direct exposure of UV-C rays during the process of sanitisation. It was subjected to multiple sanitisation tests at the microbiology lab in INHS Sanjivani to prove its effectiveness and has successfully sterilised colony of e-coli bacteria, strain of bacterial swabs and has disinfected urine samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/niat-develops-device-to-sanitise-personal-belongings/article32017890.ece
08 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Report points to Sarith’s role||Accused in the diplomatic baggage gold import case P.S. Sarith was actively involved in the clearance of the cargo by falsely claiming to be the public relations officer of the UAE consulate, according to the remand report submitted by the Customs before a trial court. He used to place orders to Fazil, who runs a provision shop in the United Arab Emirates, for supplying, packing, and forwarding diplomatic cargo. Rashed Khamis Ali Ausaiqri Al Ashmia, the Consular Charge d’ Affairs, for whom the consignments were sent as diplomatic baggage, was not aware of the contents and shipment of the diplomatic cargo. The Customs clearing charges pertaining to the cargo originally meant for the consulate were made to the Customs broker directly by the consulate via RTGS mode. However, in the case of consignments containing the contraband, the payments used to be made by Sarith in cash, it said. The cargo meant for the consulate was picked up by vehicles belonging to the consulate having UAE registration whereas the consignments containing the contraband were taken by Sarith himself in his car, the report said. Sarith had formatted his mobile phone after the goods were detained at the airport, which indicated that he was trying to destroy evidence in the case. The voluntary statement given by Sarith before the Superintendent of Customs indicated his active role in bringing the consignment containing gold to India under the guise of diplomatic baggage, it said. Customs officials valued the 30,244.900 gm of gold seized at Rs. 14.82 crore. The gold was sent along with packets of food stuff, locks, a pair of shoes, two sets of wire, a sanitation series and MSM locks. The concealed gold was recovered with the help of a mechanic, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/report-points-to-sariths-role/article32017917.ece
08 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Demand to reopen Ernakulam market||The stall owners in the Ernakulam market have demanded that the market, Broadway and the adjacent areas that have come under a virtual lockdown and have been declared a COVID-19 containment zone be reopened at the earliest so that the traders did not suffer the loss of goods and products which are in stock. The Ernakulam main market and Broadway were closed on July 1 for seven days. The decision to close the market was an abrupt one and the traders and merchants did not have the time to shift their stocks, said a statement issued here on Tuesday by the Ernakulam Market Stall Owners’ Association. The statement said that the tests on 134 persons from the market area for COVID-19 had come out all negative and there appeared to be no reason to continue keeping the market closed. The reopening of the market would also help people come to the wholesale and retail facilities and buy provisions and vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-to-reopen-ernakulam-market/article32017883.ece
08 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Embezzlement: Yogam leaders told to surrender||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed Mavelikara SNDP Yogam leaders Subhash Vasu and Suresh Babu, accused in the Yogam fund misappropriation case, to surrender before the investigating officer in two weeks. The court ordered them to make themselves available for interrogation. In the event of their being arrested, they shall be released on bail on the execution of bond for Rs. 1 lakh. Rs. 11 crore The charge was the accused hatched a criminal conspiracy and misappropriated Rs. 11 crore from the funds of the Mavelikara SNDP union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/embezzlement-yogam-leaders-told-to-surrender/article32017911.ece
08 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Teams to enforce norms||Ernakulam District Collector S. Suhas has issued instructions for the creation of physical distancing enforcement teams at ward-levels in all local bodies to curb the spread of COVID-19. The teams will have local body officials and volunteers as members. Team coordination will be done by rapid response teams at the local bodies. The enforcement teams should ensure maintenance of physical distancing at shops and wearing of masks when people enter public spaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teams-to-enforce-norms/article32017891.ece
08 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Youth in home quarantine found dead||The district administration has intensified surveillance after a 24-year-old Dubai-returnee was found dead on Tuesday morning. He had arrived on July 2 and was in home quarantine at Neduvathur with another person who also had travelled from the UAE on the same day. According to health officials, the person had acid peptic disease but reported no fever or other COVID-19 symptoms. “The department had been in constant contact with the person. He had reported a minor abdominal issue and wanted to wait for one more day before going to hospital. But he collapsed and died the next day,” said an official. His housemate has been moved to Government Medical College, Parippally, and is currently kept in medical isolation. “The cause of the death can be confirmed only after a post-mortem examination. His swabs have been sent for testing and we are expecting the results by tomorrow,” she said. COVID-19 cases The district also reported a total of 11 COVID-19 cases, all of them non-resident Keralites, on Tuesday. While ten persons are from abroad, the other had travelled from Hyderabad. The patients include five from Saudi Arabia, two from Kuwait, two from Oman, and one from Africa. The cases have been reported from Eroor, Vadakkevila, Kavanad, Nilamel, Thazhava, Alumpeedika, Thalachira, Mundakkal, Thalavoor, Kallumthazham, and Kadappakada. The district also reported six recoveries on Tuesday.  Eight centres As part of the COVID-19 containment activities, the Health Department and local self-government institutions will open eight first-line treatment centres with 777 beds by July 15. Currently, Kollam has only one centre functioning at Mercy Hospital, Valakam, which has 90 beds. The new centres include Travancore Nursing College; Azeezia Medical College (Nursing School hostel), Kumalloor; Community Health Centre (old TB Hospital), Nedumbana; Little Flower Hospital, Vilakudy; new hockey stadium at Asramam; PWD working women’s hostel; Nair’s Hospital (special block); and Bishop Benziger Hospital nursing hostel. Regular treatment will be available in all hospitals included in the list and only sections and buildings separated from the rest will be used as centres, said District Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-in-home-quarantine-found-dead/article32018017.ece
08 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Bio-wall to build flood resilience||The coastlines of Kumarakom, a picturesque destination on the banks of the Vembanad lake, will soon get a bio-wall to shield itself from soil erosion and recurring floods. The bio-wall is part of a unique project that the Kumarakom grama panchayat has embarked on to develop a belt of mangrove plants around the region that faced frequent flooding during monsoons. The project is being implemented under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS).  2,000 plants To begin with, as many as 2,000 mangrove plants, sourced from the Social Forestry Department, will be planted along the banks of all major canals and streams that criss-cross the region. The bio-wall will start from the Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary and extend along all major streams across the village. Alongside, a couple of islets inside the Kariyil polders will be developed as mangrove hotspots. “The green belt, combined with the deepening of the water body networks, will improve Kumarakom’s resilience to the recurring floods to a great extent,” said A.P. Salimon, president, Kumarakom panchayat. Nestled in the backwater landscape of Kottayam, Kumarakom was hit hard by the back-to-back floods that also made life along the coastlines here increasingly perilous. According to Mr. Salimon, the mangrove hotspots are coming up at a location close to the residence of late Mariyamma Kurian, who was fondly called ‘Kandalammachi’ (mangroves mother). “Besides being a vital flood defence, the belt will also harness the benefits of a natural ecosystem, act as a carbon storage system, and give a push to the fish deposit in the water bodies,” he added. Commenting on the initiative, P.S. Shino, MGNREGS district coordinator, said at least 200 man days would be created under the project. “The areas for planting the saplings have already been identified and based on the response, this natural infrastructure model will be expanded to more areas,” he said. Meanwhile, plans are also afoot to extend the mangrove cover to more areas vulnerable to soil erosion and flooding under the Ettumanoor and Kaduthuruthy blocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bio-wall-to-build-flood-resilience/article32018008.ece
08 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam reports three more cases||Three more persons, including two who returned from other States, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Tuesday. At the same time, a 19-year-old woman from Ayarkkunnam, who had been undergoing treatment at a hospital here, recovered from the disease.  Patients The persons testing positive during the day were: a 43-year-old Mutholi native who landed from Muscat on June 21; a Paika resident who returned from New Delhi on June 24; and a 38-year-old Ayarkunnam native who arrived from Chennai on June 15. Kottayam has 111 active COVID-19 cases while 159 patients have recovered from the disease so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-reports-three-more-cases/article32018009.ece
08 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cong. not keen on tie-up with WPI||The reported move by a section of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leadership to forge a tactical understanding with the Jamaat-e-Islami-backed Welfare Party of India (WPI) for the coming local bodies polls has not gone down well with the Congress. Voices against the move are emerging even as former Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Muraleedharan, MP, suggested that the United Democratic Front (UDF) should continue to maintain its relationship with parties and organisations that the coalition had during the Lok Sabha polls. Incidentally, Mr. Muraleedharan had inaugurated a district-level campaign of the WPI last month. At the same time, several leaders, including former KPCC general secretary P.M. Suresh Babu, who is also the leader of the Opposition in the Kozhikode Corporation, had opposed the move to have any sort of tie-ups with radical outfits. Critical position The development comes close on the heels of the IUML-backed Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama taking a critical position against the party having ‘unethical deals’ with organisations propagating extremist religious and political views. Mr. Suresh Babu said leaders within the UDF had been covertly and overtly hobnobbing with extremist organisations whose main agenda was to drive a wedge between the majority and minority communities.  “Electoral success is an important factor. But it should not be at the cost of renouncing a coalition’s secular credentials,” he said. No political line KPCC vice president T. Siddique said the State leadership had not adopted a political line for an alliance with the WPI. “But the Congress seeking the support of the Popular Front of India and its political wing the Social Democratic Party of India is out of question,” he said. Sunni stand With the powerful Sunni group opposing the IUML move to have tie-up with WPI, the Congress leadership will now have to play a pivotal role to balance its relationship with pressure groups and maintain better cooperation with its allies. This apart, the IUML also aims for the votes of the Hindu community mainly in Kozhikode, Malappuram and Kannur districts. Which was why the party took a different approach over the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the Ayodhya verdict, keeping aloof from Muslim radical outfits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-not-keen-on-tie-up-with-wpi/article32017892.ece
08 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Yellow alert issued in Kozhikode till July 11||The India Meteorological Department has forecast a yellow alert till July 11 in Kozhikode district, predicting a heavy rainfall in the range of 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm during the period. The department had earlier issued a similar warning for July 6 and July 7. People had been urged to be on alert as there was a chance of floods, soil erosion, and landslips, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority said in a release. Alert has been issued to local bodies and village officials, asking them to take adequate steps in hilly regions depending on the condition there. If heavy rain continues there, residents would have to be evacuated to safer places, focussing on those vulnerable to natural calamities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-issued-in-kozhikode-till-july-11/article32017877.ece
08 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Suspect had access to CMO: BJP||BJP State president K. Surendran has alleged that Swapna Suresh, a suspect in the gold smuggling case, had unrestricted access to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) since 2017. He said Pinarayi Vijayan had denied knowing Ms. Suresh, one of the organisers of the Lok Kerala Sabha. She was present when Sharjah ruler Sheikh Sultan bin Muhammed Al- Qasimi was accorded a reception by the State in September 2017. A party release said the BJP would launch an agitation demanding the resignation of the Chief Minister for the alleged involvement of his office in the case. The party would organise dharnas in all district headquarters on Wednesday, Assembly segments on Thursday and ward level on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suspect-had-access-to-cmo-bjp/article32017912.ece
08 July 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||With 63 new cases, Malappuram sees biggest single-day jump||Malappuram district saw the biggest spike of COVID-19 cases in recent weeks when 63 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. Twelve of them were found to have got the infection through local contacts. All the 12 were found to be in Ponnani taluk, justifying the triple lockdown imposed in the area fearing a local spread after a few health workers, including two popular doctors, were tested positive at Edappal. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that 49 of the newly confirmed cases had returned from abroad and two from other States. The total number of infected persons currently under treatment in Malappuram rose to 349 on Tuesday. Those who contracted the virus through local contacts were a 53-year-old Anganwadi worker at Vattamkulam, a 23-year-old man from Alankode, a 32-year-old lottery ticket vendor at Alankode, a 41-year-old councillor of Ponnani municipality, a 27-year-old junior health nurse at Ponnani primary health centre, a 36-year-old police officer at Ponnani, a 25-year-old municipal employee at Ponnani from Ezhavathuruthi, a 21-year-old COVID-19 care volunteer from Pallippuram, a 38-year-old fish vendor from Palappetty, a 38-year-old man from Ponnani, a 85-year-old woman from Cheerankadappuram, Tanur, and a 34-year-old medical officer at Vattamkulam primacy health centre. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena asked those who had come into contact with the infected persons to go into home quarantine. They should also alert health officials. If they develop any symptoms, they should not approach a hospital directly. Instead, they should contact the district control room at 0483 2737858, 2737857, 2733251, 2733252, 2733253. Dr. Sakeena said 1,734 persons had freshly entered quarantine on Tuesday. More than 39,000 persons were currently in quarantine in the district. As many as 35,919 were at their homes, 469 in hospitals, and 2,659 in COVID care centres. In Palakkad Twenty-nine persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district. They included a 13-year-old boy from Olavakkod. However, 23 persons recovered from the infection on Tuesday. The total number of infected persons currently under treatment in the district has risen to 176. While one of the new cases was through local contact, the others were returnees from abroad and other States. Seven returned from other States and 21 came from abroad. A 62-year-old man from Kozhinjampara apparently contracted the virus from his wife who returned from Qatar. She had tested positive on July 1. As many as 12,078 persons were under observation in the district. So far, 22,957 samples were collected for testing. In Kannur Kannur reported 19 more COVID-19 cases. Of the new cases, 12 returned from abroad and five came from other States. The other two are CISF and DSC personnel. The infected are residents of Malapattam, Kottayam (Malabar), Kannur, Pariyaram, Mattannur, Pinarayi, Ezhom, Kollacheri, Panoor, Padiyur, Vengad, Panniyanur, Chembilode, Kangol and Koodali. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district rose to 615. Of these, 346 were cured of the disease. As many as, 24,782 persons are under observation in the district. In Kozhikode Kozhikode reported 15 fresh COVID-19 cases for the second day in a row on Tuesday even as six others recovered from the infection in the district. The number of active cases now is 134. Among the newly infected patients, there are three who landed at the Calicut International Airport from Riyadh on July 3. They were shifted to a COVID care centre in Malappuram after being tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during a rapid antibody test at the airport. They have now been shifted to the first-line treatment centre at the Lakshadweep Guest House. Two of them are from Koduvally and one is from Atholi. A 25-year-old woman and her three-year-old daughter from Chelavoor who travelled from Riyadh and reached the Calicut airport on the same day too have been now declared infected though their rapid antibody test results had been negative. Their body fluid samples were collected after her husband was found to be infected and they were put under home quarantine. Both of them have now been shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital. There are three others, from Kavilumpara, Kattippara and Mukkom, who returned from Saudi Arabia on the same day and landed at the Kannur International Airport. They too were tested positive for the virus during the rapid antibody test and were shifted to a COVID care centre there. They have now been shifted to the first-line treatment centre in Kozhikode. The other patients are from Chathamangalam, Kovoor, Meppayyur, Thiruvalloor, Kakkodi and Thamarassery. Those who recovered are from Vanimel, Purameri, Naduvannur, Ramanattukara, Omassery, and Wayanad. In Kasaragod As many as 13 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod district on Tuesday. While eight of them arrived from abroad, five others, including a pregnant woman, returned from other States. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said those who came from abroad were residents of Kasaragod, Panathady, Kanhangad, Madhur, Chengala, Muliyar, Madhur and Mangalpady. Those who came from other States were residents of Uduma, Chengala and Badiyaduka. There are 7,037 persons under observation in the district. In Thrissur Ten fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Tuesday. All were returnees from abroad. So far, 505 cases have been reported in the district. In all 17,596 persons are under observation. In Wayanad Wayanad reported three more cases of COVID-19, taking the number of active cases in the district to 118. A 40-year-old woman from Meenangadi who returned from Kuwait, a 28-year-old youth who came from Saudi Arabia and a 42-year-old man of Kenichira who returned from Hyderabad were the new patients. Though the Kenichira patient had undergone treatment in Coimbatore and was discharged after being tested negative on June 20, he was tested positive again in Palakkad. Of the 118 cases reported in the district so far, 75 have been cured. Meanwhile, the district administration directed to close four shops after the route map of a 34-year-old patient from Madurai revealed that he had visited the shops on July 4 by violating quarantine norms. He was shifted to the District Hospital at Mananthavady on Sunday after being tested positive for the virus. Containment zones District Collector Adeela Abdulla has declared seven divisions of the Kalpetta Municipality as containment zones. Divisions 5, 9, 11, 14, 15, 18 and 19 of the civic body were declared as containment zones following a person within the municipal area tested positive for the virus on Tuesday.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Kasaragod, and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-63-new-cases-malappuram-sees-biggest-single-day-jump/article32017879.ece
08 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Augmented reality takes online classes to exciting highs||The kindergarten children of AEM AUP School at Moorkanad, near Valanchery, jumped up in excitement as a giant elephant popped up beside their teacher Sindhu last week. Their online class had become a virtual reality of thrill all of a sudden, thanks to the brilliance of an enterprising teacher. Shyam Vengalloor, a social science teacher at the school, has become a hero by introducing augmented reality (AR) to online classes. Many schools and teachers from across Kerala have begun to seek his help. Some have begun to borrow Moorkanad’s AR classes and some others, to imitate. When the whole world was in a lockdown in April, Mr. Shyam Vengalloor was racking his brains on finding a way to make virtual classrooms more exciting for children. Using green screen, Gif (graphics interchange format) images and several apps, Mr. Shyam succeeded in creating an augmented reality for the virtual class by superimposing graphics, audio and sensory enhancements. “We need to do everything possible to retain the attention of the children. We are experimenting with several innovative methods of teaching, including Glassboard doodle,” Mr. Shyam Vengalloor told The Hindu . Convincing teachers His colleagues were unconvinced at first. “I went and told the KG teacher that everyone else had agreed and done their parts. So she had no way but to agree. And thus came the elephant into her class. Showing the KG class, I could convince the other teachers too,” he said. Soon social science teacher Jayasree introduced images like a globe, solar system, astronauts and a space vehicle into her class. Hindi teacher Preeta had a tiger, cow, snake and rain to augment the virtual reality of her class. Many others are in the production line. They are offering classes through the school's YouTube channel and PTA WhatsApp group. Several schools too have subscribed to the channel. “Visuals create a big impression in the minds of children. Visual level of teaching benefits them much more than auditory level. We should encourage and promote such enterprising talents,” said Mary Decosta, a kindergarten teacher at St. Thomas Residential School, Thiruvananthapuram. With limitless possibilities for AR technology, it remains to be seen how the State’s teaching community takes it forward from what Mr. Shyam Vengalloor has given them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/augmented-reality-takes-online-classes-to-exciting-highs/article32017894.ece
08 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Poetry award announced||Baiju C.P. has won this year’s M.N. Poetry Award instituted by the Purogamana Kalasahithya Sangham (Pukasa) for young writers. Baiju’s poem Bhumiyile Uravakal was chosen for the award named after M.N. Kurup, one of the founding leaders of Pukasa. The award will be presented at a function in Alappuzha on Thursday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poetry-award-announced/article32017906.ece
08 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Health authorities in a tight spot||A 26-year-old Non-Resident Keralite (NoRK), who came to his house at Kottangal from Dubai on June 4, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 even after completing 14 days in quarantine has left the health authorities here in jitters. A 77-year-old man who came from Maharashtra on June 6, a 60-year-old woman who came from Kuwait on June 14, and a 66-year-old woman who came from Doha on June 14 too have tested positive after completing quarantine. District Medial Officer A.L. Sheeja attributed this to an inordinate delay in testing 1,000-odd throat swab samples sent from the district. A medical officer who was in charge of the casualty wing at the taluk hospital in Ranni was among the 12 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday. The doctor had been on duty at the hospital for the past 14 days. A 60-year-old woman who reached her home at Mezhuveli from Kuwait on June 14, a 54-year-old woman who reached her home at Prakkanam from Maharashtra on June 18, a man who came home at Koodal from Doha on June 14, a 51-year-old man who reached his home at Kottangal from Muscat on June 18, a 46-year-old man came to his home at Puramattom from Tamil Nadu on June 18, a 51-year-old man who reached Puramattom from Delhi on June 16, a 28-year-old youth who came to Mele-Vettipram from Maharashtra on June 6, a 40-year-old man who came to Keekozhoor from Kuwait on June 19, a 57-year-old man who came to Nedumonkavu from Saudi Arabia on July 3, a 50-year-old man of Vakayar who came from Damam on July 3 are the others who tested positive. Found dead A 28-year-old woman who had come home at Puthumala, near Adoor, from Tanjavur on June 27 and was in home quarantine was found dead in her room on Tuesday. The body was shifted to the General Hospital here.  The police have registered a case against a 40-year-old man in home quarantine who had attended a wedding at Adoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-authorities-in-a-tight-spot/article32018014.ece
08 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Ensuring e-learning tools for tribal children||Chalakayam in the Sabarimala forests houses as many as 47 nomadic tribal families of the Malampandaram clan and the Tribal Welfare Department had made transportation arrangements for their 12 children to the tribal school at Attathodu till the COVID-19-induced nationwide lockdown came into force in March.  Lockdown woes Attathodu, Plappally, and Laha situated in the Sabarimala forests too house 300-odd Malampandaram families. As many as 69 tribal children from these forest reaches attend the school. The district administration had made transportation arrangements for tribal hamlets at Ottakkalthodu, Pothinkuzhy, Pulimoottinthodu, Chalakkayam, Plappally, etc. to the school a few years ago. However, the lockdown has affected their entire routine. Meanwhile, the Perinad grama panchayat, with the support of the Tribal Welfare Department and various organisations, has taken the initiative to impart virtual education to the children.  “The panchayat has provided two dish antennae at the Attathodu school. Anto Antony, MP, NGO Association, and the Youth Congress district unit provided three televisions and the Eco Development Committee (EDC) attached to the Periyar Tiger Reserve installed a dish antenna,” says Rajan Vettickal, member of the Sabarimala ward. Saranya K.P., instructor at the Attathodu-East community hall, and a graduate from the same hamlet, told The Hindu that the children were keen to attend classes on Victers channel. Mr. Rajan said the children were being provided food under the Subhiksha-baalyom, Sundara-baalyom programme of the panchayat. An anganwadi teacher visited the tribal hamlets at Chalakkayam twice a week with her laptop to show primary school children downloaded content of the Victers channel, says the panchayat member. He said another television with dish antenna would be installed at the new tribal settlement at Valanjanganom, near Laha, soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensuring-e-learning-tools-for-tribal-children/article32018011.ece
08 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital sees huge spike in cases||The capital district remained on high alert as it reported the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases with as many as 54 people, including five health workers, being diagnosed with the disease. Signifying the extent of local transmission, 42 people were found to have contracted the infection after coming in close contact with those diagnosed earlier. Sources of infection were also unidentified in several cases. Consequent on the stepping-up of rapid antigen testing in coastal areas on account of the several cases reported from the region, 26 natives of Poonthura, including 10 children, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. With this, the cluster, which came into being after a fish merchant was diagnosed with the disease, was widened. Fish vendors Many of those infected are fish vendors who used to transport fish from the Kumarichantha market to various places including Karakkadamandapam, Poojappura and Anayara. Also, two Paruthikuzhy natives—an auto-driver who used to frequent Kumarichantha and Poonthura, and a lottery seller—also tested positive. Eight Vallakkadavu natives, including two who came in close contact with the COVID-19-infected retired Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC) employee, were also diagnosed with the disease. The others included an auto-rickshaw driver and a Horticorp employee. In Aryanad, medical officer of the government-run community health centre, two ASHA workers, station master of a KSRTC depot, a bakery owner, and another woman, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The KSRTC closed the Aryanad depot and placed several employees under quarantine. Isolated cases Among the isolated cases are a woman from Thiruvallam who works in the Parassala taluk hospital, a Chakka-native who is a security guard at Technopark, and a Valiyathura-native who works as cargo staff at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport. Also in the list is the 63-year old father-in-law of a Parassala woman who was diagnosed with the disease a day ago. Imported cases The imported cases include 54-year-old Kadinamkulam native who came from Kuwait, 22-year-old Pulluvila native who came from Sharjah, a 22-year-old Kakkanikkara native who came from Saudi Arabia, a 34-year-old Kanyakumari native who came from the UAE, a 62-year-old Vembayam native who came from Oman, and a 60-year-old Arayur native who came from Kuwait. Meanwhile, the district administration has declared two wards—Neduvanvila and Town—of the Parassala grama panchayat as containment zones. While restrictions will remain in these areas until further orders, the adjoining wards will be treated as those requiring special attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-sees-huge-spike-in-cases/article32017948.ece
08 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Urban areas in for more curbs||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has spoken about tightening restrictions in urban areas where the transmission of COVID-19 has suddenly picked up pace and intensity. He said here on Tuesday that though Kerala had contained COVID-19 remarkably well till now, laxities in many areas were now surfacing, which were contributing to disease transmission. COVID-19 was naturally seen to spread fast and wild in urban areas across the country, where disease transmission could happen quite fast and to distant areas because of the high density of population and the heavy movement of people. The situation in the coastal areas in Thiruvananthapuram was quite grave and special interventions would be required there and in a few other areas in the State to contain disease transmission. He said what had happened in the capital district, resulting in the authorities having to impose a triple lockdown, could not be allowed to happen in Kochi or Kozhikode again. He said the test positivity rate in Kochi had been found to be much higher than the State average and, hence, COVID-19 testing would be intensified there. There could be no compromise on any of the universal safety precautions such as physical distancing or wearing of masks. He warned that legal action would be taken against those who carelessly dispose of their personal protective equipment and gloves at airports. The number of persons under State surveillance and quarantine is 1,83,576, of whom 3,034 with mild COVID-like symptoms are isolated in hospitals . The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours is 7,516.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/urban-areas-in-for-more-curbs/article32017897.ece
08 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Relaxation in triple lockdown norms brings relief to citizens||Relaxations in norms on Tuesday, the second day of triple lockdown in the city, brought relief to large sections of people. People flocked to the shops that sold essential goods from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m., creating a traffic surge on major arterial roads when compared to Monday, the first day of the triple lockdown. Panic buying was evident in many outlets with customers fearing withdrawal of the relaxations on account of the rising number of cases. Shopkeepers, however, were worried about the difficulty in restocking essential items, considering the additional restrictions existing in Chala and other markets from where many retailers procure supplies. They sought the district administration’s intervention in easing the supply chain and preventing widespread panic. Dwindling stock Traders, too, were concerned about the dwindling stock of commodities amid the prevailing curbs on movement. Despite the relaxations, lockdown enforcement remained in full swing with the City police acting tough on violators. Twenty-five shops were shut down after they were found to have violated physical-distancing norms. 147 people booked The police also booked 147 people and seized 98 vehicles for violation of lockdown norms. While tight inspections continued at the city’s border points, bike patrolling, and aerial surveillance, using drones, were also under way to ensure vigil on the byroads and other parts.  Details of vehicles The City police have also launched the ‘Road Vigil’ application that enables police personnel to rein in unnecessary travel. While the details of vehicles will be recorded using the application at various points, the data thus collected will be used to corroborate the details provided by motorists at other inspection points in the city.  Twenty-five shops were shut down after they were found to have violated physical-distancing norms||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relaxation-in-triple-lockdown-norms-brings-relief-to-citizens/article32017945.ece
08 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM defends govt., welcomes any probe||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday mounted a fierce defence of his government in the face of increasingly strident allegations that his office had shielded an accused in a case relating to the smuggling of 35 kg of gold. Mr. Vijayan said political propriety demanded that he removed his Secretary M. Sivasankar from the post after some quarters attempted to link the bureaucrat’s name with that of “controversial woman” alleged to be involved in the smuggling racket. Mr. Sivasankar’s removal from the twin posts did not entail that the government had found the officer “guilty of some offence or misdemeanour”. He said there was intense speculation, much of it distorted, in the public sphere about Mr. Sivasankar and the woman. Hence, Mr. Sivasankar’s continuation in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) became untenable. Customs staff statement A statement by a Customs official that the CMO had not interfered in the gold smuggling case had thwarted the attempts of the Congress and the BJP to build a false public case against the government. Mr. Vijayan said the “controversial woman” had gained employment as a marketing liaison officer in an IT Department venture through a placement agency. She had presented her tenure in the UAE consulate and Air India Stats as qualifications for the job. The public should know who recommended her for the previous assignments. Government officials had interacted with her at Iftar parties and other functions organised by the UAE Consulate during her service as a senior executive in the mission. Mr. Vijayan said airports were under the control of the Central government. Mr. Vijayan said he was personally inured to attempts to hound him out of public life. Some sections of the media played second fiddle to powers inimical to him. He said the government had no guilt to hide and welcomed any inquiry. Probe against channel Mr. Vijayan said the police would investigate a television channel for airing a doctored video which showed the woman suspect whispering in his ear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-defends-govt-welcomes-any-probe/article32017914.ece
08 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tik Tik, a swadeshi alternative to banned app||Capitalising on the new-found inclination for ‘swadeshi’ apps, a Thiruvananthapuram-based engineering student has joined the bandwagon of home-developed alternatives for TikTok, a popular Chinese video application that was banned along with 58 other apps. Ashish Sajan, a third-year BTech Information Technology (IT) student of the University College of Engineering, Karyavattom, has developed ‘Tik Tik – Made in India’ that has the prime features of the original app and promises to build on them to ensure easy user interface. The application has notched over 1.5 lakh downloads within a week of its launch. Coding enthusiast The 22-year-old Pongumoodu native caught the mobile app-development bug quite early after he developed a fascination for coding during his Class 12 days. “I was hooked to developing web-based applications and designing websites. Later, this saw a natural progression to mobile applications after I managed to learn the ropes of Android Studio.” He said he managed to learn these through YouTube and other online sources. Besides developing social networking applications, Ashish also created diverse software meant for staff management, billing and estimate preparation in companies, including restaurants and construction firms. He developed nearly 50 applications, half of which were launched through Google Play Store. For developing Tik Tik, he integrated many of his earlier applications to assimilate features including chat, video streaming and recording, and audio mixing. New additions He has now set his sights on introducing new additions. An ardent advocate of utilising online resources to remain in tune with evolving technologies, Ashish hopes to enter the information technology industry which, he feels, might no longer remain the same in the post-COVID-19 scenario.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tik-tik-a-swadeshi-alternative-to-banned-app/article32017943.ece
08 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kuwait Bill may force return of 8 lakh Indians||The State faces another challenge amidst the pandemic-induced reverse migration from West Asia as thousands of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) face repatriation from Kuwait due to the Expat Quota Bill aimed at reducing the dependence on foreign workers. The Bill proposes to bring down the population of expatriates in the country — 3 million now — to 30% of the total population of 4.3 million before the Parliament elections by year end. Currently expatriates form 70% of the population of Kuwait. The bill proposes to reduce the number of Indians, the largest expatriate community, to 15% of the population. Similar quotas have been fixed for other nationalities. If the Bill is enacted, around 8,00,000 of the 1.45 million Indians in Kuwait will be forced to return. Non-Resident Keralites will be the worst hit. Around 28,000 Indians are employed by the Kuwaiti government in skilled and semi-skilled professions like engineering, nursing and scientific research. Nod for draft Bill The legal and legislative committee of Kuwait’s National Assembly has approved the draft Bill. The new residency law, on the lines of the laws in other Arab countries, is aimed at changing the tag that Kuwait is an expatriate-majority nation. COVID-19 and the slump in oil prices have resulted in speeding up the legislation. The law also aims at limiting the number of foreign nationals recruited by companies each year and will include regulations based on their skills.  Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs (NoRKA) sources say they aere aware of the move and awaiting details from Kuwait. “If the expatriate Indians are reduced to 15% of the population, Kerala will be the worst affected,” the official said. For the expatriates, the hope is on the failed attempts over the years by Kuwait to reduce the number of expatriates employed and to drastically reduce the wages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuwait-bill-may-force-return-of-8-lakh-indians/article32017895.ece
08 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA to help in sewage treatment||A new ‘sewerage vertical’ has been created within the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) to ensure sustainable sewage treatment and waste-water management across the State. “The KWA being a Statewide establishment with qualified and experienced personnel in public health engineering, the responsibility of waste-water management can be taken up effectively. At present, the KWA has only 4% coverage in the sewerage sector of the State and this vacuum has to be filled to cope up with the situation,” a July 7-order, forming the new vertical, says. The vertical will be under the Chief Engineer (Sewerage projects), who will be based in Thiruvananthapuram. There will be four circle offices in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Thrissur and Kozhikode under officers of the rank of Superintending Engineers.  Camp offices in districts The circle office in Kochi, formed in February, is already functional. It was found that a single office cannot ensure sewage and septage waste management across the State. Thus the plan for a new vertical was drawn up, under which ‘Sewerage Camp Offices’ will function in all 14 districts under Assistant Engineer-rank officers. Initially, the new vertical will focus in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kochi, Thrissur and Kozhikode. For the time being, the new vertical will function with available human resource and infrastructure, given the COVID-19 scenario.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-to-help-in-sewage-treatment/article32017899.ece
08 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police officers to visit houses||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said senior police officers would call on citizens in quarantine at their homes to enquire about their welfare. They would ensure that those quarantined followed pandemic control protocol and health officials and local body representatives monitored their progress closely. Mr. Vijayan said the surprise inspections would focus more on urban areas and densely populated neighbourhoods. Vigil in coastal areas The risk of transmission was higher in city centres. He said coastal localities where people lived in clusters were highly vulnerable to COVID-19. A super spread could happen at any moment if the public let drop their guard against the pandemic. The use of face masks in the public and maintaining physical distance were the only tools available to combat the scourge in the absence of vaccines and other effective medication. He said persons cured of the flu should remain indoors for at least a week. He criticised a hospital for not admitting a pregnant woman fearing she had COVID-19. He described the action as a crass violation of medical ethics and warned such offences would entail prosecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-officers-to-visit-houses/article32017898.ece
08 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No curbs on cultural programmes: TDB||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has not imposed any restrictions on the conduct of cultural programmes as part of festivals in its temples, board president N. Vasu has said. Reports to the contrary were unfounded, Mr. Vasu said in a press release here on Tuesday. Festivals were being conducted by temple advisory committees and wherever such committees were not present, the board organised the festivals. The committees should secure prior sanction of the board for organising festivals. Fund collection should be done using receipts, on which seal should be affixed by the respective Assistant Devaswom Commissioners. About 10% of the collected fund should be remitted to the board. The accounts should be audited too. But instances of violation of such norms had been reported. Permission would not be granted for erring committees to organise festivals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-curbs-on-cultural-programmes-tdb/article32017939.ece
08 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) seeks investigation in case||CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has demanded a thorough probe into the gold smuggling case to bring the culprits to book. Mr. Balakrishnan made the statement on Tuesday soon after the Opposition United Democratic Front and the Bharatiya Janata Party trained their guns on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office, accusing it of involvement in the case. Mr. Balakrishnan said the guilty would never escape the grip of law as the government had taken a firm stance. Neither the Left Democratic Front nor the government would shield the guilty. The smear campaign being unleashed by certain sections against the party was unfounded and politically motivated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-seeks-investigation-in-case/article32017915.ece
08 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Sluice of Peringalkuthu dam to be opened today||A sluice gate of Peringalkuthu reservoir will be opened on Wednesday morning at 7.30 a.m. As a result, water level at Chalakudy river is expected to rise by 3 ft and the District Collector has asked people on the banks of the river to remain alert. Following heavy rain, the water level at the dam reached 419.41 m on Tuesday and water was released through slipways to the Chalakudy river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sluice-of-peringalkuthu-dam-to-be-opened-today/article32017874.ece
08 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Bring fruits, take back value-added products||Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) has rolled out a unique project to assist farmers who are forced to sell their produce at throwaway prices in these troubled times. Farmers can now take fruits and vegetables grown in their farms to the food processing unit of the university and take home processed and value-added products. Fruits and vegetables grow seasonally. When there is excess production, farmers have no option but to sell off their produce at cheap rates. And, turning the food processing unit of the varsity into a common facilitation centre has come as a solution to the problem. The initiative is especially useful for farmers without the skills and machinery for making value-added products. There are many takers for the service. The products are made from seasonal fruits such as jackfruit, mango, plantain, nutmeg, and ginger. The common facilitation centre does value-addition in line with farmers’ demands and quality and marketability of the products. Farmers need to pay only for the value of the ingredients and the charges involved in making the products. If they provide packaging materials, the centre will package the products too. However, marketing of the products is the farmers’ responsibility. A farmer can take a minimum of 10 kg of fruits or vegetables to the centre. They will be processed on first-come first-served basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bring-fruits-take-back-value-added-products/article32017869.ece
08 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||CM can’t wash his hands of the case: UDF||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan cannot wash his hands of the gold smuggling case. If Mr. Vijayan has any political ethics, he should resign from the post, United Democratic Front convener Benny Behanan, MP, said. “The issue cannot be solved by changing the Secretary. Mr. Sivasankar is a close aide of the Chief Minister. How was Swapna Suresh, a suspect in the case, appointed in the IT Department without the knowledge of Mr. Vijayan,” he asked. Seeks CBI probe He alleged that Mr. Vijayan’s family was involved in the case. He demanded a CBI investigation into the case. “We will fight the case politically and legally,’’ he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-cant-wash-his-hands-of-the-case-udf/article32017913.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Trail of destruction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trail-of-destruction/article32017871.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No change in their ritual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-change-in-their-ritual/article32017953.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caught in protocol||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caught-in-protocol/article32017908.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Petrol pump attack: three absconding||Three persons involved in an attack on the manager of a petrol pump in Kowdiar on Sunday night are yet to be arrested. The Museum police said the three, residents of Peroorkada and surrounding areas, remained absconding. Their mobile phones were switched off, though efforts were on to trace their mobile tower locations. The police officers have seized the vehicle of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/petrol-pump-attack-three-absconding/article32017940.ece
08 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good rains spur groundnut sowing||Continuous wet spell with excess rainfall in June has spurred the groundnut sowing in Anantapur district and 1.54 lakh hectares covered by Sunday afternoon. The Agriculture Department has set a target of 5.45 lakh hectares for the current kharif season against a normal sowing of 4.89 lakh hectares. Gurupurnima being an auspicious day and the rains continuing in the district, several farmers preferred to begin the operation on Sunday. Collector Gandham Chandrudu, accompanied by Joint Director of Agriculture Shaik Habib Basha, formally launched the programme at Marthadu village by breaking a coconut on the groundnut field of Kothur Nagabhushanam. Asked why the district administration did not come to the rescue of okra and sweet lime farmers, Collector Gandham Chandrudu, who participated in the ‘Eruvaka’ programme, agreed that there was loss for many farmers, but it could be minimised by talking to market secretaries in New Delhi and other major towns in the north and loss could be minimised to 40% compared to 60% to 70% for other farm produce in other districts. With regard to the horticulture crop, the focus was mainly on banana, which is grown in a large extent in Anantapur district, he added. The State government’s foresight, however, to ensure local groundnut seed was infused back into the agriculture operations system well in advance, proved advantageous and unlike the previous years. “This will ensure farmers like Nagabhushanam will recover from their losses, and they are fully prepared for sowing at the right time,” said the Collector. “We had 67.1% excess rainfall in the district in June - first time after 2007 -- and another good shower in next 15 days after sowing will help quick germination which may result in good yield,” he added.  Seed distribution  “Timely payment of amount under the Rythu Bharosa and provision of seeds at the farmers’ doorstep saved a lot of effort and money and there is a perceivable change,” he observed. “Last year the seed distribution itself continued till July-end/August. The 120-day crop of the K-6 variety is likely to give a good yield,” said the Agriculture Joint Director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-rains-spur-groundnut-sowing/article32018055.ece
08 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||20-year-old ‘sexually assaulted’||The Bukkarayasamudram police on Tuesday registered cases of sexual assault against two persons and are interrogating a third person based on a complaint lodged by a 20-year-old woman here. According to the police, the woman complained of forcible sexual assault by a person named Rajasekhar, who promised her to give a lift to her on his two-wheeler posing as a police constable, and allegedly confined her to a room on Monday. He then invited his friend Surendranath Reddy, a police constable, and both together allegedly sexually exploited her and misbehaved with her boyfriend. Meanwhile, State Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma in a written statement released on Tuesday asked Anantapur Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu to investigate into the sexual assault case and ensure the culprits were punished at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/20-year-old-sexually-assaulted/article32018059.ece
08 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||9 sample collection buses hit the road in Anantapur district||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana formally flagged off nine i-MASQ (Intelligence Monitoring Analysis Service Quarantine) sample collection vans here on Tuesday to speed up testing of COVID swab samples. The district accounted for 153 new cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases to 2,481 cases. Of these, 1,443 patients have been discharged. Kurnool district, which has the most number of COVID-19 cases in the State at 2,671, reported 84 new cases in the last 24 hours taking the number of active cases to 1268. The number of patients discharged in Kurnool till Monday evening stood at 1,318. The total number of cases are only those of local origin, and do not take into account people who tested positive in the district but hail from other States and countries. Mr. Sankaranarayana asked people on Tuesday to exercise greater caution during ‘Unlock 2.0’ and help the government contain the spread of coronavirus, and pointed out that the State was doing all it could to keep people safe and treat the COVID-19 patients. “Andhra Pradesh is doing the maximum number of tests in the country, and Anantapur too has conducted 75,000 samples so far and has been testing at the rate of 2,000 samples per day on an average for the past one week,” said District Collector Gandham Chandrudu. “The special vans for collection of COVID-19 samples would ramp up the testing process in the district,” said Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy while flagging off the vehicles at Neeru Pragathi Park in Sri Nagar Colony in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9-sample-collection-buses-hit-the-road-in-anantapur-district/article32018058.ece
08 July 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hallmarking adds glitter to gold, says expert||Gold jewellery is used by consumers to raise cash in emergencies by mortgaging with banks and other financial institutions. The lockdown due to COVID-19 deprived many people of their livelihood resulting in financial crisis. The quality of gold plays a vital role for consumers to get back value for their money. It’s not easy for an average customer to check the parameters that help in identification of quality. It is here that hallmark acts as a safeguard against consumers picking the wrong choice. Hallmarking on jewellery will be made mandatory from January 15, 2021. The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) has been organising awareness programmes for consumer organisations and people on the importance of hallmarking to prevent consumers from being cheated by unscrupulous traders. “We have enlightened consumers not only on the importance of buying BIS hallmarked jewellery but also to get their old jewellery tested at the nearest Hallmark Centre before sale or mortgage. The Assaying and Hallmark Centres, licensed by BIS, test the quality of the old gold in their labs and issue Hallmark certificates, based on the quality of the old gold. This increases the value of old gold and safeguards the customers from being cheated by gold traders,” B. Sandhya, Scientist-E and Head, BIS, Visakhapatnam, told The Hindu . It consists of the BIS logo, indicating that the purity of the gold ornament, was verified in the licensed labs, the purity in karat and fineness, the Assaying centre’s mark/numbere and the jewellers ID number. Ms. Sandhya said that awareness was created among petty gold traders also on the need to adopt scientific testing practices and give up the old practices like rubbing the old gold on a stone to test its quality. Gold jewellery would be primarily made with 14 ct, 18 ct and 22 ct gold, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hallmarking-adds-glitter-to-gold-says-expert/article32018114.ece
08 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM set to launch ryot-friendly initiatives||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch a slew of schemes aimed at benefiting farmers on July 8 (Wednesday), coinciding with the 71st birth anniversary of his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. Soon after returning from Kadapa, Mr. Jagan will launch YSR Rythu Bharosa Kendras. A total of 10,614 RBKs have been set up with the aim of providing all assistance, including seed supply, to farmers. The Chief Minister will release the arrears due on the interest component of the zero per cent interest scheme . Under this programme, Rs. 1,046.60 crore would be directly credited to the accounts of farmers. The government will also assist farmers in mechanisation for which a sum of Rs. 1,650 crore has been allotted. At each RBK, farm machines worth Rs. 10-Rs. 15 lakh would be kept for use. At each RBK hub, Rs. 1.2 crore worth mechanised tools would be kept at the disposal of farmers. Mr. Jagan will also launch three agricultural machine training centres — at Naira in Srikakulam district, Samalkot in East Godavari district, and Tangadancha in Kurnool district — set up at a cost of Rs. 42 crore. Fishing harbours The YSR Rythu Bharosa Magazine would be launched. Mr. Jagan would also lay the foundation stone for eight fishing harbours for which an MoU would be signed on Wednesday. Of the eight harbours, Nizampatnam, Machilipatnam and Uppada would be built with NABARD assistance. By setting up the fishing harbours and fish land centres at a cost of Rs. 3,000 crore, the government hopes to increase production to 4.22 lakh tonnes and provide employment to 1.12 lakh people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-set-to-launch-ryot-friendly-initiatives/article32018073.ece
08 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure enough stocks of sand available, Jagan directs Collectors||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the District Collectors to ensure that sufficient stocks of sand are made available in the next 10 days. Mr. Jagan was addressing a review meeting with Collectors, Joint Collectors and Superintendents of Police on Tuesday before he left for Idupulapaya in Kadapa district. Guntur along with Godavari districts, have still a backlog of sand bookings and this need to be cleared, he said. The Chief Minister also expressed his happiness at having credited Rs. 4,117 crore into the accounts of 43 lakh people under MNREGS. ‘43 lakh benefited’ “In these difficult times, we are happy to note that we have put money directly into accounts of farm hands in rural areas. In May, we have provided 8 crore work hours benefiting 43 lakh workers,” said the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-enough-stocks-of-sand-jagan/article32017558.ece
08 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu creating hurdles in welfare schemes’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is more anxious about his real estate business than welfare of people, and has thus halted the distribution of house site pattas to the poor by approaching the High Court, Government Whip D. Raja has alleged. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Raja said the TDP leaders intentionally stopped the government from distributing 30 lakh house site pattas to the poor and weaker sections. He further disputed Mr. Naidu’s claims that the TDP government had provided lakhs of houses during its term. ‘Caste card’ Criticising Mr. Naidu for trying to play the caste card and politicise every issue, Mr. Raja said it was not correct on the part of the TDP president to support those accused of corruption and murder, and who make abusive statements against women. Referring to the welfare of Kapus, he said the government had spent Rs. 4,470 crore in one year of coming to office. In contrast, the TDP government had spent only Rs. 1,874 crore during its five-year term. Refuting the allegations of poor facilities at the COVID-19 quarantine centres, Mr. Raja claimed that Andhra Pradesh stood best in the world for implementing an effective action plan to check the spread of the pandemic . ‘Debt burden’ MLA Jogi Ramesh, in a separate press conference, flayed Mr. Naidu for creating hurdles in the implementation of welfare schemes. “Mr. Naidu claims that his government had built 25 lakh houses in five years. In reality, he had sanctioned only 3.5 lakh houses, but failed to complete construction of even a single house. He only left a debt burden of Rs. 3,000 crore on TIDCO and Rs. 1,300 crore on the Housing Department,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-creating-hurdles-in-welfare-schemes/article32018074.ece
08 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to release book on YSR||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will release a book on his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at Idupulapaya in Kadapa district on July 8. The book -- 'Naalo...Naatho...YSR' -- is a flow of thoughts penned by Y.S. Vijayalakshmi, who has laced the narrative with the eloquence of emotions punctuated with the ebbs and flows of the life and times of YSR and the turn of events in the aftermath of September 2, 2009. In the preface, Vijayalakshmi has written that she understands what the world knows about the leader. "But in this book, I have revealed certain facts about the great leader which the outside world doesn’t know," she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-release-book-on-ysr/article32017853.ece
08 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leaders blamed for rise in COVID-19 cases in Kadapa district||Coinciding with the visit of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to his home district, the TDP and the BJP have trained their guns on Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha, who also hails from the district, for alleged callousness that has led to spread of COVID-19. BJP State spokesperson B. Prabhakar, at a media conference here on Tuesday, flayed the government for turning a blind eye to the violation of the safety protocols of the ruling party leaders. Accusing Mr. Basha of deliberately hiding his test report and health status, Mr. Prabhkar further accused the Deputy Chief Minister of neglecting the norms, right from distributing essential commodities in the initial days of lockdown to his participation in official programmes recently. “The number of cases has touched alarming proportions in the district. The government should test all the officials and partymen moving around Mr. Basha”, the BJP leader insisted. ‘Reckless’ At a separate media conference, TDP district general secretary B. Hariprasad, State organising secretary Govardhan Reddy and Fisheries Corporation former director Ram Prasad attributed the rise in the cases to the “reckless movement” of the YSRCP leaders and workers in groups, in the garb of reaching out to the people. “More cases are being detected in the ruling party circles, but the government is brushing this fact under the carpet,” Mr. Hariprasad alleged. While political leaders in Telangana were revealing their COVID-19 status to infuse confidence in the public, the ruling party leaders in A.P. preferred to conceal facts and spread panic, Mr. Hariprasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-leaders-blamed-for-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-kadapa-district/article32018068.ece
08 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan arrives at Idupulapaya||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy reached his family estate at Idupulapaya here on Tuesday, a day ahead of the birth anniversary of his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy on Wednesday (July 8). As part of his two-day visit to his home district, Mr. Reddy reached the Kadapa airport at 4.36 p.m. He then took a chopper and reached Idupulapaya at 4.50 pm. The Chief Minister was given a ceremonial reception by district in-charge Minister A. Suresh, Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy, MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy, and MLAs M. Mallikarjuna Reddy, R. Sivaprasad Reddy, M. Sudheer Reddy, K. Srinivasulu, and Raghurami Reddy, and Collector Ch. Hari Kiran, Joint Collector M. Gouthami and Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, among others. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy personally wished all the party leaders and family members who received him on his arrival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-arrives-at-idupulapaya/article32018077.ece
08 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist ‘involved’ in killing of CRPF personnel surrenders||A 26-year-old former deputy commander of Chaitanya Natya Mandali (CNM-South Bastar Division) of the banned CPI (Maoist), Madivi Mude, surrendered before the East Godavari police on Tuesday. SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi told the media that Ms. Madivi was allegedly involved in the killing of 14 CRPF personnel in an exchange of fire at Kesarlapad in Chhattisgarh in 2014. She was also reportedly involved in an exchange of fire, in which 12 CRPF jawans were killed at Bhejji in Chhattisgarh in 2017. A native of Kunta area in Chhattisgarh, Ms. Madivi had joined as a member of the CNM of South Bastar Division before 2013. Belonging to the Guttikoya tribe, she worked as a party member between 2013 and 2018. “In 2018, Ms. Madivi took charge as deputy commander of the CNM of the South Bastar Division after the death of Commander P. Raje in an exchange of fire at Sakileru in Chhattisgarh. She worked as the deputy commander between 2018 and 2019,” said Mr. Asmi. Presently, she is residing in Chintoor mandal in East Godavari district. “She used to carry a 12-bore weapon in the dalam. Recruitment of Guttikoya tribal people into the dalam by taking advantage of their innocence was one of the prime reasons for her surrender”, said Mr. Asmi. Two more surrender Dirida Lakshmaiah, 20, and a 19-year-old from Chintoor agency also surrendered on Tuesday. The duo belongs to the Guttikoya tribe. Mr. Lakshmaiah is a dalam member of Manguru Local Guerilla Squad and was Divisional Committee Member between 2018 and 2019. The 19-year-old youth is a member of the protection team of Haribhushan, Telangana State Committee Member since 2019. Both were not reportedly involved in any incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoist-involved-in-killing-of-crpf-personnel-surrenders/article32018086.ece
08 July 2020||KUKUNUR (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 10,000 Polavaram-hit families to be shifted to rehab colonies||With the water level in the Godavari rising, officials of the Polavaram project are making arrangements to shift the displaced families to the rehabilitation colonies. According to the officials, more than 10,000 families, including 5,000 tribal families, will be shifted from the 44 habitations in the Polavaram, Kukunur and Velerupadu mandals to the rehabilitation colonies constructed at the Jeelugumilli, Buttaigudem, Jangareddygudem and the upper part of the Kukunur mandals. In all, 1,05,601 families – 70,929 in East Godavari and 34,672 in West Godavari – have been affected due to the national project. The displaced persons from seven habitations in East Godavari and 19 habitations in West Godavari had already been shifted earlier. Action plan ready The officials have prepared a plan of action to vacate the habitations that will be inundated under 41.15 contour immediately as the flood is increasing by the day. According to them, the government has sanctioned Rs. 1,000 crore for the purpose. “In all, 10,400 families from the three mandals will be shifted by the end of this month,” R.V. Suryanarayana, Project Officer of K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), told The Hindu . “The A.P. State Housing Corporation Limited, the Tribal Welfare, the Social Welfare and the Panchayat Raj departments have completed construction of houses in the colonies at Buttaigudem, Swarnavarigudem, Rachannagudem, Routhugudem, Pedavarigudem, Cheeravalli, Mulagalampalli and Dacharam villages,” Mr. Suryanarayana said. “We are visiting the colonies and explaining the situation to the people,” he said. “We had shifted about 19 habitations in West Godavari between 2014 and 2015. Now, we are planning to shift the displaced from 44 habitations, and the process will begin from July 15,” Mr. Suryanarayana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-10000-polavaram-hit-families-to-be-shifted-to-rehab-colonies/article32017598.ece
08 July 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||1 more death, 100 new cases in south coastal A.P.||COVID-19 cases continued to be on a relenless rise in south-coastal Andhra Pradesh as 129 persons — 100 in Nellore district and 29 in Prakasam — tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. The total number of positive cases rose to 1,170 in Nellore district. As many as 558 of the infected persons were in the age group of 21 to 40. In Ongole, a 35-year-old man succumbed to the virus while 29 others tested positive. The death toll in the district now stands at three. Rising numbers The total number of confirmed cases in the district shot up to 1,033 with Ongole accounting for a maximum of 228 positve cases closely followed by Chirala with 120 confirmed cases and Markapur with 113 positive cases. As many as 1,474 persons tested negative for the disease, according to a health bulletin released by the district administration. The results of 2,407 patients are still awaited. District Medical and Health Officer J. Padmavathi took stock of the situation in a remote Pamur village, where the number of positive cases touched the 110-mark. Health officials were on their toes identifying primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons, and subjected them to testing as part of a cluster containment action plan. Officials on their toes In Ongole, a strict lockdown was implemented in Samatha Nagar, Vijayanagar Colony, Ranguthota and Nirmal Nagar, which reported fresh cases. The disease began spreading to far-flung villages, including many of them in non-containment zones, making it difficult for the health authorities to implement the cluster containment strategy. Nine persons, including a 10-year-old boy, were infected in East Gangavaram village near Tallur. Chandavaram village reported two fresh cases while Kanamalla, Thimmanapalem, Gangapalem, Bellakondavaripalem, Nagambotlapalem, Bestavarpeta and Korisapadu registered one case each, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1-more-death-100-new-cases-in-south-coastal-ap/article32018062.ece
08 July 2020||P. Sujatha Varma,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Telugu language got least importance in Naidu’s rule’||The Telugu Akademi chairperson Lakshmi Parvathi has blamed former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu for closure of nearly 30,000 Telugu medium government schools during his rule. Speaking to The Hindu about the Telugu Akademi Society, started by the government to facilitate immediate printing of Telugu books, she said the language was given the least importance in the TDP rule. Multi-prolonged approach “The government schools suffered for want of facilities due to Mr. Naidu’s bias for corporate educational institutions. Without an official announcement of their closure, they were left to languish and ultimately shut down,” she said. After the bifurcation, the division of the combined A.P. Telugu Akademi under Section 101 of the A.P. Reorganisation Act has not been taken up. Therefore the government has created the Telugu Akademi Society to develop Telugu language, embracing a multi-pronged approach. “Besides promotion, development, dissemination and advancement of Telugu language and literature, the plan includes standardization of scientific, technical and administrative terminology in Telugu and to prepare and publish glossaries and dictionaries,” she explained, adding that focus would also be on reform and advancement of the Telugu script and to evolve methodology and aids for the study and teaching of the language. Undertaking research in linguistics and conducting training classes for teachers in Telugu and publishing textbooks for Intermediate, Degree, B. Ed, D. Ed, PG etc and reference books, dictionaries, glossary and various books for competitive exams and supply them regularly to students and readers would entail the Akademi’s role, she said. With its main office located in Tirupati, the Telugu Akademi Society will also focus on development of Sanskrit language. She said it would also take up an advisory role on issues like adult literacy campaigns and carry out research in that field, to promote and encourage by awarding prizes and other incentives and to provide for the translation of standard works on scientific and technical subjects from other languages into Telugu. Referring to the plan to introduce English as a medium of instruction in government schools, she said Telugu would not be neglected either. “Telugu is mandatory. A child learning the language from class I up to Intermediate will gain a firm grip over the language,” she asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-language-got-least-importance-in-naidus-rule/article32017561.ece
08 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. trying to frame Kollu’||TDP leader Devineni Umamaheswara Rao on Tuesday alleged that the YSRCP government was hell-bent on establishing the motive behind the murder of party leader Moka Bhaskara Rao at Machilipatnam on June 29 as political rivalry instead of family rivalry only to wreak vengeance on former Minister Kollu Ravindra. Mr. Rao and other leaders went to the Central Prison here to meet Mr. Ravindra, but the authorities did not give permission citing COVID norms. Addressing the media, he said “the lapses” in investigation carried out by the Krishna police expose how Mr. Ravindra has been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-trying-to-frame-kollu/article32018075.ece
08 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay wages for lockdown: CITU||CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao urged the State Government to ensure wages for all workers of industries for the lockdown period also, alleging that a few companies were ignoring the directive of the Labour Department. Addressing a round-table conference in Srikakulam over the issues of industries, pharmaceutical companies including Aurobindo Pharma Limited, he said that workers were in a miserable condition due to reduced wages and loss of livelihood. “The companies assured to pay extra Rs. 500 for workers who attended to their duties during the lockdown in spite of many hurdles. However, the amount was not credited into their accounts,” he charged. Srikakulam Bar Association president S. Ramesh said that the Labour Department should initiate action against industries that failed to follow the rules and regulations. He said that the removal of workers without prior notice and valid reasons would lead to legal action. CITU leaders P. Tejeswara Rao, Ch. Ammannaidu and others were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-wages-for-lockdown-citu/article32018063.ece
08 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Protect the interests of Srikakulam people’||Srikakulam Backward Classes Association president P. Chandrapati Rao urged public representatives to protect the interests of people in Srikakulam district. He said inclusion of Etcherla and Rajam Assembly constituencies in Vizianagaram Parliament as part of creation of new districts would lead to many socio-economic problems and deny job opportunities for Srikakulam youngsters. Mr. Chandrapati Rao and other members submitted memorandums to Minister for Roads and Buildings Dharmana Krishnadas and MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao seeking their intervention in the matter. “Many industries, including multinational companies, are located in Pydibhimavaram industrial zone, part of the Etcherla constituency. The zone is a major source of employment for people in the district. The constituency spreads up to Srikakulam and its many residential colonies come under the Assembly segment,” said Mr. Chandrapati Rao, who wanted officials to draw the attention of CM Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protect-the-interests-of-srikakulam-people/article32018064.ece
08 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 booked for ‘discriminating’ against sanitation staff||The police have registered criminal cases against ten people for allegedly preventing a group of sanitation workers to enter their own houses in Tekkali. According to police, the workers, as part of their official duty, performed the last rites of a person who died of coronavirus at Meliyaputti village. Having received information that the family members and kin of the deceased refused to take part in the funeral, the authorities in Tekkali sent the workers to the village. PPE kits were provided to the workers who performed the last rites in adherence to the COVID-19 protocols. Stigma However, they were allegedly not allowed to enter their houses by the accused when they returned from Meliyaputti and forced to stay in an isolated place for almost a day. Following the orders of Collector J. Nivas, criminal cases were registered under Section 341 and 188 of IPC. “Any discrimination against COVID patients and others involved in the last rites of those who died of the virus will be viewed seriously,” said the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-booked-for-discriminating-against-sanitation-staff/article32018087.ece
08 July 2020||T. Appala Naidu,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two-decade-long wait of Uppada fishermen set to end||A fishing harbour at Uppada-Ameenabad off the Kakinada coast is set to become reality with the State government deciding to enter into an agreement with the Government of India and NABARD to obtain a loan of above Rs. 330 crore for the Uppada-Ameenabad harbour from the Fisheries and Aquaculture Infrastructure Development Fund (FIDF) and NABARD Infrastructure Development Assistance (NIDA). At present, Ameenabad is the safest landing point for above 1,000 fishing boats operating from East Godavari district. According to GO No. 116 issued on Monday, of the estimated cost of Rs. 350.44 crore, the State government will chip in with Rs. 20.04 crore Surada Nageswara Rao, an elderly fisherman of Uppada, said: “We have been waiting for the fishing harbour for over two decades. The Jagan mohan Reddy government appears to be serious about it and we are pinning hopes on it as it has cleared all the financial hurdles.” Visible movement “It was only a few years ago that there was visible forward movement, ” recollected Mr. Nageswara Rao, referring to the Environmental Public Hearing on the project held in August 2018. The Department of Fisheries has proposed to develop the harbour with fish handling capacity of 1.10 lakh tonnes per annum by constructing a 1.5 km-long training wall, enabling 2,500 boats to anchor. The site— R.S.No. 74-82 — has been readied and topographical and subsoil surveys were carried out by WAPCOS, a consulting agency, while High Tide Line survey was done by Madras University. The Ameenabad site is the biggest fish landing centre among the 28 landing centres along the 161-km-long coastline in the district. “Located 20 km from the Kakinada harbour, the Uppada-Ameenabad harbour will be the safest one for landing in these parts in the event of cyclones or bad weather. All the clearances have been obtained, preparing the ground for the commencement of the construction work,” Joint Director (Fisheries-East Godavari) P. Koteswara Rao said. Of the four harbours in the State, only two — Kakinada and Visakhapatnam — are in full operation round the year, and Machilipatnam and Nizampatnam harbours have mostly been abandoned due to littoral drift, an effect that causes deposition of sand in the navigation channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-decade-long-wait-of-uppada-fishermen-set-to-end/article32018094.ece
08 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sundarakanda recited at Tirumala||The Sundarakanda Patanam was solemnised at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara on Tuesday with the mass recitation of 211 hymns from the sacred Ramayana. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said that the recitation was conducted for the well-being of all. The TTD had earlier embarked on a 62-day long Dhanvantri Maha Mantra Parayanam at the advice of Vedic pundits and the Akanda Sundarakanda was aimed at seeking relief from the COVID-19 pandemic, officials said. As many as 108 Veda pundits of the Dharmagiri Veda Patasala, in addition to 58 scholars from the Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidya Peetham, besides the faculty of SV Vedic University and Veda Parayanamdars of SV Institute of Higher Vedic Studies, took part in the programme. TTD JEO P. Basanth Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of RSVP Acharya Muralidhar Sharma, DVVP principal K.S.S. Avadhani, OSD of SVVHSI Vibhishana Sharma and TTD Asthana Musician Dr. Garimella Balakrishna Prasad attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sundarakanda-recited-at-tirumala/article32018056.ece
08 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tri-ozone spraying system set up at Tirumala temple||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Tuesday set up a tri-ozone spraying system at the hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara, as part of its efforts to check the spread of coronavirus. A unit was exclusively set up at the scanning centre just a few meters ahead of the main entrance of the hill shrine for the devotees entering the temple along the darshan lines, while another was installed at the biometric scanning centre meant for the TTD employees. The system has overhead atomisers that release hydroxyl radical ions in the form of mist which kills microorganisms in the air and those passing through the system are thoroughly sanitised. The TTD has already made face masks, use of sanitisers and social distancing mandatory for the pilgrims visiting the temple, besides thermal screening and randomly collecting samples of the devotees at Alipiri security point in Tirupati. The TTD has focused its attention on periodical sanitisation of all the vital points where the congregation of pilgrims is more .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tri-ozone-spray-at-tirumala-temple/article32017855.ece
08 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. not doing enough for mango growers’||‘Mango Day’ is observed every year at the end of the crop season and it was observed by All India Kisan Sangh here on Tuesday. On the occasion, farmers rued the lack of remunerative price for the fruit. A.P. Rythu Sangham president T. Janardhan traced the woes of the farmers to the absence of marketing support, huge market commission , absence of a price stabilisation mechanism and lack of steps to educate farmers on the mechanisation and water conservation measures offered by the government. “The allocation for horticulture saw a cut this year and even the partial sanction was used to meet the previous year’s dues,” added the association’s general secretary K.V.V. Prasad. ‘Huge demand’ Deputy Director (Horticulture) B. Srinivasulu advised the farmers to focus on improving the quality of produce so as to tap the export market. “The Vapour Heat Treatment (VHT) in Tirupati has export orders for 200 tonnes, but our farmers could only produce 58.3 tonnes. Small corrective steps at the individual level will go a long way in addressing the issue in Chittoor district, considered the State’s mango hub,” he said. On the occasion, farmers appealed to the scientists to develop and offer them newer varieties to increase their profitability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-not-doing-enough-for-mango-growers/article32018090.ece
08 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP faults govt. on sites||The TDP has demanded that the house sites allocated to the poor in Tirupati be situated in and around the city and not in far-off locations. Party leaders staged a demonstration at her residence on Tuesday and alleged the government allotted house sites at practically unusable locations. They also accused the government of deliberately ignoring the beneficiaries identified during the previous regime. “The housing units launched under G+3 pattern by construction through TIDCO is completed 25%, but the government drags its feet by neither completing the same. As a result, property worth crores of rupees is lying unutilised,” former MLA Mannur Suguna Venkatramana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-faults-govt-on-sites/article32018097.ece
08 July 2020||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roja ‘drives’ an ambulance||APIIC Chairperson and Nagari MLA R.K. Roja created a flutter by getting behind the wheel of an ambulance during its launch in Puttur town on Tuesday. Ms. Roja was flagging off the 104 and 108 ambulance vehicles when some drivers requested her to drive a vehicle for some distance. However, the incident drew criticism from TDP State spokesperson K. Pattabhiram, who questioned whether she possessed a valid licence to drive such a vehicle. She was also allegedly not wearing a mask for the whole duration of the event. It is learnt that the third inauguration had delayed the deployment of vehicles, which were originally flagged off by the Chief Minister at Vijayawada and again by the Deputy CM in Tirupati the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roja-drives-an-ambulance/article32018065.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 deaths, 1,178 new cases in State||The State reported 13 new COVID deaths and 1,178 fresh cases during the past 24 hours taking the death toll to 252 and the tally to 21,197 as of Tuesday morning. On a brighter note, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department, as many as 825 persons have recovered and were discharged from hospitals. It is the highest single-day tally of recoveries so far. The number of active cases increased to 11,200 and with a huge number of new discharges, the number of recoveries too increased to 9,745. The new deaths occurred in Kurnool (4 deaths), Anantapur (3), Chittoor (2), Visakhapatnam (2), Prakasam (1) and West Godavari (1). Of the cumulative tally, 18,520 are of locals and the remaining are imported cases, including 2,257 of other state returnees and 420 of foreign returnees. 238 cases in Guntur alone Guntur district reported a whopping 238 fresh local cases, and in the past one week, the district reported over 900 cases. Next to Guntur is Ananatapur with 153 fresh cases. Anantapur too reported over 900 cases in the past week. They are followed by Visakhapatnam (123 fresh cases), East Godavari (112), Srikakulam (104), Krishna (100), Kurnool (84), Chittoor (66), West Godavari (49), Nellore (39), Vizianagaram (30), Prakasam (29) and Kadapa (28). Among imported cases, 22 fresh cases are of people from other states and only one case is of a foreign returnee. The district tallies of local cases are as follows: Kurnool (2,671), Anantapur (2,481), Guntur (2,262), Krishna (1,898), East Godavari (1,890), Chittoor (1,510), Kadapa (1,369), West Godavari (1,319), Vizag (945), Nellore (810), Prakasam (767), Srikakulam (329) and Vizianagaram (269).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-deaths-1178-new-cases-in-state/article32018072.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not wearing a mask in public places will cost you Rs. 100||Many road users were in for a rude surprise on Tuesday, when plainclothed men stopped them at Benz Circle and were asked to pay Rs. 100. The same was observed at Daba Kotlu Centre, Chitti Nagar and other places too. What bewildered them even more was that these men did not ask for their driving licence or RC. Instead, the fine, collected instantaneously, was for not wearing masks. Surprise inspections It is part of a special drive initiated by the district administration as per which persons seen in public places without wearing masks would be slapped a fine of Rs. 100. The drive began more than a fortnight ago with District Collector A. Mohammed Imtiaz conducting surprise inspections on MG Road in the city and collecting fines from at least 20 persons. The administration had constituted five teams of three persons, each headed by a sanitation secretary of a ward secretariat and comprising two employees working in the sanitation wing of the VMC. Since its inception, the five teams have collected more than Rs. 2.43 lakh from people for not adhering to COVID norms. About Rs. 1,000 per day is collected by each team. “We have no targets. But this exercise is being carried out to ensure that at least 10 persons change their attitude. People should fix it in their minds that they have to follow the guidelines,” says a member of the team. The violators, however, come up with innumerable pleas to avoid the fine. When caught, a few pull out masks from their pockets. Some plead that they are not carrying cash. But the POS machine given by the government has a facility to swipe a debit/credit card too. “Sometimes, we tell the violators that they would be shifted to quarantine centres if they continued plying on the road without masks,” says another member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-wearing-a-mask-in-public-places-will-cost-you-rs-100/article32017554.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister takes stock of facilities at COVID hospital||Minister for Health and Family Welfare A. Kali Krishna Srinivas (Alla Nani) visited the Government General Hospital, the designated COVID treatment centre, and took stock of the quality of food and facilities being provided to the patients. Mr. Srinivas, along with officials, inspected the canteen on Tuesday and also tasted the food being served to the patients. “The quality of the food is satisfactory, but there is still room for improvement,” he said and asked the contractor to better the quality and also serve food to the patients in time. He warned the contractor of action if quality was not improved immediately and food was not served in time. “Taking note of the complaints on poor quality food through the media, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed us to make surprise inspections and ensure quality is improved,” said the Minister. Mr. Srinivas claimed that the State was in the forefront in all aspects in the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-takes-stock-of-facilities-at-covid-hospital/article32017556.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Come clean on housing schemes’||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday demanded a White Paper on housing schemes and distribution of house site pattas in the State. He termed the allegation of the YSR Congress Party that the TDP was creating hurdles in the implementation of the housing scheme and distribution of house sites pattas to the poor ‘baseless.’ Addressing persons who staged a protest in front of the Kuppam MRO office against the alleged injustice done to them virtually, Mr. Naidu said YSRCP leaders were resorting to scams in every scheme and the house site pattas programme was no exception. From land acquisition to levelling and allocation of house sites, the YSRCP leaders converted the programme into a money spinner. Demolition condemned Mr. Naidu condemned the demolition of the foundations laid for the houses, including 27 meant for the SCs, in the Kuppam constituency. Also, pending bills were not cleared. The previous had government promised that houses worth Rs. 5 lakh, including beneficiary contribution, would be constructed and the same was mentioned in the sanction letters. The government owes an explanation to these sections, the TDP president said. The TDP government gave house sites of nearly 2.5 cents to 3 cents, but the present one had reduced the extent to 1 cent. The TDP increased the area from 400 sft to 750 sft and financial assistance was given for undertaking repairs Mass house warming was done for lakhs of houses, he said. Mr. Naidu alleged that there was widespread corruption in the housing scheme during 2004-09. Under TDP rule, construction of 10 lakh houses was completed, but the YSRCP cancelled 4.37 lakh houses, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/come-clean-on-housing-schemes/article32018079.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Task force personnel seize 808 liquor bottles||Sleuths of Commissioner’s Task Force Police conducted a raid and seized 808 liquor bottles, smuggled from Telangana. They took the accused, V. Vijay Kumar of Ajitsingh Nagar, into custody. On a tip-off, that the accused was selling liquor in an apartment located on BRTS Road, the team led by Task Force Additional DCP K.V. Srinivas Rao, ACP V.S.N. Varma and others raided the place and seized the liquor stock. Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said Vijay Kumar was allegedly procuring the stocks from Jamalapuram village, Khammam district, in Telangana, and was selling the stocks at higher rates, the police said. A case has been registered and investigation is on, said the Police Commissioner. SEB raids Sleuths of Special Enforcement Bureau (ACB) conducted raids at Machavaram, Kankipadu, Bhavanipuram and Ajitsingh Nagar police station limits on Tuesday, and seized 408 liquor bottles. The SEB police took 15 persons into custody for shifting the liquor stocks illegally. They arrested one person for illegally transporting sand at Bhavanipuram and seized sand and gutkha stocks, worth about Rs. 30,000 from another person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/task-force-personnel-seize-808-liquor-bottles/article32017566.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unlicensed ghee units, sweet stalls raided||In a joint operation, officials of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) and the Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E) department conducted raids on unauthorised ghee manufacturing-cum-sweet stalls, located on BRTS Road in the city on Tuesday. Following the directions of Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM) Director Manjari and V&E Regional Vigilance and Enforcement Officer (RVEO) Venkat Reddy, the officials raided four shops and seized huge quantity of ghee being manufactured without license. “We found that some stalls were running without obtaining food license, and in other shops the management was manufacturing ghee on the pretext of sweet stalls,” said Food Controller N. Purnachandra Rao, who participated in the raid. ‘Action will be taken’ Vigilance inspector Ashok Reddy said the stocks had been seized and samples sent to State Food Laboratory, Hyderabad, for analysis. “Notices have been issued under Section 63 of FSSAI Act. Action would be taken after getting reports from the laboratory, which are expected in 15 days,” Mr. Purnachandra Rao said. Food inspectors Shankar Reddy, Ramesh Babu, Gopala Krishna and a team of V&E officials participated in the raid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unlicensed-ghee-units-sweet-stalls-raided/article32017569.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Address concerns of medical, lab workers’||Representatives of the the United Medical and Health Employees Union affiliated to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) drew the attention of Minister for Health and Family Welfare A. Kali Krishna Srinivas to the threats they are facing while on COVID duties. In a letter to Mr. Srinivas, union honorary president A.V. Nageswara Rao said several staff, including lab technicians, ANMs, staff nurses, have been contracting COVID and some of them have even succumbed to the disease. He said 10s of paramedical staff tested positive and are under isolation at present. To avoid further infections, the government should ensure lab technicians work only for 14 days at a stretch and undergo quarantine for an equal number of days.  Shift-wise duties The strength of staff should be increased and more safety equipment should be provided, he said. He sought shift-wise duties to all the staff in the department. The union leader said the frontline staffers should be tested frequently and the test results be released immediately. He asked the department to set up an online grievance cell to understand the problems at the ground level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/address-concerns-of-medical-lab-workers/article32017557.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allot completed houses to beneficiaries: CPI||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna has urged the government to allot the houses completed to the identified beneficiaries immediately. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday, Mr. Ramakrishna said the government should remember that the beneficiaries had paid Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 1 lakh, apart from availing themselves of the bank loan. “Construction had come to a grinding halt due to the reverse tenders process initiated by the YSRCP after coming to power. The onus, therefore, lies on the government,” the CPI leader said. “Each beneficiary has to be paid Rs. 55,000 to Rs. 75,000.The government has to clear about Rs. 1,100 crore due to them,” he added. A.P. TIDCO, which was entrusted with the task, had completed the construction of six lakh houses. It had taken up construction of 7.13 lakh houses during the TDP term. It had constructed the houses with a plinth area of 325 sft, 375 sft and 425 sft. The Central government had sanctioned 15 lakh houses between 2014 and 2019, the CPI leader said. Referring to the house sites distribution programme, Mr. Ramakrishna said the government should allot to the beneficiaries two cents of land in the urban areas and three cents in the rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allot-completed-houses-to-beneficiaries-cpi/article32017559.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||On a ‘mission’ to educate SHGs on COVID-19||The Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) is conducting awareness sessions for urban self-help groups (SHGs) on COVID-19 pandemic. Mission director V. Vijaya Lakshmi, who inaugurated the online sessions, said around 2.26 lakh SHG women were covered in last four days. The online training sessions aim at teaching women the need for mental well-being, immunity boost- up, healthy eating habits and yoga and meditation to be practised. She said 18 lakh SHG women would be covered under the education drive. The outbreak of the coronavirus and the subsequent lockdown has wreaked havoc, especially the economically poorer sections who are facing acute crisis. A surge in economic, social and mental issues is reported with the rising number of the positive cases. Through these digital sessions, MEPMA is trying to tell these women not to lose heart and hope and follow the basic rules needed to navigate through this difficult phase. Around 6,000 SHG women and their families from five districts are being sensitised in four sessions for each district in a day. A team of 30 resource persons has been roped in for the programme. ‘Quite helpful’ “We are going through stressful times and these sessions would help these women stay mentally strong,” said Ms. Vijaya Lakshmi. “I had many doubts regarding the pandemic. There were many versions doing the rounds relating to buying of vegetables and groceries and even doing the daily chores. But after attending this session, I know what to do and what not to,” said Lakshmi Devi, a member of Leela Sundarayya SHG in Anantapur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-a-mission-to-educate-shgs-on-covid-19/article32017562.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable dies as Balineni’s escort vehicle overturns||A head constable was killed and three other security personnel were injured when an escort vehicle in Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy’s convoy met with an accident near Pedda Amberpet Outer Ring Road (ORR) on the outskirts of Hyderabad on Tuesday. The Minister escaped unhurt in the accident. The deceased was identified as Papaiah. The accident took place when the vehicle overturned as its tyre got punctured. The injured were rushed to a hospital in Hayathnagar. The Minister was on his way to Vijayawada from Gachibowli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constable-dies-as-balinenis-escort-vehicle-overturns/article32017499.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three booked||The Penamaluru police registered cases against three persons, including a woman, for allegedly deceiving people on the pretext of paying huge returns by investing in Telangana-based Swadhathri Infra Private Limited. Following a complaint lodged by 13 persons that one V. Venkata Narayana and his wife, collected Rs. 2.77 crore promising them posh flats, plots and repay amount with high interest rates, the police registered cases on Tuesday. However, Venkata Narayana in return complained that he invested the amount in Swadhatrhi Firm, which was allegedly running ponzi schemes. Venkata Narayana alleged that the owner of Swadhathri, Y. Raghu Babu, had cheated him. A couple of days ago, the Telangana police arrested three persons of Swadhathri Infra Limited, for allegedly deceiving over 1,400 people by collecting Rs. 156 crore. Penamaluru CI M. Satyanarayana said cases are registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-persons-booked-in-swadhathri-firm-fraud/article32017567.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy sheeter externed from city||A rowdy-sheeter, Bhupati Chandrashekar alias Donga Chandu, who was allegedly involved in many cases, has been externed from the city. ‘Anti-social activities’ Chandu, who was facing the sheet in the Krishnalanka police station, was continuing anti-social and rowdy activities causing panic among the public, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. To maintain law and order and to control the anti-social elements, the rowdy-sheeter was externed for six months from the city, the Commissioner said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rowdy-sheeter-externed-from-city/article32017564.ece
08 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. track record on irrigation poor’||Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar should explain people why 60% of the budgetary allocation to the projects has not been spent, TDP MLC G. Deepak Reddy has said. The YSRCP government failed to spend the allocation in the very first year of its rule in the State, Mr. Deepak Reddy alleged while addressing the media here on Tuesday. The government had earmarked Rs. 13,988 crore, but spent just Rs. 5,345 crore, he said, and added that there was no answer on why it could not spend Rs. 8,793 crore, Mr. Deepak Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-track-record-on-irrigation-poor/article32018069.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel fails to pull up officials on gas leak, say rights groups||In a sense the High Power Committee (HPC) report vindicates the opinion of rights organisations, several concerned citizens, scientists and political parties regarding the May 7 styrene monomer vapour leak and the patently illegal manner in which LG Polymers was running the plant. However, the HPC has been benign when it comes to pointing out lapses by regulatory bodies as well as the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MOEF&CC), said V.S. Krishna of Human Rights Forum. He said in respect of the LG Polymers these were no mere irregularities but extremely serious violations of the law. If these bodies had gone about their duties as entrusted under the law with due diligence, the horrific events of May 7 would not have occurred. Former bureaucrat and social activist E.A.S. Sarma also voiced similar concern. In the last one decade, the city has seen over 30 major industrial accidents that left many dead and injured. But why did such accidents happen, when regulatory authorities are present, he questioned. “The safety protocols in industries are to be checked on a regular basis by the authorities concerned. But that is not happening and we are only doing a post-mortem after the incident, without holding the regulatory authorities responsible. In LG Polymers also there were serious lapses on their part,” said Mr. Sarma. Mr. Krishna alleged that over the years Visakhapatnam district has seen many accidents, but bodies like the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) and the Inspectorate of Factories are vested with implementing crucial legislation and ensuring adherence to critical norms by industries have never been taken to task. The HPC report does not dwell on these at all or point out in any manner such illegalities. Mr. Krishna also pointed out that there were many incidents where lives have been lost and yet no action has been taken against managements at all till date. “We are not aware of a single prosecution under the law of officials, either of polluting industries or those of governmental regulatory bodies. Why is the HPC report silent on this,” he questioned. “How are industries going to be deterred if there is no initiation of meaningful and effective criminal proceedings against those responsible for the crimes?,” said Mr. Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-fails-to-pull-up-officials-on-gas-leak-say-rights-groups/article32018111.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister inaugurates 12-bed hospital at Venkatapuram||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that a full-fledged hospital will be constructed at Venkatapuram, for the victims of the styrene monomer vapour leak from LG Polymers plant. The Minister inaugurated a 12-bed hospital, established on the premises of MPP School, Venkatapuram, on a temporary basis, on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, he said that the suggestions of the High Power Committee (HPC) were being implemented to prevent danger to the public from hazardous chemical plants. The National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) report would form the basis for utilisation of drinking water from the Meghadrigedda Reservoir. Later, the Minister laid the foundation stone for construction of a community hall and drainage works. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, Joint Collector Arun Babu, RDO P. Kishore, DM & HO S. Tirupati Rao and AMC Principal P.V. Sudhakar participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-inaugurates-12-bed-hospital-at-venkatapuram/article32018100.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties demand shifting of LG Polymers plant||The CPI and CPI(M) have demanded the shifting of the LG Polymers plant and payment of compensation to the victims of the styrene monomer leak. The CPI leaders and activists staged a protest at the Gandhi statue, near the GVMC, on Tuesday, protesting the negligence of the company management, which was now confirmed by the report of the High Power Committee (HPC), appointed by the State government. Addressing the gathering, party State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy sought immediate implementation of the HPC recommendations and payment of Rs. 1 crore as compensation to the deceased. He also sought a statement from the State government on shifting of the LG plant and construction of a hospital in Venkatapuram to treat the affected persons as the styrene monomer will have long-term effects on the affected population. Party leaders Balepalli Venkataramana, M. Pydiraju, G. Rambabu, G. Vamana Murthy and Pyla Eswara Rao were among those who participated in the protest. CPI(M) city committee secretary B. Ganga Rao sought shifting of the plant and implementation of the HPC recommendations. In a statement, Mr. Ganga Rao said that the HPC report holds the management responsible for the styrene monomer vapour leak. The plant had been operated without environmental clearances for the past 23 years. The siren was not sounded on the day of the mishap, which indicates the negligence of the management. He alleged that the management had failed to replace the cooling system, which was damaged in December 2019. The HPC has also suggested setting up of Safety Boards at the State and the national levels to prevent recurrence of such accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-demand-shifting-of-lg-polymers-plant/article32018098.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narrating tales of hope amid pandemic||At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic is affecting mental health in big or small ways, a group of storytellers have come together to integrate storytelling as a tool for healing and community building. The initiative titled Indian Storytelling Healers Network (ISHN) is started by Visakhapatnam-based Sangitaa Sehgall, along with storytellers Poonam Joshi and Jyoti Pande. ‘Watering the Roots’ Their first online event will start on Wednesday with a five-day storytelling session called ‘Watering the Roots’. “Stories have the power to engage the mind and present simple facts with greater impact. Our idea is to narrate stories of hope, resilience, inclusiveness and tales that inspire,” says Poonam Joshi, currently based in Bengaluru. During the five-day sessions, 15 stories will be narrated by a group of 15 storytellers from across India. Ms. Poonam, who also runs a storytelling group called ‘ Kathavriksh’, had started a similar initiative called ‘Healing Circle’ during the pandemic. “We engaged with an autistic society in Bhopal. The stories left a cheerful impact on children,” she recalls. “The idea is to use stories and specific metaphors to initiate healing. It is a therapeutic session for adults who often tend to bottle up emotions especially in times of social distancing,” says Jyoti Pandey, a psychologist and mindfulness practitioner. According to a recent survey by the Indian Psychiatry Society (IPS), the number of mental illness cases have increased by 20 % since the lockdown.  The Indian Storytelling Healers Network plans to conduct periodic workshops by noted healers and storytellers starting with a workshop with Australia-based Susan Perrow next month. Workshops lined up “We will also take the storytelling events to old age homes, terminally ill patients at hospices and hospitals,” adds Ms. Sangitaa. Among the other lined-up events of the ISHN, once a week online get-togethers will be held to give a voice to fears, feelings and concerns of various age groups. “We will create a safe space for adults from all walks of life to participate, hear and be heard,” says Ms. Sangitaa. The cost of participation of the online storytelling event is Rs. 500 and all proceeds will go to the Ummeed Child Development Centre in Mumbai. For details, visit the Facebook page of ISHN.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narrating-tales-of-hope-amid-pandemic/article32018092.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||128 new cases take tally to 1,523 in district||The number of COVID-19 cases crossed the 1,500-mark with 128 new cases being reported here in the district, taking the tally to 1,523, on Tuesday. This is the biggest-single day spike the district has reported till date. Meanwhile, 137 persons undergoing treatment were discharged after testing negative. With the new cases, the total number of active cases in the district is 853, while the number of discharged persons is 659. It may be remembered that 11 persons died due to COVID-19 in the district. According to Special Officer for COVID-19, P.V. Sudhakar, 21 new clusters, inlcuding Pandiri Street (Narsipatnam), YSR Nagar, Bheemili, Pandurangapuram, Old Respuvanipalem, Rajaka Veedhi, Lalitha Nagar, Madhura Nagar, Rajayyapeta (Nakkapalle), Vechalam (Devarapalle), Narsingaraopeta (Anakapalle) and a few others added. As on Tuesday, there are 131 very active clusters, 116 active clusters and 68 dormant clusters in the district. As many as 39 clusters have been already denotified, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/128-new-cases-take-tally-to-1523-in-district/article32018109.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||LG unit management did not go by the book, says HPC||The High Power Committee (HPC) constituted by the State government to probe the styrene monomer vapour leak at the LG Polymers plant on May 7 that killed 12 persons and hospitalised over 585 people, in its report stated that the uncontrolled vapour release from the M6 tank qualifies as a major accident under MSIHC Rules, 1989. The HPC observed that a number of factors were responsible for the increase in temperature in the tank that led to auto-polymerisation and finally runaway reactions, leading to the tragedy. Thermal stratification The committee concluded that one of the prime factors was change in the piping design within the tank carried out in December 2019, which not only disturbed the styrene recirculation system but also led to significant thermal stratification. In other words, the top level of the styrene monomers in the tank experienced much higher temperatures than the bottom. Also, approval was not taken from either the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) nor any other statutory organisation . The committee noted that any modification of equipment or plant should be subjected to Hazard and Operability and Risk Assessment (HAZOP) Study. The temperature measurement in M6 tank is restricted to the bottom zone, while the top and central zones had no measurement system. Such tanks as per industry specifications, should have the temperature monitoring system at five levels. The committee noted that the tank had overshot its lifespan. It was not subjected to any mechanical integrity assessment study and the plant had never implemented any Life Extension Programme (LEP). PESO had accorded licence for styrene storage in 1977. The tank was built in 1967, as earlier it was storing molasses and this takes the tank’s life to 53 years, observed HPC chairman Neerabh Kumar Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lg-unit-management-did-not-go-by-the-book-says-hpc/article32018081.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deputy CM: take action against negligent medical staff in Agency||Deputy Chief Minister P. Pushpa Sreevani along with Araku MP G. Madhavi and a few others laid foundation stone for various development works worth about Rs. 33 crore at Paderu in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. She later conducted a review meet with the officials of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA). Ms. Sreevani asked officials to take strict action against the medical staff from the Agency areas who are negligent in their duties. Reviewing about the Manabadi Nadu Nedu works, she enquired about the progress. She asked Araku MLA Ch. Phalguna to have more drivers for the ambulances. She instructed the ITDA officials to ensure drinking water supply to all the tribals. She said the officials should check whether all the welfare programmes are reaching beneficiaries. She received representations from the local representatives. Paderu MLA K. Bhagya Lakshmi, ITDA Project Officer S. Venkateswar and a few others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deputy-cm-take-action-against-negligent-medical-staff-in-agency/article32018104.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘ECoR Waltair Division transported 11.81 MT of freight during lockdown’||The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R) has achieved the distinction of being the sixth highest loading division among Indian Railways for uninterrupted supply of essential commodities to various parts of the country during the lockdown period. The division has transported 11.81 million tonnes of freight from April to June, this year, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager G. Suneel Kumar. This was made possible due to the relentless efforts of the staff of the Division, he said. The division has transported the cargo, comprising essential commodities like coal, iron ore, raw materials for steel plants and mineral oils, in 2,527 rakes. The main freight points of the division are Visakhapatnam port, Gangavaram Port, Vizag Steel plant, NMDC Iron Ore mines in KK line at Bacheli and Kirandul. The division has unloaded 33.21 rakes per day on an average. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava appreciated the efforts of the railwaymen for continuing the uninterrupted supply chain and achieving this feat even during the pandemic. The untiring efforts of Operations Department, under the guidance of Senior Divisional Operations Manager K.V.S.R.K. Kishore, helped in achieving the record loading, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ecor-waltair-division-transported-1181-mt-of-freight-during-lockdown/article32018102.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR birth anniversary today||Members of YSRC party will organise birth anniversary celebrations of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy in the district on Wednesday. MP V. Vijayasai Reddy, Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana and other leaders are expected to take part . They would garland statue of the former Chief Minister at Park Hotel Junction. A few service-oriented programmes have also been planned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-birth-anniversary-today/article32018107.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrest accused in rape cases, women’s panel chief directs officials||Taking a serious note of the recent alleged rape cases which were reported from G Madugula and Yelamanchili mandals in Visakhapatnam district, AP Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma has instructed Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao and Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer S. Venkateswar to arrest all the persons involved in the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrest-accused-in-rape-cases-womens-panel-chief-directs-officials/article32018106.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) demands arrest of Sainor officials over gas leak||The CPI(M) has demanded arrest of the management of Sainor Life Sciences Private Limited for its negligence, which resulted in the leakage of hydrogen sulphide, causing the death of two workers. Party district committee secretary K. Lokanadham said in a statement that the committee, appointed to probe the mishap, has held the company management responsible as it had failed to comply with the safety norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-demands-arrest-of-sainor-officials-over-gas-leak/article32018103.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,200 kg ganja seized, two from Odisha held||In a huge catch, the district police arrested two persons and seized around 1,200 kg ganja which they were allegedly transporting in a lorry near K.D, Peta under Golugonda police station limits, in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. The seized ganja is estimated to be worth around Rs. 60 lakh in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam and over Rs. 1 crore in upcountry market. Both the arrested were identified as natives of Malkangiri district, Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1200-kg-ganja-seized-two-from-odisha-held/article32018105.ece
08 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poster released on wearing mask||A poster ‘No Mask No Entry’ designed and brought out by Bala Vikasa Foundation (BVF), an NGO working for the welfare and development of children who are deprived of fundamental right of education, was released by Assistant Project Director Women and Child Welfare K. Ananta Lakshmi and Child Welfare Committee (CWC) chairperson R. Shyamarani here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poster-released-on-wearing-mask/article32018112.ece
08 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Food processing units look to govt. for help||The government should extend support to over 600 food processing industries as it would help revive the rural economy and provide livelihood to the locals who lost it due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of COVID-19, according to Datla Tirupathi Raju, president of A.P. Food Processing Industries’ Federation and executive chairman of Vijayanagar Biotech Private Limited. The government should initiate steps for complete waiver of minimum demand and consumption of electricity charges for the lockdown period as the industries were hit hard under the impact of COVID-19, Mr. Raju told The Hindu.  “The Centre assured the industries of exemption from power charges, but the power distribution companies in the Stsate are not following the guidelines. All discoms insist on food processing units to pay minimum demand charges. Their assurance to reimburse may not be useful as small and medium units are not in a position to clear the bills,” said Mr. Raju. New clusters Mr. Raju sought relaxation of rules for importing raw material from abroad. “Owing to natural calamities, coconut production has come down drastically in the State. So, the government should allow imports as it would help coconut processing units survive ,” he said. “The government should develop new clusters to promote processing units and create jobs in villages and semi-urban areas. Coconut, turmeric and many other horticulture products can be developed in different regions. It helps farmers concentrate on those crops and they don’t need to worry about the sale of their produce since the market is available in proposed clusters. The companies can start new units when they are assured of raw material supply,” said Mr. Raju. According to him, representatives of the federation met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Special Chief Secretary (Industries) Karikal Valaven to explain the issues of the food processing units in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/food-processing-units-look-to-govt-for-help/article32018089.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-Minister arrested for ‘violating’ COVID norms||TDP leader and former Minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy was arrested by the Pendurthy police on Tuesday on charge of violating the COVID-19 guidelines. Mr. Murthy reportedly went to inquire about the TIDCO housing project, which was completed by the previous TDP government, but the allotment has not made so far. He was accompanied by a few others. TDP cries foul Expressing solidarity with Mr. Murthy, Telugu Mahila president V. Anita claimed before the media that the despite prior permission from the police to visit the housing project site, Mr. Murthy was arrested. She alleged that the former Minister was detained at the police station till the evening, even as a woman police constable, whose husband had tested positive for COVID-19, was present on the premises. “It seems the COVID-19 regulations are not applicable to Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, who are participating in various public functions,” said Ms. Anita.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-minister-arrested-for-violating-covid-norms/article32017852.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In the line of duty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-the-line-of-duty/article32018117.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risky game||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/risky-game/article32018096.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||To the T||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/to-the-t/article32017571.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Secretariat demolition leaves city gridlocked||All arterial roads, and even those in small neighbourhoods leading to the secretariat complex were barricaded amid an increased constabulary, as the demolition of its buildings was in progress, leaving motorists confused. Barricades were set up at Khairtabad flyover, and the road to Khairtabad Market near the railway gate with police manning road blocks. On the other side, the road opposite Saidanima’s tomb, near the Buddha Bhavan, leading to the Necklace road was barricaded. Furthermore, the Lakdikapul main road leading to Telephone Bhavan was blocked. The Telugu Talli flyover was barricaded on both ends. Traffic moving from the Buddha Bhavan towards Tank Bund was diverted due to road block being put up near the Marriott Hotel. Commuters were forced to move towards Gandhi Nagar or Kavadiguda. But their woes did not end there. As vehicles moved towards Dharna Chowk or Lower Tank Bund, barricades greeted them again. The area near Dharna Chowk was blocked by police vehicles and concertina wire. Commuters were forced to travel towards Domalguda or Himayatnagar from other roads. The Liberty Crossroads too were blocked as was the approach road Hill Fort Road. Further, the road was barricaded just a few metres short of BSNL Bhavan. “I set up shop here a little before 9.30 in the morning. The barricades were here before I arrived,” said a local businessman who operates his business near Liberty Crossroads. For many hours, the road leading to the Lok Ayukta office remained barricaded with the police refusing to allow vehicular movement. Several commuters tried to convince the police to allow them, but the police declined. A senior citizen riding a bicycle was spoken to rudely, but later allowed. ‘Iirresponsible’ Traffic snarl was witnessed at Basheer Bagh, Lakdikapul, and Domalguda, among other places. Several commuters took to social media to express their outrage at not being informed of traffic diversions. “Absolutely irresponsible & unacceptable behavior being shown by our state govt during such time of pandemic. All the roads in and around Khairatabad (leading to Secretariat) have been either blocked or closed. There was a huge traffic jam which led to chaos @KTRTRS @trspartyonline,” tweeted Mohammed Athar Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/secretariat-demolition-leaves-city-gridlocked/article32017832.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Confusion galore at King Koti hospital||The District Hospital, King Koti, is nothing short of a maze for many people turning up for COVID-19 tests with none available to point them in the right direction or guide them on the procedure to be followed. Fear of infection Many said the lack of a help desk or sign boards left them clueless, forcing them to spend precious time awaiting help among scores of other COVID-19 suspects. The experience filled them with the fear that they might contract the infectious disease if they already did not have it. As per procedure, when a person steps into the government hospital, their name, Aadhaar number, phone number and other personal details are noted down. Thereafter, their medical history is assessed to decide if they need a test. If someone needs a test, they are directed to the sample collection point. However, there is no staff or a display board to explain to them the sequence of the process, or the sections of the hospital where they must report to.  Since many private laboratories have temporarily stopped conducting COVID-19 tests, more people are visiting government hospitals for the purpose. And that means, more people lying in wait. Lack of directions makes people wait longer. Even as physical distancing is considered the only social vaccine for now, taking steps to expedite process of registration, assessing medical history, and testing could greatly help in clearing the crowd. A health volunteer, requesting anonymity, said after one in his six-member family tested positive, a health inspector visited them but did not enquire if anyone else was symptomatic. “Two of them have fever. I was scared to call ‘104’ fearing they will come to our home and declare the entire building as containment zone, which will annoy the owners. So, I went to the District Hospital in King Koti on Tuesday afternoon to find out the process,” the volunteer said. On reaching, police personnel noted down his details and asked him to proceed further. “After that, I was on my own. I was lost. I could not locate a help desk to ask what to do next. A lot of other people were also wandering about, clueless. Upon requesting, police personnel explained the process. Otherwise, there is no proper mechanism to give directions. That should be urgently looked into,” the volunteer added. Sai Shyam, a private company employee, who went to the District Hospital, had a similar experience. He said that the staff were not present to give directions. “People were unsure where to go, and everyone was standing close to each other,” he said. After he tweeted about the lack of tests among his family members despite his mother testing positive, health staff visited his home to collect samples. ‘Will be addressed’ When the issue was brought to the notice of hospital authorities, they promised to address it. They said upon entering the main gate, one has to take a left and go to the new building located behind an old building for testing purposes. Upon entering the new building, they have to register at Out-Patient (OP) counter and take OP number. “Then they have to proceed to the triage where doctors will assess their medical condition and contact history to decide if they need the test,” an official at the hospital said. Similarly harrowing experiences of helplessness were also reported by those visiting the Sir Ronald Ross Institute for Tropical and Communicable Diseases (Fever Hospital) with none to guide them.  The staff were not present to give directions. People were unsure where to go, and everyone was standing close to each other. Sai Shyam, Private company employee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/confusion-galore-at-king-koti-hospital/article32017813.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS hits out at opposition parties||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has strongly rebutted the Congress and other Opposition parties’ criticism of the State government’s move to construct new Secretariat buildings by demolishing the existing ones. Ministers G. Jagadish Reddy and Talasani Srinivas Yadav, Rythu Bandhu Samiti Chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, Nagarkurnool MP P. Ramulu, legislators G. Kishore Kumar and M. Srinivas Reddy termed the Opposition attitude against any development work taken up by the government as unfortunate. The Congress leaders’ comments on Secretariat buildings and other issues were meaningless and amounted to undermining the self-esteem of Telangana people. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, they strongly objected to the Congress leaders’ plea to the Governor to invoke Section 8 of Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act. They sought to know whether there was any sanctity to the provision when Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have separate Governors now. They alleged that Congress was against the progress of Telangana under the leadership of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and the comments of Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy would make it clear that he was against formation of the State. ‘Role model’ Stating that Telangana had become a role model on several fronts, they explained how the State was topping in the growth rate of per capita consumption of energy, how treated water was being supplied to all habitations through Mission Bhagiratha and how the Kaleshwaram water was quenching the thirst of parched lands in many parts of the State. They sought to know from the Congress leaders as to why the States under their rule were not implementing schemes like Rythu Bandhu. On fighting the coronavirus spread in the State, the TRS leaders said the entire country had complimented the Chief Minister’s gesture towards the migrant labourers during and after the lockdown period. In manifesto On the construction of new Secretariat, they said they had promised in the election manifesto itself but the Congress leaders were opposing its construction blindly. They did the same thing when the new camp office for the Chief Minister was constructed. People would teach a fitting lesson to the Opposition parties on their opposition to the new Secretariat and on invoking sections of the Bifurcation Act, they added.  Congress party is against the progress of Telangana under the leadership of Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao. TRS leaders||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-hits-out-at-opposition-parties/article32017837.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TPCC chief terms it ‘Tughlaq act’, calls it a Black Day||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has condemned the demolition of the existing Secretariat buildings and termed it a “Tughlaq act”. Describing the “midnight operation” to commence the demolition as highly disappointing in the present circumstances of COVID-19 pandemic, he stated that it would be remembered as a black day in the history of Telangana. He alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had resorted to the demolition only to satisfy his superstitious beliefs. ‘People disappointed’ Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday along with senior leaders of the Congress party T. Jeevan Reddy, Mohd. Ali Shabbir, D. Sridhar Babu and T. Jayaprakash Reddy, the TPCC president said the move would amount to playing with the lives of over 4 crore people of Telangana. Although courts would intervene when governments fail to act as per law, the people of Telangana are left highly disappointed by the judiciary in the matter of Secretariat buildings demolition, he observed. He pointed out that the State government had started demolition of the Secretariat buildings in a midnight operation to prevent any intervention by the Supreme Court since the High Court verdict allowing construction of the new Secretariat buildings was challenged in the apex court and matter was expected to be heard on Wednesday. Questioning the government’s justification for the need of a new Secretariat when it was unable to pay even full salaries to its staff, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said many blocks in the existing Secretariat were newly constructed and in extremely good condition. He alleged that the new buildings were planned to benefit some contractors with a Rs. 1,000 crore deal. CS criticised He slammed the attitude of Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, who he said, was not eligible to the top post since he belonged to Andhra Pradesh cadre, for acting as per the whims and fancies of the Chief Minister in gratitude of his appointment to the top post by side lining 20 other senior officers. The Chief Secretary had violated the Constitution by not attending a meeting convened by Governor Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan. Meanwhile, senior leaders Mr. Jeevan Reddy, Mr. Shabbir Ali, Mr. Sridhar Babu and Mr. Jagga Reddy requested the Governor to invoke Section 8 of AP Reorganisation Act to exercise her powers in Greater Hyderabad and declare health emergency in view of the deteriorating situation due to exponential rise in the COVID-19 cases. Working president of the PCC and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy said demolition of the existing Secretariat buildings was a “mindless act” and the environmental laws would not allow the construction of new Secretariat at the same site. At a time when people were left to their fate in fighting coronavirus pandemic, the TRS government was wasting Rs. 500 crore public money for the new Secretariat buildings. Campaign coordination committee chairperson and former MP M. Vijayashanti said the mistakes being committed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao are piling up every day and the day of revolt against his rule was not far away. AICC secretary and former legislator Challa Vamshichand Reddy also criticised the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tpcc-chief-terms-it-tughlaq-act-calls-it-a-black-day/article32017836.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor moots private-public partnership for flattening curve||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has suggested the need for building a private-public partnership in healthcare sector to deal with the COVID-19 crisis effectively and stressed the urgency to flatten the curve with the combined efforts of people, government and private initiatives. Stating that the ultimate objective of any medical service was to offer affordable and quality medical care to the common man, the Governor said the society, including the healthcare sector, was facing a challenging situation. The private healthcare sector also needs to play a key role in fighting such a pandemic, she noted. In a video conference held with several private/corporate hospitals in the city on Tuesday, she pointed out that people were in distress and were forced to run from pillar to post to get admitted in hospitals, losing valuable time in getting beds. She stated that the present situation was extraordinary which requires working in special conditions with a humane approach. She highlighted the need to expedite testing, improve testing facilities and bringing down the costs involved in the treatment. She suggested the private hospitals to create awareness on home isolation and to offer telemedicine and video counselling to patients. Asking the private hospitals to come up with plasma bank to offer plasma therapy for those in need, the Governor said her prime concern as the first citizen of the State was that no patient in Telangana is denied treatment in any given condition. She appealed to the private hospitals with isolation wards to inform availability of beds, charge nominal costs for beds and come up with packages for COVID-19 patients, particularly from the middle-class. Representatives from CARE, Apollo, Yashoda, Continental, Gleneageals, KIMS, Malla Reddy, Global, Sunshine, Basavatarakam memorial and other hospitals which participated in the video conference suggested that the availability of beds could be handled by the government by making a general pool information system to make it easier for patients and their families. Several pulmonologists, who attended the virtual meet, highlighted the possibility of the emergence of an alarming situation wherein the cases may exponentially increase. Accordingly, hospitals with thousands of beds should be made ready by the government to prevent last-minute confusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-moots-private-public-partnership-for-flattening-curve/article32017812.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,879 more test positive in State||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 27,612 as 1,879 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. This is the second highest number of COVID cases in the State till date. The highest of 1,892 cases was recorded on July 3. Seven more COVID-19 patients died on Tuesday. The new cases include 1,422 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, 176 from Rangareddy, and 94 from Medchal. The Test Positivity Rate in the State reached 21.29%, which is a new high. Health officials said 17,081 beds for COVID patients were set up in government hospitals, of which 11,298 are isolation beds, 3,537 have oxygen supply, 1,145 are ICU beds and 471 have mechanical ventilator support. Of the 3,537 oxygen beds, 3,041 were available till Tuesday, and 1,437 ICU beds were vacant. To clear confusion about which government hospital should one go to if positive or is suspected, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao issued directions. COVID-19 patients with moderate to severe symptoms who want to get admitted at government hospitals should go to Gandhi Hospital along with their test report. Those who have symptoms but in need of testing can go to District Hospital, King Koti, Fever Hospital, Nallakunta, or to the Government General and Chest Hospital in Erragadda. Asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients who seek to be quarantined at government hospitals are admitted at Nature Cure Hospital, Government Nizamia Hospital , Government Ayurveda Hospital, and Government Homoeopathy Hospital. Gandhi Hospital in Musheerabad is identified as ‘Centre of Excellence for COVID Care’, where serious cases are admitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1879-more-test-positive-in-state/article32017814.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Avail Centre’s scheme to benefit transgenders: HC||Telangana High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to make use of Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana for distribution of food grains to transgenders. Hearing a PIL plea seeking a direction to State government to distribute essential goods and groceries to transgenders in the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic, the HC directed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to speak with the Civil Supplies Commissioner in this regard. If the Centre’s scheme was utilised, food grains can be supplied not only to transgenders but also to all citizens who do not have ration cards, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said. The bench directed the State government to synchronise its other schemes with that of the Centre to ensure that maximum number of people benefit from those. Social activist Vyjayanti Vasanta Mogli filed the PIL petition seeking an order to provide ration and other essentials to all transgenders in the State without insisting for furnishing of ration cards. Supreme Court senior counsel Jayna Kothari, appearing for the petitioner, told the bench that the State government had taken a stand not to provide food grains to transgenders who don’t have ration cards. “But under Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana, ration would be supplied to even those who have no ration cards,” the senior counsel explained. The scheme was extended till November this year. According to the Centre, the State government had lifted only 1% of the food grains under the said Central scheme. In this backdrop, the State can avail the full benefits of the Central scheme and pass on the same to the transgenders who have no ration cards, the lawyer contended. The bench directed the AG to file a report on the matter within a week. The plea was posted to July 14 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/avail-centres-scheme-to-benefit-transgenders-hc/article32017816.ece
08 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress party’s stand on India-China issue assailed||BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on Tuesday slammed the Congress over its criticism of the NDA governments handling of the India-China issue and charged its leadership with having traded its conscience for donations received by Rajiv Gandhi Foundation from that country. Observing that the country bowed its head in respect for the 20 Indian soldiers martyred in clashes with Chinese troops, he said people would teach a lesson to the Congress for raising questions about them. The Congress, he alleged, had asked whether the jawans had given a fitting reply to the People’s Liberation Army soldiers of China after the June 15 clashes. Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a Colonel,were killed in a fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on the night of June 15. Without naming Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi, Patra alleged that the mother-son traded their conscience by accepting donations for the Foundation. “By having an MoU in 2008, and by taking crores as donations in Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, this mother-son duo traded their conscience with China,” he alleged. “When crisis is being talked about, may I say that C for crisis, C for Congress, C for corona, C for China, C for Confusion, C for Conspiracy, he said, addressing a virtual rally organised by the BJP in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-partys-stand-on-india-china-issue-assailed/article32017822.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Cannot interfere with State’s policy decision’||Merely because another view is possible, the courts would not ordinarily interfere with a policy decision unless there is a violation of fundamental rights or violation of provision of law. Making this observation, a bench of Telangana High Court Chief Justice Raghvenda Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy delivered a verdict dismissing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by social activist Sunitha Krishnan, seeking re-imposition of lockdown in the State following phenomenal rise in COVID-19 cases. If the relief requested by the petitioner was granted, the lockdown imposed through GO MS no. 45 dated March 22 should be continued. If the other consequential relief sought by the petitioner were allowed, it would amount to directing or advising the executive in a policy matter, the verdict said. The writ court rarely enters such exclusive arena of the executive authorities. “...the writ court cannot usurp and encroach upon the powers of the executive. For, it would be an anathema both to the doctrine of separation of powers, and to the system of democracy,” the verdict said. The judgment said the courts ‘have to respect decisions of the popular government...more so when popular decisions are made. Sometimes the government decisions may appear to be in excess of their powers and even unusual’. Unless such decisions infringed upon fundamental rights of a citizen or provisions of law, the courts would not be inclined to differ with them, the verdict said. “Merely because there is another view, the courts ordinarily would not interfere with the decision of the executive,” the order said. Referring to the petitioner’s contention that relaxation of lockdown was likely to result in disastrous consequences, the order said there was no compulsion on citizens to visit a religious place, restaurant or a shopping mall. The court cannot sit as an appellate court over a policy decision of the State. “The State is well within its domain to take decision to relax lockdown norms, and also to review the situation from time to time,” the verdict said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cannot-interfere-with-states-policy-decision/article32017823.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Atrocious act, says BJP||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party has strongly condemned the demolition of the old Secretariat buildings and called it an “atrocious” act for the ‘false prestige’ of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao amidst the global pandemic crisis on Tuesday. Party leaders led by president B. Sanjay, former president K. Laxman, city president N. Ramchander Rao, former MP Vivekanand, chief spokersperson K. Krishna Sagar Rao and others in separate statements sought to point out that while Chief Ministers across the country have been busy building and expanding infrastructure to accommodate COVID-19 patients, KCR has been busy demolishing existing infrastructure, which otherwise, could have been “easily turned into a massive facility to accommodate thousands of COVID-19 patients”. Mr. Sanjay said P’eople from all walks of life should join forces to protest and fight against the ‘dictatorial and anti-democratic government’. old Secretariat buildings could have been utilised for another 100 years and the focus of the government should be on battling COVID-19, observed Mr. Ramchander Rao. “Our party strongly believes that the old Secretariat complex could have been easily turned into a 20,000-bed facility. As these are located in the heart of the city and since 90% cases are from GHMC it was an ideal location. Demolishing them is a pure waste of tax payers’ money,” he said. The Chief Minister has prioritised “his own whims and fancies over public health”, the party added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/atrocious-act-says-bjp/article32017838.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||10 acres for burying COVID-dead sought||Christian Joint Action Committee, Telangana, has urged the State government to allot 10 acres of land for burial ground at Gangaram village of Maheshwaram constituency. In a memorandum presented to the Managing Director of TS State Christian Minority Finance Corporation on Tuesday, JAC general secretary M. Solmon Raj said bodies of COVID-19 victims were lying in government and private hospitals as the family members were finding it difficult to find burial space. The committee said there was stiff opposition from local people to burial of COVID-19-dead because of which bodies were kept in hospitals. The JAC said the government had already identified 10 acres at Gangaram village and handed it over to the Christian Minority Finance Corporation. The same may be allotted to the Christian JAC in view of the problems faced by the community. The panel said they would maintain the burial ground as per government guidelines. Church initiative The executive committee of the Baptist Church, Sanatnagar, has said that the church had made efforts to ensure decent burial for Chest Hospital Head Nurse Victoria Jayamani, who died of COVID-19 in the twin cities. Responding to a news report, “No dignity in death for COVID warrior” published in these columns on Tuesday, the church said as there was acute shortage of burial space in the twin cities, they managed to find a piece of land in Ahmedguda village in Keesara mandal, where her last rites were performed on June 27. The church committee appealed to the government to allot land for burial grounds for the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10-acres-for-burying-covid-dead-sought/article32017824.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Head constable dies in road accident||A head constable travelling in the escort vehicle of Andhra Pradesh Minister for Energy, Forest, Environment, Science and Technology, Balineni Srinivas Reddy, died in a road accident on the Outer Ring Road on Tuesday. According to the Abdullapurmet police, the accident took place around 11 am on the Outer Ring Road while the Minister in his motorcade was moving from Hyderabad to Vijaywada. When they reached Koheda village, the rear left tire of the vehicle burst after which the driver lost control and the car overturned. The head constable, identified as Budda Papa Rao (56), was severely injured and died while being rushed to the hospital. Three other injured were identified as D Raju (51) and V Sitharamulu (41), both police constables, and V Jayakrishna (27), a home guard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/head-constable-dies-in-road-accident/article32017827.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man accused of murdering five-year-old nabbed||Days after registering a case against a man for allegedly murdering his friend’s daughter, the Ghatkesar police on Tuesday arrested the accused. According to police, on July2, the accused G Karunakar, an MBA, allegedly slit the victim’s throat with a blade and inflicted injuries on himself and fled from the spot. Police said Karunakar and the victim’s mother Anusha had befriended each other in 2018 at an electronics store. The accused was introduced to Anusha’s husband. The victim’s mother, police said, requested the accused to look after her as she claimed that her blood pressure was low and also due to being diagnosed with brain tumour. The duo got intimate, police said. Later, the accused introduced his friend Rajasekhar who too began to frequent the house. In the meantime, the victim’s mother found out that the accused was seeing another woman and then blocked his numbers on her phone. On July 2, the accused went to the victim’s house and sought to confront Anusha but she refused to open the door. He then gained entry and threatened to slit the victim’s throat and demanded that Anusha come clean on why she was avoiding him. Before she could intervene, the accused allegedly slit the five-year-old victim’s throat and fled the spot. On Tuesday, the accused was sent to judicial remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-accused-of-murdering-five-year-old-nabbed/article32017828.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man falls into lift shaft, succumbs||A 38-year-old man fell to his death after accidentally stepping into a lift shaft on Monday night. S R Nagar police said the accident took place at a residential building in Ameerpet. The victim, identified as Tamang, was a native of Darjeeling in West Bengal. “Ever since the lockdown was enforced, he cooked for his employer. After cooking food, he left for his room on the sixth floor. He opened the lift grill. The lift is old and it opened. He didn’t realise that the lift was on the second floor and fell into the lift shaft. He died on the way to the hospital.,” inspector S Murali Krishna said. A case was booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-falls-into-lift-shaft-succumbs/article32017826.ece
08 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man held for ‘sexual harassment’||A 20-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday on the charge of sexually harassing a minor girl and sending the victim sexually explicit images on Instagram. The Rachakonda Cyber Crime Police, who are investigating the case, identified the accused as D Shubham Yadav, a daily wage earner, who works at a pan shop in Housing Board Colony, Bahadurpura. Police said the accused knew the victim’s sister as they were classmates at junior college. He took photos of them nd allegedly began to blackmail her into sending nude photos. He then allegedly created an Instagram account and sought her photos with the intention to extort money. Based on technical evidence, the police nabbed the accused and he purportedly confessed. A case was booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-sexual-harassment/article32017829.ece
08 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Qualified private teachers forced into other livelihoods||As the schools and colleges continue to remain shut due to the coronavirus pandemic lockdown it is the teachers and lecturers of the private educational institutions who are bearing the brunt. Turned jobless due to the lockdown they are desperately searching for alternative livelihood options to eke out a living amid the turbulent times. Many teachers and lecturers of private educational institutions have now turned vegetable vendors, farmers, shopkeepers and sales personnel. Mathematics lecturer in a private degree college and also a gurukulam 34-year-old J. Lalaiah, who has done MSc (Mathematics) and B.Ed., has now taken up a sales career in digital marketing to make ends meet. V. Ravinder who has an M.Tech in Machine Design and worked in a Hyderabad-based private engineering college as an assistant professor has now turned a two-wheeler mechanic in his hometown Madhira.  No options available “The pandemic crisis has forced me to take up the sales representative job to feed my family,” said Mr. Lalaiah. The pandemic has snatched away the option of conducting home tuitions, the alternative means of livelihood, he rued Mr. Lalaiah, who holds M.Sc (Mathematics) and B.Ed degrees. My aim is to become a post-graduate teacher in the State-run Gurukulams, he told The Hindu . I have taken up bike repair to cope with the financial constraints imposed by the pandemic, said Mr. Ravinder. “I am working in the shed owned by my relative Srihari to eke out a living. I taught him mathematics during school days and has now turned a bike mechanic and I am taking his support to surmount the present crisis,” he added. There are some 8,000 teachers working in 250 odd private schools across the district and all are reeling under the pandemic induced crisis, deplored Telangana Private Teachers Forum district president K. Rama Rao.  Traditional occupations Most of the private teachers have not been paid salaries for the past three months and the precarious situation has forced many to take up their traditional occupations and turn daily wage labourers under the MGNREGS, Mr. Rao said. The government should immediately intervene to provide succour to the private teachers who are in dire straits and ensure strict implementation of the statutory social security measures by the private school managements, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/qualified-private-teachers-forced-into-other-livelihoods/article32017859.ece
08 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Unauthorised fish pond near Wyra reservoir removed||The Irrigation Department on Tuesday swung into action and removed an “unauthorised” fish pond on the periphery of Wyra reservoir in Wyra town. A team comprising officials of Irrigation and Revenue departments embarked on a special drive to remove the fish pond amid tight security. The action comes in the wake of a slew of representations made by Telangana Rythu Sangham to the authorities seeking removal of the unauthorised fish pond and resolute action to save the reservoir site from encroachments. The Rytu Sangham has long been organising a campaign titled “Wyra Project Ayacut Parirakshana” to protect the interests of the ayacutdars. A report titled ‘Wyra Rythu Sangham in protest mode’ was published in these columns on June 21 highlighting the efforts by the Sangham. The reservoir is the prime source of irrigation for farmers in three mandals and drinking water for 12 mandals under the Mission Bhagiratha Project. In a statement, the Telangana Rythu Sangham district president B Rambabu thanked Wyra MLA L Ramulu Naik, Collector R V Karnan and the Irrigation officials for taking firm action to remove the “illegal” fish pond and protecting the reservoir site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unauthorised-fish-pond-near-wyra-reservoir-removed/article32017839.ece
08 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Constable arrested for mobile phone theft||The Two Town police on Tuesday arrested a police constable Raju, presently working in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, on charges of stealing a mobile phone recovered in a theft case in 2018. Police sources said that Raju allegedly stole a mobile phone that was recovered along with other stolen property in a case, while working in the Two Town police station in 2018. The police conducted a detailed investigation into the case as per the court order and arrested Raju on charges of theft of mobile phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constable-arrested-for-mobile-phone-theft/article32017847.ece
08 July 2020||M. RajeevHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS brings curtain down on the old Secretariat complex||The curtain has come down on the old Secretariat complex that has been the centre of administration since the liberation of Hyderabad State, with the government starting demolition of the buildings and paving the way for construction of a state-of-the-art new complex. The Secretariat complex has a long history since it started functioning from the days of first Chief Minister of Hyderabad State Burgula Ramakrishna Rao in 1952. The same complex was retained as seat of administration even after the formation of Andhra Pradesh in 1956 when Neelam Sanjiva Reddy became the first Chief Minister of the united State. Stalwarts like Damodaram Sanjivaiah, P.V. Narasimha Rao, Marri Channa Reddy, N.T. Rama Rao and Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy besides N. Chandrababu Naidu functioned from the complex over the past six decades. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao too operated from the same premises, although for a brief while, before he started convening official meetings at Pragathi Bhavan. Ten blocks The old Secretariat complex has 10 blocks including the G-block Sarvahita or the Saifabad Palace of the erstwhile Nizams spread over 25.5 acres land. It has a total constructed area of 9.16 lakh sq.ft with D block constructed in 2003-04 occupying 2.46 lakh sq.ft area. Two other buildings, the L block built in 1984 and the J block (1990) too have large plinth area of 1.89 lakh sq.ft and 1.46 lakh sq.ft respectively. The other blocks too were spacious with the plinth area of A block measuring 46,500 sq.ft, B (36,750 sq.ft), C (55,800 sq.ft), H south (59,870 sq.ft), H north (79,828 sq.ft), K block (55,427 sq.ft). Telangana was given four blocks A, B, C and D with a total area of 3.81 lakh sq.ft post-bifurcation in 2014 while the successor State Andhra Pradesh was given the two H blocks, J, K and L blocks with 5.31 lakh sq.ft area. Though it could keep the possession of the portion of Secretariat allotted to it till 2024 in accordance with the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act 2014, the Andhra Pradesh government headed by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy handed over the buildings to the Telangana government a few months ago. The G block in particular has been historical, though it failed to secure the Heritage Monument status, as it had been the seat of administration for more than a dozen Chief Ministers right from 1952 when Burgula Ramakrishna Rao took over the reins. The block continued to be the centre of administration till the mid-1990s with former Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao being the last Chief Minister to run the administration from the block after his return to power in 1994. The G block, constructed during the period of sixth Nizam Mahbub Ali Khan and used for general administration purposes by seventh Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan, had been neglected after former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu shifted the CMO to C block. The old H block and D blocks were demolished during Mr. Naidu’s period and the new D block was inaugurated in 2004 and the H north and south blocks in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-brings-curtain-down-on-the-old-secretariat-complex/article32017841.ece
08 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Not more than 50 persons for weddings’||District Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath on Tuesday reiterated the COVID-19 protocol, and said organisers of marriages and functions should limit their overall attendees to 50 persons. “All such events, including funeral ceremonies and meetings by political parties, should be reported to respective DSPs for prior approvals,” he said. He appealed everyone to exercise caution in the wake of rising coronavirus cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/not-more-than-50-persons-for-weddings/article32017843.ece
08 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Heeding advice, farmers discard maize for this season||About four years ago there was lack of rains and groundwater levels fell down drastically. The then Irrigation Minister and now Finance Minister T. Harish Rao had appealed to the farmers not to grow paddy as it requires more water and due to its shortage the crop may wither. The officials had also made a sustained campaign that resulted in positive response from farmers, who discarded paddy for that particular season. Similar is the response from the farming community again this time. As part of regulated farming, which has commenced from this season, the authorities campaigned in villages and asked the farmers not to grow maize this time. Farmers were also asked to go for fine variety of paddy, which will have good demand in the market. In all the three districts — Siddipet, Sangareddy and Medak — unanimous resolutions were passed by the farmers to follow the suggestions made by officials. Mr. Harish Rao held meetings with farmers and officials in this regard and urged them to educate farmers on the loss they would incur if maze is sown and how the crop will get damaged once there are heavy rains. Agriculture extension officers visited almost every village and interacted with farmers. They explained the advantage of regulated farming and how it is aimed at growing crops that would be in demand in the market. This has shown its impact on farmers who have been thinking on the lines suggested by the government. Maize crop used to be grown in 1.7 lakh acres in Siddipet district followed by about 30,000 acres each in Medak and Sangareddy districts. Now the officials claim that it will get reduced as majority of farmers opted for crop diversion. However, the official figures are yet to emerge as sowing season is continuing still. In Siddipet district the sowing of maize was limited to less than 4,000 acres so far followed by less than 1,000 acres in Medak district. “We are yet to get the exact figures of maize cultivation. The farmers are clearly understanding the disadvantage of growing maize and crop diversion has been taking place,” District Agriculture Officer B. Narasimha Rao told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heeding-advice-farmers-discard-maize-for-this-season/article32017845.ece
08 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Public hearing may spread COVID-19: AIAWU||All India Agriculture Workers Union (AIAWU) Zaheerabad branch has urged authorities not to conduct public hearing on land acquisition for National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) stating that it can be held after the COVID-19 pandemic situation comes to normalcy. In a virtual meeting held at Zaheerabad on Tuesday, union chief Ramachander said that coronavirus has been spreading very fast and a large number of farmers from 14 villages in Nyalakal mandal and from three villages in Jarsangam mandal and five tandas may attend the public hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/public-hearing-may-spread-covid-19-aiawu/article32017846.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Stage set for a new Secretariat complex||The acquisition would help the State government make the 20-acre land a perfect rectangle for the construction of the new administrative complex while the remaining little over five acres would be allotted for parking, canteens, cafeteria and other facilities. The demolition of the existing Secretariat follows the go ahead given by the High Court for construction of the new Secretariat complex. The government has taken into consideration the report submitted by the technical committee consisting four engineers-in-chief which made a detailed study of the existing structures in the old secretariat complex. The committee has come to a conclusion that there was no scope for altering/modifying the existing structures in respect of fire safety or other requirements. There was no scope for making some of the existing blocks including A, B, C. D, H (north), J and K fire safety compliant and these blocks could not be accessed by fire tenders in the event of a mishap. In addition, none of the buildings has meeting hall which could accommodate more than 150 persons at any given point of time. There was no grand foyer or the reception area while the parking too was haphazard. Security for the VIPs and VVIPs was one more area of concern as a majority of these blocks have single entry/exit making it difficult to provide foolproof security to VVIPs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stage-set-for-a-new-secretariat-complex/article32017850.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Hanging wonder||pic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hanging-wonder/article32017834.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Fight face forward||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fight-face-forward/article32017821.ece
08 July 2020||Mumbai,||Revenue collection through excise drops by 50%||The Maharashtra government has earned only Rs. 2,400 crore through excise duty since May 4, which is almost 50% lesser than the expected revenue during this period. As per data from the State’s Excise Department, ever since the lockdown was announced in March, the State has lost Rs. 7,000 crore in revenue. Excise Commissioner Kantilal Umap said since May 15, when the government allowed home delivery of liquor, 29,88,090 deliveries have been completed across the State. “The state has received Rs. 2,400 crore in revenue till now, since the sell of alcohol began on May 4,” he said. As per the data, the liquor shops across the State are doing around 60,000-65,000 home deliveries daily. “Of these deliveries, 90% are in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The largest share is from the areas within the MMR limits as shops have not been allowed to open yet,” he said. According to officials, the demand for beer and country liquor has gone down considerably leading to a drop in revenue collection. “One of the reasons for the decreased demand for beer is hotels and restaurants have not been opened. Besides, the loss of employment and migration of labour class has resulted in a drop in consumption of country liquor,” an official from the Excise Department said. The official, however, said there has been a growing demand for Indian Made Foreign Liquor. Excise duty is one of the major revenue sources of the State, outside the Goods and Services Tax. According to State Budget 2020-21, the State collected revenues worth Rs. 17,977 crore in 2019-20 as per the revised estimates. According to budget estimates for 2020-21, the State was to earn Rs. 19,225 crore in the ongoing fiscal. The move to reopen alcohol shops had come under criticism after long queues were observed outside the shops despite the lockdown. As a result, the State government allowed online delivery of alcohol from May 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/revenue-collection-through-excise-drops-by-50/article32017773.ece
08 July 2020||Mumbai,||HC stays 62 show cause notices issued by MPCB to textile unit||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday stayed 62 show cause notices issued by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to a textile company. A Division Bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Riyaz Chagla was hearing a petition filed by Reliable Sizing Works, which is engaged in sizing of yarn used for manufacturing grey cloth. The company moved the court challenging the show cause notices issued on May 18 by the MPCB’s regional office in Nashik. The company was given 15 days by the MPCB to submit an adequacy report of pollution control system from NEERI or IIT Bombay and also the no objection certificate issued by the city engineer of the corporation to operate in the said location. After it failed to submit the documents, the MPCB issued the show cause notices as to why its application for consent to operate during a pandemic shall not be refused under the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act and the the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act. The advocate appearing for the MPCB said it is not possible on the part of a statutory body like the MPCB to simply allow the industrial units of the company to operate despite violation of norms. The company argued that it was operating its industries in a non-conforming zone, and that the notices by the MPCB were illegal and arbitrary, besides being oppressive. There is no violation of any of the conditions imposed while granting consent to operate, the company said. The HC said a prima facie view can be taken that the show cause notices have been issued without jurisdiction, and too hastily. In its eight-page order, the Bench recorded the circular of the MPCB issued on March 1, 2016, regarding implementation of the enforcement policy. The company informed the court that as per the MPCB’s notification on February 9, 2016, the MPCB will carry out a cumulative and comprehensive environmental impact study in appropriate cases to identify various factors responsible for causing damage to the environment through reputed institutions like IIT Bombay, NEERI, etc. to decide remedial and restoration measures. “Refusal of consent or revocation of consent shall be taken up only when there is continued non-compliance in spite of sufficient opportunities and extension of time granted by the MPCB,” the company said. The HC stayed the show cause notices and directed the MPCB to not take any coercive steps against the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-stays-62-show-cause-notices-issued-by-mpcb-to-textile-unit/article32017774.ece
08 July 2020||Mumbai,||Industries stare at a shortage of workers||With only five lakh of the 17 lakh migrant workers, who had left for their home towns during the lockdown, returning to Maharashtra till the first week of July, the State’s industries may struggle to reopen at the pre-COVID-19 strength, thus delaying the revival of the economy. As per data from the State’s Labour Department, the industries are set to face a shortfall of labourers, which needs to be addressed. “According to the State Economic Survey of 2019-20, Maharashtra had a total of 38 lakh migrant workers. During the lockdown, around 17 lakh of them went back to their respective States. So far, approximately only five lakh of them have returned. We are going to suffer from lack of human resource,” an official from the Labour Department said. The State has 36,623 registered factories, with a workforce of 28,54,881. Data updated till June 30 shows that the number of presently working factories is 11,101 and the total number of workers employed with them is only 6,42,557. In Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan, the total number of factories is 5,060, 2,783 and 2,710, respectively. However, only 361, 92 and 239 are operational in there. In Raigad and Palghar, the number of factories is 1,431 and 3,569, respectively, of which 816 and 1,532 are functional. The Mahajobs online portal launched by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday is aimed at providing employment to local youth as the industries are set to face a shortage of workers. “For example, the auto sector in Pimpri-Chinchwad had around seven-eight lakh migrant workers. But majority of them have not returned. So these vacancies are open for local youth,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/industries-stare-at-a-shortage-of-workers/article32017775.ece
08 July 2020||Mumbai,||UGC to be added as respondent in plea against decision on exams||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to reply to the plea stating that it has no power to decide and announce the mode of assessment of marks for final year students. It also directed that the University Grants Commission (UGC) be made a party in the case. A Division Bench of Justices A.A. Sayed and M.S. Karnik was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Dhananjay Kulkarni (61), retired teacher. Students’ performance The PIL challenged the June 19 government resolution (GR), which cancelled final year exams and decided that degrees would be issued based on students’ performance in the previous semesters. Under the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, only subject experts and the Chancellor have jurisdiction over such a decision, it said. Therefore, the State government has no control over taking the decision about the exam schedule. The PIL said, “Under the said Act, the UGC on April 27 issued a direction to all universities to conduct examinations. Soon thererafter, a student organisation in Mumbai made a representation to the minister in-charge of Higher Education, who postponed the exams and later cancelled.” According to the GR issued on June 19, there are 7,34,516 students of non-professional courses who have been admitted for the last year and 2,89,937 students are admitted for professional courses in the State. The PIL said, “If the State is not going to conduct exams for non-professional courses on grounds of COVID-19, then there is no reason to conduct exams of professional courses.” It also said if the All India Council for Technical Education, Medical Council of India, Bar Council of India and National Council for Teachers Education are asking students to appear for last year exams, then there is no justification for cancellation of final year examination of students admitted in non-professional courses. Academic calendar The PIL also said the GR does not clearly mention when exams will be conducted and when the academic calendar will be over. It therefore urged the court to quash and set aside the GR. The court has asked for the UGC to be added as a respondent in the matter and posted it for further hearing on July 17.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ugc-to-be-added-as-respondent-in-plea-against-decision-on-exams/article32017777.ece
08 July 2020||Mumbai,||State to recruit 10,000 more policemen||Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday announced that the State government is planning to recruit 10,000 more policemen. “In order to strengthen law & order in the State & ease workload of the police force, decision to recruit 10,000 youths in the police shipai category has been taken today at Mantralaya. This will benefit the urban & rural youth, giving them a chance to serve in the police force (sic),” he said in a tweet. Home minister Anil Deshmukh also said 1,384 posts will be created in the women’s battalion and the recruitment will be completed in three phases, by filling 461 posts in each stage. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Cyber Cell issued an advisory alerting netizens about banned Chinese apps in a press note. It said after the government banned TikTok and 58 other popular apps of Chinese origin in India, miscreants are now taking advantage of the popularity of TikTok by promoting malware in its name. The cell warns public at large and says if anyone comes across any message through WhatsApp or SMS that claim that TikTok is now available in India in the form of TikTok Pro, then they must ignore it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-to-recruit-10000-more-policemen/article32017779.ece
08 July 2020||Mumbai,||HC grants 28-day furlough to Arun Gawli||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Tuesday granted a 28-day furlough to murder convict Arun Gawli. A Division Bench of Justices Z.A. Haq and N.B. Suryawanshi was hearing a petition filed by Gawli through his advocate via videoconferencing against an order of the DIG Prisons rejecting his application seeking release on furlough. Gangster-turned-politician Gawli is serving a life sentence at Nagpur Central Jail for murdering Shiv Sena corporator Kamlakar Jamsandekar on March 2, 2007, at his residence in Ghatkopar. Gawli also served as an MLA of the Akhil Bharatiya Sena from Chinchpokli. On August 31, 2012, the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act court convicted him under Sections 302 (punishment for murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), and 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. Gawli’s aides included Sunil Ghate, Suresh Patil, Pratap Godse, Sandeep alias Sandy Gangan, Shrikrishna alias Babu Gurav, Vijaykumar and Anilkumar Giri, Sahebrao Bhintade. The then joint commissioner, Rakesh Maria, and the then deputy commissioner, Deven Bharti, arrested Gurav in 2008. Gurav, was not involved in the murder, but gave vital information to the police and Gangan turned an approver. The police managed to get the duo to record their confession statements against Gawli. The Mumbai Police then established that Jamsandekar’s rival realtors Bhintade and Bala Surve had paid Gawli Rs. 30 lakh to kill the corporator over a land dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-grants-28-day-furlough-to-arun-gawli/article32017780.ece
08 July 2020||Mumbai,||No prescription needed for COVID-19 tests: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided that no prescription or self-declaration is required for COVID-19 testing for symptomatic or asymptomatic individuals. The BMC said the laboratories are free to conduct RT-PCR test for any individual in accordance with the ICMR guidelines. “However, no prescription or self-declaration is required for COVID-19 testing of symptomatic or asymptomatic individuals. Home swab collections for COVID-19 testing (only RT-PCR) are allowed and no prescription is required for the same,” it said. Rapid point-of-care (PoC) antigen detection test for diagnosis along with RT-PCR can be used in containment areas or hospital settings as per ICMR guidelines. The civic body said the laboratory shall intimate positive status of the patients first to the BMC and it shall be the duty of the BMC to further intimate it to the patients. The actual report copy of the positive cases can be shared by the laboratory with patient directly but on subsequent day of intimation to the BMC, only after 11 a.m.. It shall be the duty of every testing laboratory to submit a daily return of opening and closing balance of testing is available with the laboratory along with the line of positive care being submitted to the epic cell of the BMC on a on a daily basis. This shall be mandatory for laboratories to enable the BMC crosscheck if the positive and negative reports have been uploaded by the laboratories on te ICMR portal diligently on a daily basis without any discrepancy whatsoever. All laboratories are hereby directed to submit the report of number of antigen tests conducted in the attached format. It is reiterated that the testing capacity of any laboratory shall be taken as equal to the number of samples which can be processed by a laboratory and submit results to the epic cell, BMC, within 24 hours of receipt of the sample in the laboratory. This shall be treated as actual and real capacity of laboratory to test per day. There shall not be any compromise on this aspect, the BMC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-prescription-needed-for-covid-19-tests-bmc/article32017778.ece
08 July 2020||Mumbai,||Shops can now remain open for two more hours||As part of Mission Begin Again, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday increased the time limit to keep shops open by two hours for all seven days in a week. Shops outside the containment zones can now remain open from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.. Earlier, the time limit was from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.. The decision has been taken with an objective to control the crowd in market areas. The State government has allowed to keep shops open in lanes and market places on P1 and P2 basis in the municipal corporation areas. This will continue to be implemented with additional two hours every day. In rest of the State too, shops can now remain open till 7 p.m.. The local administration, however, is authorised to cancel or modify the order wherever it finds necessary to control the crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/shops-can-now-remain-open-for-two-more-hours/article32017776.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘New Parliament should be visible from roads’||The new Parliament building should be visible from the adjoining roads with public art installed on the corner of the plot and a multi-level parking structure nearby should be considered, the Delhi Urban Art Commission observed while approving the government’s proposal for the project last week. The DUAC recommended that the chambers of the Lok Sabha Speaker and the Rajya Sabha Chairman should have skylights to provide natural light, according to the minutes of the July 1 meeting that were published on the DUAC website on Tuesday. Revised proposal The DUAC said it had considered the project proposed by the Central Public Works Department on June 5 but had sent it back with observations. With the project architect, Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management, addressing the concerns and the CPWD submitting a revised proposal, the DUAC considered and passed it on July 1, with six observations. The new Parliament, proposed to come up on a triangular plot next to the existing Parliament building, should have “public art, fencing, gates of suitable scale, size and material, imparting character and identity to the complex” on the corner adjacent to the Rafi Marg Circle roundabout, it said. The panel recommended that instead of the proposed “scattered” parking around the complex, the local body should consider multi-level facility. This would be to “ensure smooth accessibility and to address environmental concerns”. The parking structure should cater to all users including MP chambers, staff, media, visitors etc, it said. The DUAC also proposed that the height of the building along the periphery of the boundary for security services should be such that the new Parliament building is visible from the street. It also observed that the landscape plan needed to be more detailed and that trees should be planned in such a manner that they provide shade and don’t interfere with pedestrian pathways. While considering the project on June 5, the DUAC had noted that the new and old buildings should be integrated. Old and new “Bearing in mind the fact that the new Parliament is being set in the neighbouring context of the old Parliament building, it was advised to integrate the old and the new Parliament buildings with adequate distance. The inter-spatial space must be defined and detailed not only as a link but also as an important and symbolic space...The elevation design and treatment [of new building] needs to be less overbearing and more representative of the diversity and democratic ideals of a modern India.” It said the new building, which will be triangular in shape, as seen from Vijay Chowk should be “visually scaled to the present Parliament building”. The July 1 meeting, where the plan was approved, was attended by DUAC chairperson Prof. P.S.N. Rao and three members — architects Samir Mathur and Abhimanyu Dalal, and Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry Additional Secretary Kamran Rizvi. Another member, Sonali Rastogi, had attended part of the meeting, but “left mid-way as she had to attend to a prior urgent medical appointment”, the minutes said. Ms. Rastogi put in her papers as a member of the DUAC later that day and it was accepted on July 2. When approached, Ms. Rastogi told The Hindu on Tuesday that she “cannot comment”. The construction of the Parliament building is part of the proposed revamp of the Central Vista. The CPWD has recently invited potential bidders to pre-qualify for the construction project, which is estimated to take 21 months from start to finish and cost Rs. 889 crore, according to the notice inviting bids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/new-parliament-should-be-visible-from-roads/article32017782.ece
08 July 2020||Pune,||Another BJP MLA from Pune tests positive||Another Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader from Pune district announced on social media on Tuesday that he had tested positive for COVID-19. In a Facebook post, Rahul Kul, the BJP MLA from Daund, said while he had tested positive, his close kin and office staff had tested negative. Sources said Mr. Kul was ‘asymptomatic’ and had chosen to quarantine himself at his home in Daund. “On the doctor’s advice, I had done a Covid-19 test and the result came ‘positive’. My condition is stable and I have quarantined myself at home. Despite having taken all requisite precautions, as an elected representative, I had to meet a number of people in order to coordinate, monitor and supervise efforts taken at the local level to combat the Covid-19 pandemic,” the MLA said in his post. The development comes days after another Pune BJP leader and Pune Mayor, Murlidhar Mohol, had announced on Twitter on Saturday last week that he had tested positive. Eight members of the Mohol family, too, have subsequently tested positive. A local Shiv Sena leader, who is a corporator in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), tested positive as well after his reports came on late Monday night. On Saturday last week, Datta Sane, a local leader from the Nationalist Congress Party and a corporator in the PCMC, had succumbed to the virus. Earlier, two BJP legislators — one from Pimpri-Chinchwad and one from Pune city — had tested positive for COVID-19. Meanwhile, the district reported 581 new COVID-19 cases till Tuesday evening as its total cases breached the 30,000-mark to reach 30,425. Of these, 18,395 people had been discharged while there were only 11,135 active cases at present, Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said. As many as 494 of the active cases in the district are in a critical condition. With five more fatalities, Pune’s death toll shot to 895. Given that the district has been seeing an average daily surge of 1,000 cases, the bulk of which were from Pune city, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said the city could well see 20,000 new cases by the end of July. Till date, 142 people from among the PMC staff have been affected with the virus, of whom 70 have recovered. As many as 160 policemen in the district have tested positive for COVID-19 till date, of whom 43 are presently in the hospital while three have succumbed to the virus. The administration on Monday had warned of stringent measures against errant citizens and tightening the lockdown if the curve did not flatten soon. Meanwhile, the death toll in Solapur district — the worst-afflicted after Pune in the division — has climbed to 304, with eight more fatalities reported on Tuesday. The death toll in Pune division — which consists of Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts — has now reached 1,281. Mr. Mhaisekar said Pune division’s total case tally has reached 36,671, of whom 13,342 are active cases, while 22,048 people have been discharged till date. Solapur reported a surge of 160 new cases to take its total cases to 3,371, of whom 1,242 are active. Satara recorded 38 fresh cases as its total case tally rose to 1,372, of whom 504 are active cases. The district’s death toll stands at 55. Sangli reported 25 new cases to take its tally to 520, of whom 237 are active ones, while with 17 new cases, Kolhapur’s total cases stand at 983, of whom 224 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/another-bjp-mla-from-pune-tests-positive/article32017938.ece
08 July 2020||Hong Kong,||China censors Internet in Hong Kong||China has unveiled new powers to censor Hong Kong’s Internet and access user data using its feared national security law — but U.S. tech giants have put up some resistance citing rights concerns. The online censorship plans were contained in a 116-page government document released on Monday night that also revealed expanded powers for police, allowing warrantless raids and surveillance for some national security investigations. The city’s Chief Executive — a pro-Beijing appointee — will have final approval on all applications for interception of communications and covert surveillance operations to do with national security cases. Less intrusive surveillance can be approved by senior police officers. China imposed the law on semi-autonomous Hong Kong a week ago, targeting subversion, secession, terrorism and colluding with foreign forces — its wording kept secret until the moment it was enacted. Despite assurances that only a small number of people would be targeted by the law, the new details show it is the most radical change in Hong Kong’s freedoms and rights since Britain handed the city back to China in 1997. “The Hong Kong government will vigorously implement this law,” Chief Executive Carrie Lam, the city’s Beijing-appointed leader, told reporters on Tuesday. “And I forewarn those radicals not to attempt to violate this law, or cross the red line, because the consequences of breaching this law are very serious.” U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo spoke out against “Orwellian” moves to censor activists, schools and libraries since the law was enacted. “Until now, Hong Kong flourished because it allowed free thinking and free speech, under an independent rule of law. No more,” Mr. Pompeo said. Online obedience With pro-democracy books quickly pulled out of libraries and schools, the government signalled in the document that it would also expect obedience online. Police were granted powers to control and remove online information if there were “reasonable grounds” to suspect the data breaches the national security law. Internet firms and service providers can be ordered to remove the information and their equipment can be seized. Executives can also be hit with fines and up to one year in jail if they refuse to comply. The companies are also expected to provide identification records and decryption assistance. Big tech resistance However, the biggest American tech companies offered some resistance. Facebook, Google and Twitter said on Monday they had put a hold on requests by Hong Kong’s government or police force for information on users. Facebook and its popular messaging service WhatsApp would deny requests until it had conducted a review of the law that entailed “formal human rights due diligence and consultations with human rights experts,” the company said in a statement. Twitter and Google told AFP that they too would not comply with information requests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-censors-internet-in-hong-kong/article32017475.ece
08 July 2020||RIO DE JANEIRO,||Jair Bolsonaro tests positive for COVID-19||Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro says he has tested positive for COVID-19 after months of downplaying the virus’ severity. Mr. Bolsonaro confirmed the test results while wearing a mask and speaking to reporters in capital Brasilia. “I’m well, normal. I even want to take a walk around here, but I can’t due to medical recommendations,” Mr. Bolsonaro said. The President has often appeared in public to shake hands with supporters and mingle with crowds, at times without a mask. He has said that his history as an athlete would protect him from the virus, and that it would be nothing more than a “little flu” were he to contract it. Brazil, the world’s sixth most populous nation, with more than 210 million people, is one of the global hot spots of the pandemic. On Monday, Mr. Bolsonaro told supporters in Brasilia that he underwent an X-ray of his lungs that showed they were clean, and that he would be tested for COVID-19. On Tuesday, he told CNN Brasil that his fever had subsided. No masks Over the weekend, the Brazilian leader celebrated the U.S. Independence Day with the nation’s Ambassador to Brazil, then shared pictures on social media showing him with his arm around the Ambassador alongside several Ministers and aides. None wore masks, despite being in close quarters. The U.S. Embassy said on Twitter on Monday that Ambassador Todd Chapman is not showing any COVID-19 symptoms but would be tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jair-bolsonaro-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32017473.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||F-1 visa students cannot take all classes online: U.S.||Foreign students in the U.S., including thousands of Indians, are left facing the possibility of falling out of valid immigration status following a Department of Homeland Security rule about attending online classes. Indian officials raised the issue with their U.S. counterparts on Tuesday during virtual Foreign Office Consultations, as per a Ministry of External Affairs press statement. The U.S. rule, announced by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), an agency within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), says those F-1 and M-1 (non-academic and vocational students) visa holders planning to take only online classes in the fall (autumn) will not be allowed to remain in the U.S. Due to COVID-19, a number of universities are planning to shift all their classes online for the fall semester which normally starts in September. On Tuesday evening (India time), Indian and U.S. officials led by Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and U.S. Under Secretary of State David Hale “discussed ways to further enhance mutually beneficial trade and people-to-people ties, including through visa facilitation for students and professionals,” the MEA statement said. Awaiting guidelines A source told The Hindu that the American officials are “still awaiting implementation guidelines from the DHS, and that they will keep the best interests of the students in mind”. However, the State Department’s readout of Tuesday’s meeting did not make any reference to the student visa issue. With at least 200,000 Indian students in the U.S, the country is the second largest source of foreign students, China being the first. The U.S. announcement comes weeks after U.S. President Donald Trump suspended H1-B highly skilled worker visas through the end of the year. Most of these visas go to Indian citizens each year. “Nonimmigrant F-1 and M-1 students attending schools operating entirely online may not take a full online course load and remain in the U.S.,” the ICE statement said. Those whose colleges and universities were moving to an online only model would therefore have to leave the country or find another way to stay in status. “Active students currently in the United States enrolled in such programs must depart the country or take other measures, such as transferring to a school with in-person instruction to remain in lawful status. If not, they may face immigration consequences including, but not limited to, the initiation of removal proceedings,” the ICE said. This difficult situation for students is exacerbated by the unprecedented disruption to international travel. “They can try to switch to visitor status if they cannot get onto a flight, but that is not a great solution as visitor status is short term and there is no guarantee that it will be approved,” Cyrus Mehta, an immigration attorney, told The Hindu . A temporary exemption for the spring and summer semesters, allowing foreign students to take more online classes than the rules normally permit, would not be extended to the fall semester. Normally F-1 students are allowed to take one class or three credit hours online. “While the justification of the administration is that they are doing this to comply with a regulation that does not allow students in F-1 status to be in online classes, they can easily amend the regulation during this unprecedented pandemic,” Mr. Mehta said. The president of Harvard University, Lawrence Bacow, criticised the ICE’s announcement and its “one-size-fits-all approach to a complex problem”, as per the Harvard Crimson. Harvard had announced that it would allow only 40% of its students on campus in the fall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/f-1-visa-students-cannot-take-all-classes-online-us/article32017482.ece
08 July 2020||Moscow,||Mining giant told to pay $2 bn for Arctic spill||Russia’s state environmental watchdog said on Monday that metals giant Norilsk Nickel should pay an unprecedented $2 billion in damages over a huge Arctic fuel spill. Rosprirodnadzor said it had sent a request for “voluntary compensation” to a subsidiary of Norilsk Nickel, NTEK, estimating the damage to Arctic subsoil and water resources at 147.8 billion rubles ($2.05 billion). Norilsk Nickel’s Moscow-listed shares fell by nearly 5% on Monday evening. Controlled by Russia’s richest man Vladimir Potanin, the company is the world’s largest producer of nickel and palladium. The amount of the fine is equal to a third of its net profit in 2019. A Norilsk Nickel spokeswoman said the company had not yet received the papers from Rosprirodnadzor. Aluminium producer Rusal, which owns 28% in Norilsk Nickel, said it found the size of the fine “unexpected” and “unprecedented,” adding it hoped a board meeting would be convened urgently to discuss the matter. “We are sure that shareholders will be able to jointly find a solution in this difficult situation,” a Rusal spokeswoman said in a statement. A national-level state of emergency was announced after 21,000 tonnes of diesel fuel spilled from a reservoir that collapsed in May outside the Arctic city of Norilsk, polluting huge stretches of river in remote tundra with bright red patches visible from space. ‘Unprecedented damage’ Russia’s Natural Resources Minister said the fine reflected the huge damages caused by the spill. “The scale of the damage to Arctic water resources is unprecedented,” Dmitry Kobylkin was quoted as saying in a statement on Monday. Mr. Kobylkin drew comparisons to one of the worst oil spills in U.S. history — the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill off Alaska which, he pointed out, cost Exxon Mobil more than $5 billion in punitive damages. President Vladimir Putin has said he expected Norilsk Nickel to fully restore the environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mining-giant-told-to-pay-2-bn-for-arctic-spill/article32017479.ece
08 July 2020||Tsunagi,||55 dead in Japan  floods as more troops join rescue mission||Soldiers used boats to rescue residents as floodwaters flowed down streets in southern Japanese towns hit by heavy rain that was expanding across the region on Tuesday. At least 55 people have died and a dozen remain missing. Pounding rain since late Friday in the southern region of Kyushu has triggered widespread flooding. More rain was predicted in Kyushu and the western half of Japan’s main island of Honshu as the rain front moved east. In Fukuoka, on the northern part of Kyushu, soldiers waded through knee-high water pulling a boat carrying a mother, her 2-month-old baby and two other residents. “Good job!” one of the soldiers said as he held the baby up to his chest, Asahi video showed. Tens of thousands of Army troops, police and other rescue workers mobilised from around the country worked their way through mud and debris in the hardest-hit riverside towns along the Kuma River. Rescue operations have been hampered by the floodwater and harsh weather.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/55deadinjapan-floodsas-moretroopsjoinrescuemission/article32017471.ece
08 July 2020||Geneva,||U.S. killing of Iran general unlawful, says UN expert||The U.S. drone strike that killed Iran’s top general Qasem Soleimani was “unlawful”, a United Nations expert concluded in a report released on Tuesday. Agnes Callamard, the UN special rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, concluded it was an “arbitrary killing” that violated the UN charter. The U.S. had provided no evidence that an imminent attack against U.S. interest was being planned, she wrote. The independent rights expert does not speak for the United Nations but reports her findings to it. Her report on targeted killings through armed drones — around half of which deals with the Soleimani case — is to be presented to the UN Human Rights Council session in Geneva on Thursday. The U.S. withdrew from the council in 2018. U.S. President Donald Trump ordered the killing of Soleimani in a January 3 drone strike. Soleimani, a national hero at home, was “the world’s top terrorist” and “should have been terminated long ago”, Mr. Trump said at the time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-killing-of-iran-general-unlawful-says-un-expert/article32017484.ece
08 July 2020||Washington,||Washington, July 7, 2020 (AFP) -||Facebook on Tuesday pledged to take further steps to remove hateful content from its network. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg are set to meet with organizers of a mushrooming advertisement boycottt campaign #StopHateForProfit.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/washington-july-7-2020-afp/article32017477.ece
08 July 2020||Dhaka,||Dhaka, July 7, 2020 (AFP) -||At least six tribal activists were shot dead on Tuesday in an ambush by a rival group in Bangladesh’s Chittagong Hill Tracts, police said. Gunmen attacked supporters of a splinter group of the Jan Sanhati Samiti (JSS) insurgent movement at Bagmara in Bandarban district, about 400 km from Dhaka.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/dhaka-july-7-2020-afp/article32017480.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Police terror and the theatre of law||The murder of Jayaraj and Benicks at the hands of the local police in Sattankulam, Tamil Nadu has provoked national outrage. The bare bones of the incident are widely known. A small shopkeeper is picked up for a trivial offence, taken to the local police station. His son too is detained. Both are mercilessly thrashed. The hospital to which they are taken, admits that they have blood clots all over their body but gives false certificates of fitness. The magistrate remands them to judicial custody without examining their abused bodies, merely waving consent from far away. Within a couple of days, the two succumb to their grievous injuries.  State and the law What does this reveal about the nature of our state and the link between law and violence? The modern state emerged by gathering power dispersed among rivalrous, local strongmen and depositing it in a single set of inter-related institutions, now endowed with a monopoly of force and violence. These institutions were meant to function independently of the ruler — they do not belong to him, are not part of his personal estate. Instead, they work for the entire public. The Jayaraj-Benicks case makes us doubt if such a modern, impersonal state exists in India. It shows first that our political institutions, including the judicial machinery, are far from independent of the will of the rulers; rather, they work at their personal command. Second, local policemen think of themselves as sovereigns in their own little territory, executors of ‘laws’ they invent on the go. At the very least, they believe that they partake in sovereign power, protected by lawmakers sitting higher up. Indian society continues to consist of rival power groups, each with a ‘private’ police force at their mercy, coercing local populations to behave according to rules crafted at will. It is as if the entire country is splintered into little fiefdoms, each believing to have a monopoly of violence. Third, police brutality is a routine, banal feature of everyday life of the poor. The wanton actions of the police are woven into the fabric of daily social interactions. The police uniform plays a symbolic role expressing that anyone who dons it has power, prestige and the backing of the entire official apparatus. This social superiority sanctions extra-legal behaviour that often has the stamp of rampaging criminality. After all, nothing done by the Sattankulam police was by the rule book; everything from the first to the last violent moment was extra-legal. Far from safeguarding the legal from the illegal, the police embraced criminality. Jayaraj and Benicks appeared to be living not in a post-independent constitutional state but under a local police state wrought in the colonial or pre-colonial era. Law as performance Our society is meant to be governed by the rule of law implemented by a state above it, impartially arbitrating social disputes. In reality, it is an arena where everyone fights with all their might over material resources, power, status, ideas, and crucially, the control of the legal machinery. To get the law on your side brings enormous advantage, for once under control, it functions at your pleasure, largely to benefit you. But since democracy requires that the law work for everyone, a performance must be staged to sustain this myth, a make-believe world created for ordinary people that ‘all is well’. The performance of law courts is like theatre or a film that seduces spectators into a reality of its own making. On most occasions, the lower courts are seen to be doing something when in fact they get nothing legally substantive done. They operate but do not really function. The discourse of the rule of law too is often a handy rhetorical ploy. The action of remanding Jayaraj and Benicks to judicial custody exemplified an infirm, callous, judicial system designed to keep up the façade of the rule of law. The magistrate did not even care to properly perform the law. It is of course true that some committed police officers, such as the woman head constable, Revathy, work overtime to maintain the integrity of the force. And whenever people begin to seriously doubt its efficacy, it is, thanks to them, that the law is temporarily allowed to work as it should, impartially, for everyone. But, alas, this happens only until its image as a credible agency is restored. After that, it is once again business as usual. The proper functioning of the legal system then is the exception, the absence of rule of law and the lawlessness of local powers, the norm. Winners at the ballot box appear to earn the right to rule by arbitrary power. They control and regulate whole populations at their pleasure, exactly as the maharajas of yesteryears. Our democracy allows us to elect those to whom we haplessly submit for five years. Not true? Pure hyperbole? The jury on this question is still out. Excessive force Undeniably, any system of law depends on the deployment of force. But its use must be consistent with the dignity of a person. Rule of law requires the presence of constraints on excesses. Excessive violence, for instance torture in pursuit of information and confession, is illegal in most decent societies. Yet Jayaraj and Benicks were victims of a surfeit of unwarranted violence. How does one explain this excessive use of force? Sadly, when a body is broken to bits, and the face disfigured, there is not much left to respect. To mutilate a body is to demean and humiliate it. Excessive violence is meant to convey that the life of the victim is truly worthless. Such humiliation is complete when the dismembered body is made public. The European thinker, Michel Foucault, has argued that torturous spectacles, common in Medieval ages, have given way to punishment in disciplinary institutions isolated from society. Yet, as we know, public lynchings have not disappeared in our own times. Indeed, residual elements of the public display of violence are evident even in the Jayaraj-Benicks case. Flogged in an enclosed public space, their bloodied bodies must have been brought to the hospital in full public glare, then taken to be shown to the public magistrate, and when declared dead, publicly handed over to the family. So, what began as an alleged minor offence turned into a grave crime as the body was slowly ripped apart. With each strike on the bodies by the iron rod, the enormity of their crime rose, the impunity of police action deepened and the warning to others grew louder. Most of all, these mutilated bodies demonstrated the heavy price of dissent. The purpose of brutality In Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu, surplus violence was inflicted with a distinct social and political purpose. In Saturday’s feature article (‘Ground Zero’ page, “When protectors turn perpetrators”, July 4, 2020), The Hindu reported that the day before detention, Jayaraj sympathetically went up to unpaid workers of a shop nearby, asking them to stand their ground, even as an abusive policeman had threatened to punish them if they did not disperse. Upon learning this, the police felt this openly challenged their authority, an act of aggression not just on the state but on their very person. From then on, their wrath knew no bounds. The Hindu also reported that illegal sand mining and the sale of illicit liquor are common in the area. It appears that any form of challenge to a police force that plays a key role in maintaining this corrupt and criminal order had to be dealt with swiftly, harshly. A crack in the system must not be allowed to open further, filled immediately. Authoritarian rule works by fear, brooking no deviation. Jayaraj and Benicks unwittingly made the mistake of questioning the command of the local tyrant. Coming from an ordinary person, how can such a challenge ever be brooked? The Jayaraj and Benicks case shows that without proper rule of law, we are all condemned to live in local tyrannies. How many more lives must we lose before its corrosive impact on our collective life — the loss of freedom and dignity — is acknowledged? Rajeev Bhargava is Professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/police-terror-and-the-theatre-of-law/article32017456.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||More sabre-rattling, more isolation||The Philippines invoked the dispute settlement mechanism of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) in 2013 to test the legality of China’s ‘nine-dash line’ regarding the disputed Spratlys. In response, the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) at The Hague decreed in its July 12, 2016 judgment that the line had “no legal basis.” China dismissed the judgment as “null and void.” The South China Sea (SCS) is important not just to its littoral countries. It has been a transit point for trade since early medieval times, contains abundantly rich fisheries, and is a repository of mineral deposits and hydrocarbon reserves. The PCA verdict The PCA award undermined the Chinese claim. It held that none of the features of the Spratlys qualified them as islands, and there was no legal basis for China to claim historic rights and to the resources within the ‘nine-dash line’. The UNCLOS provides that islands must sustain habitation and the capacity for non-extractive economic activity. Reefs and shoals that are unable to do so are considered low-tide elevations. The award implied that China violated the Philippines Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). It noted that China had aggravated the situation by undertaking land reclamation and construction, and had harmed the environment and violated its obligation to preserve the ecosystem. China dismissed the award as “a political farce under the pretext of law.” Given the power equations, the Philippines did not press for enforcement of the award and acquiesced in the status quo. Not one country challenged China, which agreed to settle disputes bilaterally, and to continue work on a Code of Conduct with countries of the ASEAN. Given that their economic ties with China are deepening, it may appear that the ASEAN countries are bandwagoning with China. In reality, there is growing discontent. While avoiding military confrontation with China, they are seeking political insurance, strengthening their navies, and deepening their military relationships with the United States. Vietnam has added six Kilo-class, Russian-origin submarines to its navy. France, Germany and the Netherlands, respectively, have supplied Formidable-class stealth ships to Singapore, patrol boats to Brunei Darussalam, and corvettes to Indonesia. Japan is partially funding the upgradation of the Indonesian coast guard. Indonesia and the Philippines are in early stages of exploring procurement of the BrahMos missile from India. The other ASEAN countries that have shown interest are Thailand and Vietnam. Growing Chinese muscularity in the SCS is visible in the increased patrolling and live-fire exercising by Chinese naval vessels; ramming and sinking of fishing vessels of other claimant countries; renaming of SCS features; and building of runways, bunkers, and habitation for possible long-term stationing of personnel on the atolls claimed by China. Chinese exploration and drilling vessels compete aggressively with those of other littoral countries in the disputed waters. Petronas has been prospecting for oil in the Malaysian EEZ. A Chinese spokesperson claimed in early June that its own survey vessel in the same area was conducting “normal activities in waters under Chinese jurisdiction.” The festering regional resentment against China resulted in the unmuting of the ASEAN response to the growing Chinese footprint in the SCS at its 36th Summit on June 26, 2020.  China might have overreached by showing its aggressive hand prematurely. There is a growing chorus of protest against China. Having Vietnam, Japan and the U.S. riled up about its actions is nothing new for China. The Philippines and the ASEAN beginning to protest is new, even if their criticism is restrained. This does China little credit, and points to its growing isolation. Indonesia protested to China about Chinese vessels trespassing into its waters close to the Nantua islands, towards the south of the SCS. The Philippines protested to China earlier this year about violations of Filipino sovereignty in the West Philippine Sea. It also wrote to the UN Secretary General (UNSG) in March disputing China’s claim of “historic rights in the South China Sea.” Two months later, Indonesia too wrote to the UNSG on this issue. It expressed support for compliance with international law, particularly the UNCLOS, as also for the PCA’s 2016 ruling. President Rodrigo Duterte said he had not followed up on the PCA judgment because the Philippines could not afford to fight China. Yet, when a Chinese firm bid to develop the Subic Bay, this was disallowed on the grounds that the use of archipelagic waters was exclusively reserved for Filipinos and that foreign investment regulations prohibited foreign equity for the utilisation of marine resources in archipelagic waters. Another recent decision, to extend the Visiting Forces Agreement with the U.S. for six months “in light of political and other developments in the region,” as expressed by the Philippines Foreign Secretary, is a strategic setback for China. Only this June, the Philippines commissioned a beaching ramp on the Pag-Asa Island. A Filipino C-130 landed on its runway, which is being repaired. The Philippines is about to induct its first missile-capable frigate, built in South Korea, into its navy. A complicating factor for China is Russia’s growing military and economic equities in the SCS. Russia and Vietnam have a defence cooperation relationship, which they are committed to strengthening. China has objected to Rosneft Vietnam BV prospecting within the Chinese defined ‘nine-dash line.’ Rosneft has also been invited by the Philippines to conduct oil prospecting in its EEZ. India’s relevant options From India’s perspective, foreign and security policy in its larger neighbourhood covers the entire expanse of the Asia-Pacific and extends to the Persian Gulf and West Asia. India straddles, and is the fulcrum of, the region between the Suez and Shanghai, between West and East Asia, and between the Mediterranean and the SCS. The SCS carries merchandise to and from India. It follows that India has a stake in the SCS, just as China has in the Indian Ocean. India must continue to actively pursue its defence diplomacy outreach in the Indo-Pacific region: increase military training and conduct exercises and exchanges at a higher level of complexity, extend Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief activities, share patrolling of the Malacca Strait with the littoral countries, etc. The Comprehensive Strategic Partnerships that India has concluded with Australia, Japan, Indonesia, the U.S., and Vietnam could be extended to Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand, and Singapore. India must also buttress the military capacity of the tri-service Andaman and Nicobar Command. According to one of its early Commanders-in-Chief, Lt. Gen. Aditya Singh, the manner in which the 368 islands, have been neglected “can only be termed as criminal.” These have immense geo-strategic value, as they overlook Asia’s maritime strategic lifeline and the world’s most important global sea lane. In this time of turbulence, India cannot afford to continue undervaluing one of its biggest assets. Jayant Prasad, a former diplomat, served as Director General of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/more-sabre-rattling-more-isolation/article32017468.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||In stand-off, keeping an eye on the nuclear ball||Despite domestic and external challenges, there is now growing evidence that the People’s Republic of China (PRC) continues to expand its nuclear arsenal, which is worrisome but at the same time, not be surprising. China is pursuing a planned modernisation of its nuclear arsenal because it fears the multi-layered missile defence capabilities of the United States. It is arming its missiles with Multiple Independently Targetable Re-entry Vehicles (MIRVs) capabilities to neutralise America’s missile shield. China’s DF-31As, which are road mobile Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs), are equipped with MIRVs and potent penetration aids. Estimates and what it means The Peoples Liberation Army Rocket Force (PLARF) also fields a range of Medium Range Ballistic Missiles (MRBMs) and Short-Range Ballistic Missiles (SRBMs). The PRC’s ballistic missile tests in 2019 were the highest among the designated Nuclear Weapon States (NWS). China’s Lop Nur was the site of Chinese sub-critical testing since the PRC adopted a moratorium on hot testing in 1996, enabling China to miniaturise warheads and develop new designs that have been progressively integrated into its nuclear arsenal. The PRC also sits on a sizeable inventory of fissile material. China, according to the International Panel on Fissile Materials (IPFM) is estimated to possess 2.9+-0.6 metric tonnes of Weapons-grade Plutonium (WGP) compared to India’s is 0.6+-0.15 tonnes of WGP. China’s expansion is cause for concern because even as the U.S. and Russia are attempting to reduce the size of their respective arsenals, the PRC is on an expansionist mode. The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) observes that China’s nuclear arsenal has risen from 290 warheads in 2019 to 320 warheads in 2020. This increase might not seem large relative to the size of the nuclear arsenal of the U.S. and Russia but it indicates a gradual shift toward a larger arsenal. This presents India with challenges because New Delhi has to contend with a nuclear-armed Pakistan as well. The Indian nuclear arsenal, according to the SIPRI, stands at roughly 150 nuclear warheads with the Pakistani slightly ahead with 160 warheads. The Chinese state mouthpiece, Global Times , has recently called for a 1,000-warhead nuclear arsenal, underlining the motivation of the PLA and the hard-line factions of the Communist Party of China (CPC) to match U.S. and Russian nuclear force levels. While these numbers are important, what is equally, if not more, consequential for New Delhi is what China’s nuclear modernisation and diversified nuclear capabilities are likely to do for conventional military escalation along the China-India boundary. The conventional military balance between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) presents significant challenges for Indian decision-makers. Given the variegated and highly sophisticated nature of Chinese nuclear capabilities relative to India, they give Beijing considerable coercive leverage. Beijing could commit further aggression under the cover of its nuclear arsenal. Indeed, the PRC has already engaged in nuclear signalling with set piece videos, which have been doing the rounds on social media platforms. The message is clear to New Delhi from China’s leadership: we have presented you with a fait accompli ; accept it and move on. Beijing is communicating that an escalatory response from New Delhi will incur punitive responses with China mounting aggressive military action at several points along the LAC. However, this time it will be more consequential, unlike the last in March-April when the Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) mounted a rapid tactical offensive to occupy small territory at Pangong Tso and caught the Indian Army by surprise. Notwithstanding efforts to de-escalate particularly at Patrolling Point 14 (PP-14) in the Galwan River Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, Chinese ground units have consolidated their position in the Pangong Tso area and the entire stretch of the LAC. To be sure, India is doing the same, but the Fingers 4 to 8 in Pangong Tso, where the PLA is entrenched, is a serious potential flashpoint as the Indian Army is locked in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation against its Chinese adversary. It could become a staging ground for further PLA ingress, notwithstanding Indian defensive preparations, triggering hostilities that widen to the Karakoram and Arunachal Pradesh. The Chinese nuclear arsenal could serve as an instrument of coercion under which the PRC could press ahead with a limited aims war. More challenges for India Consequently, Indian decision-makers need to be aware of the PLARF’s land-based missile forces. The PRC is believed to base a part of its nuclear arsenal in inland territories such as in the Far-Western Xinjiang Region, which is close to Aksai Chin. China’s land-based missiles are a primarily road mobile and could play a key role in any larger conventional offensive the PLA might mount against Indian forces along the LAC. Korla in Xinjiang is believed to host DF-26 IRBMs with a range of 4,000 kilometres, which can potentially strike targets across most of India. Their mobility gives them a high degree of survivability. The DF-26 IRBMs can be armed with either a conventional or nuclear warhead. Since the IRBMs could be either conventional or nuclear tipped, assessing Chinese trip-wires will make things tricky as the PLARF’s conventional and nuclear forces are likely to be embedded together, presenting challenges for both the Indian civilian and military leadership. Be on guard Thus, conventional escalation between Chinese and Indian forces along the LAC must factor the role of nuclear weapons and their impact on military operations executed by the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force. India’s Strategic Forces Command (SFC) needs to be on a heightened state of alert to ward off Chinese nuclear threats and brinksmanship as well as geared to support India’s conventional forces. While escalation of the current stand-off between Indian and Chinese forces is not inevitable, it would be a terrible mistake on the part of the Indian government to ignore the possibility, because it might not come from New Delhi but Beijing. Whatever the outcome of the current crisis, New Delhi should start seriously assessing its extant nuclear doctrine and redouble efforts to get a robust triadic capability for deterrence. Harsh V. Pant is Director Studies at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), New Delhi. Kartik Bommakanti is Associate Fellow at the ORF, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-stand-off-keeping-an-eye-on-the-nuclear-ball/article32017460.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Bollywood’s many maladies||The suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput has instigated a discussion on how certain individuals or families control the film industry and often exclude the ‘outsider’. There are allegations that certain powerful elites decide the flow of the industry’s economy and also distribute the privileges without much concern for professional ethics. The allegations go that talented artists suffer due to the “nepotism” in the industry. Sushant’s death has ignited a critical discussion on the many maladies in Bollywood. Dominated by social elites The debate on nepotism also reveals other structural injustices in the industry. There is lack of social diversity in Bollywood films, with technical and artistic units being dominated by the social elites. A discussion on Bollywood’s middle-class bias would also demonstrate that the urban poor are the new neglected ‘outsiders’ in the multiplex business. Such exclusivity has halted the improvisation of cinema as a socially responsible art form. This domination has excluded the poor as the audience and has disallowed Dalits, Bahujans and Adivasis to become an integral part of the film-making process. First, the rhetoric that cinema is the mirror of society is untenable. The mainstream narratives of the films represent the taste and values of the social elites and visibly neglect the life stories of the Dalit-Bahujan-Adivasi world. Instead, popular Bollywood films project the cultural desires and social imaginations of the caste elites while veiling the terrible social realities of the majority of the people. The industry avoids hard questions on caste and social exclusion. Even if such issues are explored on screen ( Sujata , Ghulami , Mrityudand , Manjhi , Article 15 , etc.) the industry has to operate according to the emotive and psychological concerns of the social elites. Marginalised social groups have remained the perpetual outsiders. Second, more than relationships based on nepotism, the economy functions with a conventional culture network and often disallows the ‘outsider’ to enter. Dalits, Bahujans and Adivasis are considered as outsiders because they lack attributes of social networking and also the required ‘niche’ professional skills. Hindi films are written, directed, technically assisted and produced by a dominant set of clan and club members who are mostly social elites. Even film critics, reviewers, historians and scholars on cinema belong to similar sociocultural groups. Film-making is an expensive and competitive market. In the post-liberalisation period, the political economy of Bollywood has changed substantively. Now, corporate capital invests mainly with the popular names for any venture, making cinema production an exclusive enterprise. The privileges and profits of the business are therefore regulated through a well-knit social network that is often based on caste, regional and clan affiliations (often called as favouritism). Such an atmosphere undermines creative instincts and a robust respect for artistic talent. It shows its limitation in breaking the clutch of commercial logic and has failed to produce cinema that can be honoured at the global level for its creative motifs. Even in online streaming shows, mediocrity is visible. Pushing away the poor Third, the poor working class audience is deliberately pushed away from cinema viewing today. Films are specifically made to cater to the tastes of the upper middle-class audiences, especially those who have the capacity to spend three times more than the average film-goer. The multiplex culture has marginalised the single-screen audiences, mainly the poor. Hindi films, which earlier used to entertain and respond to the dreams and values of the average Indian, are now categorically meant to propose specific kinds of surreal narratives (films like Omkara or Gangs of Wasseypur ), likeable mainly to the new middle-class, educated audience. Marathi and Tamil cinema have recently demonstrated that stories with strong social themes, a diverse cast and emotive logic are well appreciated at the box office. However, Hindi cinema has not taken much of a clue from its regional counterparts. Though Bollywood directors such as Anurag Kashyap and Dibakar Banerjee have qualitatively improvised the storytelling conventions on screen, they haven’t democratised the themes and social values that shape stories. Bollywood has not addressed the popular criticisms emerging from historically neglected groups. The concern of caste diversity on screen and behind it has recently been debated within the Dalit circles but it is yet to find a wider deliberative audience. Further, very few think about the avenues to connect the poor audience to the cinema again. When we are discussing the ills of nepotism in Bollywood, these partner maladies also need equal diagnosis so that a more comprehensive cure can be prescribed. Harish S. Wankhede is Assistant Professor, Centre for Political Studies, JNU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bollywoods-many-maladies/article32017465.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Ethiopia’s bloody mayhem||The gruesome death of at least 80 protesters following the cold-blooded murder of Ethiopian political singer Haacaaluu Hundeessaa shows that tensions in Ethiopia continue to fester. The iconic musician, who belonged to the largest but highly marginalised Oromo ethnic community, was killed on June 29. Haacaaluu, a cultural icon, used to sing about the enduring nature of state-sponsored Oromo marginalisation. Unrest since 2015 Since 2015, there have been protests in Oromia, sparked by the decision to extend the administration of the capital into Oromia Region, the territory of the Oromos. They subsequently morphed into a broader resistance against the autocratic Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) regime and left hundreds of people dead. The expression of dissent has become more normalised from 2018. Months after Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn tendered his resignation in February that year, the government lifted the state of emergency and eased its repressive measures. Thousands of political prisoners were released and bans against prominent government critics in the media and other sectors were lifted. The most significant concession was the EPRDF coalition’s decision to appoint the new Prime Minister from the Oromo People's Democratic Organisation (later called the Oromo Democratic Party), one of its constituents. The current incumbent, Abiy Ahmed, the 2019 Nobel Laureate for Peace, is the first Oromo to be appointed to the nation’s highest office in years. Comprising a third of the population, the Oromos are challenging the Tigrayans, who make up a mere 6% but continue to wield political power and influence disproportionate to their number. The Amharas, the second largest ethnic community, have rallied behind the Oromos, setting aside mutual differences, to demand greater political representation and better opportunities. The growing assertiveness of the two numerically largest groups has predictably provoked a backlash from the traditional power elites. Mr. Abiy’s cabinet overhaul and the removal of the heads of the army and intelligence services soon after he assumed office were criticised as targeting the Tigrayans. An inclusive national identity Meanwhile, commentators began to speculate whether the continued eruption of violence was an unfortunate corollary to the new dawn of freedom in 2018. Last November, over 70 people were killed when a prominent media mogul alleged that he was under threat of attack by the security forces. Amid this internecine conflict, Mr. Abiy is keen to promote his version of an inclusive Ethiopian national identity as distinct from the ethnicity-based model of federalism as per the 1995 constitution. To that end, he disbanded the EPRDF, which represented the four major ethnic communities, in November 2019 and launched the Prosperity Party, risking the alienation of not just the Tigrayans but also the Oromos who once backed his ascent. This bold move, and the substitution of the state-driven developmental approach with economic liberalisation, can bear fruit only through a strict enforcement of the rule of law. Last week’s deadly protests following Hundeessaa’s murder symbolise the Oromo’s fury that one of their own should have been cruelly removed from their midst when the traditional fault-lines in Ethiopian society are being redrawn. Mr. Abiy was awarded the Nobel Prize for brokering the historic 2018 peace agreement with neighbouring Eritrea, ending a two-decade military stand-off. His reputation for promoting reconciliation at home would have been tested next month, but that general election has been postponed indefinitely in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. In order to reassure the citizens of Ethiopia, Mr. Abiy must shed the General’s instincts in him that critics suspect. He must expeditiously bring to justice those behind the tragic shooting of Haacaaluu which has led to a bloody mayhem. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ethiopias-bloody-mayhem/article32017463.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Days of disengagement||After two months of stand-off along the LAC, news that India and China are discussing a full disengagement must be welcome relief. But it must be tempered by caution until all details of the plan to de-escalate troops and tensions are clear. The conversation between the Special Representatives, India’s NSA Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, on Sunday, which led to the announcement, has given hostilities a necessary pause. While the statements made in New Delhi and Beijing were not identical in language, they largely conveyed a consensus to restore peace and tranquillity at the LAC. The next step will be to see their agreements carried out and to ensure that Chinese troops withdraw as promised on each of the three points discussed: Galwan, Hot Springs and Gogra. This is easier said than done, as it was during a disengagement verification operation by the Indian troops that the Galwan clash is believed to have occurred. After this, similar exercises will have to be undertaken for other points along the LAC. Disengagement and de-escalation must be accompanied by defined “end-points” for troops to withdraw to, to ensure they do not reoccupy positions vacated. Monday’s statements have also set out a course of engagements — these include diplomatic and military parleys, meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs, and further talks between the Special Representatives. The government should inform the country about the progress as well as considered measures such as “buffer zones”, the patrolling-free period, and the reasons for the decision to pull back Indian troops in the areas of disengagement. The government must also continue to work towards its stated goal of restoring the “status quo ante” or the position of troops to the situation in April, before the mobilisation began. Else, Prime Minister Modi’s strong words at Leh last week will have little meaning. With disengagement under way, there are other important steps to consider. This was the first time the LAC has seen such casualties in over four decades, and the governments cannot put aside the violent Galwan clash. For this a full inquiry is needed of the build-up to the clash and the circumstances surrounding the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers. The government must consider whether it will continue its course of economic counter-measures against China, including the banning of apps, investment restrictions, and an import slowdown. There is also the question of whether high-level contacts, such as the informal summit between Mr. Modi and Chinese President Xi will be resumed; the leaders have not communicated directly during this crisis. As a process to restore peace begins, restoring “status quo ante” in bilateral trust may be more difficult for the foreseeable future. But, in small steps over time, India and China must return to a more balanced relationship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/days-of-disengagement/article32017448.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Late entrant||Rapper and hip hop star Kanye West has announced that he will join the U.S. presidential race in November, a move that would in theory position him as a challenger to incumbent Republican President Donald Trump and Democratic rival and former Vice-President Joe Biden. Mr. West has earlier alluded to having presidential ambitions, including when he explicitly indicated, at the 2015 MTV Video Music Awards, his interest in standing for elections in 2020, and in November 2019, when he spoke about a bid in 2024. Nevertheless his latest declaration — as a vague Twitter post to “realise the promise of America by trusting God, unifying our vision and building our future” — is a bolt out of the blue considering that Mr. West is a self-confessed admirer of Mr. Trump, has no known formal party affiliation or comprehensive policy agenda, and would have to scramble to file the paperwork necessary to get on to the ballot in the less than four months left to Election Day. Little surprise then that his announcement has elicited more confusion than enthusiasm, barring the case of Tesla Inc. CEO Elon Musk who promised Mr. West his “full support”. Even in the country that has seen a movie star, Ronald Reagan, rise to the highest office in the land, the idea of a rap artist with zero political experience entering the Oval Office must appear far-fetched to many Americans. There are two interpretations of this odd turn in the presidential campaign. The first relates to a question of tactics. Given the visible West-Trump bonhomie, is it far-fetched to reason that within the campaign Mr. West may serve as an undeclared surrogate for Mr. Trump, perhaps attracting to his campaign significant numbers of undecided or independent voters, even some of minority groups? This might not be so hard to achieve if Mr. West stood for election and, just before November 3, stood down in favour of Mr. Trump, effectively muddying the waters for Mr. Biden. The second is that the age of anti-intellectualism appears to be nearing its zenith in American politics. It is a well-worn adage in the U.S. that people vote based on a candidate’s personality and not their politics. It marks a new phase for this trend if, at this dark hour of racial hatred, physical and economic insecurity on account of the devastating toll of COVID-19, and an accelerating slide in the U.S.’s position as a global leader, the voting American populace is seriously considering placing its faith once again in a property mogul who shot to fame as the star of a reality TV show. The 43-year-old musician with no more than occasional incoherent ramblings to his credit in the field of politics is not the only alternative, however. It is just as well that there is another candidate in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/late-entrant/article32017449.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Non-stop refugee influx||The Union Government is greatly concerned over the continued influx of refugees from East Pakistan into West Bengal. Nearly a lakh of persons have crossed over since January. The Prime Minister has been holding a series of discussions with her senior colleagues as to how best they could be rehabilitated. It was noticed that Bengal had reached saturation point. Six Joint Secretaries visited some States which have agreed to take the refugees for resettlement and had discussions with the authorities concerned on measures to expedite rehabilitation. The States include Bihar, U.P., Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan and Maharashtra. Mr. D. Sanjivayya, Union Minister for Labour and Rehabilitation, had talks with his junior Ministers and the Ministers of State in the Home Ministry on a crash programme for quick resettlement in the six States. The Prime Minister is believed to have emphasised that pending permanent rehabilitation arrangements, steps should be taken to provide temporary accommodation. So far, 55,000 persons have been provided temporary accommodation in the States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/non-stop-refugee-influx/article32017462.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||More White-wash. (From an editorial)||The decision of the Army Council in regard to General Dyer does not, we gladly acknowledge, realise our worst apprehensions. On the other hand it cannot be said that the reputation of the British Army for highly civilised ideals of conduct has been vindicated by the decision of its chiefs. We have not as we write the details of the decision but reading between the lines one marks clearly a desire, as in the case of the civil authorities who have had to pass judgment on the conduct of General Dyer, to hasten the obsequies of an unsavoury episode. General Dyer has been found guilty — portentous word leading up to a ridiculous anti-climax — of an “error of judgment”. The Commander-in-Chief’s decision is endorsed and he is not to be offered further employment outside of India. In plain English he is not wanted in the army, though it is not known whether he will be placed on the retired list. That is a small price to pay for a quarter of an hour’s intensive massacre. Human life, especially Indian life, is cheap in these spacious days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/more-white-wash-from-an-editorial/article32017461.ece
08 July 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||England, Windies to debut cricket’s new normal||Batting could well determine which side emerges on top when international cricket resumes after months of coronavirus-enforced lockdown with the first Test between England and the West Indies starting on Wednesday. Both sides have proven pace attacks, with West Indies captain Jason Holder among a bowling unit set to include the likes of Shannon Gabriel, Kemar Roach and Alzarri Joseph as the tourists look to retain the Wisden Trophy they won in the Caribbean last year. England too has plenty of pace bowling options, with veteran new-ball duo James Anderson and Stuart Broad among a group of fast bowlers that also includes the Barbados-born Jofra Archer and Mark Wood. It, like the West Indies, will be captained by a seam-bowling all-rounder in new skipper Ben Stokes, shouldering the burden of England leadership for the first time in the absence of regular captain Joe Root, who is missing the match to attend the birth of his second child. England has no spare batsman in its 13-man squad, with Dominic Bess the lone spinner. Root’s absence weakens England’s batting and puts more pressure on the top-order. West Indies also faces questions over whether its batsmen can give the bowlers enough runs to play with. How the teams are affected by playing behind closed doors remains to be seen.  The teams (from): England: Ben Stokes (Capt.), Rory Burns, Dom Sibley, Joe Denly, Zak Crawley, Ollie Pope, Jos Buttler (wk), Dominic Bess, Jofra Archer, Stuart Broad, Mark Wood, and James Anderson.   West Indies: Jason Holder (Capt.), John Campbell, Kraigg Brathwaite, Shamarh Brooks, Shai Hope, Roston Chase, Jermaine Blackwood, Shane Dowrich (wk), Rahkeem Cornwall, Alzarri Joseph, Kemar Roach, and Shannon Gabriel.   Umpires: Richard Illingworth and Richard Kettleborough; TV umpire: Michael Gough; R eserve umpire: Alex Wharf; Match referee: Chris Broad.   Match starts at 3.30 p.m IST.   I know he'll be at home watching and his phone will always be available if I need him Stokes on Root||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-windies-to-debut-crickets-new-normal/article32017583.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||No crowd, no saliva, no high fives, but yes it’s cricket again||It has always been cricket’s lot to stand for something beyond itself. Sportsmanship, for one. Integrity, for another. Fairmindedness, teamwork — it is an impressive list. Now, as England take on the West Indies in a Test series, the game has more expectations being poured into it. Firstly, as the start of the new normal in international sport. Somehow the ban on the use of saliva on the ball has garnered more attention than the fact that world-class sportsmen will be performing in an empty stadium. But the 74-page booklet has more do’s and don’ts than that. It will not be just fans who would be watching, but politicians, epidemiologists, doctors and administrators from other sports. Secondly, in an atmosphere where many, especially politicians, have to be reminded that Black Lives Matter, and that racism has no place in the world, sport will be pushing us towards the ideal again. This coming together of sport and politics is fortuitous, but not unusual. If all goes well, both will benefit. Sport, out of our lives for so long and racism, in our lives for so long, will both be in focus as they often are when the West Indies play in England. It took the West Indies nearly four decades to rid themselves of the notion that only a white man could lead them in cricket. A campaign to make Sir Frank Worrell captain finally triumphed in 1960-61 and he was an instant success. Influence of sport on society Sixty years later, we still hear stories of casual racism in sport. If we accept that sport is a reflection of society at large, then that is inevitable. Equally, we would like to believe that sport influences society too. When American footballer Colin Kaepernick’s gesture, which put the expression ‘taking a knee’ into common usage, made an issue of his country’s treatment of minorities, it was hailed. The West Indies team might take a knee too at Southampton, where the Test is to be played. Their coach Phil Simmons has said that the team would be wearing the logo of Black Lives Matter (England have decided to do the same), something that would have caused apoplexy in the offices of the MCC (Marylebone Cricket Club) when that body made the decisions. It is a measure of how far cricket has come as a mass movement (even if the number of Test teams is just 12) that such plans do not raise eyebrows anymore. Players acknowledge their responsibility, and the fact that they belong to the wider world. After all, wasn’t it a writer from the West Indies, C.L.R James who wrote: What do they know of cricket who only cricket know? In Beyond a Boundary , published in 1963, James wrote: “English people have a conception of themselves breathed from birth. Drake and Nelson. Shakespeare and Waterloo, the few who did so much for so many, the success of parliamentary democracy…We of the West Indies have none at all. To such people, the three Ws, Ram (Ramadhin) and Val (Valentine) wrecking English batting, help to fill a huge gap in their consciousness and their needs.” Today, the apologetic tone of the colonised stands out. But countries in the West Indies have moved beyond all that. In the 1940s, the great all-rounder Learie Constantine, later to become High Commissioner, was refused a room in the Imperial Hotel in London because of his colour. He took the hotel to court and won the case; it was, says his biographer, an important legal milestone en route to the Race Relations Act in Britain. In the 1950s, Worrell and Clyde Walcott taking their side to a win over Surrey were racially abused by their opponents, Worrell describing the remarks euphemistically as “colourful.” Today there are sensible rules to prevent such things happening on the field of play, but, West Indies and England might have a role to play in highlighting racism outside it. Test cricket hasn’t been played since March 2, when New Zealand defeated India in Christchurch. For fans who had, for long, to make do with re-runs of old matches, the gift of live sport on television is here. The worldwide audience is likely to be much larger than usual for a Test match not involving India! No one knows what shape live sport or racism will take. But for the moment, let’s breathe it in. To paraphrase Auden in another context: Cut off the telephones, prevent the dog from barking with a juicy bone. Test cricket is here, let us rejoice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-crowd-no-saliva-no-high-fives-but-yes-its-cricket-again/article32017579.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chess Olympiad: Anand, Humpy confirm their participation||Already in turmoil, the All India Chess Federation (AICF) suffered another blow when chief selector Grandmaster R.B. Ramesh resigned from the post on Monday. Widely considered a sane voice in the midst of all the confrontation within the federation, it is learnt that Ramesh found it impossible to continue in the highly-politicised environment. Last straw Perhaps, what proved the proverbial last straw for Ramesh were the unsavoury developments ahead of the team for the upcoming FIDE Online Olympiad from July 22 to August 30. In fact, Ramesh’s role assumed significance in the current scenario with the world chess federation (FIDE) President Arkady Dvorkovich choosing to communicate with him on the subject of sending the Indian team to the Online Olympiad, since the term of the AICF office-bearers ended on June 25. Further, AICF is one of the 54 National Sports Federations (NSFs) whose annual affiliation stands cancelled till September 30. The Sports Ministry took the decision recently following a directive of the Delhi High Court. Meanwhile, spearhead Viswanathan Anand and K. Humpy have confirmed their participation in the Online Olympiad. Bharat Singh Chauhan, who leads one of the factions in AICF, received the confirmations from the players.  Before resigning, Ramesh sent the team to FIDE following some changes proposed by both factions. Going by rating rules pertaining to selection, National champion Aravindh Chithambaram came in for B. Adhiban. Former Asian champion Tania Sachdev, originally a reserve in the women’s team, is replaced by R. Vaishali. The Tamil Nadu girl, first-choice as the junior in the team, made way for Divya Deshmukh. The decision to leave out Tania was taken after she failed to meet the AICF selection criteria (for team events) of playing a minimum of nine norm-games over a period of six months. Between October 2019 and March 2020, Tania played only in the seven-round National team championship in February.  The team:   Men: Viswanathan Anand and Vidit Gujrathi, Reserves: P. Harikrishna and Aravindh Chithambaram; Women: K. Humpy, D. Harika, Bhakti Kulkarni and R Vaishali; Junior boys: Nihal Sarin; Reserve: R. Praggnanandhaa; Junior girls: Divya Deshmukh; Reserve: Vantika Agarwal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chess-olympiad-anand-humpy-confirm-their-participation/article32017577.ece
08 July 2020||Hyderabad,||A sprawling Sports City on the anvil||Sports City on a sprawling 100-acre area catering to the needs and aspirations of athletes in different disciplines tops the priority list of the Telangana State government even as it is engaged in drafting a new Sports Policy to be finalised soon. The government is in the process of identifying land and one of the sites shortlisted is at Shamirpet, near the existing Telangana Sports School. Dr. K. Narsaiah, Advisor to Sports Authority of Telangana State, said the whole idea is to ensure that everything that the athletes, associations and administrators ask for about sports is available in one place. Answer for all issues “This Sports City could well be the answer for all issues, including hosting of national and international level camps and tournaments,” he said in a chat with The Hindu . “The other major subject in focus is there should be less government funding for sports and more corporate involvement under Corporate Social Responsibility, with each firm taking care of at least one major discipline,” Dr. Narsaiah said. Referring to the sports quota in government jobs, he said the existing two per cent quota G.O. was issued by the Youth & Advancement Department and it could not be implemented for close to six years. “Now, as mandated, with the General Administration issuing the GO recently, there should be good news for the athletes,” he said. “The first meeting of the Cabinet sub-committee, headed by Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud and attended by Raghunandan Rao, VC & MD, SATS, along with other Ministers, felt it is important to involve all the stakeholders before coming out with the new Sports Policy,” he said. “The policy will also ensure continuity in training from schools to college to international level so that the efforts taken in the formative stages are not wasted,” the official said. Other aspect “The other aspect of the proposed policy is to ensure complete professional back-up in training methods by having sports science wings and international standard equipment, which are now lacking in some disciplines,” the SATS official concluded.  The other major subject in focus is there should be less government funding for sports Dr. Narsaiah Advisor to SATS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-sprawling-sports-city-on-the-anvil/article32017807.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jagshaanbir ready for the next leap||Like every sportsman around the world, it has been quality time at home with family for Jagshaanbir Singh, who is getting ready to join Point Park University in the US. Jagshaanbir, along with his younger brother Akshatbir, was also able to get basketball training from his father Tejinder Pal Singh, in Jalandhar. A junior India player, one of the members of the first batch of the NBA Basketball Academy in the country, Jagshaanbir had done very well to hone his skills in the US with the Golden State Prep in Napa, California, on a scholarship. He has taken the next best step by committing to Point Park Pioneers in Pittsburgh. Great opportunity “It is a great opportunity for me to hone my basketball skills to the next level,” said Jagshaanbir, who will be studying Business Administration and Management. “I will be under the able guidance of head coach Joe Lewandowski and Daryn Freedman at Point Park. They have a very good history of training big men,” said the 7-feet tall Jagshaanbir. His father Tejinder was a national level player, but it was Jagshaanbir who was hungry to make a mark in basketball without being pushed into the game. Passion for the game “It was just the passion for the game that got built within myself. I told my father to train me and see where I could reach. “I have the dream to play basketball professionally,” he said. Understandably, Tejinder Pal is happy with his son’s journey so far. “He wants him to be dynamic and capitalise on every opportunity “to take the next big step”. The NBA Academy in Greater Noida laid a solid foundation for Jagshaanbir to realise his aspirations. “I was lucky to be in the first batch of the NBA Academy. “The scoaches had a wealth of experience of training players in the US and around the world. They gave me a new perspective to the game. “Earlier, though I was tall I lacked skill and agility. They polished my skills and transformed me into a better athlete,” he said.  I was lucky to be in the first batch of the NBA Academy. The coaches had a wealth of experience of training players in the US and around the world. They gave me a new perspective to the game||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jagshaanbir-ready-for-the-next-leap/article32017575.ece
08 July 2020||Chennai,||How to win Ranji? Ashwin finds out||He has been a part of teams that have won the World Cup, the Champions Trophy and the IPL. But for R. Ashwin, the Ranji Trophy title has remained elusive. The India off-spinner has been vocal in recent times about the need for things to change if Tamil Nadu cricket is to improve. During the lockdown, Ashwin has dedicated a new YouTube show to picking the brains of First Class stalwarts on what it takes to win the Ranji. First Class matters “Every young cricketer wants to play the IPL and for the country, but not many realise how important First Class cricket is. I wanted to showcase achievers in First Class cricket and explain how crucial it is,” said Ashwin on what drove him to start the show. The programme has seen the likes of Amol Muzumdar, Wasim Jaffer, S. Ramesh and W.V. Raman, with episodes featuring Parthiv Patel, S. Badrinath and L. Sivaramakrishnan in the pipeline. Speaking about his dream of winning the Ranji Trophy, Ashwin said, “For the last few years we have not done well. The time off allows us to take stock of the situation and start preparing long-term. Cricketers need to take this opportunity to introspect and find a way to better themselves.” An exceptional individual talent — 2016’s ICC Cricketer of the Year — Ashwin highlighted the importance of the collective. “Individual brilliance alone can't help you move up the ladder,” he said. “We need to do well as a team and be in the knockouts regularly.” Tamil Nadu recently secured the services of Kerala’s Sandeep Warrier to bolster its pace bowling, an area of perennial weakness. Ashwin backed the decision and said such a move provides local talent a benchmark to measure themselves against and also helps guard against complacency. Solutions needed “Our league structure needs a rethink because we can't produce fast bowlers on dead pitches,” he said. “We need better wickets and have to come up with new solutions. Maybe we can have a points incentive for bowling out teams and for wickets taken by pacers. “Then you will automatically see livelier wickets and our batsmen will also get better at playing fast bowling. Good bounce helps spinners as well. You can’t do well in Ranji Trophy if you can’t play fast bowling.” On the work needed at the grassroots, Ashwin cited Parthiv Patel’s anecdote on Gujarat sending its Ranji-winning coach back to under-19 cricket to ensure that the assembly line stayed healthy. Tamil Nadu's two Ranji Trophy titles came 33 years apart — in 1954-55 as Madras and in 1987-88. So will another 33-year wait end in 2020-21? Identifying the issues and incorporating the knowledge of those who have done it are certainly the first steps towards that goal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/how-to-win-ranji-ashwin-finds-out/article32017637.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||ATP tweaks rankings||The ATP, on Monday, announced interim adjustments to the tennis rankings that were frozen in March because of COVID-19. Here is a look at what’s new:  The changes: With the tour set to resume in mid-August, the ranking system, which normally factors the 18 best tournament results over a rolling 52-week period, will now cover 22 months (March 2019 to December 2020). The same tournament cannot be counted twice during this period; a player who competed in the Rome Masters in 2019 and plays Rome again in 2020 will count the better of the two results. So, for the remainder of 2020, no player will have fewer points than he currently has in his frozen ranking. Also, points added in 2020 will remain on a player’s ranking for 52 weeks or until the event is played again in 2021, whichever comes first.  What’s different? Normally, rankings are updated weekly by adding results from the previous week and subtracting those from the equivalent week in the previous year. For example, Rafael Nadal, a quarterfinalist at this year’s Australian Open, had finished runner-up in 2019. After adding 360 points from 2020 and subtracting the 1,200 points from 2019, Nadal suffered a net loss of 840 points. So players are under pressure to at least match the previous year’s result. But now, points earned from March to December 2019 will not be subtracted.  The benefits: Players won't feel squeezed because those who cannot, or choose not to, compete in 2020 because of travel restrictions and safety concerns are protected. It will also help the injured. Roger Federer, with three titles and two runner-up finishes since March 2019, will retain all those points earned despite having shut down his season. He has a good chance of remaining in the top-10 when he returns in 2021.  Any downsides? The player fields at tournaments may suffer. With three Masters tournaments and two Majors shoe-horned into a seven-week window across two continents, it won’t be surprising to see players skipping competitions. Nadal, the defending French and US Open champion, can afford not to compete in Paris — an unlikely scenario — and New York and still retain those 4,000 points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atp-tweaks-rankings/article32017586.ece
08 July 2020||London,||Lara’s plan||Batting legend Brian Lara believes West Indies will need to adopt a proactive approach in the series against England, and consider the matches as four-day games as the visitors doesn’t have the firepower to last five days. “They have to hit the road running and stamp their authority on England. “I don’t think they can last five days, so they have to take these games in four days. They have to establish a lead and keep it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/laras-plan/article32017580.ece
08 July 2020||KOCHI,||Bahadur’s long reign ends||With the Sports Authority of India (SAI) not granting him a contract extension, Olympian Bahadur Singh’s 25-year reign as the chief coach of Indian athletics has come to an end. A former Asian Games shot put gold medallist, the 74-year-old’s finest moment as chief coach came in the 2018 Jakarta Asian Games where India won 20 medals, including eight gold. “We will always remember the immense contribution Bahadur made, first as a shot putter of repute and then as chief coach since February 1995,” Adille Sumariwalla, the president of the Athletics Federation of India, said. “The COVID-19 outbreak forced the postponement of Tokyo 2020. He resigned in the wake of the Ministry of Home Affairs’ advisory restricting movement of senior citizens.” Radhakrishnan Nair, the deputy chief coach, is the favourite to succeed him.  Bahadur’s finest moment as chief coach perhaps came in the 2018 Jakarta Asian Games where India won 20 medals, including eight gold||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bahadurs-long-reign-ends/article32017589.ece
08 July 2020||London,||Spurs prevail in dour clash||An own goal by Michael Keane proved the difference as Tottenham Hotspur beat Everton 1-0 in a dour home clash on Monday to move up to eighth in the standings and hand manager Jose Mourinho a 200th Premier League win. In LaLiga, Sevilla beat Eibar 1-0 at home.  The results:   Premier League: Tottenham 1 (Keane 24-og) bt Everton 0.   LaLiga: Levante 1 (Morales 16) drew with Real Sociedad 1 (Isak 12); Sevilla 1 (Ocampos 56) bt Eibar 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spurs-prevail-in-dour-clash/article32017584.ece
08 July 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 hospital in Kolkata allots beds for transgender persons||The West Bengal government-run M.R. Bangur Hospital, a COVID-19-designated facility located in south Kolkata, has earmarked beds for COVID-19 patients belonging to the transgender community. On Monday evening, the hospital admitted its first coronavirus patient — a transgender woman — who worked in a diagnostic laboratory and possibly picked up the infection while collecting blood samples. “This is the first hospital in the entire country to earmark beds for [COVID-19] patients from the transgender community. Two beds each have been earmarked for transgender women and men in the female and male wards respectively,” West Bengal’s Minister of State for Health Chandrima Bhattacharya told The Hindu . “The credit goes entirely to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee,” said Ms. Bhattacharya, “We had merely placed the proposal before her. She is the one who issued the directive.” The Chief Minister holds the Health portfolio as well. Even though Ms. Bhattacharya gave the credit to the Chief Minister, organisations that work for the transgender community insisted that the junior Minister herself was instrumental in ensuring that the hospital admitted COVID-19 patients from the community. ‘A milestone’ “Despite all the court verdicts and the laws, very little has been done for the community at the ground level. Even Mamata Banerjee’s government had done nothing for us all these years, but this decision is a milestone and will go a long way in helping people like us,” said Ranjita Sinha, who runs the Association of Transgender/Hijra in Bengal and who was instrumental in pushing the proposal. “We hope that facility gets extended to other cities in West Bengal and to other States as well,” said Ms. Sinha, who is also a member of the West Bengal Transgender Development Board and is on the National Task Force for the community. Bappaditya Mukherjee, founder-director of the NGO Prantakatha, who was among the first to discuss the vulnerability of the transgender community with Ms. Sinha when the pandemic began spreading in Kolkata in March, said: “As it is transgender people are marginalised. They avoid mainstream hospitals because of harassment and prejudices. So if they test positive for COVID-19, where do they go? “That was a big worry. We are happy that a beginning has been made — what we need now is awareness, so that people from the community know where to go in case they feel unwell.” The transgender woman presently admitted in M.R. Bangur Hospital lives in Prantakatha premises in south Kolkata, since no landlord was willing to rent her accommodation. “She called me from the hospital last evening. She is being taken good care of. She said she was given food and medicines. What more does one need — just some dignity,” said Mr. Mukherjee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/covid-19-hospital-in-kolkata-allots-beds-for-transgender-persons/article32017573.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 07:35 IST,||Sudoku - July 8, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-8-2020/article32018328.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||This Malayalam short film by FEFKA warns against fake casting calls||With incidents of fake casting calls reported in the film industry, Film Employees Federation of Kerala (FEFKA) has started a campaign against such instances of cheating. After introducing two helplines to report dubious casting calls, FEFKA has now brought out a short film to generate awareness about the issue. Act Smartstars Anna Ben and zooms in on a young actor at what appears to be an audition. The short is conceptualised and directed by cinematographer Jomon T. John. “The plan was to bring out a short film that was as succinct as possible to highlight the theme,” says John.Act Smart, which is over a minute-long, features actor Dinesh Prabhakar as the unseen cameraman in the film. Viewers get glimpses of his hand movements. John says Anna was cast in the short as the makers were looking for a popular, young face for wider reach. “And Dinesh has worked as a casting director in a few films such asThira,Luka ChuppiandJacobinte Swargarajyam. So he is someone who knows the role of a casting director,” says John, adding that the short was planned and canned in less than two days in Kochi. Anna says she did not have to think twice to get on board thanks to the “relevance” of the film’s message. “Fake auditions are something aspiring actors must be aware of. Such incidents are giving cinema a bad name. I wanted to tell them (actors) their dreams can be realised but that they also have to know the right channels to go through. That’s the message we have tried to send across,” she says. Actor Mohanlal has given the voice-over forAct Smart,which mentions the helpline numbers introduced by FEFKA towards the end of the video. The film has music by Rahul Raj and is edited by Shameer Muhammed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/this-malayalam-short-film-by-fefka-warns-against-fake-casting-calls/article32017919.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||Pinjra Tod activist has started media trial in her favour: police||Responding to allegations by Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, that Delhi Police Crime Branch has “selectively leaked” certain information about her case to the media, the police told the High Court on Tuesday that it was Ms. Kalita who had started a “media campaign/trial in her favour to gain public sympathy”. The police admitted that it had issued a brief note regarding the case on June 2 as it became necessary for the agency to inform the public that the narrative presented by Pinjra Tod and its affiliate groups was “per se false and fabricated”. ‘Maligning probe’ The police said that Ms. Kalita was attempting to malign and impede the ongoing investigation against her by “peddling a false narrative of political vendetta, State-sponsored pogrom and persecution”. They further submitted that members of the group have taken to social media to present Ms. Kalita and other accused persons as “victims of malicious prosecution by spreading misleading and false information”. The police added that Ms. Kalita and Pinjra Tod have a huge social media presence through which they have been “vociferously trying to impede the ongoing probe against them by trying to gain sympathy and by trying to swing public opinion in their favour”. ‘Selective data leak’ The response of the police came on the direction of the High Court to clarify whether Crime Branch officials had “selectively leaked certain information” regarding allegations made against Ms. Kalita. On June 10, the High Court had restrained the police from issuing any statements or circulating information regarding allegations or evidence collected against Ms. Kalita or other accused. The High Court has posted the case for further hearing on July 9. The order came on Ms Kalita’s petition seeking direction to Delhi Police to not leak any information regarding allegations made against her in the case. She has four FIRs lodged against her connected with the anti-CAA protest in Jafrabad, north-east Delhi riots, and violence in Daryaganj during a protest against the new citizenship law. In her petition, she has alleged that the police was “selectively leaking information” regarding allegations and evidence collected against her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pinjra-tod-activist-has-started-media-trial-in-her-favour-police/article32017739.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||UGC has shown it does not care about our well-being: students||Students’ organisations and teachers on Tuesday hit out at the recommendations of the University Grants Commission (UGC) regarding compulsory conduct of final-term examinations by September end. At Delhi University, where online open book exams are scheduled to start from Friday, deliberations over its conduct were on but no final decision was taken till late evening, said sources. Earlier, the UGC had recommended that exams take place in July, but on Monday it said the deadline has been extended while stating that exams may be conducted in offline mode or a blend of online and offline by September end. DU has been facing flak from several quarters for going ahead with online OBE, especially in light of recent mock tests where several students raised complaints. Student representatives from various groups, including the All India Students’ Association (AISA) and the Students’ Federation of India (SFI) submitted a memorandum to the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), demanding recall of the decision, and suggested alternatives to holding the exam such as taking average of marks of previous years. In their petition, students reiterated issues that will be faced in participating in such exams considering a digital divide. Lack of high-speed Internet and inaccessibility to other resources makes this an “undemocratic and exclusionary” exercise, said AISA. They demanded an immediate withdrawal of the rules regarding the final-term exams. ‘Focus not on students’ “The focus in DU’s OBE is obviously not on academics or students. It is an attempt to push through a software lobby-driven system into the mainstream of the university’s academic life. That is why all statutory processes and discussions have been sidelined to issue diktats,” said DU Academic Council member Saikat Ghosh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ugc-has-shown-it-does-not-care-about-our-well-being-students/article32017763.ece
08 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Rebels ‘elect’ Dhindsa party chief, Akali leadership terms it illegal||A group of rebel Akali leaders on Tuesday elected and declared Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa as president of the Shiromani Akali Dal, the party, however, termed the act “illegal”. Mr. Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and his son Parminder Singh Dhindsa were expelled from SAD for “anti party” activities earlier this year. They had rebelled against the top party leadership, demanding Sukhbir Badal’s (who is currently the party president) resignation to restore the party’s “lost glory”. Parminder Kaur Gulshan, a former Lok Sabha MP, said Mr. Dhindsa’s name for the post of party president was proposed at a meeting and he has been elected as the new chief of the Akali Dal. Former Minister and senior leader Daljeet Singh Cheema, meanwhile, said Mr. Dhindsa had engaged in an illegal act by taking on the nomenclature of Shiromani Akali Dal for his outfit on the directions of the Congress as part of a larger conspiracy against the SAD. “No one can hold a mohalla-level meeting and make a wild claim about replacing a 100-year-old party, fully knowing this is not possible as per the constitution of the party. Mr. Dhindsa has gone his own way as is his right in a democratic set-up. Our only objection is to the fraud being committed by him by taking on the namesake of SAD,” said Mr. Cheema here.  Congress blamed He said it appeared that Mr. Dhindsa had collected a few people at the instance of the Congress. “Both the Dhindsa faction and the Aam Aadmi Party had become social media agents of the Congress. These parties are working at the behest of the Congress to form a grand alliance against SAD. The people will see through this conspiracy and reject them both,” Mr. Cheema said.  No one can hold a mohalla-level meeting and make a wild claim about replacing a 100-year-old party. It is not possible as per the constitution of the Akali Dal Daljeet Singh CheemaSenior Akali Dal leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rebels-elect-dhindsa-party-chief-akali-leadership-terms-it-illegal/article32017766.ece
08 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Police widen search for Dubey||As Vikas Dubey, who allegedly killed eight policemen in a Kanpur village, remained untraceable for the fourth day, the Uttar Pradesh police have spread their search to the western part of the State. According to sources, the Delhi Police Special Cell has also been alerted in case Dubey tries to sneak into the Capital through the Delhi-NCR border. Since Monday, posters carrying his photo are being put at all the toll plazas of the region. Senior officers who have served in Kanpur and neighbouring districts and are now posted in western U.P. are helping their counterparts by providing them inputs on Dubey. A senior officer, who has served in Kanpur, said Dubey could have escaped to Uttarkhand as he had been visiting the hill State and has his hideouts there. “One of his mobile numbers has been apparently traced to Madhya Pradesh. So the police are not discounting the probability of his presence there as well,” he said, requesting anonymity. On Monday, there were reports that Dubey and his aides were spotted in Haldaur police station area of Bijnor in two SUVs. “Immediately, we pressed multiple teams across the districts. Vehicles were checked but it turned out to be rumour,” said Sanjay Kumar, Superintendent of Police (Rural). He said every police post in Bijnor has a photograph of Dubey and policemen of six police station are manning the border with Uttarakhand. Similar urgency was seen not only in neighbouring districts such as Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Amroha and Saharanpur, but also in Agra, which is around 350 km away. Armed policemen in bulletproof jackets could be seen checking vehicles at the toll plazas. Avinash Pandey, Superintendent of Police (Rural), Meerut, said they were working on specific inputs and could not reveal them. Vineet Bhatnagar , SP Shamli, said patrolling and checking has been increased at the Haryana border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-widen-search-for-dubey/article32017771.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi gets respite as active COVID-19 cases fall||As many as 2,008 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,02,831, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 50 more deaths were reported in the past 24 hours taking the toll to 3,165. After the daily new cases nearly touched 4,000 on June 23, it has been below 3,000 for the 11th consecutive day on Tuesday. Of the total cases, 74,217 people have recovered and there are 25,449 active cases. Though the total cases in Delhi have been increasing, the active cases have been constantly decreasing for the past six days from July 1, except for July 6, when there was a spike. The number of active cases was 27,007 on July 1 and has decreased by 1,558 to reach 25,449 on Tuesday. According to the bulletin, a total of 22,448 tests were done in a day, up from the 13,879 tests on Monday. The number of tests per million stood at 35,780, one of the highest in the country. Of the total positive cases, 16,608 people are in home isolation as per the bulletin. Out of the total 15,301 beds, 67.3% (10,298) were vacant on Tuesday. Also, the number of containment zones increased to 454. Meanwhile, an order issued by the Delhi government to hospitals read, “It has been decided to obtain feedback of patients and their willingness to donate plasma at the time of discharge.” The feedback form includes questions such as sanitation in the hospital, quality of food, experience with doctors among others. Another order issued on Tuesday directed all hospitals in Delhi to display flex boards of 12x10 feet at the entry gate with a message to encourage people who recovered from COVID-19 to donate plasma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-gets-respite-as-active-covid-19-cases-fall/article32017758.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU V-C welcomes revised exam norms||Jawaharlal Nehru University Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar on Tuesday welcomed the revised UGC guidelines for the conduct of the end semester examinations. He said the guidelines give an opportunity to the students to write the end semester examinations either offline, online or blended mode following the prescribed protocols/ guidelines related to COVID-19 pandemic. “UGC has permitted the universities to conduct special examinations for those students who are unable to complete their end semester examinations by the end of September. There could not have been a better practical solution. This will help millions of students to complete their academic requirements so that they move on to the next session seamlessly,” Mr. Kumar said. The V-C said at JNU, many schools had already conducted end semester examinations using online platforms and for those who do not have access to the Internet, and are unable to write the examinations, the university would conduct the examinations when they come back to campus depending on the COVID-19 situation. “As universities, we are sensitive to the needs of the students and UGC has taken a step which is proactively supportive of the students,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-v-c-welcomes-revised-exam-norms/article32017761.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||Reinstate ECA quota, artists write to Kovind||Artists, Members of Parliament and lawyers among other concerned citizens have written petitions to the President and Vice-President, appealing for the reinstatement of extracurricular activities quota in Delhi University’s admission, scrapped this year. Classical dancers Biriju Maharaj, Ranjana Gauhar, Sonal Mansingh, Shovana Narayan, Raja Reddy as well as advocate K.T.S Tulsi wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice-President M. Venkiah Naidu in separate letters till last week. “We write to you on behalf of the large community of artistes...,” wrote Kathak Guru Shovana Naryan, appealing to them to reconsider the decision to scrap the ECA quota. “If after years of ‘sadhana’ one cannot even distinguish oneself as the upholder of India’s ancient traditions, as one enters into college, why then would anyone want to put in so many years of sweat and hard work, that the arts demand,” she asked. Raja Radha Reddy in a letter to the V-P suggested ECA trials could be held online, that videos of students graduation performances could be sent or trials could be conducted maintaining social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reinstate-eca-quota-artists-write-to-kovind/article32017760.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC orders probe against doctor for fake papers||The Delhi High Court has ordered the Crime Branch to conduct an investigation into allegations raised against a suspended doctor who was allegedly issuing fake medical certificates to accused, convicts or their family members to facilitate favourable orders of bail or suspension of sentence. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said the inquiry should be conducted by Delhi Police Crime Branch, and by an officer of the rank of Deputy Commissioner of Police. The court also directed the Legal Cell of the Delhi police and the Directorate of Prosecution, the Delhi government, to examine their records and ascertain in how many cases were medical certificates or pathological reports issued by Gajinder Kumar Nayyar in the last two years.  The State prosecution stated that some of the certificates issued by Dr. Nayyar are fake and were issued for the purpose of facilitating the accused or convicts in getting favourable orders and being released from custody. In November 2017, the trial court here had held that a murder accused had managed to get interim bail by “playing fraud in collusion” with Dr. Nayyar. DMC suspension order Subsequently, the Delhi Medical Council (DMC) noticed that Dr. Nayyar has issued radiological report without holding any qualification in the field of radiology. On October 30 last year, the DMC suspended the registration of Dr. Nayyar for a period of 365 days. Despite the suspension, Dr. Nayyar continued his practise and kept issuing medical certificates in serious criminal cases in which the accused were seeking bail or suspension of sentence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-orders-probe-against-doctor-for-fake-papers/article32017740.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||All PDS cardholders to get free ration till Nov.||The Delhi government has decided that all Public Distribution System cardholders will get free ration till November 2020, an official statement on Tuesday read. “The Delhi Chief Minister along with the Food and Civil Supply Minister, Imran Hussain, decided that to mitigate the economic hardship caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the government will continue to provide foodgrains free of cost to the National Food Security [NFS] beneficiaries in Delhi,” the statement read. On June 30, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the free grain distribution scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana will be extended by five months till the end of November, with an additional estimated outlay of Rs. 90,000 crore. In Delhi, under the PDS covered by the National Food Security Act, more than 17.54 lakh households get ration. This scheme benefits nearly 71,40,938 and they get subsidised food grains from the Delhi government, the statement said. Mr. Hussain cautioned the beneficiaries to be aware and not to pay any money for the foodgrains being provided to them as the government has decided to provide the ration free of cost for July-November. “During the lockdown, the Department of Food and Supplies has successfully made all-out efforts towards meeting the food requirements of the poor and vulnerable sections of the city including NFS beneficiaries. Delhi govt had earlier provided entitled ration free of cost to the NFS beneficiaries for April-June also,” he said. The beneficiaries can make a complaint to the respective Assistant Commissioner, Food Supplies Officer or Food Supplies Inspector and they can also complain on helpline number — 1967.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/all-pds-cardholders-to-get-free-ration-till-nov/article32017764.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Prisoners can talk to lawyers via video call’||The Delhi High Court was on Tuesday informed by the prison authorities here that inmates can now consult their private or legal aid lawyers through its videoconferencing facilities. The prison authority’s counsel said that on July 6, a circular was issued which extended the videoconferencing facility earlier available only for consulting legal aid lawyers to all inmates in all the jails to consult their private lawyers. A High Court Bench, taking note of the submission, said it was not going into the details of the circular. “The government should be given free movement in the joints” during the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic, the Bench remarked when the counsel for the petitioners expressed reservations regarding the circular. The counsel for the petitioners argued that there was no clarity in the July 6 circular as to how long it will take to accept a request for videoconference and allotment of a slot for the same. The court, however, said it was not going to interfere with the circular at this stage as it wanted to see how it worked for a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/prisoners-can-talk-to-lawyers-via-video-call/article32017741.ece
08 July 2020||July 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Light and shade||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/light-and-shade/article32017756.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||North body teachers to get special training||In a novel initiative, all 7,500 teachers and principals of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation schools will undergo training to make classrooms accessible and inclusive, the civic body said on Tuesday. As a part of this, they will be instructed on different types of disabilities faced by children, on how to differentiate between mental and physical disabilities, how to ensure class participation, how to promote abilities of such students and how to ensure an accessible classroom. Additionally, after the reopening of schools, large scale testing of all students will be undertaken in order to identify undiagnosed disabilities in order to provide early intervention, the civic body said. This would include testing for learning disabilities and the provision of special classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/north-body-teachers-to-get-special-training/article32017762.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIIMS nursing officer duped of Rs. 34 lakh||A 36-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly duping a nursing officer at AIIMS of Rs. 34 lakh on the pretext of marriage, the police said on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said the accused — Mohammad Sadik Imran — was nabbed from Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh on Monday. The police said the matter was reported to them by the woman at the Mehrauli police station on March 3. The nursing officer said in her complaint that she started talking to him on Facebook in 2018. “He had promised to marry her and take her on a vacation, After winning her confidence, he told her to transfer Rs. 34 lakh as he wanted to start a hotel business before their marriage,” Mr. Thakur said. After the transfer, he stopped talking to her after which she lodged a complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aiims-nursing-officer-duped-of-rs-34-lakh/article32017759.ece
08 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||SAD protests against hike in fuel prices||Mmembers of the Shiromani Akali Dal held State-wide protests against the Congress government on Tuesday, asking it to reduce petrol and diesel prices. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also accused the State government of ration embezzlement and demanded a CBI probe into it. “Once the Punjab government reduces fuel prices by Rs. 10 per litre, we will ask the Centre also to do the same”, said Mr. Badal in Zirakpur. He said he had already written a letter to the Prime Minister to reduce central excise on fuel. “People today hold the Congress government responsible for hike in fuel prices as well as power tariffs because of a series of scams,” alleged Mr. Badal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sad-protests-against-hike-in-fuel-prices/article32017768.ece
08 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Monk, baby add to deaths in Northeast||A 40-year-old Buddhist monk in Arunachal Pradesh and an eight-month-old infant in Meghalaya died on July 6, taking the COVID-19 death tally in the Northeast to 20. Assam leads the table with 15 deaths. Arunachal Pradesh’s Health Secretary P. Parthiban said the monk, from West Kameng district, was undergoing treatment at the Tawang district hospital after returning from Delhi last month. He had renal complications. Meghalaya Health Minister Alexander L. Hek said the infant died hours after being admitted to the North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences on July 6.  Cooperation sought Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday sought more cooperation from residents of Guwahati in view of the “consistently high” number of positive cases. Till July 6, the State recorded 12,522 cases with 4,623 of them active. Almost 22% of these (2,723) were detected since July 4 and Guwahati accounted for 1,927 of them. Among the 598 who tested positive in Guwahati on July 6 were 30 employees in two buildings of State Bank of India’s head office for the northeast. Kamrup (Metropolitan) Deputy Commissioner Biswajit Pegu said the offices were declared as containment zones and sealed. SBI officials said 86 of their employees have so far tested positive across its branches and complexes in the city. The Catholic hospital in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh town was also sealed after 12 nuns, a doctor and a domestic help tested positive for COVID-19 on July 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/monk-baby-add-to-deaths-in-northeast/article32017767.ece
08 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Congress flays DA, DR freeze||The Haryana government’s decision to freeze additional Dearness Allowance for its employees and Dearness Relief of pensioners, invited sharp criticism from the Congress on Tuesday. Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala demanded an immediate withdrawal of the government order. “The anti-employee face of the BJP-JJP government stands fully exposed as it has reduced the due salaries and pensions in such a crisis time. The order will hurt the employees and the pensioners,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/congress-flays-da-dr-freeze/article32017769.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||Plea seeks free grains for Persons with Disabilities||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the government on a plea seeking direction to provide food grains for free to poor persons with disabilities (PWD) as was done for migrant labourers and others during the present pandemic. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan gave the direction on a petition by National Federation of the Blind, an NGO, contending that PWD are neglected when reliefs under various food security measures are implemented as most of them do not have ration cards. The NGO pleaded to ensure that States and Union Territories provide benefits of welfare schemes, like Pradhan Mantri Garib Anna Kalyan Yojana, to PWD also during the COVID-19 pandemic. The plea said under the National Food Security Act, the states and UTs were required to identify the people eligible for foodgrain under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana as well as other priority households. It said under the Persons with Disabilities Act of 1995, a three per cent reservation was provided for all disabled persons in poverty alleviation schemes and this was increased to five per cent under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act of 2016. ‘Neglected by families’ The NGO said most of the PWD are institutionalised as they are neglected by their families and such institutions do not provide an address proof to its inmates and therefore, they are unable to get ration cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plea-seeks-free-grains-for-persons-with-disabilities/article32017752.ece
08 July 2020||New Delhi,||Don’t permit industries till facilities for waste disposal are in place: NGT||Observing that there was an “alarming situation” due to the unscientific disposal of waste, the NGT has directed the CPCB to not permit any new industry having the potential to generate hazardous waste till facilities for disposal are ensured. The green panel also directed CPCB to take five contaminated sites for quick remediation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dont-permit-industries-till-facilities-for-waste-disposal-are-in-place-ngt/article32017742.ece
08 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Employer arrested for attacking staffer||A day after the incident of a massage parlour employee being attacked by her employer came to light, the accused, Rajni, has been arrested. The victim, Sapna, said Rajni provoked her dog to attack her when she went in to ask for her salary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/employer-arrested-for-attacking-staffer/article32017754.ece
