09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||103 deaths, 3,390 new cases in a day; recovery rate hits 29.36%||With a recovery rate now standing at 29.36 %, India on Friday registered 3,390 new COVID positive cases with 103 deaths taking the total number to 56,342 cases and 1,886 deaths. The country currently has 37,916 active cases and so far a total of 16,540 people have been cured. Data from State Health Departments put the nationwide death toll at 1,963 with a total number of 58,895 cases of which 38,354 are active cases. Maharashtra reported 1,089 new patients, taking the total tally to 19,063. The State also reported 37 more deaths, taking the death toll to 731. Gujarat reported 390 new cases, taking its tally to 7,403, while the death toll rose to 449 with 24 more deaths in the last 24 hours. “The recovery rate is continuously increasing which currently means that almost 1 out of every 3 patients who were hospitalised has been recovered/cured. It is noted that on an average, 3.2% patients are on oxygen support, 4.7% of patients are in ICU, and 1.1% patients are on ventilator support,” Joint secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Aggarwal said at the daily press briefing. He added that Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has initiated a multi-centre clinical trial called PLACID trial — “Phase-II Open-Label, Randomised Controlled Trial — to assess the safety and efficacy of Convalescent Plasma to Limit COVID-19 associated complications in moderate disease.” “The study has received approval from the COVID-19 National Ethics Committee (CONEC) on April 29. ICMR has shortlisted 21 institutes for PLACID trial. These include five hospitals in Maharashtra; four in Gujarat; two each in Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh; and one each in Punjab, Karnataka, Telangana and Chandigarh,” he said. The Health Ministry noted that currently there are 216 districts which have not reported any cases till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/103-deaths-3390-new-cases-in-a-day-recovery-rate-hits-2936/article31539510.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT directs LG Polymers to deposit Rs. 50 crore||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Friday directed LG Polymers India to deposit an initial amount of Rs. 50 crore for the damage caused by the gas leak at its plant in Vishakhapatnam, which left at least 11 people dead and affected several others. A Bench, headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, issued notice to the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board, the Central Pollution Control Board and the Union Ministry of Environment, seeking their response by May 18. Site inspection ordered It also constituted a five-member fact-finding committee, to be headed by a former judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, to probe the incident, which happened early on Thursday, and submit a report. The committee was directed to inspect the site “at the earliest”. “The Committee may specifically report on the sequence of events, causes of failure and the persons and authorities responsible, the extent of damage to life, human and non-human, public health and the environment, including water, steps to be taken for compensation of victims and restitution of the damaged property and environment and the cost involved,” the Bench said. ‘Hazardous chemical’ Noting that the styrene gas was defined as a hazardous chemical under relevant rules, it said, “The rules require on-site and off-site emergency plans to ensure prevention of damage. There appears to be failure to comply with rules and other statutory provisions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ngt-directs-lg-polymers-to-deposit-rs-50-crore/article31539518.ece
09 May 2020||PUNE,||16 M.P. migrants run over by train near Aurangabad||Sixteen migrant labourers, who were trying to return to their home State Madhya Pradesh on foot, were killed on Friday when a goods train ran over them between Jalna and Aurangabad districts, nearly 260 km from here. One was seriously injured, while three escaped. All were aged between 20 and 30 and hailed from Umaria and Shahdol districts. They were working at a steel firm in the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) zone in Jalna district. According to the authorities, the labourers left Jalna in Maharashtra at 7 p.m. on Thursday and walked on the road until Badnapur and then moved to the track. They decided to stop after walking around 36 km and fell asleep at the spot. “Around 5:15 a.m. thereabouts, a freight train ran over some labourers in a rail track near Karmad, killing 16 of them. One of them is injured and we are checking with three others who fortunately escaped the tragedy to understand what exactly transpired,” said Mokshada Patil, Superintendent of Police (Aurangabad Rural). According to the Aurangabad police authorities and railway officials at the Nanded division of the South Central Railway (SCR), 14 were killed on the spot, while two died on way to hospital. The incident occurred under the jurisdiction of the Karmad police station in Aurangabad.  Rs. 5 lakh to be paid Chief Public Relations Officer of SCR CH Rakesh said, “The incident occurred even as the loco pilot of the train blew the horn as soon as he noticed the group of people infringing the rail track and also made all possible efforts to stop the train.” The Madhya Pradesh government has announced Rs. 5 lakh as ex gratia for the deceased labourers’ families. PM anguished Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Extremely anguished by the loss of lives due to the rail accident in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. Have spoken to Railway Minister Shri Piyush Goyal and he is closely monitoring the situation. All possible assistance required is being provided.” Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said he had ordered an inquiry into the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-mp-migrants-run-over-by-train-near-aurangabad/article31539520.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||HC seeks clarity on Telangana government’s ‘COVID strategy’||Telangana High Court on Friday sought to know from the State government as to why it adopted the strategy of conducting coronavirus confirmation tests only for persons showing some primary symptoms. Hearing a PIL plea filed by retired university professor P.L. Vishweshwar Rao, the HC said it wanted to know what scientific reasons prompted the government to go for such strategy. Citing press reports, the bench noted that government was conducting COVID tests only on those who have show symptoms like cough or temperature. If the government tackles coronavirus with that policy, the data would not be realistic and reliable to ascertain if the virus was spreading more or under control, the bench noted. “If the number of all coronavirus patients goes unreported, then it seems the the State is juggling with the statistics of COVID patients which will be liking fooling people,” the bench observed. Responding to the bench’s observation, Advocate General B.S. Prasad said he would secure specific instructions on the issue from the government. He replied that the doctors were discharging their duties as per Central and ICMR guidelines. But WHO guidelines do not say that testing should be done only for persons showing symptoms. All primary contacts and close contacts of a person who tests positive should be subjected to diagnostic tests. All of them need to be quarantined, the bench said. “Telangana government should make a reality check. If we do not attempt reality, then we are painting a wrong picture of everyone,” said the Chief Justice. The petitioner’s lawyer Chikkudu Prabhakar told the bench that government was not taking steps to go for testing all persons in containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-seeks-clarity-on-telangana-governments-covid-strategy/article31539767.ece
09 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Govt. tightens border controls||The State government on Friday further tightened border controls to pre-empt what Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan described as a possible third wave of COVID-19 infection from surging over Kerala. Mr. Vijayan said check-post authorities would allow only citizens with entry passes issued by the Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs (NoRKA) to enter the State. They should compulsorily have a travel pass issued by officials of the State or district from which they had commenced their journey to Kerala. Moreover, returnees could not turn up at the border at will and demand entry. They should align their itinerary with the timetable set by NoRKA and report at the entry point at the time of arrival allotted to them. NoRKA pass The State would not allow entry for those who had not registered themselves with NoRKA until the COVID-19 threat receded and lockdown restrictions lifted. The government has banned tightlines and long queues of vehicles at check-posts. Institutional quarantine for 14 days was mandatory for all arrivals. Only pregnant women, senior citizens above the age of 70 and children under the age of 10 have been exempted. However, they have to isolate themselves at home under the strict watch of visiting health workers. Mr. Vijayan claimed that Kerala had flattened the disease curve. It had contained the first outbreak in January and the second one in March. The recovery rate in Kerala was among the best in the world. The favourable indicators should not beguile Kerala into dropping its guard. The State still has 33 epidemic hotspots spread across Kannur, Wayanad, Kollam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Palakkad and Kasaragod districts. Moreover, almost 44% of persons who had entered Kerala in the third phase of the lockdown, an estimated 32,891 returnees, were from high-risk red zone districts in other States. Another 45,000 were on their way to the State. Nearly 19,476 of them were from epidemic hotspots. The spectre of a community spread loomed. The police would guard quarantine centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-tightens-border-controls/article31539814.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||No further danger, says NDRF||The clouds of vapour emitting from the styrene monomer tank in LG Polymers at R.R. Venkatapuram here have substantially come under control, and NDRF experts leading the containment operations say that it will take 24 to 48 hours more to declare it as a totally safe zone. Eleven persons died and over 350 admitted to various hospitals following the gas leak in the early hours of Thursday. ‘Don’t believe rumours’ Experts from the CSIR - National Environmental Engineering Research Institute and a specialised team from the NDRF 5th Battalion in Pune have arrived and are working in tandem with the company officials and the district administration to contain the emissions on a war-footing. “We cannot specify the percentage of containment, but we can assure that there is no further danger. But it may take 24 to 48 hours to declare it a safe zone. We advise people not to believe in rumours and create panic situation,” said Zahid Khan, Commandant of the NDRF 10th Battalion that was heading the operations. About 500 kg of para-tertiary butyl catechol (PTBC) was flown into the city in a special cargo flight from Gujarat. “This chemical will stimulate a reaction to solidify the liquid styrene monomer inside the tank. Once solidified, there will be no formation of vapour, and hence there shall be no emission of any kind of gas or vapour,” said Mr. Zahid Khan. To gain the confidence of the people living in the vicinity, the NDRF conducted a rally on Friday. Panel begins probe Meanwhile, the high-power committee constituted by the State government to probe the matter began preliminary investigation. The committee comprised Neerab Kumar Prasad, Special Chief Secretary - Environment and Forests; R. Karikal Valaven, Special Chief Secretary - Industries & Commerce; V. Vinay Chand, Collector and District Magistrate, Visakhapatnam; R.K. Meena, Commissioner of Police, Visakhapatnam; and Vivek Yadav, Member Secretary, AP Pollution Control Board. The committee will submit its final recommendations within one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-further-danger-says-ndrf/article31539507.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court asks States to consider online sale of liquor||The Supreme Court on Friday left it open for the States to consider online sales and home delivery of liquor during the COVID-19 lockdown to facilitate physical distancing. Dismissing a petition filed against a government circular of May 1, allowing direct contact sales of liquor, a three-judge Bench left it to the discretion of the States to create a mechanism for online purchase and home delivery. “It shall be open for the State government concerned to consider non-direct sale, including online sale/home delivery of liquor, to facilitate social distancing,” the court said. In his petition, Guruswamy Nataraj said, through his counsel Sai Deepak and Anindita Mitra, that there were 70,000 liquor vends and shops nationwide, and over five crore people had purchased liquor from them. He said there had been a palpable rise in COVID-19 cases since these shops were opened. Mr. Deepak argued that the nationwide lockdown had blunted the virus graph, but the decision to resume liquor sales would hamper the fight against infection. He sought a fresh order to prohibit liquor sale through direct contact during the lockdown or till the National Disaster Management Authority declared India out of the grip of the contagion. The Union Home Ministry on May 1 announced a “limited” lockdown with the classification of districts into various zones based on risk. The sale of liquor and tobacco was allowed in some areas after a six-foot physical distancing was ensured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supreme-court-asks-states-to-consider-online-sale-of-liquor/article31539514.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vardhan for a mix of curbs and relaxations||In an exclusive interview to The Hindu , Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said lockdown has repercussions for economy, society and psychology. “Given the diversity of a country like India, it becomes essential to use this extreme strategy very judiciously,” he said. He cautioned that any relaxation in the lockdown should not damage the gains in disease containment. “It would suffice to say that we need an optimal mix of relaxations and restrictions so that disease control continues along with nil or minimal impact on economy,” he said. As for the worldwide rush to find a vaccine for the novel coronavirus, he said four treatment options had so far been identified — Remdesivir; Lopinavir/Ritonavir; Lopinavir/Ritonavir with Interferon beta-1a; and Chloroquine/Hydroxychloroquine. “International trials have been started to assess their relative effectiveness against COVID-19. By enrolling patients in multiple countries, the World Health Organization’s Solidarity Trial aims to rapidly discover whether any of the drugs slows disease progression or improves survival. Further, 7 candidate vaccines are at clinical evaluation stage, while 82 others are at pre-clinical evaluation stage,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vardhan-for-a-mix-of-curbs-and-relaxations/article31539512.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Bar and restaurants can sell liquor for 10 days||For the next 10 days, bars and restaurants, clubs, and board and lodging facilities can sell liquor at the MRP to clear their existing stock. An order by the Excise Commissioner on Friday stated that alcohol can be sold between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. from May 8 to May 17. The establishments will be allowed to sell till their stock is exhausted or until May 17. However, those establishments in containment zones will not be allowed to open.  The Hindu on Friday had reported that the State government was going to take this decision to help these establishments clear their stocks. However the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association, Karnataka, have been asking for permission to operate regularly. The 10-day ease on liquor sales is applicable only for takeaways. Only sealed bottles can be sold. Owners have the option of selling alcohol directly to customers or to retail shops with CL 2 licences. There are 3,600 bars and restaurants, 250 clubs, and 1,400 board and lodging facilities in Karnataka. The Excise Department, in its order, stated that they can only sell old stocks and cannot procure any new ones. Furthermore, establishments in malls and supermarkets cannot open for business. Wine boutiques will be able to sell wine while Metro Cash and Carry can sell alcohol under the same conditions. Only five customers will be allowed to enter at a time and they will have to maintain a minimum distance of six feet from each other. Both the customers and the employees have to wear masks and sanitise their hands regularly. The department has threatened to suspend or cancel licences of those establishments that fail to follow the rules. As beer is best consumed within six months from the date of its brewing, the stock that remains unsold will have to be destroyed. The move has been welcomed by owners of hotels and restaurants and customers. Madhukar M. Shetty, secretary of the Karnataka State Hotel and Restaurants’ Association, said that on an average each restaurant had a stock of liquor in the range of Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 20 lakh. “We will not be making any profit by selling the liquor. We only want to make sure that it does not go to waste. The amount we earn from selling the liquor will help us meet the cost for paying salaries to our staff,” he said.  No permission for microbreweries  Microbreweries will not be allowed to sell beer or any other liquor. An official of the Excise Department stated that their beer is not sold in sealed bottles but by glass or pitchers. However, many owners of microbreweries say that they are in a tough spot as the beer they have brewed may get spoilt if there is a delay in the lifting of the lockdown. Currently, there are 62 microbreweries in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bar-and-restaurants-can-sell-liquor-for-10-days/article31539555.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. tally goes past 6,000 with 600 new cases||Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases surpassed the 6,000-mark as 600 persons tested positive for the disease on Friday. Chennai recorded 399 new cases. The State’s total of COVID-19 cases now stands at 6,009*. Chennai’s count goes up to 3,043. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the increase in positive cases was no cause for panic as it was the result of “aggressive testing”. He added that three persons died due to COVID-19 in the State — two in Chennai and one in Tirunelveli. A 78-year-old man from Tambaram, admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on April 30, died at 9 p.m. on May 7. He had co-morbid conditions. The second patient, a 56-year-old man from Chennai, was admitted to RGGGH on May 6 and died at 11.50 p.m. on May 7. An 83-year-old resident of Tirunelveli, who had co-morbid conditions and was very sick, was admitted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on May 6 and died at 2.30 a.m. on May 7. The Minister said the State’s mortality rate was 0.68%. As on Friday, the State has reported a total of 40 deaths due to COVID-19. The fresh cases were reported from 18 districts. Apart from Chennai, Tiruvallur had 75 new cases, Cuddalore had 34 cases and Chengalpattu 26 cases. There were 21 cases in Villupuram, 11 in Tiruvannamalai, eight each in Kancheepuram and Kanniyakumari, four in Tirunelveli, three in Virudhunagar, two each in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Madurai, and one each in Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi, Theni, Tirupattur and Tiruchi. Another 30 children aged 0 to 12 tested positive in the State. A total of 58 patients were discharged, taking the number of patients discharged in the State to 1,605. “Today alone, we have tested 13,980 samples. So far, we have tested 2,16,416 samples through RT-PCR. This is the highest testing number in the country. A bigger State like Maharashtra, that has more cases, has tested 2,02,105 samples as of Friday morning,” the Minister said. The reason for testing more was because the State had the highest number of testing facilities in the country — 36 in the government and 16 in the private sector, he added. “We are testing persons with severe acute respiratory infection and even those with common cold/cough. We are testing contacts of positive patients, and also pregnant women five days before their expected date of delivery,” he said. The State was providing comprehensive treatment for the patients — symptomatic treatment, Indian system of medicine and prescribed diet, he said, adding: “The Union Health Minister conducted a meeting via video-conferencing to analyse the situation in the State. He appreciated certain best practices in T.N. such as good public health system, low mortality rate, increased testing and uploading of data online. He said he would take this forward to other States.” Explaining home monitoring of COVID-19 patients, he said in hospitals, 80% of patients were asymptomatic. About two to three per cent had symptoms of cough, fever and breathlessness. “As per the Centre’s guidelines, asymptomatic patients can stay at home provided they have a separate room. So, those who have no symptoms, have no co-morbidities but have tested positive for COVID-19 can stay at home as per doctor’s medical advice. If needed, a chest X-ray will be taken ,” he said. He added that the government would ascertain if the person has adequate facilities for home monitoring such as a separate room with attached bathroom, and space for maintaining physical distance. The government would provide a kit for patients under home isolation. It would contain information on the dos and don’ts for patients and their caregivers, diet chart, masks, zinc and vitamin tablets, kabasura kudineer and nilavembu kudineer , soap and hand sanitiser, the Minister said. He added that the government had increased bed strength in hospitals to 29,000 and had allotted funds to further increase capacity. “We will continue to increase bed strength, which is adequate as of now,” he said. He emphasised the need for protecting vulnerable sections such as the elderly, those with hypertension, diabetes, persons undergoing dialysis, cancer patients and tuberculosis patients and those with immune-compromised conditions. He called for community participation. (* This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-tally-goes-past-6000-with-600-new-cases/article31539597.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.S. special envoy urges India to talk to Taliban||India should discuss its concerns on terrorism directly with the Taliban, said U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad, adding that he had discussed how India could play a “more active role” in the Afghan reconciliation process, during his talks in Delhi on Thursday. “India is an important force in Afghanistan and it would be appropriate for that [India-Taliban] engagement to take place,” Mr. Khalilzad told The Hindu in an exclusive interview. The envoy said India had a “significant role” in Afghanistan’s development, but paradoxically, doesn’t play a role in the international peace efforts. ‘Historic ties’ “India and Afghanistan have historic ties, and I believe that dialogue between India and the Taliban is important,” he added. This is the first time the U.S. has publicly suggested an engagement between India and the Taliban. New Delhi, that still considers the Taliban a terror group allied to Pakistan, has thus far distanced itself from any talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/us-special-envoy-urges-india-to-talk-to-taliban/article31539516.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Deliver Babri case verdict by Aug. 31: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday directed a CBI court trying senior BJP leaders for the Babri Masjid demolition to deliver the judgment by August 31, 2020. Prominent BJP and Sangh Parivar leaders like L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti are accused of criminal conspiracy which led to the demolition of the 16th century Babri mosque by kar sevaks in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. A Bench led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman took cognisance of a letter from CBI judge S.K. Yadav through videoconferencing and said, “... given the original time frame and the extended time frame, the effort must now be to complete the proceedings and deliver judgment latest by August 31, 2020.” The Bench said Mr. Yadav should take advantage of videoconferencing facility to complete the evidence in the trial and wind up the case.  Extended deadline In July last year, the apex court had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to give an extension of tenure to Judge Yadav so that he could complete the trial in the over 25-year-old cases. The apex court had also extended the two-year deadline given to the trial judge. In 2017, the apex court had invoked the maxim, ‘Let justice be done though the heavens fall,’ to flex its extraordinary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution to bring the cases to justice. The apex court had transferred the Raebareli case, languishing in a Magistrate court, to the CBI Court in Lucknow for a joint trial. It had ordered the Lucknow CBI Judge to hold day-to-day trial and pronounce the judgment in two years. It had forbade the transfer of the judge and also adjournments. The Raebareli case accuses the BJP and Sangh Parivar leaders of having given speeches that promoted enmity and threatened nation’s integrity. The Lucknow case, investigated by the CBI, is against “lakhs of unknown kar sevaks” and deals with the actual act of demolition and violence. With the clubbing of the cases and revival of the conspiracy charge, the accused leaders would be tried under the composite chargesheet filed by the CBI on October 5, 1993.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deliver-babri-case-verdict-by-aug-31-sc/article31539719.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,||With 48 cases, Karnataka sees biggest rise in a day||Karnataka saw a record daily increase in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, with 48 new ones. Eleven of them are children, and 24 women. With this, the State’s tally of confirmed positive cases has touched 753. Of the new cases 14 are from Davangere alone. As many as 12 cases were reported from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada, 11 from Hirebagewadi and Kudachi in Belagavi, seven from Bengaluru Urban, three from Chitradurga, and one from Ballari. In Bengaluru Urban, the seven cases are from containment zones — Shivajinagar [4] and Padarayanapura [3]. In Padarayanapura, the cases were detected through random testing. Addressing presspersons, S. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, insisted that there was no link between the lockdown relaxation and the increase in cases. “Yes, there has been a spurt in cases but all are contacts of previous cases in containment zones,” he said. Following complaints that senior specialists, specialists, and teaching faculties are not attending to COVID-19 patients in their hospitals, the Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), Jawaid Akhtar, has issued a circular stating that the Medical Superintendent of the Medical College and the District Surgeon will be nodal officers for the overall administration of the hospitals. They have been directed to prepare a duty roster and ensure that the specialists and teaching faculties perform duties on a rotation basis. Another circular has also been issued on making free lab services available to the public, under the National Free Diagnostic Services – National Health Mission, at all government healthcare facilities. If services are not available in government labs, the tests should be done at private labs at the government’s cost, the circular stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-48-cases-karnataka-sees-biggest-rise-in-a-day/article31539551.ece
09 May 2020||Belagavi,||Muslim girl embraces Lingayat sect||Sri Shiva Basava Swami of the Virakta Mutt in Hukkeri has welcomed a Muslim girl into Lingayat sect, in Hukkeri. The girl went through a short ceremony to be ordained a Lingayat on Thursday. Her husband, a Lingayat, was present. The seer gifted her with an Ishta Linga, a Chouka and a saffron shawl in which the Linga is draped and tied around the neck. The seer told The Hindu that the 24 year-old-youth, who came from a family of devout Lingayats, had fallen in love with the Muslim girl and married her a few weeks ago. But the boy’s family was insisting that the girl convert to Lingayat sect before she was accepted in the family. The boy’s uncle told him about the issue and the seer suggested that the girl would be accepted into the Lingayat faith. The ceremony was carried out with only three persons inside the mutt who maintained social distancing, the seer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muslim-girl-embraces-lingayat-sect/article31539749.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,||HC orders closure of all liquor shops||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the State government to close all 3,850 liquor shops run by the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) since the official machinery had failed to ensure adherence to physical distancing norms by customers, who thronged shops on Thursday. Justices Vineet Kothari and Pushpa Sathyanarayana modified an order passed by them on Wednesday, permitting the government and Tasmac to reopen liquor shops, and ordered that henceforth no liquor shop should remain open until the lockdown to fight COVID-19 was lifted. The latest order was passed on a batch of cases filed by various litigants including Makkal Needhi Maiam, led by actor Kamal Haasan. The court, however, permitted the government to introduce online sale of liquor and home deliver the bottles after making necessary amendments to the Tamil Nadu Liquor (Licence and Permit) Rules of 1981. It said that Tasmac could deploy its 30,000 contract employees and even outsource some and utilise them for home delivery of liquor after ensuring that they comply with all safety protocols. When the court expressed its disappointment over the government not having even tested its earlier suggestion to implement online sale of liquor, Tasmac pointed out that online sale was not feasible because the 1981 rules do not permit such sale. To this, the judges replied that the government should have thought of these things before deciding to reopen the shops. Penning the order, Justice Sathyanarayana expressed dismay over the court-imposed conditions as well as executive instructions on maintaining physical distancing norms, restricting the quantity of liquor that could be sold to each customer and selling liquor to people of different age groups at different hours of a day having been thrown to the winds on Thursday. The Bench said that media reports regarding flouting of physical distancing norms in liquor shops was startling. It also recorded that the government had conceded that there was a mad rush at liquor shops on Thursday, since they were opened after a gap of 41 days, and that it was beyond the control of policemen and others to ensure maintenance of physical distancing norms. “Now what worries this court is this mad rush for liquor will only lead to... new clusters as opined by epidemiologists and public health experts. It has been warned by experts that the next seven days will witness doubling of COVID-19 [cases] for which reason the lockdown has been announced,” the court observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-orders-closure-of-all-liquor-shops/article31539601.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Gas leak: toll mounts to 12||One more person who was affected by the gas leak at LG Polymers died in Vizianagaram on Friday, taking the toll to 12. Eleven persons died on Thursday, a couple of them soon after being admitted to KGH in a critical condition. “The other 306 victims who are undergoing treatment at the King George Hospital are recovering. There are no further casualties,” Andhra Medical College (AMC) Principal P.V. Sudhakar told The Hindu on Friday evening. Of the 306 patients, 52 are children aged between 3 months and 15 years. Ten persons, who included three children, are being treated in the ICU. Around 50 victims are being treated at a few private hospitals. BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana visited the children’s and other wards and interacted with the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gas-leak-toll-mounts-to-12/article31539506.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 2 deaths, 338 new COVID-19 cases||Two deaths and 338 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Friday, taking the total number of deaths to 68 and cases to 6,318, according to the Delhi government. Of the cases, 2,020 people have recovered and there are 4,230 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-2-deaths-338-new-covid-19-cases/article31539716.ece
09 May 2020||Lucknow,||Take back changes in labour laws: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has demanded that the U.P. government take back its decision to exempt businesses and industries in the State from most of the labour laws for three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/take-back-changes-in-labour-laws-priyanka/article31539718.ece
09 May 2020||Gurugram,||Muslim workers return to Gurugram unit||Half-a-dozen Muslim workers returned to work at a garments unit based in Udyog Vihar Phase-III in Gurugram on Friday, a day after The Hindu reported that several of them were turned away citing their religion and told to wait till “there were orders from the higher-ups”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muslim-workers-return-to-gurugram-unit/article31539717.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Auto, taxi drivers queue up for compensation||Lack of communication on the part of the government and rumours on social media resulted in chaos on Friday as drivers stood in long queues outside post offices to send letters to the Deputy CM requesting that he transfer Rs. 5,000 into their accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/auto-taxi-drivers-queue-up-for-compensation/article31539553.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,||HC fiat to State govt. on migrants’movement||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to spell out a rational policy to give clarity to migrants workers on how they will be allowed to travel to their home States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-fiat-to-state-govt-on-migrantsmovement/article31539554.ece
09 May 2020||DHARWAD,||Random sample survey in COVID-19 hotspots||Following a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases after relaxation during Lockdown 3.0, the State government has decided to hold random sample survey, Minister B. Sriramulu has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/random-sample-survey-in-covid-19-hotspots/article31539751.ece
09 May 2020||Chennai,||T.N. to order 10 lakh more RT-PCR testing kits||Tamil Nadu is ordering 10 lakh more RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) testing kits to ramp up testing across the State. According to officials of the Health Department, the State presently has 1.2 lakh such testing kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-to-order-10-lakh-more-rt-pcr-testing-kits/article31539598.ece
09 May 2020||Chennai,||1,589 cases linked to Koyambedu cluster||The Koyambedu cluster has led to a surge in COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu. The cluster that has spread to more than half of the State accounts for 1,589 positive cases — both index and contacts — as of Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1589-cases-linked-to-koyambedu-cluster/article31539600.ece
09 May 2020||Chennai,||State govt. to bear travel cost of migrants||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to bear the travel expenses of migrant workers, in case the labourers or their native States are not able to pay for the special trains, when arranged. Food and water will be ensured for the travellers, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-to-bear-travel-cost-of-migrants/article31539602.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘PM should talk to CMs as a colleague’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to work with the Chief Ministers as a colleague. “If we speak fairly, the situation we are in today is not a normal situation. So, we can’t have a normal solution. We need to decentralise and take it to the district level. Then we will win. If we keep it in the PMO, we will lose the fight. The PM should talk to the CMs more, not as a boss but as a colleague,” he said. Addressing the media, he said: “In the Congress party, we have been having discussions internally. We are now into a lockdown for 45 days and we are beginning into a bit of problem. There is this feeling that we need to immediately get this package for small and medium businesses, help migrants and exit the lockdown.” ‘Not the time to criticise’ “These suggestions are in the spirit of helping the government. The Central government needs to give a sense of transparency about their plan or action. The government needs to tell the people these are the criteria that needs to be ticked off and then this is what we will do,” said Mr. Gandhi. “This is not the time to criticise and I won’t do it. We need to get out the situation we are in right now. If you ask any businesses, they say our supply lines that run through red, orange and green. But there is a problem there. We need to restore these chains,” he added. “I would urge the Prime Minister to treat the States and district magistrates [DMs] to treat as partners. We have been talking about cash transfers. Migrants need the money now. There are pushes and pulls with regard to the migrant workers. Start implementing NYAY and put it in 50% of the households. It won’t cost much.” “PM Modi has a style and that’s all right. But in such a situation, I would want many strong CMs, strong DMs and a strong PM working together. For example, these zones of red, green and orange. Our CMs say what they think is green has been marked red by the Centre. So, there is a mismatch between what the States think and the Centre marks,” he added. The Congress Chief Ministers have said they are not getting funds from the Centre, said Mr. Gandhi. As the visibility of Mr. Gandhi grows, he indicated that his return as Congress chief continued to be a “closed chapter”. “Please see my letter from a year ago,” he told a reporter when he was asked if he would return as party president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-should-talk-to-cms-as-a-colleague/article31539447.ece
09 May 2020||Bhopal,||Accident victims were battling hunger||“Please send us some money. We don’t have anything left. Even the contractor is refusing to pay us. What should we do? We will die of hunger and thirst,” were the last words Krishnawati Singh recalled from her husband’s phone conversation at 9 p.m. on Thursday, as he dispiritedly trudged along railway tracks in Maharashtra hoping to reach his village home, some 800 km away. Back home in Maman village of Madhya Pradesh’s Umaria district, landless and without even a head of cattle to sell or borrow money on, Ms. Singh was helpless. “He stepped out in the first place as we barely had anything to eat here; how could we send him anything,” asked a disconsolate Ms. Singh, her voice barely audible over the phone line as she fought to stifle sobs of despair. At 5.15 a.m. on Friday, a freight train ran over Ms. Singh’s husband, who along with three villagers from Maman and several others of Shahdol district, was sleeping on tracks. The group from M.P. had been overcome by exhaustion after having walked along the tracks for kilometre after endless kilometre after having set off from Jalna. With days left to walk, they had likely hoped to resume their weary march after daybreak. At another house in the village, Devwati Singh said she had managed to send her husband Rs. 1,000 from savings, to facilitate his return. “I had told him to come back when the trains resumed. But he didn’t listen,” she said, her voice trailing off. Not paid for two months at a steel factory in Jalna district, the men had approached their contractor for a bus to help them return home, she said. “But the contractor disappeared after that,” recounted Ms. Devwati. Now, only Arjun Singh, her brother-in-law, can support the family of two. “At present, we are surviving on 15 kg rice procured through ration shops,” said Mr. Arjun, 23. Pointing out that poverty and lack of local jobs drove the villagers away to hunt for work, Bhagwati Singh, the sarpanch, said, “They also don’t get much work under MGNREGA here”. At Antoli in Shahdol district, Rajkumar Singh said he had lost six cousins in the incident — three of them married, with the youngest only 23. “There are no employment opportunities here. And my family can live off our five acres of farms for only three-four months,” he said. He had last heard from his cousins on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/accident-victims-were-battling-hunger/article31539460.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Deliver Babri case verdict by Aug. 31: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday directed a CBI court trying senior BJP leaders for the Babri Masjid demolition to deliver the judgment by August 31, 2020. Prominent BJP and Sangh Parivar leaders like L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti are accused of criminal conspiracy leading to the demolition of the 16th century Babri mosque by kar sevaks in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. A Bench led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman took cognisance of a letter from CBI judge S.K. Yadav through videoconferencing, and said, “We are cognisant of the fact that Shri Yadav is making all efforts in order that the trial reaches a just conclusion. However, given the original time frame and the extended time frame, the effort must now be to complete the proceedings and deliver judgment latest by August 31, 2020.” Extended deadline The Bench said Mr. Yadav should take advantage of videoconferencing to complete the evidence in the trial and wind up the case within the slotted time. In July last year, the Supreme court had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to give an extension of tenure to Judge Yadav, who was scheduled to retire on September 30, so that he could complete the trial in the over 25-year-old cases. The top court had also extended the two-year deadline given to the trial judge. In 2017, the top court had invoked the maxim, ‘Let justice be done though the heavens fall,’ to flex its extraordinary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution to bring the cases to justice. Joint trial The Supreme court had transferred the Rae Bareilly case, languishing in a Magistrate court, to the CBI Court in Lucknow for a joint trial. It had ordered the Lucknow CBI Judge to hold day-to-day trial and pronounce the judgment in two years. It had forbade the transfer of the judge and also adjournments. Any grievances, the Bench had said, should be addressed to the Supreme Court. Its directions had to be complied with in letter and spirit, the court cautioned. The Rae Bareilly case accuses the BJP and Sangh Parivar leaders of having given speeches that promoted enmity and threatened the nation’s integrity. The Lucknow case, investigated by the CBI, is against “lakhs of unknown kar sevaks” and deals with the actual act of demolition and violence. With the clubbing of the cases and revival of the conspiracy charge, the accused leaders would be tried under the composite chargesheet filed by the CBI on October 5, 1993.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deliver-babri-case-verdict-by-aug-31-sc/article31539483.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Phase-2 trial with three drugs offers hope||A phase-2 trial involving participants with mild to moderate COVID-19 illness found no detectable virus within an average seven days of starting treatment with a three-drug regimen compared with 12 days in people in the control group. Samples tested for the virus comprised nasopharyngeal swab, posterior oropharyngeal saliva, throat swab, and stool samples. Clinical improvement was also significantly better in those who received the three-drug regimen. Complete alleviation of symptoms was achieved in four days in the intervention group and eight days in the control group. The average hospital stay was also significantly shorter (nine days) in participants who received the three-drug therapy than in the control group (14.5 days). The three-drug regimen was found to be safe. Analysis of secondary outcomes revealed that 52 participants in the intervention group who started treatment less than seven days after onset of symptoms showed better clinical and virological outcomes than in the control group consisting of 24 participants. The trial was carried out in six public hospitals in Hong Kong between February 10 and March 20. The team of researchers was led by Prof. Kwok-Yung Yuen from the University of Hong Kong, and the results were published in The Lancet . The safety and efficacy of the three-drug regimen have to be tested in a phase-3 trial involving more people. Randomly assigned The 127 participants were randomly assigned to either the intervention group or a control group. The intervention group had 86 participants and the control group had 41. Participants in the intervention group received oral lopinavir-ritonavir, ribavirin and injectable interferon beta-1b, while the control group received only lopinavir–ritonavir. Treatment in both groups started within seven days of symptoms showing up. Lopinavir-ritonavir is used for treating HIV, ribavirin for treating chronic hepatitis C virus, and injectable interferon beta-1b is used by multiple sclerosis patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/phase-2-trial-with-three-drugs-offers-hope/article31539464.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Lockdown can’t continue forever, it’s an extreme social distancing step’||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan says the lockdown cannot continue forever and that it is an extreme intervention to break the chain of transmission. “Lockdown has great repercussions for the economy, society and psychology,” he says. Worldwide, seven candidate vaccines are at a clinical evaluation stage, while 82 are at a preclinical evaluation stage, which include those developed by six Indian firms.  How long can we continue with the lockdown, physical distancing and delayed transmission in the absence of any treatment? Also, are there any frontrunners for the WHO solidarity trials? It is true that in the absence of treatment, social distancing measures cannot continue forever to restrict the transmission. Lockdown is an extreme social distancing intervention available to break the chain of transmission. This does not destroy or kill the virus but is an important measure that flattens the peak of the epidemic, slows the growth of the epi-curve and provides time to the health and social systems to mount a response. Lockdown and social distancing, when supported with public health measures such as case detection, contact-tracing, isolation and management of cases, help in containing the disease effectively. At the same time, a countrywide lockdown has socioeconomic implications, in addition to the health-related issues. Given the diversity of a country like India, it becomes essential to use this extreme strategy very judiciously. As regards the frontrunner for solidarity trials, based on evidence from laboratory, animal and clinical studies, four treatment options were identified — Remdesivir; Lopinavir/Ritonavir; Lopinavir/Ritonavir with Interferon beta-1a; and Chloroquine/ Hydroxychloroquine, which are under consideration. International clinical trials have been started to assess their relative effectiveness against COVID-19. By enrolling patients in multiple countries, the solidarity trial aims to rapidly discover whether any of the drugs slow disease progression or improve survival. Further, seven candidate vaccines are at clinical evaluation stage, while 82 others are at preclinical evaluation stage, which include those developed by half a dozen Indian firms also. Is the government recommending opening of certain areas because of the economic considerations, knowing that the virus hasn’t peaked yet in India and the Prime Minister has said it will happen in June-July? Any decision on its relaxation after continuous imposition has to take into consideration the wide diversity in the country and such relaxation should be done in a way that it does not damage the gains in disease containment during the lockdown. At this stage, it would suffice to say that we need an optimal mix of relaxations and restrictions so that disease control continues along with nil or minimal impacts on the economy. Keeping this in mind, while devising the strategy of dividing the country into three zones, green, red and orange, identifying the containment regions in red zones, as well as identifying possible relaxations in various zones, we are making sure that the disease situation is monitored regularly at various levels and the situation does not deteriorate. India seems to have a peculiarly large number of asymptomatic patients. How will we manage this group now in the absence of aggressive testing that is being proposed for this period? An asymptomatic case is a person infected with COVID-19 virus, as confirmed by laboratory test, but does not develop symptoms. Asymptomatic transmission refers to the transmission of the virus from a person having disease without any symptoms. There are few reports of laboratory confirmed cases that are truly asymptomatic, and as on date, there has been no documented case of asymptomatic transmission. However, this does not exclude the possibility that it may occur. Asymptomatic cases have been reported as part of contact tracing efforts in some countries. A patient develops symptoms when the viral load is high in the throat and nose and the diagnosis of infection can best be made using RT-PCR test when a patient reports symptoms. Almost 80% patients tend to report no or very mild symptoms and such patients may not even report such mild symptoms when they occur in isolation. Any carrier of infection can pose challenges in containing the transmission of COVID-19 to others. However, all those who are contacts of any lab-confirmed case are advised home isolation and to maintain safe physical distance. Identification of all the asymptomatic cases will require repeated testing of our 130 crore population, which is a resource-expensive and time-consuming exercise for any country and is neither possible nor recommended because of its feasibility. Where does India stand in terms of infrastructure to manage a surge in cases? India stands at a reasonably good position in terms of infrastructure to manage a surge in cases. I would like to inform that 80% of the infections are mild or asymptomatic, 15% are severe infections requiring oxygen and 5% are critical infections that may require artificial ventilation. The more important thing is oxygen supply, which is needed in 20% of the cases, 15% through masks or cannula and 5% through a ventilator. As of now [May 6], the status in dedicated facilities identified by Central Ministries, States and UTs is: Total number of 2,41,505 isolation beds (excluding ICU beds), total ICU beds are 27,663, total oxygen-supported beds are 88,753 and ventilator-supported beds are 19,257. In addition, several domestic manufacturers for ventilators have been identified and orders for 60,848 ventilators have been placed, which will be received in a phased manner in May and June.  How will we manage when the lockdown ends and people come out and transmission hits again? It is a fact that the COVID-19 outbreak has placed unprecedented demands on our already overburdened health system. However, given the current scenario and crisis posed by COVID-19, our health facilities and workforce are currently busy with lots of activities related to it. Resources available with other government departments have also been pressed into action.  ... as on date, there has been no documented case of asymptomatic transmission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-cant-continue-forever-its-an-extreme-social-distancing-step/article31539468.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘India should talk to Taliban, discuss terror concerns directly’||India should begin a dialogue with the Taliban, says U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad , adding that he had discussed India’s possible future role in Afghanistan’s reconciliation process with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval during a short stop in New Delhi on Thursday. In an interview, Mr. Khalilzad said his mission was building support for the full implementation of the U.S.–Taliban agreement. Edited excerpts:  It is rare for anyone to be travelling during the coronavirus lockdown, let alone high officials. Tell us what brought you to the region, and how your meetings went? The mission is to encourage movement towards the implementation of the U.S.–Taliban agreement signed at Doha in February. Part of the confidence building measures leading to intra-Afghan negotiations, is that both the Taliban and the Afghan government have to release prisoners on both sides. Secondly that there must be a reduction in violence compared to the period before the agreement was signed, and thirdly, that in order to get lasting peace and bring the long war in Afghanistan to an end, we should open the door to negotiations for a political roadmap and a permanent comprehensive ceasefire. The territory of Afghanistan must not be used against the United States, our allies and in fact the world. So peace for Afghanistan, and security for the world from Afghanistan, are our two goals, and I was encouraged by my meetings on this trip. International support for peace in Afghanistan is important and Indian support in particular was the focus of my mission [to Delhi]. Is the focus on India’s role just lip service? India is not at present involved in any of the regional formats that are currently discussing Afghanistan’s future… That’s an excellent question, because this is a paradox, that on the one hand India has such a significant role when you look at the development of Afghanistan and India has such a long history with the people of Afghanistan. But when it comes to international efforts, India does not yet have the role that it could. Part of that may have been a choice to pursue its role bilaterally, but I think as the peace process gets more serious, and the U.S.–Taliban agreement goes into the next stages, we want India to take a more active role in the peace process, and that was a key focus of our discussion in Delhi. Did you also discuss the possibility of India opening direct, public talks with the Taliban during your meetings, something India has rejected thus far? It is for India to decide its role, but I do think engagement between India and all the key players in Afghanistan, not only in terms of the government but also in terms of political forces, society and the Afghan body politic, is appropriate given India’s regional and global position. India is an important force in Afghanistan and it would be appropriate for that [India-Taliban] engagement to take place. Has India expressed a desire for a role beyond humanitarian assistance, economic and reconstruction, in terms of mediation, or more security assistance? We did discuss what kind of future role India might want to play. When it comes to the peace process, I can tell you India is considering a more active role, and we in the U.S. are supportive of India’s engagement in the international process. Specifically, could India help in the current impasse within the Afghan polity, in particular between President Ghani, and former CEO Dr. Abdullah? India has good relations with several leaders in Afghanistan and like the U.S., India supports the end of the political crisis in Kabul to bring about a more inclusive government. I am encouraged by the decision of the political leaders: President Ghani, Dr. Abdullah, (former) President Karzai, and other leaders to form an inclusive negotiating team. I found that India and the U.S. are on the same wavelength with regard to the resolution of the internal political crisis and the establishment of an inclusive government. The U.S.-Taliban deal is being seen in India as a deal for withdrawal, not a peace deal. There are concerns that this is not an Afghan owned and led agreement, there is no ceasefire, no Taliban commitment to the constitution. In fact the U.S. seems to be putting the Taliban at par with the democratically elected government in Kabul. Your response? The U.S.–Taliban agreement is a necessary step to transition to the Afghan owned process. We have a specific commitment from the Taliban not to allow terrorism from territory they control, and should they join a future government that they will not allow Al Qaeda and other terror groups to launch attacks against the U.S. and its allies, and indeed the rest of the world. That’s an important achievement. So while we are not as far along as we or India would have liked, we don’t see a better alternative to this process. For India, it is the groups in Afghanistan that target India, which are backed by Pakistan that are a worry, and the U.S.–Taliban agreement doesn’t mention those. Look, our strong position is that there shouldn’t be [terror] sanctuaries on either side of the Afghanistan-Pakistan border, and I believe that for peace to come to Afghanistan, there is a need for good relations amongst the neighbours and support for peace. I believe that the Pakistani leadership has supported the peace process, and thinks that the time has come for economic strategy, for trade and development and for Afghanistan to become a platform for regional cooperation and connectivity. We encourage and support those objectives. India and Afghanistan have historic ties, and I believe that dialogue between India and the Taliban is important, and it would be important that issues of concern like this [terrorism] are raised directly.  Our strong position is that there shouldn’t be [terror] sanctuaries on either side of the Afghanistan-Pakistan border||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-should-talk-to-taliban-discuss-terror-concerns-directly/article31539479.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ration card portability usage low: Paswan||Although 60 crore people are now potentially covered under the Centre’s ration card portability scheme, inter-State usage has been very low so far, says Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan. If utilised properly, the One Nation, One Ration Card scheme could allow migrant workers to access free foodgrains wherever they are, providing a lifeline for desperate migrants during the COVID-19 lockdown. “So far, 17 States and Union Territories have joined the portability scheme, and another three States are likely to join by June,” Mr. Paswan told reporters on Friday. However, he admitted that the usage of the scheme had been very low, because of lack of awareness as well as the fact that most States have suspended biometric authentication at ration shops due to fear of coronavirus infection. The portability scheme could not work without biometric authentication using electronic point of sale machines, Mr. Paswan said. In fact, during a recent conference with the Centre, several States had suggested allowing distribution using just ration cards. “That would open a Pandora’s Box which we do not want,” said Mr. Paswan. “We have told them to ensure that hand sanitiser is placed next to the point of sale machines to prevent infection,” he added. On procurement of wheat from farmers during the ongoing rabi marketing season, the Minister said it was lagging behind by 18.35% following shortage of jute gunny bags due to the lockdown. As on May 8, cumulative procurement of wheat for the season was 226.85 lakh tonnes, in comparison to 277.83 lakh tonnes for the corresponding period last year. “We have given permission for the re-use of jute bags and also for a 30% use of plastic bags,” said Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey. Wheat procurement has been extended until mid-June, as the lockdown caused labour and transport shortages. Mr. Paswan urged the State governments to ensure speedier distribution of pulses, noting that while the entire allocation of 1.95 lakh tonnes for April had been despatched by the Centre and 93% of that had been received by States, only 27% had actually reached beneficiaries. “The States must put in extra effort to ensure distribution,” said Mr. Paswan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ration-card-portability-usage-low-paswan/article31539485.ece
09 May 2020||Mumbai,||Lockdown chokes Maharashtra’s economic lifeline||Announcing that Maharashtra’s financial condition has deteriorated to the extent that it could not even afford to go ahead with annual transfers of government employees in the ongoing fiscal, the State’s Finance Department on Monday said there will be no new projects nor will new construction work be undertaken in the financial year 2020-21, in an effort to reduce expenses. The State government also announced that all ongoing works except pre-monsoon necessities, will not be allocated any funds. The government also said the salary for March for A, B and C class government employees will be paid in two instalments. Directions have also been issued to stop new recruitment as well as cancelling purchase orders or new tenders. Revenues slump According to data available with The Hindu , the revenue received by the State through non-GST sources in April in financial year 2018-19 and 2019-20 was Rs. 7,829.44 crore and Rs. 8,251.2 crore, respectively. However, this year, the receipts for April are barely Rs. 3,314.42 crore. Of this, the major contribution comes from Sales Tax on fuel which is around Rs. 2,299.82 crore. Stamp duty from registrations brought in Rs. 269.35 crore and excise duties another Rs. 237.5 crore. According to officials, the State was expecting the revenue around Rs. 3,500 crore, Rs. 2,400 crore and Rs. 1,200 crore in April from sales tax, stamp duty and excise. The State has also not received its GST refund worth Rs. 16,654 crore from the Centre, which was due before March 31. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar has since sent three reminders to the Union Finance Ministry seeking co-operation from the Centre. He has also sought a special package of Rs. 25,000 crore from the Centre for Maharashtra, given the massive losses suffered by the highly industrialised State due to the coronavirus outbreak. Despite the crippling impact of the lockdown and the mounting healthcare costs. the Centre has so far released just Rs. 1,611 crore ‘in advance its share of first instalment of State Disaster Relief Management Fund for the year 2020-21.’ The State government has said the amount will not be enough given the extent of the disaster. Sources within the government mentioned that apart from Rs. 1,611 crore and medical equipment required to treat corona patients, including 1.49 lakh N-95 masks, around 17 lakh triple layer masks and 30,480 PPE kits, the State has received no help from the centre. Though Maharashtra has not announced any relief package so far, it has become the first State in the country to provide free and cashless insurance protection to its citizens. The Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana (MJPJAY) will now cover government, semi-government employees and as well as white ration card holders. The government has made COVID-19 tests and treatment free and capped the disease’s treatment at private hospitals. The State has also set up a special website for industries to seek clearances to resume work. Till May 5, the government had received 38,363 applications out of which 12,336 have already gone in operation. In view of the crisis, the State’s Power Department has decided to reduce power tariff on an average by 7% for consumers. For the industrial and commercial consumers, the reduction in tariff would be 10-15%, while for residential consumers, it would be 5%. Further, for the next three months, industrial and commercial consumers will not have to pay fixed charges. There will be no increase in tariff for agriculture consumers, and those using power derived from solar roof sources will not have to pay any additional charges. Maharashtra government has formed two committees — one of experts and another of ministers to tackle the financial recovery of the State in post-corona times. At its first meeting, the bureaucrats’ panel recommended that the State government rethink the budget estimates, especially about borrowing and expenditure. It observed that with March and April gone, the State is already staring at a shortfall of around Rs. 45,000 crore in revenue receipts. It also observed that receipts through GST collection are also likely to be hit by 30%. Increased borrowing The State is also considering to raise its debt limit. In 2020-21, it is expected to cross Rs. 5.20 lakh crore which will be 16.15% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The idea to raise the limit by 2% is currently being discussed to tackle the expected shortfall of revenue receipts. It is being justified on the basis that the State spends 55.11% as fixed expenditure on salaries, pension and interests on loans. The State spends approximately Rs. 12,000 crore per month on salaries. Former Union minister Sharad Pawar has estimated that Maharashtra is going to face a shortfall of Rs. 1,00,000 crore to sustain its projected expenditure in FY 2020-21 and sought help from the Centre in the from of additional grants of an untied nature. As per the budget presented on March 6, 2020, the State was already staring at a revenue deficit of Rs. 9,510.71 crore. With financial activity closed down for over 40 days now and all source of revenue dried up the deficit is likely to soar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-chokes-maharashtras-economic-lifeline/article31539438.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT cites archaic law in gas leak case||The National Green Tribunal's order on Friday in the Visakhapatnam gas tragedy found LG Polymers prima facie liable under the 19th century English law principle of “strict liability”, which was made redundant in India by the Supreme Court in 1986. Lawyers say the term “absolute liability” should have been used instead. Even though the NGT directed the company to deposit an initial amount of Rs. 50 crore and formed a fact-finding committee, its use of the term “strict liability” has been questioned. For, under the “strict liability principle”, a party is not liable and need not pay compensation if a hazardous substance escapes his premises by accident or by an “act of God’” among other circumstances. ‘Woefully inadequate’ The Supreme Court, while deciding the Oleum gas leak case of Delhi, found strict liability woefully inadequate to protect citizens’ rights in an industrialised economy like India and replaced it with the ‘absolute liability principle’. The country was then reeling under the shock of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy. The court under then Chief Justice P.N. Bhagwati wanted corporations to be made fully liable for future “undeserved suffering of thousands of innocent citizens”. The country was then reeling under the shock of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy. The court, under the then Chief Justice P.N. Bhagwati wanted corporations to be made fully liable for future “undeserved suffering of thousands of innocent citizens.” So, under the absolute liability principle, the apex court held that a company in a hazardous industry cannot claim any exemption. It has to mandatorily pay compensation, whether or not the disaster was caused by its negligence. The court said a hazardous enterprise has an “absolute non-delegable duty to the community”. “If any harm results on account of such activity, the enterprise must be absolutely liable to compensate for such harm irrespective of the fact that the enterprise had taken all reasonable care and that the harm occurred without any negligence on its part,” Justice Bhagwati wrote. “The court found that strict liability, evolved in an 1868 English case called Rylands versus Fletcher, provided companies with several exemptions from assuming liability. Absolute liability, on the other hand, provided them with no defence or exemptions. The principle of absolute liability is part of Article 21 (right to life) ... The courts, to make the legal position clear, should use the term ‘absolute liability’ in orders and judgments,” said senior advocate Sanjay Parikh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngt-cites-archaic-law-in-gas-leak-case/article31539443.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Vande Bharat Mission’ to cover more European nations||The ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ to evacuate Indian citizens is expected to cover Russia, Ukraine, Germany, Spain and east Europe in the third week of May, informed sources said here on Friday. The process of repatriation, which is focused on the Gulf and the South Asian regions, began on Thursday and is expected to involve 64 flights, bringing back 15,000 nationals from different parts of the world through 14 Indian airports. “As of now, 67,833 requests for repatriation have been registered. The Ministry of External Affairs has developed a dynamic online platform on which requests received by Indian Missions from Indian nationals wishing to return are regularly being uploaded,” said a source with knowledge of the operation scheduled from May 7 to 15. The operation is officially named ‘Vande Bharat Mission’. Following arrival, all Indian citizens will have to spend the mandatory quarantine period in a government facility to avoid spread of COVID-19. Russia and Ukraine have flown out a substantial number of their citizens from India in the last few weeks, even as several thousand Indians remain stranded in the two countries and east European countries such as Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. A Ukrainian diplomatic source said at least 15,000 Indians are in Ukraine. “Our assessment is that at least 4,000 Indians would be willing to be airlifted from Ukraine.” A number of flights to Thailand are expected to be part of Phase-II. In Phase-I, the Indian source said 27 flights are scheduled to take off from the Gulf countries and 7 flights from Bangladesh. On Friday, a special Air India charter flight brought 167 students from Dhaka to Srinagar. Most of the students were enrolled in medical schools in the capital of Bangladesh. During the same time, 14 non-scheduled commercial flights are reserved for stranded Indians from Singapore, Malaysia and the Philippines. At the same time, seven flights shall take off for New York, Washington, DC, Chicago and San Francisco. Seven other flights will airlift Indians from London. Official sources also announced a plan for repatriation of Indians aboard INS Jalashwa and INS Magar from the Maldives. The ships will make two voyages to Kochi and Tuticorin. INS Jalashwa, with 698 passengers, is expected to reach Kochi on May 10 in the first round and proceed to Tuticorin, Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vande-bharat-mission-to-cover-more-european-nations/article31539457.ece
09 May 2020||Bhopal,||In Indore, relatives of 4 dead allege foul play by hospital||The Indore district administration has launched an inquiry into a charge of relatives of four patients who died on Thursday that the private hospital they were admitted to suddenly declared them dead ahead of a sanitisation drive to prepare for the hospital’s reversion to a non-COVID one. “We have seized their medical records and launched an investigation. Only after its completion, can it be established if the management is at fault,” said Pravin Jadia, Indore Chief Medical and Health Officer. “If any negligence is found on their part, we will act under the Nursing Home Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act.” Three patients had tested negative for COVID-19, while the report of one of them was awaited, said Dr. Jadia. The first death at the Gokuldas Hospital, a yellow category facility to cater to possible cases, occurred at 11.25 a.m. and the rest in the evening. Three of them had bilateral pneumonia and were admitted to the ICU. “A team of senior doctors is looking into the deaths. Other patients being treated there are yet to be shifted,” said Akash Tripathi, Indore Divisional Commissioner. In a video clip, the relatives claimed that three patients, with whom they had interacted, died within half an hour of the interaction. One of them cried, “Look at the condition of the Gokuldas Hospital. One by one, everyone is dying.” Two days ago, they were told that the hospital would be sanitised and emptied before being converted to a green facility for general patients, another said. “And they declared them dead,” he said. A relative of another deceased person said, “Just 10 minutes ago, my mother said she was all right. Now, she is dead.” Another said: “If they wanted to sanitise the hospital, they should have first shifted the patients to another hospital, probably a government one. We would have been satisfied then.” Five government-run hospitals and 16 government-backed private hospitals are helping combat COVID-19 in Indore, the hardest-hit city of Madhya Pradesh, where 1,727 persons have tested positive, while 86 have died so far. District officials had told The Hindu that private hospitals were delaying sample collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-indore-relatives-of-4-dead-allege-foul-play-by-hospital/article31539470.ece
09 May 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra adds 1,089 new cases to tally of 19,063||With 1,089 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, Maharashtra’s overall tally stood at 19,063, while 37 fatalities saw the State’s death toll touch 731. This is the fifth time in little more than a week that the State has reported a surge of more than 1,000 cases in a single day. However, as per the State Health Department’s medical bulletin, a further 146 cases in Mumbai have not been added to the count owing to “non-reconciliation”. Officials said 25 of the fatalities were from Mumbai, taking the city’s death toll to 462, while Pune district reported 10 more deaths, taking the city’s toll to 139. However, Pune district administration said the death toll had risen to 141. One death each was reported from Jalgaon and Amravati districts, taking their total death tolls to 15 and 12 respectively. “73% of the deaths reported today had high-risk co-morbidities,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. As many as 169 persons were discharged, taking the cumulative discharged till date to 3,470, said Dr. Awate. Of the 1,089 new cases, Mumbai accounted for 748, with a cumulative tally of 12,142. With 75 new cases, Pune district’s tally has risen to 2,537.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-adds-1089-new-cases-to-tally-of-19063/article31539472.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition slams Centre for deaths on tracks||Opposition parties on Friday held the Centre responsible for the death of 16 migrant workers, who were run over by a goods train in Aurangabad, contending that the sudden announcement of the lockdown in March coupled with the government’s apathy towards the stranded labourers had led to the tragic incident. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, in a post on Twitter, slammed the government for the treatment meted out to the migrant workers. “I am shocked by the news of the killing of our labourer brothers and sisters as a result of being crushed by a goods train. We should be ashamed of the treatment being meted out to our nation builders. My condolences to the families of those killed and prayers for the early recovery of the injured,” he tweeted in Hindi. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that the lockdown had robbed the migrant workers of any means to make a living and demanded that the government should pay compensation and extend all possible help to those affected by the incident. The “heartbreaking incident” had occurred due to “criminal” neglect by the government, CPI (M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury asserted. “The death of these poor labourers is solely due to the sudden announcement of a lockdown and denial of transport to them for weeks, while not providing a substantive relief package. It is criminal what has been done to them by the Central govt,” Mr. Yechury tweeted. “The migrant workers are being treated in a most inhumane manner by the government,” CPI General Secretary D. Raja said, terming the deaths in the accident a “deliberate killing”. “They have practically left them to fend for themselves without any aid or help,” he added. Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram in a series of tweets asserted that the Central and State governments appeared to be oblivious of the fact that thousands of migrant workers were still walking back to their home States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-slams-centre-for-deaths-on-tracks/article31539453.ece
09 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab police arrest gangster with Pak. links||Punjab Police on Friday said it has arrested wanted gangster Baljinder Singh alias Billa, having alleged links with the now reportedly deceased Pakistan-based Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) chief Harmeet Singh Happy, as well as Germany-based Gurmeet Singh Bagga of Khalistan Zindabad Force. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said that another notorious gangster Sukhjinder and five other members of the Billa gang have also been arrested. He added that the police have seized a large consignment of highly sophisticated weapons smuggled in from Pakistan, drug money, reportedly smuggled from across border at different times through several modes, and drones. Mr. Gupta said the arrests were made in a joint operation by the Organised Crime Control Unit team from Chandigarh, Counter Intelligence Jalandhar Unit and Kapurthala Police on May 7. All the arrested accused have been kept separately as they are being tested for COVID-19 by a special team of doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-police-arrest-gangster-with-pak-links/article31539720.ece
09 May 2020||GUWAHATI/IMPHAL,||Manipur Speaker reserves decision on disqualification of 7 legislators||Manipur Assembly Speaker Yumnam Khemchand on Friday reserved his decision on the disqualification of seven Congress MLAs who have been supporting the Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition government in the State. The Congress had approached the Supreme Court for disqualification of the seven MLAs who helped the BJP, 10 short of majority in the 60-member Assembly, form the government while continuing to be with the Congress. The seven MLAs are Oinam Lukhoi Singh, Kshetrimayum Biren Singh, Paonam Brojen Singh, Sanasam Bira Singh, Ngamthang Haokip, Ginsuanhau and Yengkhom Surchandra Singh. Mr. Khemchand had, according to schedule, heard the cases of seven MLAs at the Speaker’s Tribunal formed under the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. But he kept his decision “reserved” soon after the Tribunal began at 11 a.m. “The Speaker is delaying his decision despite a Supreme Court order to do so. The petitioners have no option left but to approach the court in a day or two for justice,” Congress spokesperson Ningombam Bupenda Meitei said from State capital Imphal. The apex court had in a judgment on January 21 asked the Speaker to take necessary action within the stipulated time. On March 28, the Speaker had in deference to the court’s order disqualified former Forest Minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar who had “defected” to the BJP. The Congress had won 28 seats while the BJP bagged 21 in 2017 Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-speaker-reserves-decision-on-disqualification-of-7-legislators/article31539721.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||103 deaths, 3,390 new cases in a day||“As many as 42 districts have seen no fresh cases in the last 28 days, while 29 districts have seen no fresh cases in the last 21 days. A total of 36 districts have seen no fresh cases in the last 14 days, and 46 districts have seen no fresh cases in the last 7 days,” a release said. Stating that some States like Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh have reported more cases, Mr. Agarwal said, “It is important to strengthen containment efforts. Today, when we are talking of relaxations and return of migrant workers, we have to understand that we also have to learn to live with the virus. The preventive guidelines against the virus need to be implemented as behavioural changes.” The Ministry of Health noted that it has issued additional guidelines for States facility quarantine/ facility isolation in hotels, service apt, lodges etc., for returnees from abroad/contacts/ isolation of suspects or confirmed cases. “There are large number of facilities such as hotels, service apartments, lodges which remain unoccupied due to impact of COVID-19 on travel and tourism. There are also instances where people who don’t have requisite space at home and may opt for such facilities. This is likely to reduce the pressure on the family, give comfort to the person, and protect the family members and immediate neighbourhood,” state the guidelines. It adds that the facility owner of the quarantine/isolation facility shall make additional arrangements, including ensuring in-house availability of a trained doctor and a nurse on a 24X7 basis. The doctor will monitor the contacts/cases in quarantine/isolation facilities once a day on basic parameters of temperature, pulse, blood pressure, respiratory rate and pulse oxymetry and keep record of the same. “The doctor engaged by the facility will inform the District Surveillance Officer regarding the list of cases/contacts admitted to such facility and their health status,” the guideline said. The quarantined/isolated persons should not be allowed to meet visitors but the facility will provide Wi-Fi facility and ensure that the client downloads the Aarogya Setu App on mobile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/103-deaths-3390-new-cases-in-a-day/article31539444.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||Eight political parties pan dilution of labour laws||Eight political parties have written to President Ramnath Kovind protesting the dilution of labour laws, including extending the daily working hours from eight to twelve in six States, on the pretext of battling the COVID-19 pandemic. The joint letter, signed by CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D. Raja, CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattarcharya, All-India Forward Bloc general secretary Debabrata Biswas, Revolutionary Socialist Party general secretary Manoj Bhattacharya, RJD MP Manoj Jha, Sharad Yadav’s Lok Jantantrik Party, and president of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi Thol. Thirumavalavan, said the workers are being treated as slaves. “Reducing them to this status is not merely a violation of the Constitution, but its nullification,” they said.  Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Punjab have extended the working hours from eight to 12 without amending the Factories Act. The parties said others States are likely to join this list. Uttar Pradesh has suspended all labour laws, except three, for a period of three years. The Madhya Pradesh government, similarly, announced a Cabinet decision to exempt all establishments from obligations under all labour laws for a thousand days. ‘Centre has done little’ “Diluting labour rights seems to be the logic employed by your government at the Centre and by some State governments, rather than concentrating on fighting the pandemic by augmenting our health facilities and protecting our doctors and health workers and taking care of the people’s requirements,” the letter said. The parties said the Indian economy was already in a tailspin, hurtling towards a recession even before the pandemic. The government has done precious little to help those whose livelihoods were affected, as 14 crore workers have lost their jobs since the lockdown began, they said. “Surely, you will agree that India cannot have more deaths due to hunger, starvation, poverty and deprivation than those infected by this deadly virus,” stated the memorandum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-political-parties-pan-dilution-of-labour-laws/article31539445.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||16 M.P. migrants run over by train near Aurangabad||Disturbing scenes were witnessed in Karmad as police and rescue teams shifted the mutilated bodies. “From initial reports, it appears that they started walking on Thursday evening from Jalna and after walking 40 km and exhausted by their journey, decided to rest on the track, where they fell asleep. They were planning to walk to Bhusaval but tragedy struck,” said a policeman from the Karmad police station. SCR officials said the incident occurred at 5.22 a.m. between Badnapur and Karmad stations on the Parbhani and Manmad section under the Nanded division. The train comprised empty containers of petroleum products and was on its way from Cherlapalli in Telangana to Manmad in Maharashtra. Immediately on receipt of information, personnel from the Railway Protection Force, including senior officials, and other departments reached the place. A medical relief van with doctors and nurses was also rushed to the spot. The railways have appointed Ram Kripal, Commissioner of Railway Safety, South Central Circle, to hold an independent inquiry into the incident. BJP leader and Jalna MP Raosaheb Danve said he was trying to ascertain as to what compelled the labourers to begin walking to their hometowns despite the Maharashtra government having started transport of labourers via the Shramik Special trains. “I cannot comment on the incident except to say it is deeply disturbing. I am on my way to Jalna to find out whether or not the labourers were being given adequate food during the lockdown period. I know of companies that have housed and fed their migrant workers,” Mr. Danve told a vernacular news channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/16-mp-migrants-run-over-by-train-near-aurangabad/article31539448.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||NGT directs LG Polymers to deposit Rs. 50 crore||“The statutory authorities responsible for authorising and regulating such activities may also be accountable for their lapses, if any, in dealing with the matter,” the Bench said. “Leakage of hazardous gas on such a scale, adversely affecting public health and environment, clearly attracts the principle, ‘strict liability’, against the enterprise engaged in hazardous or inherently dangerous industry. Such an entity is liable to restore the damage caused under the Environment Law, apart from other statutory liability,” the Bench said, adding it was necessary to take steps to prevent such incidents. The order came after the NGT took cognisance suo motu of the gas leak at the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngt-directs-lg-polymers-to-deposit-rs-50-crore/article31539449.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 1,000 return to India on six flights||Air India’s special flights brought back 1,081 passengers and 10 infants on the second day of the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ on Friday. Six flights flew in from five countries. Passengers returned from Singapore, Dhaka, Bahrain, Riyadh and Dubai to Delhi, Srinagar, Kochi, Kozhikode and Chennai. Air India is also allowed to ferry passengers on outbound flights to the U.K., the U.S. and Singapore. As many as 169 passengers flew from Delhi to Washington, DC and 80 from Delhi to San Francisco. There were only 15 passengers on the Delhi-Singapore flight. The Ministry of Civil Aviation shared eligibility criteria for passengers taking these special flights. It said several countries were allowing only nationals from the destination country to enter, including Oman, Kuwait, Malaysia, the Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. All foreign nationals in India from one of the 12 destination countries to which Air India has flights can also avail themselves of the service. Third country nationals must ensure they have visas to enter Bahrain, Bangladesh, the U.S., the U.K. or Singapore or fly through these countries to another country. Seafarers can also buy tickets on outbound flights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-1000-return-to-india-on-six-flights/article31539456.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea to govt. to suspend labour laws for 2-3 years||Representatives of 12 employers’ associations and industry bodies on Friday asked the government to suspend labour laws for the next two to three years “to help industry come out of the present crisis,” a statement from the Labour and Employment Ministry said. The associations made the demand during a meeting with Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar and Ministry officials through video-conferencing Among the suggestions given by the employers’ associations were relaxation of the Industrial Disputes Act in order to treat the lockdown period as lay-off, treating wages paid during this period as corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding, increasing the maximum workforce to 50% from 33% upon reopening and suspending labour laws, except those governing minimum wages, bonus and statutory dues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-to-govt-to-suspend-labour-laws-for-2-3-years/article31539462.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pending CBSE exams to be held from July 1 to 15||The pending examinations of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will be held from July 1 to 15, Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Friday. They include 12 papers in core subjects for Class 12 students across the country. There are no pending papers for Class 10 students in most parts of the country. There are 17 additional pending papers for students in north-east Delhi whose examinations were postponed due to violence in February. They include six pending papers for Class 10 students and 11 pending papers for Class 12 students. A detailed schedule for the examinations is yet to be released. Classes and examinations were put on hold from March 16, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pending-cbse-exams-to-be-held-from-july-1-to-15/article31539477.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath opens new road to Kailash Mansarovar||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday dedicated to the nation a new 80-km road in Uttarakhand, which connects close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and opens up a new route for the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra through the Lipulekh Pass, significantly reducing the travel time. “Delighted to inaugurate the Link Road to Mansarovar Yatra today. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) achieved road connectivity from Dharchula to Lipulekh (China Border) known as Kailash-Mansarovar yatra route. Also flagged off a convoy of vehicles from Pithoragarh to Gunji through video-conferencing,” Mr. Singh wrote on Twitter. With the completion of this road link, the yatra could be completed in one week, compared to 2-3 weeks it took earlier, a Defence Ministry statement said, quoting Mr. Singh. Except for a 5-km trek on the Chinese side across the Lipulekh Pass, the travel will now be on vehicles, a Defence source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-opens-new-road-to-kailash-mansarovar/article31539481.ece
09 May 2020||Mumbai,||Wadhawans’ custody extended till May 10||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Friday extended the custody of Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL), till May 10. The Wadhawans were sent to CBI custody after officials from the central agency contended that when the duo had left the city on April 8 for Mahabaleshwar, they had carried several mobile phones which belonged to their employees and relatives, and that the agency wanted to check if the phones were used to send any incriminating messages or e-mails. Though the Wadhawans objected to the CBI’s claims, the court extended their custody. The Wadhawans were arrested from their bungalow at Mahabaleshwar in Satara on April 26 for their alleged involvement in the Yes Bank scam and were remanded to the CBI’s custody till Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wadhawans-custody-extended-till-may-10/article31539440.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Train tragedy could have been averted’||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday said the incident of a goods train mowing down 16 migrant workers in Aurangabad could have been averted had arrangements been made for their shelter. Taking suo motu cognisance of media reports, it issued notice to the Maharashtra Chief Secretary and the Aurangabad District Magistrate and asked them for reports in four weeks on the steps taken to give the migrants food, shelter and other amenities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/train-tragedy-could-have-been-averted/article31539451.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Consider priority evacuation plea: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the government to consider a plea made by some doctors and nurses, based in Saudi Arabia and all in advanced stages of pregnancy, to be granted “further priority” among pregnant women to be repatriated amid the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. “The government shall explore the question of further priority as per the specific cases of the petitioners and shall take appropriate steps,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan ordered. The government, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, argued that a standard operating protocol was already in place and pregnant women were being given priority. But senior advocate Indira Jaising and advocate Jose Abraham, for the petitioners, pressed that their clients were vulnerable and should be considered for immediate evacuation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/consider-priority-evacuation-plea-sc/article31539458.ece
09 May 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. records 89 new cases||Madhya Pradesh on Friday recorded 89 new COVID-19 cases, taking the State-wide tally to 3,341, the Directorate of Health Services said. The death toll in the State from the pandemic rose to 200, as seven more fatalities were reported, including three from the worst-affected city of Indore. With 1,727 cases and 86 deaths, Indore continues to remain in focus. Alarmingly, the count of critical patients in the city surged threefold overnight earlier this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-records-89-new-cases/article31539473.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Upgrade of 37 defence airfields soon||The Ministry of Defence (MoD) on Friday signed a contract worth about Rs. 1,200 crore for the second phase of the modernisation of air field infrastructure project involving 37 airfields of the Indian Air Force (IAF), the Navy and the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) with Tata Power SED. “It is a turnkey project that includes installation and commissioning of modern airfield equipment like Cat-II Instrument Landing System (ILS) and Cat II Air Field Lightning System (AFLS) and so on,” the MoD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/upgrade-of-37-defence-airfields-soon/article31539475.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||MiG-29 crashes near Jalandhar||A MiG-29UPG of the Indian Air Force (IAF) from an airbase near Jalandhar crashed on Friday. The pilot, however, ejected safely. “On May 08 at 1045h, one MiG-29 aircraft airborne on a training mission from an Air Force base near Jalandhar met with an accident. The aircraft had developed a technical snag and the pilot ejected safely as he was unable to control the aircraft,” the IAF said. The pilot has been rescued by a helicopter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mig-29-crashes-near-jalandhar/article31539480.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, Japan to work together post COVID-19||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Japanese counterpart, Taro Kono, on Friday agreed to work together with other countries to deal with challenges post COVID-19, with the India-Japan special strategic and global partnership as the basis. “Mr. Singh informed Mr. Kono Taro on India’s contribution to international efforts against COVID-19 and discussed areas of mutual cooperation in the global fight against the pandemic,” said the Defence Ministry in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-japan-to-work-together-post-covid-19/article31539439.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||International experts to be consulted on Styrene gas leak||A team of Indian and international experts on chemical safety could be flown in to study the Styrene gas leak. “Consultations between national and international experts on chemical safety and industrial processes and the officials on site would be carried out through video-conferencing, and a team of such experts would also be flownin as per requirements,” the government said in a statement on Friday. Meanwhile, the National Crisis Management Committee, chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, also met on Friday to review the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/international-experts-to-be-consulted-on-styrene-gas-leak/article31539450.ece
09 May 2020||Ahmedabad,||390 cases, 24 deaths as Gujarat continues to see rise in infections||With 390 new cases and 24 deaths, Gujarat continues to see a sharp rise in COVID-19 infections despite the stringent lockdown measures imposed in the two main affected cities of Ahmedabad and Surat. The State now has 7,403 cases, 449 deaths and 1,872 recoveries. Two medical experts — AIIMS director Dr. Randeep Guleriya and Dr. Manish Suneja — flew into Ahmedabad on Friday following instructions from Home Minister Amit Shah to guide local doctors. The situation in Ahmedabad remains grim with almost 71% of the total cases, 5,260, and almost 75% of fatalities reported from the State. Containment efforts are on the most congested pockets of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/390-cases-24-deaths-as-gujarat-continues-to-see-rise-in-infections/article31539471.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Residents flee area fearing second leak||Hundreds of residents in and around Gopalapatnam fled their homes in the middle of the night after rumours spread that there was another leak at the LG Polymers plant and that the police were evacuating people within a 5km radius. “The incident took place when we were evacuating people from within one to two km radius as a precautionary measure, since some amount of styrene vapour was still present in the area,” said a senior police officer. The police then deployed patrolling vehicles to dispel the rumours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/residents-flee-area-fearing-second-leak/article31539441.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,589 cases linked to Koyambedu so far||The Koyambedu cluster continues to trigger a surge in COVID-19 cases across Tamil Nadu. Having spread to more than half the State, it now accounts for 1,589 positive cases. For the first time since the cluster started to unravel, the Health Department officially indicated the exact number of cases linked to the Koyambedu market in its daily bulletin. It was during the last week of April that vendors in parts of Chennai started testing positive for COVID-19. Over the last week, more cases started emerging as market labourers returned to their home towns in the State, resulting in the spread of the infection to districts that only had a few cases till then. Apart from Chennai, the predominantly affected districts were Ariyalur, Perambalur, Cuddalore, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur. A senior official said that they had identified 6,900 persons who had travelled to districts from the market and 1,300 in Chennai, and quarantined them. They were checked for symptoms and tested for COVID-19. “Testing of samples in Chennai and other districts will be completed in two to three days,” he said. Given the spread of the infection, an official source said the cluster may account for close to 3,000 cases. Last month, the State saw the emergence of a cluster after persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi, from various districts in Tamil Nadu, tested positive. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that the State managed this cluster by tracking all attendees and their contacts, and they had recovered from COVID-19. “In the same way, we are tracking and testing all those who are linked to the Koyambedu cluster to prevent its further spread. Apart from Chennai, persons who returned to districts are being monitored by the respective Collectors, Superintendents of Police and the Health Department,” he said. A health official said contact tracing for those with links to Koyambedu market was almost complete. The main problem with the cluster was the huge crowd at the market, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1589-cases-linked-to-koyambedu-so-far/article31539637.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable sales at Thirumazhisai to begin from Sunday night||Wholesale vegetable merchants will begin sales at the new market being set up at Thirumazhisai from Sunday. Members of the Federation of Koyambedu Wholesale Vegetables Merchants’ Association noted that the suppliers and farmers in neighbouring States have been informed to bring produce to the new market. D. Rajasekaran, the federation’s president, said about 150-200 vehicles from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and other parts of Tamil Nadu were expected to bring produce by Sunday evening. “We expect about 3,000 tonnes of vegetables to arrive. However, the issue of finding labourers to unload produce needs to be sorted out,” he said. With the Koyambedu Wholesale Market remaining shut, many small vehicles from neighbouring States were seen selling vegetables and fruits on Poonamallee High Road near Nerkundram, Maduravoyal and Kaliamman Koil Street, Koyambedu, on Friday. Residents of various areas, including Mogappair, complained that the retail prices were higher following the market’s closure. However, wholesale merchants expect the prices to stabilise in a few days once sales in the new market begins. Vegetables brought to smaller city markets in places like T. Nagar were not sufficient for the city. “We expect retailers from Chennai and outskirts to purchase goods from Thirumazhisai. The period of sales will be restricted from midnight to 8.30 a.m. the next day,” Mr. Rajasekaran added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-sales-at-thirumazhisai-to-begin-from-sunday-night/article31539611.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tapping expertise — how T.N. is handling the crisis||Since the COVID-19 lockdown was announced 45 days ago, Tamil Nadu has formed 15 committees comprising senior civil servants, IPS officers and other experts to handle multiple issues arising out of the pandemic. The strategy has largely paid off. Civil servants, who are multitasking, have also used this as an opportunity to innovate, launching delivery apps and utility portals. Almost all the committees are meeting daily or at regular intervals, both physically and virtually. “We are all part of different WhatsApp groups, apart from each panel having its own. These groups have become a major platform of official discussions,” said an officer and a panelist in charge of the movement of essentials. Only the special investment promotion task force is yet to hold its first meeting, as some members are based outside Chennai. “We have done preliminary work. The meeting may take place in a week,” said a member. An official attached to the committee on essential manufacturing said that the panel’s job was, among other things, to ascertain the requirements of the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation; identify producers or manufacturers, and tie them up with the TNMSC. In addition to ventilators, the panel had helped procure N-95 masks from BYD, a Chinese company. The committee has got nearly 250 firms registering with it through a portal. “We are providing information regarding these companies not only to the TNMSC but also to NGOs,” said the official. The health infrastructure panel has identified sites in Tamil Nadu to accommodate five lakh beds. It is also making quarantine arrangements for those who are going to return from abroad. An official in charge of the panel for senior citizens said that nearly 42,000 elderly persons were living in Chennai. “We got their data through the Greater Chennai Corporation. They are being provided tele-counselling. We ensure that all their requirements are met,” said the official. A member of the committee on overall coordination said that as each committee had a specified activity, the government was able to get “detailed inputs” from them, which in turn were beneficial at the time of decision making. Assigning officers Pointing out that all committees were “working well”, K. Shanmugam, Chief Secretary, explained that the selection of member-officers for various committees was done keeping in mind the “functional responsibility of the officers”. For instance, Principal Secretary (Industries) N. Muruganandam is looking after essential manufacturing; Principal Secretary (Agriculture) Gagandeep Singh Bedi and Additional Chief Secretary (Food) Dayanand Kataria are in charge of the movement of essentials and Principal Secretaries (Public Works and Housing) K. Manivasan and Rajesh Lakhoni are in charge of health infrastructure. Principal Secretaries (Animal Husbandry and BC, MBC and Minorities Welfare) K. Gopal and B. Chandra Mohan, both being doctors, are taking care of epidemic monitoring, the Chief Secretary added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tapping-expertise-how-tn-is-handling-the-crisis/article31539643.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to oppose changes in Electricity Act, says Minister||Electricity Minister P. Thangamani said the State government would strongly oppose the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act, 2003. He said steps would be taken to protect the interests of the domestic consumers and farmers who would be affected by the draft Bill. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palanswami was taking all necessary steps and approaching Central government to cancel the proposed amendments in the Electricity Act, 2003, for which a draft Bill has been circulated to all the State governments and stakeholders for hearing their comments. The draft Bill was issued on April 17. Mr. Thangamani said the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 has various sections including privatising distribution of electricity through sub-distribution licence and franchisees and creation of new Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority, which are completely against the interests of the domestic consumers and farmers. He said the new authority would interfere with the powers of the regulatory commissions to authorise power purchase and settle disputes arising in the agreements between power producers and licensees.  Stalin’s demand Earlier in the day, DMK president M.K. Stalin urged the Tamil Nadu government to vehemently oppose the Central government’s Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 "as it aims to usurp the powers of State governments" and demanded that the BJP government withdraw the proposal. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said electricity is in the Concurrent List and the Centre is aiming to usurp the powers of the State. Condemning the move, Mr. Stalin said the Centre’s attempt to get such a Bill passed had failed twice in 2014 and 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-oppose-changes-in-electricity-act-says-minister/article31539625.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Come May 11, post-production work in films will resume||In a relief to the cine industry and the silverscreen in the State, the Tamil Nadu government on Friday announced that post-production work would be allowed from May 11. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami took the decision after considering representations from the industry. An official release stated that a maximum of five persons could be involved in post-production work such as editing, dubbing, DI colour grading, re-recording and sound design/mixing. As for computer and visual graphics (VFX/CGI), a maximum of 15 persons can be involved, it stated. “Production companies involved in these works should get their employees necessary passes and ensure that they work with their masks on and follow physical distancing norms,” it stated. Disinfectants must be used and all norms laid down by the Central and State governments must be followed to contain the spread of COVID-19, it said. Representatives from the cine fraternity and the silverscreen had submitted representations to the Information Minister, seeking to allow at least post-production work. They had contended with the State government that the livelihood of those involved in the industry was uncertain since there had been no work for them for the past 50 days due to the COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/come-may-11-post-production-work-in-films-will-resume/article31539633.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. to bear travel cost of migrants||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to bear the expenses towards the travel of migrant workers, in case they or their native States are not able to pay for special trains, when arranged. “If individual migrants or the receiving States are not in a position to pay the cost of transit (including the cost of train tickets), the same will be paid by the government of Tamil Nadu under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF),” the revised SOP issued in this regard on Thursday stated. Adequate food and water arrangements will be ensured for persons boarding the train, as these will be point-to-point trains. “We will raise the bill and send it to the States, if they are not reimbursing, we will allot funds from the SDRF,” a senior official said. The rail ticket alone will cost about Rs. 11 lakh a train. The ticket for each passenger will cost around Rs. 1,000 and about 1,100 passengers are accommodated on a train. Besides the rail ticket, travel expenses will also include arrival till the railway station and travel from the destination railway station to the hometown. Two special trains will arrive in Tamil Nadu from Gujarat and Maharashtra on Saturday. “One will arrive in Tiruchi and the other in Villupuram,” an official said. For the movement of a large number of stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and others, nodal officers from sending and receiving States will consult and decide on special trains. For the movement of a small group of people, State transport buses will be engaged on request.  Checking at borders As for persons coming to Tamil Nadu, the SOP stated that passes issued by TNeGA would be checked at the borders. They would be allowed to go to their respective home districts where such persons would be screened for COVID-19. “If they turn symptomatic, they will be tested for COVID-19. If results return positive, they will be isolated and sent to a hospital/care centre depending on their symptoms,” it stated. If they are asymptomatic, they will be asked to remain under home quarantine for 28 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-to-bear-travel-cost-of-migrants/article31539639.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to set up hands-free disinfection equipment||Chennai Corporation has launched a drive to install hands-free disinfection equipment with support from NGOs in various parts of the city to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Friday inaugurated the equipment, donated by Rotary International District 3232, in Ripon Buildings. Officials said the equipment would be installed in more locations, including market areas, Amma canteens and public toilets. They said Amma canteens, which get several lakh custormers every day, have started reporting COVID-19 cases. A. Devakumaar, president, Rotary Club of Chennai Rainbow, said they were promoting intensive handwash hygiene practices to fight against the pandemic. The Corporation created 445 containment zones in various parts of the city after residents tested positive for COVID-19. Residents in many zones have requested them to install such hands-free disinfection equipment. Corporation officials said the units would be installed in all the containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-set-up-hands-free-disinfection-equipment/article31539606.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patients at COVID-19 care centres to get better quality food||Greater Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J. Radhakrishnan on Friday directed officials to supply better quality food and adequate drinking water to people who were admitted to COVID-19 care centres. Over 750 asymptomatic patients were shifted from hospitals to the care centres. According to a press release, those admitted to the centres such as the Chennai Trade Centre, Nandambakkam, demanded additional quantity of food and drinking water. Mr. Radhakrishnan inspected the Chennai Trade Centre following reports of protest by inmates. As many as 306 persons who tested positive for COVID-19 were shifted from Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital to the Nandambakkam care centre. On Friday, Mr. Radhakrishnan visited the centre and listened to their grievances. He directed officials to supply better quantity food and drinking water. He also inspected the toilet facilities at care centres in various parts of the city. In the past few days, patients have been shifted from tertiary care hospitals to care centres such as Loyola College, D.G. Vaishnav College and Velammal Engineering College. Mr. Radhakrishnan also inspected the work on development of new care centres on Friday. The civic body has managed to set up care centres for 4,000 patients so far. Corporation officials said they have started work on developing COVID-19 care centres for at least 50,000 patients. With a rise in number of positive cases in many areas, civic officials have started talks with more educational institutions to convert them into care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patients-at-covid-19-care-centres-to-get-better-quality-food/article31539608.ece
09 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||HC has taught govt. a lesson, says Stalin||The Tamil Nadu government should not appeal in the Supreme Court challenging the Madras High Court order on closure of Tasmac outlets, DMK president M.K. Stalin said. He said the High Court had taught a good lesson to the AIADMK, which is destroying the livelihood of the people.  A victory, says Kamal Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan said the Madras High Court's order to shut down TASMAC liquor shops across Tamil Nadu reaffirmed the people's trust in courts and that truth will always win. Makkal Needhi Maiam was a petitioner in the case. In a tweet, Mr. Haasan said, “This is not a victory just for Makkal Needhi Maiam. Everyone should celebrate since the wish of every person in Tamil Nadu was granted. This is a win for collective voice of the mothers of Tamil Nadu.” Alagiri welcomes order TNCC president K.S. Alagiri welcomed the High Court order and said it was a victory for the Secular Progressive Alliance's protest. He also said the State government must accept the verdict and also shut Tasmac completely||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-has-taught-govt-a-lesson-says-stalin/article31539622.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to order 10 lakh more RT-PCR testing kits||Tamil Nadu is ordering 10 lakh more RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) testing kits to ramp up testing across the State. According to officials of the Health Department, Tamil Nadu presently has 1.2 lakh RT-PCR testing kits. “We are receiving one lakh more testing kits on Saturday. And we are ordering 10 lakh more,” an official said.  “This is mainly to address the surge in COVID-19 cases in the State. These RT-PCR testing kits are mostly from South Korea,” the official explained. So far, Tamil Nadu has tested a total of 2,16,416 samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-order-10-lakh-more-rt-pcr-testing-kits/article31539640.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 2,500 more nurses to join fight against virus||Over 2,500 more nurses are set to join the fight against COVID-19 in the State. They are being sent appointment orders to work on contract for six months, an official release said on Friday. “They have been instructed to report to work within three days of their receiving the appointment orders,” the release stated. About 40 nurses will be posted in each district headquarters hospital and 10-30 nurses will be posted in taluk hospitals. Recently over 500 doctors, 2,300 nurses, 1,500 lab technicians and 2,700 health workers were recruited through the Medical Recruitment Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-2500-more-nurses-to-join-fight-against-virus/article31539645.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report on testing||The Madras High Court on Friday granted time till Monday for the State government to file a comprehensive report on steps taken to conduct mass testing for COVID-19 at the Koyambedu wholesale market, which has now been closed temporarily, and also for sanitising Tirumazhisai and two other places where the market has been shifted. Justices Vineet Kothari and Pushpa Sathyanarayana accepted a request made by the State government Pleader to grant him four days’ time to list out the measures taken. The order was passed on a petition filed by the Gerugampakkam Traders’ Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-report-on-testing/article31539644.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ayurvedic pharmacist dies after drinking concoction||A 47-year-old pharmacist-cum-production manager of a Chennai-based Ayurvedic product company died after drinking a chemical preparation he reportedly formulated for tackling COVID-19. The managing director of the company was hospitalised after he fainted soon after he ingested the chemical component. The pharmacist, K. Sivanesan, 47, of Perungudi, was with Chennai-based Sujatha Biotech, an Ayurvedic and herbal products company. It has a plant in Kashipur, Uttarakhand, where Sivanesan was working. Sivanesan devised formulas for various products and used to visit his managing director Rajkumar, 67, in the city. Due to lockdown, Sivanesan was staying at home with his family in Perungudi. On Thursday, after procuring the chemical, he gave it to Rajkumar in powder form, who fainted after tasting it. As his boss was being resuscitated, Sivanesan dissolved the chemical in water and drank it. He could not be revived.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ayurvedic-pharmacist-dies-after-drinking-concoction/article31539614.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||On Day 2, sales touch Rs. 140 cr.||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) sold liquor worth Rs. 140 crore on the second day after it opened its outlets. A Tasmac source said that sales touched Rs. 140 crore and the calculations were still on in many places. On day one of opening, Tasmac clocked sales of Rs. 170 crore. Based on an High Court order, Tasmac has also sent a notice to district managers and regional managers, instructing them to shut shops until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-day-2-sales-touch-rs-140-cr/article31539641.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two flights from Dubai with 360 Indians expected today||Nearly 360 stranded Indian nationals will arrive in Chennai from Dubai in two flights early on Saturday morning. The first flight that was to land around 8 p.m. on Friday was delayed by five hours and has been scheduled to land at 1.30 a.m. on Saturday. The other flight is expected to land at 12.30 a.m. The Consul General of India in Dubai tweeted: “We have almost 200 workers, 37 pregnant women and 42 medical cases on the Chennai flights. Rest are elderly people, stranded tourists and families of those travelling.”  Samples to be collected As soon as the flights arrive, passengers will finish the regular immigration procedure, collect their baggage and Health Department staff will be present for collecting their swab samples. More such repatriation flights with stranded Indian nationals are expected to arrive in the city in the coming week, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-flights-from-dubai-with-360-indians-expected-today/article31539609.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cine industry welcomes decision||The announcement by the Tamil Nadu government allowing post-production work on films and television projects to resume from May 11 was welcomed by the Tamil film industry. Stating that unions have been instructed to strictly comply with the norms in place for resuming work, R.K. Selvamani, president, Film Employees’ Federation of South India (FEFSI) said that this would greatly benefit projects on which work has been at a standstill since March. The Federation had announced a break from shoots and post-production work from March 19. G. Dhananjayan, film producer said that there were nearly 50 projects, stuck in various stages of post-production, on which work would now resume.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cine-industry-welcomes-decision/article31539634.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 50 lakh for constable’s kin||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs. 50 lakh to the family of a policeman who was killed in an accident while on COVID-19 duty. He also announced that a family member of the deceased would be given a government job. He condoled the death of Head Constable Settu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-50-lakh-for-constables-kin/article31539646.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister to inspect market today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam will visit the temporary wholesale vegetable market being set up at Thirumazhisai near Chennai on Saturday, to review the arrangements being made to facilitate the sale of vegetables. Mr. Palaniswami on Friday chaired a meeting with Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy, Member Secretary of Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) D. Karthikeyan and senior officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-to-inspect-market-today/article31539604.ece
09 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers leave for Bihar||Sellundar Ram (28 years) with his wife and their three children were waiting in the long queue at Coimbatore Railway Junction on Friday. Sellundar Ram is working in Coimbatore for the last 10 years fixing tiles in buildings. With the spread of COVID-19 and lockdown, he wants to return to his hometown and come back after the situation turns to normalcy. He is confident of finding work here again after a couple of months. He is among the 1,140 workers who had boarded the special train on Friday that chugged out of the railway station at about 8.20 p.m. All the passengers were labourers from Bihar who were working across Coimbatore district in different jobs. The train was bound to Saharsa Junction in Bihar. They were working in Pollachi, Kinathukadavu, Perur and some areas of Coimbatore city. They had all registered online their willingness to go back to their hometowns. They were given tokens and food for Friday night. They were also provided masks and soap and their bags were sprayed with disinfectants. For about two hours, Revenue Department officials verified their names and helped them board the train. Nearly 20,000 workers would be returning to Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam, West Bengal, and Uttar Pradesh from Coimbatore district in the next one week. The special train, arranged by the State Governments of Tamil Nadu and Bihar and the Railways, would reach the destination by Sunday evening (approximately 48 hours). A few workers could not board the train as their names were missing in the list with the officials or their train was scheduled for Saturday. While one train left on Friday evening, another would leave for Bihar on Saturday morning. The Tamil Nadu government was meeting the ticket cost of the workers who were returning to their home States. A batch of workers could not take the train to Odisha from here on Thursday night because of a High Court order in that State. The order was quashed on Friday and arrangements were on to help those workers, too, to go home. Coimbatore Collector K. Rajamani told reporters on Friday that workers who were not employed with any specific industry or contractor and had expressed willingness to go were supported to return to their hometowns. Many workers were staying back as the State government had relaxed the lockdown norms and industries had commenced operations. About 6,500 workers would return to Bihar and an equal number to Odisha. About 2,000 workers would go back to Uttar Pradesh and equal numbers to Jharkhand and Assam. He also said the district administration would ensure that the workers were brought to the railway junction maintaining personal distancing and other precautionary measures. Officials at Salem Division of the Southern Railway said that the 24 coaches comprised 18 sleeper coaches, four unreserved coaches and two Seating-cum-Luggage Rake coaches. To ensure personal distancing among the passengers, only 52 passengers were allowed in the sleeper coaches and 28 passengers in the unreserved coaches. All the coaches were disinfected prior to the operation. While food was provided by the State government to the workers prior to boarding the train, railway staff would provide the food for them as per requirements during the journey. Nearly 100 police personnel from Coimbatore City Police were deployed in and around the railway station premises on Friday, a police officer said. In addition, personnel from the Government Railway Police and Railway Protection Force also monitored the situation. A total of five teams from the Health Department checked for COVID-19 symptoms among the migrant workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-leave-for-bihar/article31539650.ece
09 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BU to improve syllabi for affiliated colleges||Bharathiar University was working to upgrade the syllabi for affiliated institutions and exploring ways to help students land jobs post-COVID-19, Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj told college correspondents and principals during a video conference session of the Association of Self-Financing Arts, Science and Management Colleges of Tamil Nadu. ‘No input from stakeholders’ “One of the issues brought to my notice soon after I took over was that while the syllabi of autonomous institutions were good, the curriculum at affiliated institutions was sub-standard. When I went into the issue to find out why it was so, I learnt that the syllabi at affiliated institutions was old, there was no input from industry associations or stakeholders like students and the revisions that had happened in the past were perfunctory,” Mr. Kaliraj said. He told the participants that he had reconstituted the Boards of studies by including stakeholders, including at least three industry representatives. The University would soon roll out the new syllabi, reflecting the Chancellor-Governor’s Vision 2030. “The objective while preparing the new syllabi was how to prepare students to face the challenges they might encounter in the next three, six and 10 years.” The University, Mr. Kaliraj, was also looking at introducing credit transfer system, where student could choose courses in another college and have the credits transferred to the home institution. And, the courses would include those offered in blended programmes or with collaboration with foreign universities. Certificate courses As far the post-COVID-19 situation, he wanted the colleges to offer certificate courses that would turn students job-ready. These would be add-on courses and need not impact in the academic record of students. Mr. Kaliraj also spoke about digitisation, online classes and online examinations. While the Bharathiar University was for conduct of online classes – first to train faculty and later for students, it would have to think about online examinations. But the possibility of holding online viva voce for M.Phil. and Ph.D. scholars could be looked into, subject to the conditions imposed by the University Grants Commission and the State Higher Education Department. He added that given the increase in use of digital platforms during the lockdown, the University had cut down on foreign travel of faculty and was redirecting the Rs. 2 crore earmarked for the purpose to upgrade its digital infrastructure. The participants sought clarification on the issue of continuous affiliation, suggested alternating between physical and digital classes and reducing the examination duration from three to two hours. Dr. Kaliraj responded saying that the University would soon announce its revised examination schedule and academic calendar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bu-to-improve-syllabi-for-affiliated-colleges/article31539647.ece
09 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Containment restrictions will be lifted in more city areas soon’||The possibility of lifting restrictions in a few localities within areas designated COVID-19 containment zones came up for discussion at a meeting the State Government-constituted Field Inspection Team held with Coimbatore Corporation officials on Friday. Senior IAS officers E. Saravanavelraj and R. Gajalakshmi who led the team had a discussion with the Corporation officials at the civic body office. Sources privy to the meeting said in the remaining nine containment zones within the city, there were 29 localities. The Corporation had already lifted the containment zone restrictions in an area – K.K. Pudur. Of the 29 localities, 21 had no cases in the last 28 days and therefore the Corporation could lift the restriction in those areas, provided there were no new COVID-19 cases. As for the remaining eight, the Corporation could lift the restrictions by May 31, again if there were no new cases. The sources said the team suggested the idea to the civic body because it did not make sense for the Corporation to continue imposing the restriction in a zone if three out of four localities therein had no new case in the last 28 days. The Corporation would consider the suggestion and forward the recommendation to the district collector, who, after consultation with the State Government, would lift the restriction, the sources added.  Six containment zones lifted in Annur The district administration on Friday lifted restrictions in two containment zones each in Sirumugai and Mettupalayam and six zones in Annur. According to sources, with Friday marking the completion of 28 days after the last person from the area was cured of COVID-19, the administration lifted the restriction in Siraj Nagar and VOC Nagar Main in Sirumugai, and Madhaiyan Layout and New Extension Street in Mettupalayam. In Annur, the administration lifted the restrictions from Agrahara Street, Koothandavar Kovil Street, Dharmar Kovil Street, Market Street and Karim Sahib Street. The two places where it was yet to lift restriction were Pallivasal Street and police quarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/containment-restrictions-will-be-lifted-in-more-city-areas-soon/article31539670.ece
09 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for hurling stone at mosque||The Periyanaickenpalayam police, on Friday, arrested a man on charges of hurling a stone at a mosque on Mettupalayam Road. Police sources said that C. Manoj (30) threw the stone at the mosque during a brawl outside the Sunnath Val Jamath Masjid on Thursday night. The stone damaged the glass on one of the doors of the mosque. The accused was allegedly in an inebriated state as the incident occurred on the day Tasmac outlets were reopened, sources said. The mosque’s secretary A.S. Abdul Rahman (44) filed a complaint with the Periyanaickenpalayam police on Thursday night. Based on the CCTV footage, the police identified the accused. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-hurling-stone-at-mosque/article31539671.ece
09 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murder of roommate||The Saravanampatti police on Friday arrested a man on charges of murdering his roommate, allegedly in an inebriated state. According to police, the accused Manikandan (23) hit Sivakumar’s (21) head with a pair of dumbbells while the latter was asleep. The accused and the deceased were employed as a mechanic and driver respectively and shared a room at K.R.G Nagar near Ganapathy. Both had a heated argument after consuming liquor on Thursday evening, police said. Following the murder, Saravanampatti police registered a case and arrested Manikandan. The accused was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murder-of-roommate/article31539672.ece
09 May 2020||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||NLCIL to restart units at the earliest, says official||A day after eight persons, including two employees of NLC India Ltd (NLCIL), were injured in a fire that broke out in a furnace in a boiler in Unit VI of Thermal Power Station II, the company said efforts were being taken on a war footing to ensure that all units were operationalised at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nlcil-to-restart-units-at-the-earliest-says-official/article31539623.ece
09 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Turmeric trading expected to be normal in coming weeks||With over 60% of the units involved in processing turmeric and making value-added products started functioning, turmeric trading is nearing normalcy here on Friday. Turmeric is cultivated on over 7,500 hectare in the district and the produce is auctioned at the regulated markets located at Semmampalayam in Erode and Perundurai and through the Agricultural Producers Co-operative Marketing Society at Karungalpalayam in Erode and at Gobichettipalayam. Since the society at Gobichettipalayam is coming under containment zone, the market is yet to open. The other three markets were opened on April 22. On an average, 5,000 to 6,500 bags of turmeric arrives from these markets and auctioned. K.V. Ravishankar, president, Erode Turmeric Merchants and Godown Owners Association (Erode Manjal Vanigarkal Matrum Kidangu Urimaiyalargal Sangam) said to The Hindu that on an average, 3,000 to 5,000 bags of turmeric used to arrive in May for the past 10 years. On Friday, 3,300 bags arrived in the market. He said that there were over 60 units involved in processing turmeric and making value addition products in the district and most of them had started functioning for the last one week. “More traders have started arriving and the market will be back to normal soon,” he said and added that once all the units started functioning, demand for turmeric would go up. During auctioning, if farmers failed to get suitable price, they stocked their produce in the godowns and waited for price to increase. Hence, about six lakh to eight lakh bags of turmeric were usually kept in godowns. On Friday, at the Erode Regulated Market, the finger turmeric was sold at Rs. 5,399 to Rs. 6,888 while the bulb variety at Rs. 5,269 to Rs. 6,129.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/turmeric-trading-expected-to-be-normal-in-coming-weeks/article31539662.ece
09 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Long queues at Tasmac outlets continue on Day 2||Long queues could be seen outside Tasmac outlets for the second consecutive day on Friday as eager customers waited under the shades of umbrellas after the district administration made umbrellas mandatory to ensure personal distancing.  Of the total 203 outlets in the district, 143 were reopened. Customers waited from 8 a.m. and those wearing mask and with umbrella and Aadhaar card were issued tokens. Through the public address system, the police personnel instructed customers to ensure personal distancing. Despite increase in price, customers continued to purchase as liquor worth Rs. 8.60 crore was sold on Thursday against the normal sale of Rs. 1.50 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/long-queues-at-tasmac-outlets-continue-on-day-2/article31539660.ece
09 May 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Two COVID-19 positive persons shifted from home to hospital following alleged ostracism||The Department of Health on Friday shifted two persons from a gated community to ESI hospital, a week after they tested positive for COVID-19, following alleged ostracism from the residents’ welfare association at Mathigiri in Hosur. Three persons had returned from Maharashtra on Monday to a gated community in Titan township, where one of them owned a house. The three, employed in a private company in Maharashtra, had rented a car and returned with a travel pass. The residents of the gated community had alerted the health authorities upon seeing the vehicle with Maharashtra registration. The three men, including one from Mettur, were tested. While two of them tested positive, all the three were placed in isolation in the house after they were found to be “healthy with mild infection of the virus.” However, five days later, the infected persons alleged ostracism by the residents’ welfare association. They alleged that food delivery was disallowed for their house. Deputy Director of Health V. Govindan confirmed the allegation. According to him, the residents’ welfare association had ostracised the infected persons and demanded that they be shifted out of the premises to the hospital. “They are all educated, live in large houses with adequate space between each house. But it was shocking to see this degree of lack of awareness. Even people in the villages are helpful to each other,” Dr .Govindan said. In the best interest of the infected persons, two persons were shifted to the ESI hospital in Hosur for isolation and monitoring. “They are asymptomatic and in good health. That was why they were kept in home quarantine with necessary treatment,” Dr. Govindan said. Two more test positive Two more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Shoolagiri on Friday. The 20-year-old man and 40-year-old woman were the family members of one of the women who tested positive in Shoolagiri on Tuesday. The women, both flower sellers, had contracted the virus reportedly from a wedding that had guests from Villupuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-covid-19-positive-persons-shifted-from-home-to-hospital-following-alleged-ostracism/article31539665.ece
09 May 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Mosquito net manufacturers want migrants to stay back||Mosquito net manufacturers in Karur, who have resumed operations from Wednesday, are fervently hoping that migrant workers from north India would stay to ensure uninterrupted operations. The Karur units are major suppliers of mosquito nets in the country and also export to countries such as South Africa, Myanmar and other countries. The industry is said to generate an annual turn over of more than Rs. 1,000 crore, including exports. According to industry representatives the nearly 100 units employ about 3,000 migrant workers from North India. The migrants are mostly from Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal. After the extended lockdown, many among the migrants are said to have expressed the wish to return to their hometowns under one pretext or other, especially after the Railways announced plans to operate special trains. Industry representatives say that an exodus of migrants from the town may seriously impede the functioning of the mosquito net manufacturing industry. ‘We will take care of them’ “We always take care of them well; we have been taking care of their needs such as accommodation and medical care. Even during the past 45 days, we have been supplying rice, oil and other essentials supplies. Besides, each worker was paid Rs. 100 a day(during the lockdown) and we hope they will stay back,” said A.R. Malaiyappasamy, president of the TN HDPE Mono Filament Yarn and Fabric Manufacturers Welfare Association. The industry is also hoping that the State government would go ahead with its earlier plan of supplying mosquito nets free of cost to Below Poverty Line families. Some fear that the COVID-19 pandemic might put the initiative on hold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mosquito-net-manufacturers-want-migrants-to-stay-back/article31539937.ece
09 May 2020||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||2,900 get essential goods||Minister for Information ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju distributed essential commodities to 2,900 persons in separate functions organised here on Thursday. He handed over rice, grocery, vegetables to 1,900 van, autorickshaw and taxi drivers, loadmen, ‘pandal’ workers, photographers and members of cultural troupes in Kovilpatti. He also gave away essential commodities to 1,000 people at Kamarajar Nagar in Pandavarmangalam panchayat and personal protective equipment to 40 physically challenged persons. In Thoothukudi, the COVID-19 relief of Rs. 1,000 was given to 96,999 unorganised sector workers and 46,449 fishermen while Rs. 5,000 was given to 19,512 fishermen as fishing ban period assistance. In Tamil Nadu, 83 lakh unorganised sector labourers and 21,770 match factory workers had received the relief of Rs. 1,000 per family, he said. Mr. Raju said 4,940 persons had been tested in Thoothukudi district and 30 were tested positive. While 26 of them returned home, a 72-year-old woman succumbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2900-get-essential-goods/article31539881.ece
09 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Seven persons killed in four road accidents||In less than a day of the easing of lockdown regulations, seven persons were killed in four different accidents here on Friday. In the first accident, three men on a motorcycle were killed in a hit and run in Bargur on Friday. The victims - Vignesh (29), Kuppan (60), Sennayasetti (70) - were heading to Bengaluru, where they were employed in a garment store. The men had left their homes in Bargur on a motorcycle driven by Vignesh at 4 a.m. However, half an hour later, they were found fatally knocked down near Kandikuppam. The bodies that were brought to the government hospital was kept in two ambulances for little over two hours. According to hospital sources, the bodies could be moved to the morgue only after the arrival of the local police. In the second accident, a 39-year-old public distribution outlet staff was killed near Aavin flyover. The victim, Mutharasan, was on his way to work, when he rammed his bike on a van moving in front of him. Mutharasan died on the spot. In the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, a 45-year-old man was injured in an accident at Kaveripattinam. The victim, Kumar of Periyamuthur, died on Friday. In the fourth accident, the driver and cleaner of a Bengaluru-bound container truck were killed by a speeding SUV along the Krishnagiri-Bengaluru Highway at Shoolagiri on Friday. The victims, Munusamy (35) from Tuticorin and Dinesh Kumar (25) from Tiruvarur, had stopped the truck to check for air, when a speeding SUV from Kerala to Bengaluru knocked them down. The passengers of the SUV suffered injuries. The bodies were shifted to Hosur GH for post-mortem. The understaffed government hospitals that were gearing to channel its reserves for COVID-19 cases are suddenly seeing accidents just as the district turned green to orange zone this week, following a few positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-persons-killed-in-four-road-accidents/article31539663.ece
09 May 2020||KRISHNANKOIL,TAMIL NADU||KARE gets award||The Kalasalingam Academy of Research and Education (KARE), Krishnankoil, has been awarded the 138th global rank in the Times Higher Education impact rankings under clean water and sanitation category. The U.K based magazine, Times Higher Education (THE) ranks universities based on excellence under various categories. Universities across the world were assessed on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. KARE was assessed on its studies related to water, usage and water management on the three parameters of research, outreach and stewardship. KARE vice-president S. Shasi Anand appreciated the staff for the global recognition, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kare-gets-award/article31539888.ece
09 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac shop in Sellur closed after protest by residents||For the second day on Friday, residents of Sellur attempted to stop the opening of a TASMAC shop in their locality. However, a large posse of police chased the protesters and picked up 20 of them. Protesters complained that the police used force to chase them away. Meanwhile, officials closed the shop in the afternoon after it was pointed out that the shop was close to a containment zone. A woman wondered how the administration allowed the Tasmac shop in Meenatchipuram to open when it was very close to a containment zone. “While the police are strict about timings of grocery and vegetable shops, how can they allow a large number of people to gather and buy liquor,” a woman asked. Pointing out that the area witnessed skirmishes due to inebriated people, she said that liquor was leading to lot of problem in many families also. “Though poor people were forced to borrow money to feed their families, there was some peace during the last 43 days. But families were facing issues now not due to loss of jobs but due to sale of alcohol,” she said. The police said while 20 men, led by Communist Party of India (Marxist) member, Balu, were picked up, the women who squatted on the road, were chased away. The officials and the police say that opening of Tasmac shops is the policy decision of the government and no one should interfere in this issue, the CPI (M) urban district secretary, R. Vijayarajan, said. Meanwhile, another protest was reported in Thathaneri under Sellur police station limits. Some 15 women forced the Tasmac shop to close. However, after intervention of the police, the shop was re-opened. A similar protest was held in front of two Tasmac shops in Sellur on Thursday too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-shop-in-sellur-closed-after-protest-by-residents/article31539906.ece
09 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Registrar (in-charge) to continue: VC||N. Sankar will continue as Registrar (in-charge) until the lockdown ends, said Madurai Kamaraj University Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan. Mr. Sankar submitted his resignation on May 1. He said he could not continue in the role as he wished to dedicate more time to academics and research. “I received a letter from the VC on Wednesday asking me to continue. Since the registrar is a signing authority, I will go on until the administration finds a replacement,” he said. The VC said that no decision regarding a replacement for the Registrar’s post has been taken as senior officials from the Higher Education department have not permitted conduct of meetings. “A meeting with Syndicate members is yet to be conducted regarding re-advertising for the post,” he added. Last time, the university had a regular Registrar was in June 2019. Ever since, the administration has held several rounds of interviews and narrowed the selection down to 16 candidates for the final interview in January 2020 when all applicants were deemed unfit for the post. Although the administration was to have re-advertised for the post three months ago, it was yet to be done. A senior member from MKU’s Syndicate who was part of the group which interviewed applicants, said that the re-advertising did not take place because the administration was busy working on a self-study report to be submitted to the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). “We had sought a meeting via video conferencing with the VC on re-advertising for the post. However, we are yet to hear from him,” the Syndicate member said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/registrar-in-charge-to-continue-vc/article31539904.ece
09 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Lord Kallazhagar redeems Manduga Maharishi’s curse||Thousands of devotees witnessed Lord Kallazhagar redeeming Manduga Maharishi from the curse at the Sundararaja Perumal Temple through a livestream on YouTube and live telecast on local channels here on Friday. Every year, thousands used to take part in the annual Chithitrai festival of the Sundaraja Perumal Temple. Many dress as gods and dance on the streets as Lord Kallazhagar enters the Vaigai. The redeeming of the curse usually takes place at Thenoor Mandapam. “The entire event is treated as a monumental celebration,” said K. Lingarajan, a resident of Melur. “I usually walk along with Alagar all the way from the temple to A.V. Bridge and back to Alagar Hills every year as I usually carry the temple’s mobile ‘hundiyal.’ This year, due to COVID-19, I could only watch the event on television,” he said. The festivities took place all day as Lord Kallazhagar was on different ‘vahanas,’ including the celebrated Garuda vahana. This was followed by redeeming of the curse. The festivities ended at 8 p.m. as Lord Kallazhagar travelled on the ornamentally decorated flower palanquin inside the temple. A senior official from the temple administration said a maximum of 20 persons were allowed inside the temple and there was heavy police protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lord-kallazhagar-redeems-manduga-maharishis-curse/article31539903.ece
09 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Healthy menu for health workers||With a huge team of doctors, staff nurses and workers deployed at Government Rajaji Hospital here to combat the coronavirus pandemic, a healthy menu is served for these healthcare staff who are on duty at the isolation ward. Dean J. Sangumani says that funds for providing accommodation and food for healthcare staff are disbursed by the State government. “After consultation with the hospital authorities, the officials of the Food Safety Department arrange for accommodation and food for these workers,” he says. Designated Officer of Food Safety M. Somasundaram says food is prepared and distributed for 80 doctors, 83 staff nurses and 175 workers. While food is prepared by a catering unit, a team of four workers and two drivers transport and distribute the food packets. “All the healthcare workers are provided accommodation at private hotels in the vicinity of the hospital. For every meal, sealed food packets are distributed to them. Common dining is not allowed. Food is also not directly served to the workers as a safety precaution to ensure that no COVID-19 positive person has any contact with other members,” says the Dean. All workers involved in transporting and distributing the food packets are regularly screened, said Mr. Somasundaram. The place of preparation of food is also disinfected. “These workers have a busy schedule as they have to travel to many places and distribute food to medical personnel with different schedules,” he says. It is ensured that the food is well-balanced and rich in vitamins and proteins, says K. Senthil, State president of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association. “It is also ensured that the consumed food packets are safely disposed by the healthcare workers," he adds. The menu Here is the list of food items given to healthcare workers, which is provided on a rotation basis:  Breakfast: Pongal, oothappam, vadai, idli, kichadi, puri, coconut chutney, tomato chutney and sambar.  Lunch: Chicken biryani, curd rice, sambar rice, eggs, chicken 65, mutton biryani, lemon rice, pudina rice, flavoured milk and fruits .  Dinner: Parotta, ildi, eggs, kurma, tomato chutney, chappati, oothappam, sambar, idiyappam and banana. Tea and snacks are provided in the mornings and evenings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthy-menu-for-health-workers/article31539895.ece
09 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC grants default bail to man as police fail to file final report||Granting default bail to a man after the police failed to file the final report within the mandatory time limit, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that the Supreme Court’s orders on the extension of limitation period does not deal with Section 167 of CrPC. Therefore, it will not affect the right of an accused to default bail. The court was hearing the petition filed by G. Settu, who was accused of having committed robbery in January 2020. He sought bail solely on the ground that the final report in the case had not been filed within the mandatory time and said that he was entitled to default bail. The State argued that the petitioner was accused of robbing an elderly woman and the final report in the case was not ready. The State pointed out that the Supreme Court had ordered extension of limitation period prescribed under various laws till further orders, in view of COVID-19 pandemic. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that personal liberty is too precious a fundamental right. Article 21 of the Constitution states that no person shall be deprived of his personal liberty except according to procedure established by law. The denial of compulsive bail will definitely amount to violation of the fundamental right guaranteed under the Constitution. The orders of the Supreme Court was binding on all courts and tribunals, including High Courts. The orders were in the view of the COVID-19 pandemic, to obviate the difficulties faced by litigants and ensure that they and their lawyers do not have to come physically to file in the respective courts and tribunals. The Supreme Court has not mentioned that police investigations would also be covered by the said orders. It is not as if crimes have not taken place during these pandemic times. Arrests have also been made and accused were being remanded. Therefore, it was not justified in citing closure of courts and the general extension of limitation period, the judge said. Justice Swaminathan observed that if the executive had actually intended that the period specified in Section 167 of CrPC should be extended, it ought to have come out with an appropriate formal measure. The executive must exhibit nimble footwork and not hide behind judicial orders. Granting default bail with conditions to Settu, the judge observed that the orders of the Supreme Court was to ensure that no litigant was deprived of his valuable rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-grants-default-bail-to-man-as-police-fail-to-file-final-report/article31539901.ece
09 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. staff stage demo||Government staff affiliated to Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association staged a demonstration in front of their offices here on Friday condemning the government for raising the age of retirement to 59. Employees of the Public Works Department, Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies Office and Panchayat Union Office staged a demonstration and raised slogans against the government. State vice-president of the association M. Gnanathambi said that between May 2020 and April 2021, around 30,000 government employees from across the State were expected to retire. “By increasing the retirement age, the government has robbed graduates of an opportunity of filling these vacancies across various departments,” he said. The move has also affected thousands of employees who were expecting to get promotion this year, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-staff-stage-demo/article31539899.ece
09 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Thalassaemia Day: blood donation camp held||A total of 42 persons donated blood during a camp held at Swami Vivekananda Vidyamandir Senior Secondary School at Harveypatti here on Friday. Organised by SAKSHAM, a social voluntary organisation, the camp was held on the occasion of World Thalassaemia Day. Volunteers from Jeeva Nadhi Trust participated in the camp. A mobile blood collection van of Government Rajaji Hospital was deployed and medical staff from the hospital assisted. S. Govindaraj, national joint general secretary of SAKSHAM, said it was difficult to get donors for patients suffering from thalassaemia. “It is a blood disorder necessitating regular blood transfusions. It is one among the 21 types of disability recognised by the government. But many patients suffering from thalassaemia struggle to find donors during the lockdown,” he said. He said that all donors were screened before donation of blood. They were asked whether they had any contact with COVID-19 positive patients or any travel history. It was ensured that all had face masks and washed their hands before donating blood. The fear that blood donation during the current crisis would make donors susceptible to COVID-19 infection was completely unfounded, said S. Ganesh Murugan, founder of Jeeva Nadhi Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thalassaemia-day-blood-donation-camp-held/article31539897.ece
09 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two test positive||Two persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Friday, taking the number of cases to 113. They included a 25-year-old woman from North Masi Street and a 28-year-old man from Gomathipuram. The 28-year-old man is a frontline worker in the fight against COVID-19, Collector T. G. Vinay said. The woman who had travelled to a containment area did not display any symptoms, the Collector added. A total of 23 people who were being treated for COVID-19 at Government Rajaji Hospital were discharged after testing negative here on Friday. There were 16 patients from Madurai and seven from Virudhunagar. Of them, 13 were men, six women and four children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-test-positive/article31539908.ece
09 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Shops inspected||Collector T. G. Vinay and Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inspected the temporary vegetable shops set up at Fatima College ground here on Friday. To avoid crowding at Paravai wholesale vegetable market in the wake of COVID-19, the district administration had ordered shifting of 77 retail and mini-wholesale vegetable shops from the market to Fatima College ground. They inspected the Paravai wholesale vegetable market on Friday. As five loadmen were found without facemasks, a penalty of Rs. 100 each was levied. They warned that all truck drivers, salesmen and loadmen must strictly follow personal distancing norms and wear masks. An official said that talks are under way to move more number of wholesale vegetable shops from Paravai market to other locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-inspected/article31539907.ece
09 May 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Lull in liquor sale||A lull in liquor sale was noticeable in Nagapattinam district on Friday. The need to issue tokens as a measure of crowd control did not arise, a senior official said. The extent of sales was much lesser on Friday compared to Thursday when revenue of Rs. 4.83 crore was generated through 93 outlets in the district, sources said. In fact, the sales was not along expected lines after the initial hours on Thursday. There was crowding in some of the outlets as there were rumours that liquor sale was a one-off affair, sources said.According to welfare organisations, the thin turnout of tipplers at the TASMAC outlets on Friday had much to do with their economic hardship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lull-in-liquor-sale/article31539931.ece
09 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||NLC accident will not hit power supply, says Minister||Electricity Minister P. Thangamani said here on Friday that power distribution would not be affected by the boiler blast at NLC thermal station in Cuddalore on Thursday. The Minister told presspersons that “officials from NLC contacted us and informed that supply of 210 MW for Tamil Nadu would be affected due to Thursday’s incident.” However, this will not affect power supply in the State, he said. “We have sufficient supply of power and power requirement at the moment is less in the State.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nlc-accident-will-not-hit-power-supply-says-minister/article31539654.ece
09 May 2020||Palakkad,TAMIL NADU||Tight vigil along Palakkad border||Tight vigil continues at all border checkposts in the district in spite of relaxations in the lockdown. People coming with passes from other States are being allowed entry only through Walayar checkpost. DySP R. Manoj Kumar said that passengers were not being allowed through 10 other checkposts in the district. Police intensified joint patrolling with forest officials at all entry points to the district, including the roads through forest areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tight-vigil-along-palakkad-border/article31539674.ece
09 May 2020||PARAMAKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Killed in drunken brawl||Sheik alias Jayakumar, son of Murugan of Ponniahpuram near here, was murdered by one of his friends on Thursday. Police said Jayakumar and five others, including Anand, were consuming liquor near a tank. During a wordy altercation, Anand attacked Jayakumar with a weapon, killing him on the spot. Anand surrendered before Paramakudi Town police station. Police said both Anand and Jayakumar were history-sheeters. Yemeneswaram police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/killed-in-drunken-brawl/article31539891.ece
09 May 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for poaching monitor lizards||The Forest Department has arrested three persons on the charge of poaching a couple of monitor lizards and consumed it's meat after killing the animals at Kathanviduthi village in Karambakudi taluk in the district. The crime came to light after the three accused - Prabhu (21), Suri (22) and Ramesh (25) uploaded a video clip of the capture of the monitor lizards in Tik Tok which went viral in the social media platforms. Based on the video clips, Forest Department officials conducted enquiries and caught the trio who confessed not only to have poached the monitor lizards, but also killed the animals and consumed the meat. Forest Department arrested the three accused on Thursday and remanded them. A Forest Department official said monitor lizard was a Schedule - I animal. A case has been booked against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-poaching-monitor-lizards/article31539944.ece
09 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||The Salem City Police on Friday arrested a person for garlanding a statue of former Chief Minister Kamaraj with sandals. The police said that passers-by near Thekkampatti in Karuppur alerted them. The police removed the sandals. On inquiry in Thekkampatti, it was found that a drunk youth garlanded the statue. The Karuppur police nabbed the youth. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested/article31539668.ece
09 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Adopt conjunctive use of water method for 2020-21 crop season: Agro technologists||The Tamil Nadu Senior Agro Technologist’s Forum, Thanjavur branch, has called upon the Tamil Nadu to government to adopt conjunctive use of water for irrigation during the 2020-21 season in the Cauvery Delta region. The Forum’s Thanjavur branch, which used to suggest measures for judicious use of water for irrigation in the Delta region for the past 15 years has claimed that though the present storage at the Stanley Reservoir at Mettur was encouraging, taking up cultivation by drawing water from Mettur dam alone might lead to water shortage. Pointing out that an analysis of water availability and usage in the recent past had revealed that around 146 tmc of water was utilised for cultivation from June to September, the Forum said that realisation of 123.14 tmc of water at Mettur as per the Tribunal Award and Supreme Court order should be ensured. As the Meteorological Department has predicted normal rain during the forthcoming South-West monsoon and with the possibility of good rain during the North-East monsoon between October to January, the Forum said that by adopting conjunctive use of water for nursery raising and transplantation for kuruvai and going in for direct sowing for samba at the places wherever possible on a large scale would help save around 45.50 tmc of water at Mettur. The Forum expressed hope that this could be achieved easily in view of the fact that though rainfall last year was normal the groundwater level had increased considerably as the spells were spread over 74 days, reducing the quantity of run-off water significantly. Farmers should be encouraged to go in for filter point irrigation for raising of nursery and transplantation and also by promoting community nursery raising for kuruvai by tapping the groundwater potential. Further, promoting direct sowing in samba on around 2 lakh hectares utilising the expected South-West monsoon rain during August and September would help achieve raising of crops without much difficulty. While suggesting conjunctive use of water for initial days of cultivation, the Forum felt that keeping the irrigation channels free from obstructions to ensure smooth flow of water to reach tail-end areas, releasing of water from Mettur dam in proportion to the realisation of rain in Delta districts by the Public Works Department, preparing the ryots to adopt conjunctive use of water method for kuruvai and for taking up direct sowing method during samba by the Agriculture Department, ensuring the availability of mechanised farm implements and inputs at appropriate time by the Agriculture Engineering Department and releasing of funds for cultivation by the Cooperatives Department should also be ensured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adopt-conjunctive-use-of-water-method-for-2020-21-crop-season-agro-technologists/article31539936.ece
09 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Workers seek pension benefits||The All India Trade Union Congress has alleged that pension benefits of workers attached to the Unorganised Sector Workers Welfare Board have not been disbursed for the past six months. In a statement, the State general secretary, AITUC, C.Chandrakumar said that the Board had stopped crediting the pension amount in the bank accounts and thereby pushing the workers aged above 60 into a distress situation. Most of these pensioners have also not received the COVID-19 relief assistance of Rs. 1000 with 15-kg of rice, a kg of cereal and one kg of cooking oil as announced by the State government in April. While this was the case with respect to the aged unorganised sector workers, several labourers who are active members of the Board either received cash or groceries only or did not receive both.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workers-seek-pension-benefits/article31539924.ece
09 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Allow all of us to function: Kumbakonam traders||The All Traders Associations of Kumbakonam has pleaded with the district authorities to allow all trades and businesses in Kumbakonam to function as early as possible. In a memorandum addressed to the district administration, the organisation president, C.Mahendran and secretary, V.Sathyanarayanan have pointed out that keeping the shops selling products other than groceries and other edible products closed for more than one-and-half months would push the traders into severe distress. While the continuous closure might cause some damages to the products, the traders would also be exposed to the credit-related issues such as delayed repayment of loan instalments, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-all-of-us-to-function-kumbakonam-traders/article31539923.ece
09 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Immunity booster packs distributed to COVID-19 warriors||Immunity booster packs were distributed to around 900 personnel deployed to carry out COVID-19 containment measures under Kumbakonam municipal limit. The packs were distributed to the “COVID-19 warriors” at the health camp at Kumbakonam on Friday on the instructions of Zonal Officer and Commissioner, State Archaeology Department, M.S. Shanmugam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/immunity-booster-packs-distributed-to-covid-19-warriors/article31539942.ece
09 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Entry restricted in Theni||After a man tested positive for COVID-19, the district administration restricted entry of outsiders at all check posts on Friday. According to a press release, Collector M Pallavi Baldev said that the Kumuli-Theni check post at Lower Camp, Madurai-Theni check post at Thimmarasanaickanoor in Andipatti and at Dindigul-Theni check post at Devadanapatti have been activated to function round the clock. Persons travelling from other districts or States should cooperate with health teams for screening. In the event of high temperature or cold or cough, they would not be permitted to travel further inside the district, a health official said at Devadanapatti check post. Deputy CM O Panneerselvam, who drove from Chennai on Thursday night, was also screened. The official added that on Friday alone, 395 samples were taken. As a fresh positive case from Odaipatti was confirmed, the officials cordoned off the pocket. The man’s relatives and other acquaintances were screened and samples taken. The local municipal officials sprayed disinfectant in the hamlet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entry-restricted-in-theni/article31539900.ece
09 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Mask vending machines commissioned||Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan on Thursday commissioned mask vending machines at the civic body’s administrative office and in Rajaji Park. The public can get get a mask by inserting a Rs. 5 coin in the machine which holds 120 masks made by self-help groups. Since cloth masks were being sold at Rs. 15 or Rs. 20 a piece, it is expected that people would patronise the vending machine. Based on the patronage, the corporation plans to install the machines at more places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mask-vending-machines-commissioned/article31539883.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||One more Koyambedu worker tests positive in Tiruchi||A 60-year-old man who returned from Chennai tested positive for COVID-19 here on Friday. The man had been working at the Koyambedu market in Chennai and returned to his hometown in Tiruchi after the market closed. The patient has been admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital where he is undergoing treatment, officials here said. Along with him, 11 other patients hailing from Tiruchi are at the MGMGH. The hospital is taking care of 37 patients, including nine from Ariyalur, 14 from Perambalur and two from Pudukottai. Senior officials at the Tiruchi GH said that while samples were lifted from about 190 traders at random from the G. Corner temporary wholesale market, results have returned negative for all. Collector S. Sivarasu requested those returning from other districts and states to get in touch with health officials and get themselves tested for the infection. They must also self-isolate themselves for at least 14 days, he said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Sivarasu distributed rations including rice, pulses and wheat flour worth Rs. 1,250 to 390 contract workers who work as support staff at the Tiruchi GH. He requested them to stay safe, wear facemasks at all times and wash their hands regularly. Mr. Sivarasu also visited the testing facility set up at the K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College and enquired about its functioning with the lab technicians and professors. S. Dhanapal, Head, Department of Microbiology had demonstrated the methodology of testing in the presence of Dean. K. Vanitha and A. Subramani, Deputy Director of Health Services. In Ariyalur district, 424 new people arrived from outside the district on Friday and have been kept in 12 facilities set up by the district administration. Throat swabs have been lifted for all the 424 and 139 others. Of the total 563 tests results which are awaited, 309 have been sent to the Tiruchi testing centre while 254 have been set to the newly established testing centre in Ariyalur itself. In Thanjavur, a man from Kumbakonam who was being treated at the Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital was discharged on Friday after tests showed that he had recovered from the infection. A total of 44 of the total 65 people who had tested positive for COVID-19 have recovered and returned home from the hospital, officials here said. Meanwhile, 20 patients are undergoing treatment and are all in stable health. Collector M. Govinda Rao applauded the patient, handed over a food hamper consisting of biscuits and other nutritious food sponsored by The Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology here. The Collector requested people suffering from cold, fever and cough to visit the nearest Primary Healthcare Centre. He said that results of 421 samples were awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-koyambedu-worker-tests-positive-in-tiruchi/article31539926.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Many migrant workers want to return home’||Several migrant labourers in Tiruchi Range encompassing five districts have expressed their willingness to go to their home State owing to the lockdown. Employed in various types of trades until the lockdown was announced rendering them jobless, the migrant labourers from various north Indian and a few southern States had been staying in various places in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur districts. In order to address their grievances and ensure personal distancing at their respective places of stay, law-enforcers in Tiruchi Range had recently nominated a police officer in the rank of an Inspector of Police in each of the five districts to look into the needs and requirements of these labourers. Migrant labourers from West Bengal, Chattisgarh, Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Maharastra, Telangana, Haryana and Andhra Pradesh have been working in the Tiruchi Range. Law-enforcers say they had compiled a list of migrant labourers hailing from different States who had expressed their willingness to go to their native State in view of the lockdown which has been extended up to May 17. The list has been compiled district-wise in Tiruchi Range by the law-enforcers regarding the migrant labourers who had registered in the online portal expressing their willingness to return back to their home State. The Tiruchi Range accounts for over 18,000 migrant labourers, according to police statistics. Many migrant labourers working in Tiruchi Rural police limits hailed from West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Maharastra. The number of migrant labourers staying in Tiruchi Rural Police limits alone were over 3,000 housed in 52 centres at present. Ariyalur district, which has a chain of cement factories and other units also, has over 3,000 migrant labourers, says a senior police officer. Police said more than 1,300 migrant labourers had expressed their willingness to leave to their home State and registered themselves in the online portal to return to their State, says an officer. Another police officer said more than 600 migrant labourers in Perambalur district had expressed their willingness to return to their home State and registered in the dedicated portal. Many migrant labourers in Pudukottai and Karur districts have also expressed their wish to leave for their State. Police say the total number of labourers willing to return their respective State was over 7,000 in Tiruchi Range. Tiruchi Rural Police created a dedicated helpline number for migrant labourers to contact and express their grievances and needs. Besides food packets, grocery items such as rice, edible oil and dhal were being given to the migrant labourers in Tiruchi district in the wake of the lockdown. Medical screening of these labourers were done as a precautionary measure in the backdrop of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-migrant-workers-want-to-return-home/article31539943.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Protests against opening of TASMAC shops||Protests by public against opening of TASMAC liquor outlets were held at different places in the district on Friday. The protest by a group of villagers in Kallagam led to the arrest of 15 persons. The villagers assembled near a TASMAC shop at Kallagam demanding the closure of the liquor outlet. Police arrested all of them with a case booked against them in Kallakudi police station. A TASMAC shop at Peruvalappur village in Siruganur police station limits remained closed for the second day on Friday due to stiff opposition from the villagers, said police sources. A group of around 70 women staged a protest at Alagiripuram near Kollidam check post in Tiruchi city police limits opposing the opening of a TASMAC shop situated in that locality. The women assembled near the shop before it was to open for the day for resumption of liquor sale and demanded that the outlet be closed. The protest prompted the intervention of police, revenue and TASMAC officials. Some women threw ration rice on the road as part of the protest which led to delay in opening of the liquor outlet. The stir went on for nearly two hours even as officials tried to pacify the protesting women. The protesting women finally gave up after officials assured that the shop would be shifted to another location within a month. The liquor outlet began functioning from the afternoon, said the sources. In neighbouring Ariyalur district, a TASMAC shop at Kotiyaal village near T. Palur remained closed for the day following public opposition. Liquor sales reported on the first day in Ariyalur district on Thursday were to the tune of Rs. 1.38 crore through 26 shops. In Tiruchi district, sales reported on the first day were Rs. 7.47 crore, said official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-against-opening-of-tasmac-shops/article31539928.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Veterinary services at doorsteps of farmers||The Animal Husbandry department has been providing veterinary services at the doorsteps of farmers realising the difficulty faced by them in bringing domestic animals and pets to veterinary hospitals and dispensaries during the lockdown. Veterinarians of the department were rendering the mobile services at select villages after identifying the need based on inputs from the field-level department officials. The Amma Ambulance ‘1962’ emergency vehicle equipped with necessary equipment for treating animals was being deployed to provide mobile veterinary services at the villages apart from attending emergency calls. Veterinary services such as artificial insemination and deworming of animals besides treatment were being provided to the animals, said S. Esther Sheela, Regional Joint Director, Animal Husbandry, Tiruchi The initiative is being done on the instruction of the district administration and Animal Husbandry department, Dr. Sheela said. The exercise which commenced a few days ago has been carried out at M.Kalathur in Thottiyam block, Nochiyam in Manachanallur block and Palakurichi in Marungapuri block till now. The team providing services at the doorstep comprises a couple of veterinary doctors, a livestock inspector, two animal husbandry assistants and a couple of attenders Treatment has been provided to over 30 animals and de-worming done for 70 others. Artificial insemination and other breeding services have been done on 19 animals so far. All the 104 veterinary dispensaries, eight veterinary hospitals, a round-the-clock poly clinic functioning in Tiruchi and 35 sub-centres in Tiruchi district were functioning notwithstanding the lockdown. The doorstep service would continue till the lockdown is lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veterinary-services-at-doorsteps-of-farmers/article31539933.ece
09 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Protests planned opposing abolition of civilian posts||Employees unions affiliated to All India Defence Employees Federation (AIDEF) have decided to hold demonstrations at Ordnance Factory and HAPP in Tiruchi and other production units across the country in protest against the “abolition of 9,304 civilian posts in Military Engineering Services by the Defence Ministry.” Describing the decision as ‘arbitrary’, AIDEF General Secretary C. Srikumar said a protest letter has been sent to the Defence Ministry. The protest programmes will be organised after the culmination of COVID-19 lockdown, Mr. Srikumar told The Hindu . The Defence Ministry had stated on Thursday that 9,304 posts in MES out of the total 13,157 vacancies of basic and industrial staff have been abolished on the basis of the recommendations made by the Lt. General. Shekatkar Committee. “It is unfortunate that there was no consultation with recognised federations, even though downsizing, and restructuring cannot be implemented without consulting the staff side as per the decision of the National Council,” Mr. Srikumar said in a letter addressed to the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. There was already an acute shortage of civilian manpower in the MES, and in violation of the labour laws, permanent jobs were being outsourced to contractors causing a dilution in the quality of work, Mr. Srikumar said. Moreover, due to shortage of manpower in MES, additional burden has to be shouldered by the existing employees. The logic behind abolition of the posts could not be understood, since the Federation's representations to MoD for filling of vacancies in MES were agreed upon earlier. Abolition of the posts will deprive employment opportunities to the younger generation and will also lead to denial of promotional opportunities for the employees, since the higher posts are determined based on the sanctioned strength of each category, he explained. The announcement of the major policy decision at the time of COVID-19 lockdown was “shocking”. Pertinently, the Lt. General Shekatkar Committee Report was not shared with the recognised federations. The decision on abolition of posts must be kept in abeyance until a discussion takes place with the recognised federations, Mr. Srikumar emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-planned-opposing-abolition-of-civilian-posts/article31539935.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Comply with safety norms, contractors told||The Tiruchi Corporation has directed all its contractors to strictly adhere to all safety protocols prescribed in view of the COVID 19 pandemic while executing works for the civic body. The guidelines issued by the Department of Revenue and Disaster Management should be followed strictly with respect to employees working under the contractors. All workers should be given face masks and other protective gear. Social distancing should be followed while executing projects. Workers should be instructed to wash their hands frequently using soap or clean their hands using sanitisers. Awareness messages should be displayed prominently at the work sites, Corporation Commissioner S.Sivasubramanian told the contractors at a recent meeting with them. Workers should be supplied with Kabasura Kudineer and Nilavembu Kashayam for boosting immunity besides vitamin and zinc tablets. All workers should be issued identity cards. Contractors should also ensure that there were no worker above the age of 55 at the work sites. The workers should also be screened periodically at the nearest Corporation health centres, he said. City Engineer S.Amuthavalli and other officials were also present. The Corporation warned traders, who have reopened shops, against littering public places. Shops should hand over their solid waste, segregated into degradable and non-degradable wastes, to sanitary workers. Solid wastes should not be dumped on roadsides. They should also ensure that all visitors and customers to their establishments wore face masks, followed social distancing norms and did not litter public places. “It is the responsibility of the traders to monitor and ensure that the customers adhered to these directives, failing which legal action would be initiated against them,” Corporation Commissioner S.Sivasubramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/comply-with-safety-norms-contractors-told/article31539929.ece
09 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T chosen for Prime Minister’s Research Fellowship Scheme||National Institute of Technolgy - Tiruchi (NIT-T) has been included for Prime Minister’s Research Fellowship (PMRF) Scheme entailing attractive fellowships that were hitherto the preserve of Indian Institutes of Technology, Indian Institute of Science and Indian Institute of Science, and Indian Education of Science Education and Research. With attractive fellowships, the scheme seeks to attract the best talent into research thereby realising the vision of development through innovation. NIT-T was chosen along with six central universities for PMRF scheme announced in the 2018-19 Budget owing to their ranking within the first 25 spots under the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). The overall ranking in the previous year was considered. As per the scheme, NIT-T can admit 20 PMRF scholars eligible for monthly fellowship of Rs. 70,000 for the first two years, Rs. 75,000 for the third year, and Rs. 80,000 for the fourth and fifth years. Besides, each scholar will be provided with research grant of Rs. 2 lakh per year for the five years to cover their academic contingency expenses and for foreign/national travel expenses. In a press release, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said the scholars will be selected by a rigorous process. Only candidates with GATE (Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering) scores, those who had participated in science Olympiad and had a record of outstanding performance in their basic degrees will be granted the fellowship, Prof. Mini Shaji Thomas said. The PMRF awardees receiving more than double the amount paid to research scholars will work on state-of-the-art research problems and contribute to nation building. There will be a rigorous review of the performance of PMRF scholars and continuity of the fellowship for the subsequent year would hinge on successful review. The National Coordination Committee will periodically review and monitor implementation of the scheme. Describing inclusion of NIT-T under the PMRF scheme as a great recognition for the institute, the NIT-T Director said it will improve the research output substantially.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-chosen-for-prime-ministers-research-fellowship-scheme/article31539934.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Industrialists keen on retaining them||Impressed by the adaptability and dedication of migrant labourers from North-Indian States, industrialists in Tiruchi have been keen on going the extra mile in retaining them. Unlike in other districts, in Tiruchi, some of the fabrication industries have provided them with accommodation and food at subsidised cost, all through the duration of the COVID 19 lockdown. The skill-levels of north Indian workers in specific works like blasting, painting and welding have been excellent, S. Sampath, Managing Director, Velmurugan Industries, said. For them, it is a question of survival. As they stay close to the production units, the question of transport cost does not arise. They also have their food once a day in the canteen at a subsidised rate, and are hence, able to send money back home, Mr. Sampath said. Not only is their workmanship of superior quality, they are also quite productive and do not mind working for more than 10 hours a day, he pointed out. The workers from north Indian States are indeed indispensable in the scheme of things in the fabriction industries, R. Ilango, President of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association, who has also provided a group of workers with food and accommodation, said. Unlike local workforce, the North Indian labourers are able to focus efficiently on work in the absence of domestic commitments, he explained. In Tiruchi district, deployment of north Indian workers in the construction sector is mainly confined to tile and marble flooring. They are also employed in considerable numbers by concrete mixer units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrialists-keen-on-retaining-them/article31539939.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Temporary retail vegetable markets to remain closed||All the temporary retail vegetable markets in the city will not function on Saturday and Sunday. Collector K. Sivarasu said that all the temporary retail markets functioning at 10 places will remain closed on both days. The wholesale market, which functions during nights, has been ordered closed on Friday night and will not function on Saturday night too, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-retail-vegetable-markets-to-remain-closed/article31539930.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: NIT staff given medical safety kit||Security personnel, medical staff, sanitary workers and other front line staff in National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi have been provided with medical safety kit in view of the COVID 19 pandemic. N. N.Anantharaman, Chairperson of Hospital Committee, said the medical safety kits contained the Immunity boosting multi-vitamin supplements -- zinc and vitamin C as recommended by the the Department of Health.  ORS packets The kit also included ORS packets for re-hydration in the hot weather conditions, besides an additional reusable cotton face cover. NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas handed over the medical safety kit to the frontline workers along with the Registrar Palanivel. All precautionary measures were in place in the campus for prevention of COVID 19 infection, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-nit-staff-given-medical-safety-kit/article31539938.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Spurt in crime after Tasmac resumes sale of liquor||Tiruneveli region, which usually witnesses registration of at least 20 cases in a day, was calm over the past 43 days. The situation has changed on a single day as it witnessed three murders and 24 scuffles, including attack with machetes, and 22 accidents on Thursday, the day when liquor shops reopened. When liquor shops remained closed, the police concentrated on enforcing lockdown norms. There was a fall in the number of crime cases. But when the liquor shops were opened on Thursday, there is a sudden spurt in criminal cases. Even before shock waves triggered by news on the murder of a woman by her inebriated son at Chettikulam over a property dispute could subside on Thursday, reports of the murder of a youth by his inebriated friends at Rajavallipuram surfaced in the dusk. Within an hour, construction labourer Rajendran from Brammadesam near Ambasamudram was allegedly murdered by brothers Muppulipandi and Marudhupandi following a quarrel. In Thoothukudi, construction worker Saravanan, 32, of Tooveypuram, who had consumed liquor with his friends on Thursday night, was found dead with injuries on the pavement near his house on Friday. Police suspect that his friends might have beaten him to death following an argument. Liquor is the common thread connecting these four crimes as four families have lost their breadwinners and a few more might lose their breadwinners if the accused get convicted. Apart from this, 44 more cases have been registered in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts, including a few attempt-to-murder cases, all caused by liquor sold through 155 shops in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi by the TASMAC that raked in Rs. 6 crore on Thursday alone. Liquor has apparently triggered as many as 22 road accidents in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts in which three persons were killed – one each at Kuruvikulam, Puliyangudi and Veeravanallur. “Drunk people have started indulging in all sorts of crimes. They may orchestrate robbery and burglary to buy liquor. So we’ll have to enforce lockdown everywhere while investigating these crimes in the days to come,” said a senior police officer here. Government hospital doctors fear that the number of COVID-19 positive cases would witness a surge within the next fortnight. “Since people from Chennai are fleeing to other districts and liquor shops have been reopened. People, who would not maintain physical distancing once inebriated, would contract the viral infection and transmit it to their family members. You can see this effect – both medically and socially - before the lockdown ends,” said a doctor.  Inebriated people will not maintain physical distancing and might contract the viral infection and transmit it Doctor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spurt-in-crime-after-tasmac-resumes-sale-of-liquor/article31539886.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Four test positive for COVID -19||Four persons, including a woman, from Tirunelveli district tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Two men from Chittoor near Valliyoor, another one from Melapalayam and a woman from Pattamadai have tested positive to take the district’s tally to 72. As 59 patients have been discharged from Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, it has 13 patients under treatment. In Tenkasi district, a 38-year-old man, who had returned from Koyambedu in Chennai to his native place of Sernthamaram, has tested positive for the viral infection and hence the district now has 52 infections and 32 of them are under treatment. In Kanniyakumari district, eight new positive cases - seven men and a seven-year-old girl - have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaripallam to take the total number of infected persons to 25. 34 to be quarantined Thirty-four youths, who returned to their native places in the district from Maharashtra on Friday, are to be quarantined. The youths from Sattankulam, Tiruchendur, Kovilpatti and Kulaththoor, who were working in Maharashtra, returned home as they lost their jobs due to lockdown. After they somehow reached Salem, the youth were brought to Thoothukudi by a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation bus. “As the Yavatmal district in which they were working has been categorised as red zone during this pandemic, they were tested for COVID -19. Based on the results, they will either be quarantined at the Government Polytechnic here or asked to be in home quarantine,” said a health department official. Virudhunagar Even as all the 31 persons, who had come to the district from Mumbai, tested negative, Virudhunagar district reported two fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. With this, the total number of positive cases registered in the district has gone up to 37. The 31 persons who had come from Mumbai on Wednesday night were allowed to go home from the quarantine facility in Krishnankoil, Collector, R. Kannan said. The third positive case mentioned in the State Health bulletin was that of a person tested positive and admitted in Chennai. “The man, a native of Kariapatti, has not come home in the past two years. Since he had given his residential address in Kariapatti for the hospital records, the case was added to Virudhunagar district’s tally,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31539885.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Informer murdered||Thaazhaiyooththu police have picked up a youth on a charge of murder. Recently T. Esakkimuthu, 32, of Rajavallipuram had tipped off police that one Suresh had opened his tea shop during lockdown. The police forced Suresh to close the shop.  Suresh, Esakkimuthu and two others were consuming alcohol on Thursday and an argument broke out among them. Suresh and two others smashed Esakkimuthu’s head with a stone and he died on the spot. The police have picked up Suresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/informer-murdered/article31539887.ece
09 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Ward member booked under SC/ST Act in Dharapuram||Following a complaint from the president of Kavandachipudur Village Panchayat R. Selvi, the Dharapuram police booked a ward member under the provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on Thursday. Ms. Selvi submitted a complaint on Thursday accusing S. Kuppusamy, member of Ward No. 6 of the Village Panchayat, of using casteist slurs against her and issuing threats. The accused was booked under Sections 3 (1) (r) (intentionally insults or intimidates with intent to humiliate a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe in any place within public view), 3 (1) (s) (abuses any member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe by caste name in any place within public view) of the SC/ST Act along with sections 294 (b) (uttering obscenities) and 506 (2) (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, police said. The accused is absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ward-member-booked-under-scst-act-in-dharapuram/article31539666.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur lab to do COVID-19 test||The COVID-19 PCR testing laboratory at Tiruppur Government Hospital will start testing samples from cases in Tiruppur district from Saturday. Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan said in a press release that the Indian Council of Medical Research approved the laboratory on Friday. “Till now, the swab samples of those with COVID-19 symptoms were being tested at laboratories in Coimbatore and Erode districts,” he said. Health Department sources said that nearly 200 samples could be tested in one day at the laboratory. The district has not had new cases for six days from May 3. It has only two active cases, as 112 out of 114 patients have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-lab-to-do-covid-19-test/article31539651.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Drunken brawl results in death||Rajkumar (23) of Maavur near Tiruvarur reportedly died after he was attacked by a group of persons at Pinnavasal hamlet on Thursday night when the victim and the attackers were under the influence of alcohol. According to Tiruvarur Taluk police, they received the information that Rajkumar was found dead at his residence on Friday. Vellaiyammal, the wife of the deceased, said that her husband had visited his relatives Baskaran and Murugesan residing in the nearby Pinnavasal on Thursday. He returned home in an inebriated condition and went back to Pinnavasal stating that Baskaran and Murugesan should be punished, she told the police. On further interrogation the police came to know that a party Rajkumar had with his relatives at Pinnavasal resulted in a brawl and Rajkumar who retreated back to his residence came back to Pinnavasal to continue the fight. However, he was overpowered by Baskaran and Murugesan and he swooned at Pinnavasal itself. Subsequently, Rajkumar was brought to his house by the attackers on a tri-cycle on Thursday night. When Vellaiyammal attempted to wake up her husband on Friday he did not respond. Subsequently, it came to light that Rajkumar had died. Baskaran and Murugesan were arrested and Mariammal, wife of Murugesan, was also arrested on charges of assisting the accused, police said. Meanwhile, in Thanjavur district the Thanjavur Town East police are investigating the cause of death of Arun (37) of Keezhavasal area in Thanjavur, who was found dead on Friday morning. According to police, the deceased and his friends have reportedly consumed alcohol at an abandoned house in the area on Thursday night. On Friday morning, Arun was found dead in a pool of blood at the site where he had reportedly consumed alcohol with his friends. On receiving the information the Thanjavur Town East police rushed to the spot and removed the body for postmortem at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drunken-brawl-results-in-death/article31539925.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre will be held responsible if pandemic aggravates ’||The Coordination Committee of All Farmers Associations of Tamil Nadu has said that the Union government would be held responsible if the COVID-19 virus pandemic aggravated due to the opening of TASMAC outlets in Tamil Nadu. Addressing the media at Mannargudi on Friday, the committee president, P.R.Pandian said that the entire nation was fighting to check the spread of novel coronavirus. At this situation, the Union government should not remain as a mute spectator to some of State government’s decision to resume or allow sale of liquor to mop up funds. Opening of liquor shops would only result in safety protocols being thrown to the winds by the tipplers, Mr.Pandian said and urged the Union government to direct the State governments not to allow sale of liquor until the lifting of nation-wide lockdown. He demanded the release of adequate funds to the State governments to carry out the fight against the coronavirus effectively and efficiently. If not, he said, the Central government would only be held responsible for the spread of the virus across the State. Touching upon the issues relating to the farming community, Mr.Pandian regretted that several tonnes of vegetables and fruits were allowed to rot in the fields by the farmers in the absence of an effective mechanism for sale of these products during the pandemic. If the State feels that nothing much could be done to ensure the sale of these products, it should compensate the loss suffered by the farmers as done by the governments in Karnataka and Puduchery.  He demanded waiver of crop loans, disbursement of loans without any stringent conditions for the upcoming crop season and implementing kudimaramathu works with the active participation of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-will-be-held-responsible-if-pandemic-aggravates/article31539941.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Teenage girl found dead||A 17-year-old girl of Magizhancheri under Nannilam police station limit was found dead in an agriculture field with wounds on her body on Friday morning. According to police sources, the girl used to stay with her grandmother, residing in the same village, at night. As usual, she left her home on Thursday night stating that she was going to her grandmother’s house for stay. However, the villagers found her lying dead at an agriculture field near her grandmother’s house on Friday morning and informed the Nannilam police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenage-girl-found-dead/article31539940.ece
09 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tribal man held for neighbour’s murder||A man was arrested on charges of murdering his neighbour in a Paniya tribal hamlet at Erumadu near Pandalur on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Vijayan (40). The accused, Babu (31), was allegedly drunk on Thursday after the local Tasmac liquor shops started functioning. He reportedly got into a quarrel with another resident. Vijayan tried to intervene and a quarrel erupted between them. Babu allegedly picked up a wooden log nearby and assaulted Vijayan. Vijayan suffered head injuries and died. Babu was arrested and a case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-man-held-for-neighbours-murder/article31539673.ece
09 May 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Second train with migrant workers leaves for Ranchi||The second Shramik special train with 1,131 passengers left Kadpadi junction for Ranchi on Friday at 7.40 p.m. The passengers were brought to the station by the district administration. All health protocols were followed before the passengers boarded the train, an official said. In the morning, the workers were issued tokens after their credentials were verified. Revenue department officials provided travel passes to them and health officials screened the workers. After these procedures, they were allowed to board the vehicles to the station, said an official from Collectorate. Operating a train to Kolkata is being worked out and once the list is finalised, the date and time of the special train would be announced, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-train-with-migrant-workers-leaves-for-ranchi/article31539620.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Novel coronavirus: what secrets do X-rays hold?||Most COVID-19 patients present with mild symptoms — sore throat, fever, runny nose or a dry cough. But the infection can get really bad in some, extensively damaging their lungs and landing them in intensive care with ventilator support. Radiological imaging such as X-rays, lung ultrasound and sometimes high-resolution CT scan of the lungs are needed in every COVID-19 patient admitted to a hospital. These scans are invaluable in distinguishing SARS-COV-2 infection from other respiratory infections that affect the lung. Some studies have shown high-resolution CT scans to be as efficacious if not better than RT-PCR kits in diagnosing COVID-19. Radiological scans give the physician key inputs about the progression of the disease. Serial X-rays can predict the course of the patient at the hospital and show a red alert in case the condition worsens. To clarify, a majority of the patients with mild symptoms of infection can be managed at the OPD stage and they rarely require scans. However, every in-patient will require a radiological scan at the hospital. X-rays and the CT scans in COVID-19 patients show small patchy translucent white areas in the lung — what the radiologists call “GGO or ground glass opacities”. They are more commonly found in outer and lower parts of lungs. In some patients, the CT scans show a crisscross pattern of white lines called a “crazy paving” appearance. These changes completely resolve back to normal in most patients as they get better. Artificial intelligence-powered deep learning models that utilise convolutional neural networks are being increasingly used in chest X-ray and CT scan reads. They demonstrate excellent sensitivity and specificity. Radiology offers a window to the human body. It helps doctors understand the disease. As history has time and again proven, the better you know your enemy, the easier it is to best him in a fight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/novel-coronavirus-what-secrets-do-x-rays-hold/article31539619.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Workers flock Tiruppur Railway Station, stage protest||Nearly 200 migrant workers, who flocked the Tiruppur Railway Station after rumours of trains being operated to their hometowns, staged a protest demanding train services on Friday. Police said that the workers, most of whom were natives of Bihar, arrived at the railway station around noon after rumours circulated that a train will be operated to that State. However, upon learning that the train would leave from Coimbatore and will not stop at Tiruppur, the workers staged a demonstration demanding train services from Tiruppur. Tiruppur North police arrived at the spot and held talks with the protesters. They were taken to Jaivabai Municipal Girls Higher Secondary School and particulars were recorded in the online State portal for migrant workers willing to return to their home towns. Railway and district administration officials said that no confirmation regarding special trains from Tiruppur has come from the State government as of Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workers-flock-tiruppur-railway-station-stage-protest/article31539652.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Climate change may affect wildlife in Western Ghats||Climate change in the next half a century could severely reduce the extent of suitable habitats for wildlife endemic to the Western Ghats, such as the Indian brown mongoose ( Herpestes fuscus ), a paper recently published in Springer Nature warns. The paper uses climate modelling techniques to attempt to quantify the probable extent of habitat loss that species like the brown mongoose will face in the coming decades. The study could be key in not only warning of threats faced by the brown mongoose, but also other endemic “climate dependent” species of wildlife in the Western Ghats. T.T. Shameer, one of the authors of the paper, said that the model predicts that based on the intensity of global heating in the coming decades, the habitat of the endemic brown mongoose could contract by anywhere between 20% (4,764 sq km) and 55.78% (13,233 sq km). The model has also predicted that the impact of climate change on the species would be most pronounced in the Nilgiri hill complex, as well as the Anaimalai, Periyar and Agasthyamalai complex. “Extrapolating the results of habitat loss faced by the mongoose, we can assume that other endemic species too will face similar challenges,” said Dr. Shameer. “Small-bodied mammals are generally considered as indicators of climate changes (sic) and ecological system imbalance. Our outcomes conceive of climate change on Herpestes fuscus demonstrates a huge extent of habitat space may change as unsuitable by the year 2070,” note the authors of the paper. The researchers applied the climate modelling to the habitats of the brown mongoose primarily because it is “temperature and altitude dependent,” primarily inhabiting moist deciduous forests at altitudes above 1,500 meters above sea level, extending up to 2,600 meters above sea level, referred to as “Sky Islands.” These habitats are rich in biodiversity and are home to a huge variety of endemic wildlife. R. Sanil, Associate Professor at the Department of Zoology and Wildlife Biology at the Government Arts College in Udhagamandalam, and another author of the paper, said that climate change threatens not only the brown mongoose, but also other endemic species, including the brown palm civet, the Nilgiri langur, Lion-tailed macaque, the Nilgiri Marten, as well as many species of endemic birds. He said that reduction in populations, and even extinction of these species, are a real threat in the coming decades. “Climate change is a very real threat to the biodiversity of the Western Ghats. We need effective monitoring of these species of wildlife, as there is a dearth of data on populations of species like the brown mongoose and Nilgiri marten. These species will be the first to be impacted in the coming decades, so it is essential we start monitoring populations of these animals as soon as possible,” added Dr. Sanil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/climate-change-may-affect-wildlife-in-western-ghats/article31539658.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. tally goes past 6,000 with 600 new cases||There were 21 cases in Villupuram, 11 in Tiruvannamalai, eight each in Kancheepuram and Kanniyakumari, four in Tirunelveli, three in Virudhunagar, two each in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Madurai, and one each in Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi, Theni, Tirupattur and Tiruchi. Another 30 children aged 0 to 12 tested positive in the State. A total of 58 patients were discharged, taking the number of discharged in the State to 1,605. “Today alone, we have tested 13,980 samples. So far, we have tested 2,16,416 samples through RT-PCR. This is the highest testing number in the country. A bigger State like Maharashtra, that has more cases, has tested 2,02,105 samples as of Friday morning,” the Minister said. The reason for testing more was because the State had the highest number of testing facilities in the country — 36 in the government and 16 in the private sector, he added. “We are testing persons with severe acute respiratory infection and even those with common cold/cough. We are testing contacts of positive patients, and also pregnant women five days before their expected date of delivery,” he said. Analysing situation The State was providing comprehensive treatment for the patients — symptomatic treatment, Indian system of medicine and prescribed diet, he said, adding: “The Union Health Minister conducted a meeting via video-conferencing to analyse the situation in the State. He appreciated certain best practices in T.N. such as good public health system, low mortality rate, increased testing and uploading of data online. He said he would take this forward to other States.” (* This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-tally-goes-past-6000-with-600-new-cases/article31539629.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||High Court orders closure of all liquor shops||The latest order was passed on a batch of cases filed by various litigants including Makkal Needhi Maiam, led by actor Kamal Haasan. The court, however, permitted the government to introduce online sale of liquor and home deliver the bottles after making necessary amendments to the Tamil Nadu Liquor (Licence and Permit) Rules of 1981. It said that Tasmac could deploy its 30,000 contract employees and even outsource some and utilise them for home delivery of liquor after ensuring that they comply with all safety protocols. When the court expressed its disappointment over the government not having even tested its earlier suggestion to implement online sale of liquor, Tasmac pointed out that online sale was not feasible because the 1981 rules do not permit such sale. To this, the judges replied that the government should have thought of these things before deciding to reopen the shops. Penning the order, Justice Sathyanarayana expressed dismay over the court-imposed conditions as well as executive instructions on maintaining physical distancing norms, restricting the quantity of liquor that could be sold to each customer and selling liquor to people of different age groups at different hours of a day having been thrown to the winds on Thursday. The Bench said that media reports regarding flouting of physical distancing norms in liquor shops was startling. It also recorded that the government had conceded that there was a mad rush at liquor shops on Thursday, since they were opened after a gap of 41 days, and that it was beyond the control of policemen and others to ensure maintenance of physical distancing norms. "Now what worries this court is this mad rush for liquor will only lead to... new clusters as opined by epidemiologists and public health experts," the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-orders-closure-of-all-liquor-shops/article31539627.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||120 workers from Odisha taken to Chennai||As many as 120 migrant workers from Odisha who were willing to return to their hometowns were taken to Chennai from here on Thursday night. According to revenue officials, the migrant workers who were working in garment and other industries here were taken in four government buses from Salem to Chennai. Among them, 40 workers were from Salem city limits and remaining were from rural areas. According to officials, the migrants were screened for symptoms before boarding the bus and physical distancing was practised in the buses. Officials said that they were taken to a quarantine facility in Chennai. Police here have been collecting details of migrant workers willing to return to their native places. According to officials, in Salem City police limits, there are 5,168 migrant workers of which 2,475 are willing to return to their hometowns. Among them, a majority of the workers, 1,107 persons are from Bihar and over 500 persons are from Odisha. In Salem rural police limits, there are about 5,900 migrant workers and 1,600 of them will to return to their native places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/120-workers-from-odisha-taken-to-chennai/article31539653.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pleasant surprise||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pleasant-surprise/article31539890.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||As on May 8||Persons in hospitals - 198 (Male - 67, Male child - 1, Female - 129, Female child- 1) Govt. hospitals - 164 Private hospitals - 34 Persons tested +ve - 146 (No new case on Friday) Active cases - 4 Recovered - 141 Death - 1    House quarantined - 1,235 Positive: 114 (No new cases on May 8) Active cases: 2 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 112||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-on-may-8/article31539667.ece
09 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Police officer and wife in home quarantine||A police officer and his wife were asked to undergo home quarantine for two weeks after the officer met his daughter who had tested positive for COVID 19 in Belagavi on Friday. The Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police attached to a Karnataka State Reserve Police battalion in Belagavi had gone to a quarantine centre to meet his daughter. He consoled her as she was worried about staying away from her one-year-old son and then, went home and comforted his wife who was worried about their daughter’s health. From there, he reported for duty at a traffic intersection. A colleague who came to know about this alerted his senior officer who, in turn, asked the officer to undergo a test and stay quarantined at home. The officer’s throat swab has been sent for testing. If he is found carrying the virus, then, his primary and secondary contacts would be traced and quarantined, said Inspector-General of Police (Northern Range) Raghavendra Suhas. Meanwhile, as many as 11 new cases were detected in the district on Friday with Hire Bagewadi reporting 10 and Kudchi one. This takes the tally of such cases to 85. All are admitted in the district hospital and are responding to treatment. As many as 36 have been discharged and a, 81-year-old woman has died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-officer-and-wife-in-home-quarantine/article31539752.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sudden rise in six districts in one week||In the last one week, at least six districts in central and north Karnataka have seen a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases, with an average rise of 10. The highest spike has been in Davangere, where the number of cases shot up from four on April 30 to 61 on May 8. With 55 active cases, the district is second only to Bengaluru Urban. The total number of cases in the State has risen from 565 to 753, while the death toll is up from 21 to 30 in the last one week. Davangere, which has also seen four deaths during this period, has now become a cluster hotspot, and two patients — P-533 and P-556 — together spread the infection to 55 others in the district. While P-533 is a nurse at a primary health centre, who had attended a wedding in Bagalkot before she tested positive, the other super spreader has “some links with people in Gujarat,” according to officials. On Friday, 14 persons tested positive in Davangere district, and all of them were contacts of these two patients. The next highest spurt has been in Belagavi, where the number of cases went from 67 on April 30 to 83 on May 8. On Friday alone, 11 new cases were reported. Although officials said the infection spread from previous positive patients, the sudden spurt has raised concerns. Despite the spike, both Davangere and Belagavi continue to remain in the orange zone. Similarly, Bagalkot has also seen a sudden spurt, from 29 cases on April 30 to 51 this week. Kalaburagi, which recorded the country’s first COVID-19 fatality, saw the number of positive patients go up from 53 on April 30 to 67 on May 8. The district saw one death in the last one week. In Uttara Kannada, the number of cases went from 11 to 24 in the last one week. Twelve cases from this district were reported on Friday, and 11 of these are members of a single family; the 12th is their neighbour. Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar said the family had not sought medical advice when the members developed symptoms. “One of the family members had visited a hospital in Mangaluru, and he developed symptoms after returning from there. The family went for self-medication. However, the good thing is that they have not been in contact with anyone outside the district,” he said. Bidar and Vijayapura saw a rise of eight and five cases, respectively, in the last one week. While the cases rose from 43 on April 30 to 48 till date in Vijayapura, the increase was from 14 to 22 in Bidar. Haveri, which had been COVID-19-free till April 30, recorded two cases in the last one week. Dakshina Kannada recorded six cases (from 16 on April 30 to 22 till date), Ballari one (from 13 to 14), and Dharwad three (from 9 to 12) in this period. Down south in Mandya, the number of cases shot up from eight to 18 in the last one week. While Chickballapur and Tumakuru recorded three and two new cases, respectively, Bengaluru Urban saw a sharp increase from 141 cases on April 30 to 163 on Friday. Asked if the sudden spike was owing to the relaxation of the lockdown in the State, the Minister said the spread of infection was through contacts of patients. “People have to take precautions and maintain social distancing at all times. This should now become a part of their lives,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sudden-rise-in-six-districts-in-one-week/article31539592.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four Shramik trains leave for U.P., Bihar, Jharkhand||A day after the State government made a U-turn on its decision to keep migrant labourers in the city by stopping three Shramik train service, four trains were operated on Friday to Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, Hatia in Jharkhand, and Danapur in Bihar. As many as 4,798 people, including seven children, left Karnataka for their home towns. This time too, migrant workers had to pay a hefty price to go home. Train fares ranged from Rs. 900 to Rs. 1,050 (depending on the destination). In Bengaluru, migrant workers were ferried from different camps to the designated railway station but had to pay Rs. 130 for a ticket. The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) operated around 200 buses from camps at Whitefield, Chamarajpet, K.R. Market, Kadugodi, Marathahalli, and other areas. At some places such as Chamarajpet, migrant workers gathered in large numbers and maintaining social distance was a difficult task, said officials. As per the information provided by South Western Railway, the first train left to Lucknow from Chikkabanavara with 1,200 passengers, and the second train left from Malur to Danapur with 1,200 passengers, including seven children. The third train left for Lucknow from Malur with 1,198 passengers. As many as 1,200 people boarded the train to Hatia from Malur station late on Friday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-shramik-trains-leave-for-up-bihar-jharkhand/article31539580.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: Spell out travel policy, give info to migrants to prevent panic movement||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to spell out a rational policy to give clarity to migrant workers on how they will be allowed to travel to their home States to prevent them from panicking and venturing to walking to reach their home States. Also, the court directed the government to initiate appropriate actions if it receives complaints that contractors and employers are not confining migrant workers to their shelters and not allowing them to leave to go back to their home States, and ensure their safe travel. MHA guidelines If a larger number of migrants are eligible to travel to their home State as per Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines but only a few could beaccommodated at present, then the State government has to specify in what manner they would be selected so that migrant workers get clarity on their travel, the court said. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna passed the interim order while hearing an application filed by the All India Central Council of Trade Unions on the State government’s earlier decision not to allow migrant workers to travel to their home States. However, the Additional Advocate-General Dhyan Chinnappa told the court that the government was making arrangements for migrant workers to go to their home States as per the guidelines issued by the MHA. Earlier, counsel for the AICCTU said many migrant workers were not aware of how to register online seeking travel arrangement while pointing out that travel arrangements were now being made only from railway stations in Bengaluru and surrounding areas when thousands of migrant workers in Mangaluru, Belagavi, and Ballari are waiting to go back. Stating that many migrant workers were leaving the city by walking, he alleged that some contractors and builders, with the help of the police, were preventing migrant workers living in some large construction sites from leaving. Once the MHA issued guidelines allowing travel of migrant workers to their home States, the question of whether the State government can put any embargo on their travel does not arise, the Bench said. If proper information is disseminated among the migrant workers, staying in shelters on construction sites, relief camps, in rented shelters, or on streets, the Bench said, they get clarity on their travel and would not venture to walk to reach their States, while pointing out that their lives would be in danger as there could be loss of life owing to accidents and hunger if they chose to walk long distances. If migrants workers are staying away from Bengaluru city, then it follows that arrangements will have to be made from different railway stations, the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-spell-out-travel-policy-give-info-to-migrants-to-prevent-panic-movement/article31539574.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Street vendors demand inclusion in relief package||Street vendors are unhappy that they have been left out from the list of people in different sectors that will receive compensation from the State. The Bengaluru Jilla Beedhi Vyaapari Sanghatanegala Okkoota has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to include street vendors who have been left out in the Rs. 1,610 crore relief package. It asked the government to provide each vendor a compensation of Rs. 15,000 along with a long-term interest free loan of Rs. 30,000. They have also urged the government to look into the issue of police harassment. S. Babu, a street vendor and president of the okkoota, said that it was unfair on the part of the government to not include them. “We need operating capital to restart our businesses and lead our lives. We have somehow managed till now but the future is bleak. The government should also resume public transport as soon as possible and give us passes at subsidised rates,” he said. Manju G., a street food vendor and State president of Akhila Karnataka Rasti-badi Vyaparigala Jagruti Okkoota, said that the BBMP had shut the street food joints in the second week of March citing a spurt in cholera cases in the city and it was becoming increasingly difficult for them survive. “We have been jobless for almost two months now,” he said. Vinay Srinivasa, a social activist, said that only a few vendors were being allowed to operate, and that too with restrictions. He alleged that many vendors were being harassed by the police and urged the government to step in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/street-vendors-demand-inclusion-in-relief-package/article31539559.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Opposition parties seek package of Rs. 50,000 crore for State||The Opposition parties of Congress and Janata Dal (S) on Friday asked the State government to exert pressure on the Centre to declare the COVID-19 pandemic a “national disaster” and seek a special package of Rs. 50,000 crore for the State. Congress and JD(S) leaders, including Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar, H.D. Revanna, and H.K. Kumaraswamy, attended an all-party meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa at his home office and submitted a charter of 24 demands to the State government for ensuring speedy recovery of the economy, which is in distress owing to the lockdown. Representatives of farmers’ organisations also attended the meeting. The Opposition dubbed as “too little” the government’s Rs. 1,610-crore package announced on Wednesday for various sections of the unorganised sector. It urged the State government to announce a special package of Rs. 10,000 crore for providing impetus to MSMEs and ensuring job creation. It demanded waiver of three months’ worth of interest on loans borrowed by MSMEs from banks and financial institutions. Besides seeking relief of Rs. 10,000 to all organised and unorganised workers, including photographers, artistes and migrants, during the lockdown, the Opposition leaders suggested that the government deliver 10 kg of rice, milk and other essential commodities to BPL families even if they do not have BPL cards. Noting the difficulties faced by farmers, the Congress and JD(S) leaders asked the government to release a minimum of Rs. 10,000 crore to all co-operative banks and financial institutions to provide loans at zero interest to farmers to procure seeds, fertilizers, essential medicines and other equipment during the kharif season. Loss assessment The Opposition also stressed the need for scientifically assessing the losses incurred by farmers, fruit growers, and owners of domestic animals (poultry and other livestock) for providing them compensation of atleast 50%. The leaders demanded that the government also set up a revolving fund of at least Rs. 5,000 crore and use these funds to open up procurement centres at the panchayat level to buy farm produce in case the market price falls below cost price.       Key demands  Special package of Rs. 50,000 crore to the State from Centre  Rs. 10,000 crore to provide impetus for MSMEs; loan interest waiver  Rs. 10,000 to all organised and unorganised workers  10 kg rice, milk and other essential commodities to BPL families  Rs. 10,000 crore to all co-op. banks to provide loans at zero interest to farmers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opposition-parties-seek-package-of-rs-50000-crore-for-state/article31539583.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Possible community spread worries BBMP||Five of the 96 samples collected randomly from people within the containment zone in Padarayanapura have come back positive. Three people tested positive on May 7 and two on Friday. This has become a concern for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which is working with the Department of Health and Family Welfare. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar confirmed the development and said, “The five cases suggest a community spread within the containment zone. We have now recommended 100% testing of all residents of the containment zone in the Padarayanapura ward.” This, he said, would start on Monday. The BBMP is also taking precautionary measures after a pregnant woman from the Padarayanapura containment zone, who had tested positive, visited a maternity hospital in Chamarajpet. The entire premises was sanitised. “The doctors were aware of her testing positive. As soon as she reached the hospital, she was shifted to an isolation centre in an ambulance and not allowed to mingle with anybody at the hospital,” he said. Random samples were also collected from residents in the containment zone in Hongasandra ward. None of 112 samples collected tested positive, civic officials said. Regenta Place Meanwhile, four people, who were primary contacts of the housekeeping staff of Regenta Place, have also tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Kumar said this was expected as the primary contacts lived with the housekeeping staff of Regenta Place in the same room. Civic officials have already contained Chandni Chowk area, near Russell Market in Shivajinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/possible-community-spread-worries-bbmp/article31539561.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police get 23 hi-tech kiosks set up across city||To provide some relief to police personnel manning signals and major junctions across the city, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Friday inaugurated 23 ‘hi-tech police kiosks’. The kiosks, which function along the lines of traffic monitoring and managing booths, are equipped with anti-glare glass, CCTVs, multi-messaging display systems, megaphones, mobile charging points, fans, and a first-aid box. The initiative has been taken up under a PPP model. The civic body aims to generate Rs. 20 lakh per year by renting out space on the kiosks for advertisements. The civic body has planned to install such kiosks in 340 signals across the city. Each kiosk costs around Rs. 8 lakh. They are operational at Hudson Circle, Police Corner, Trinity Junction, K.H. Road, Shantinagar Junction, Cash Pharmacy Junction, Opera Junction, Minsk Square, Anil Kumble Junction, Anand Rao Circle, K.R. Circle and Chalukya Junction The kiosks were inaugurated by Mayor M. Goutham Kumar and BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar in the presence of Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao and his colleagues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-get-23-hi-tech-kiosks-set-up-across-city/article31539557.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pranavayu to monitor ILI patients launched||Many COVID-19 patients have low oxygen levels that puts them at risk of complications. In a measure that it hopes will help early detection, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Friday launched an initiative that will allow them to monitor blood oxygen levels and heart rates of patients showing influenza-like illnesses (ILI) in fever clinics. The initiative, christened ‘Pranavayu’, is aimed at helping patients monitor the progress of ILI to severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), said BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health) Ravikumar Surpur. A pulse oximeter is a small device or probe that can be clipped onto a finger for reading of blood oxygen level and heart rate. “With this, it is possible to detect respiratory distress well in advance and start treatment to mitigate the distress, even possibly the use of ventilators. Those who have flu-like symptoms can monitor the oxygen saturation every three-four hours. If the level drops below 90, the patient may be taken to the hospital for clinical intervention,” said Mr. Surpur. After the launch, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said, “The BBMP doctors at fever clinics will monitor patients using a pulse oximeter. This helps them track patients as they progress from ILI to SARI, especially those with comorbidities.” The civic body is also raising awareness on the need for people to invest in the device, which according to Mr. Surpur will be important when the lockdown is lifted. “When restrictions are eased, there may be a spike in cases of ILI. If citizens can buy the oximeter and monitor the oxygen saturation levels, it allows for early clinical intervention,” he said. In a press release, the BBMP stated that the cause for concern in COVID-19 was not simple upper respiratory tract infection which resolves on its own in nearly 85% cases. It is instead the progress of the disease to SARI (15-20%) where the lung functionality is impaired to an extent that patients need external support to sustain respiration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pranavayu-to-monitor-ili-patients-launched/article31539567.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Train from Delhi to Karnataka for stranded Kannadigas soon||Union Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda has announced that Kannadigas stranded in northern parts of the country such as Delhi, Haryana, and Punjab will soon be able to take a train back home from the national capital In a press release, the Minister said that trains would be operated in one or two days, and that he had instructed officials from respective States to coordinate with each other and facilitate the process. The release stated that permission had been given to many Kannadigas stranded in Delhi and other areas who want to return to Karnataka in their own vehicles. Two repatriate flights will be operated from West Asian countries to evacuate stranded Kannadigas. The first flight will land at Mangaluru International Airport on May 12 and another at Kempegowda International Airport, the schedule of which yet to be fixed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-from-delhi-to-karnataka-for-stranded-kannadigas-soon/article31539581.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre asked to utilise unclaimed ESI, PF funds to pay salaries||Trade body KASSIA (Karnataka Small Scale Industries’ Association) on Friday urged the Centre to make use of the huge, unclaimed corpus of Rs. 1.3 lakh crore available under ESI and PF and extend financial support to 6.5 lakh micro, small and medium enterprises, over two million employees, and 2.5 crore dependents of these industries across Karnataka. The Union government has been sitting on an unclaimed cash pile — ESI alone has a whopping Rs. 85,000 crore while PF has another Rs. 45,000 crore — and it should utilise this money, said KASSIA president R. Raju. The trade body also demanded that the government announce a revival package for SMEs and MSMEs, as the sector will require some solid financial assistance until business operations resume. As per KASSIA, while the State government has offered support by way of some relief in power bills and removal of penalties, this was not adequate given the enormity of the crisis. “If this situation continues, at least 25% to 30% of our industry units will wind up operations, which will lead to greater hardship for a large number of people in the State,” cautioned KASSIA. The Labour Department had recently issued notice to SMEs on non-payment/reduction of wages, and this has “demoralised” the entire sector, KASSIA said. “We had taken up this issue with the Chief Minister, Industry Minister, and the Labour Minister, who promised us that necessary directions would be issued to theofficials concerned not to issue notices. We are going through a very tough time and the government should not be doing anything that will destroy the harmony between employers and employees,”Mr. Raju said. Relief package Some States have announced relief packages to MSMEs. For example, Madhya Pradesh has announced that factories employing less than 50 workers would get relief from routine inspection. Uttar Pradesh has passed an ordinance to suspend some 13 labour clauses, in order to attract new companies to invest in the State amid the ongoing crisis. KASSIA urged the Karnataka government to explore the possibility to extending some such relief measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-asked-to-utilise-unclaimed-esi-pf-funds-to-pay-salaries/article31539587.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Case against activists for ‘provoking’ workers||The Sampigehalli police registered a case against two Swaraj Abhiyan activists, R. Khaleemullah and Zia Nomani, for allegedly “provoking” workers at a labour camp of a construction site at Veeranapalya on Friday. Over 700 construction workers mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, who stay at the construction site, want to return home but are unable to do so. “We have been providing workers at the camp ration ever since the lockdown began. The company has also been proactively helping them. We got distress calls from labourers seeking to go home. So we went there and were creating awareness on trains and were writing down names,” Mr. Zia Nomani said. Complaint The construction company registered a complaint against the duo for “provoking” workers that may have led to riots. The police registered a case under section 153 of the IPC for provocation that may cause riots. However, labourers at the camp said the activists were only trying to help them. “We have registered online on Seva Sindhu, but have not been able to find a train and are waiting. We are desperate to get home, but not being allowed to since trains were not available. We only hope someone helps us,” said Ajay Kumar, a labourer from Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-against-activists-for-provoking-workers/article31539570.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PIL plea seeks supply of coffee, tea to essential service workers||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking directions to open a hotel in every ward of the municipal area to supply tea and coffee in the morning and evening to government employees engaged in essential services across the State. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Shivashankar Amarannavar issued the direction on a PIL petition filed by the BBMP Officers and Employees’ Welfare Association. If it is not possible to open a hotel per ward to supply coffee and tea, as a “stress buster” for workers, the petitioner said the government should make arrangements to do so. Media reports Another petition sought directions to the competent authorities to initiate action against print, electronic and digital media allegedly carrying “misleading information” on COVID-19, particularly regarding the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi. Janaadhikaara Sangharsha Parishath, Bengaluru, stated that its complaint, filed on April 23, was not considered under the Cable Television Networks (Regulations) Act and the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pil-plea-seeks-supply-of-coffee-tea-to-essential-service-workers/article31539586.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mahila Congress opposes liquor sale||Karnataka Pradesh Mahila Congress opposed the sale of liquor during the lockdown and said such a move would allow people to spend money on alcohol instead of essentials. Mahila Congress president Pushpa Amarnath said many organisations have opposed the sale of liquor and it would lead to the spread of the novel coronavirus to more people, given the rush at sales points. She also said sale of liquor leads to conflicts in families and the exploitation of women. “Who will help women when they are harassed by men who consume liquor?” she asked. She urged the government to implement social security measures for women belonging to weaker sections of society. Ms. Amarnath also opposed the opening of liquor shops in red zone districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahila-congress-opposes-liquor-sale/article31539588.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 25 lakh that ACP took as bribe recovered||The CCB conducted an inquiry into the conduct of one of its own and recovered Rs. 25 lakh that an ACP had allegedly taken as bribe from cigarette distributors during the lockdown. “The CCB has now submitted a report recommending that stringent action be taken against the officer Prabhushankar, who was ACP - Fraud and Misappropriation Wing, said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner (Crime). Sources said DG & IGP Praveen Sood will take a call on suitable action on Saturday and the case will likely be referred to the Anti-Corruption Bureau.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-25-lakh-that-acp-took-as-bribe-recovered/article31539560.ece
09 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Random sample survey ordered in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases||Following a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases after relaxation during Lockdown 3.0, the State government has decided to hold random sample survey, Minister for Health and Family Welfare B. Sriramulu has said. Speaking to presspersons after chairing a COVID-19 review meeting here on Friday, Mr. Sriramulu said that the ramdom sample survey has already been started in COVID-19 hotspots. The State government intends to enhance capacity to carry out tests and set up sample extraction kiosks in these hotspots. Already, one lakh rapid test kits have been procured and a demand for an additional 50,000 such kits has been placed. At present, 32 COVID-19 testing laboratories are operational in the State and there is a demand to set up such laboratories in every district. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has responded positively to this while assuring release of grants for the purpose. All districts would get COVID-19 testing laboratories shortly, he said. He further stated that nearly 7,000 tests are being conducted everyday through 32 laboratories, and in a week’s time, the number will be increased to 10,000 tests per day. To enhance medical facilities at government hospitals, the State administration has decided to set up centralised oxygen supply facility at all hospitals. To provide medicare to those with SARI and ILI symptoms, the number of fever clinics will be doubled. The State government has asked ICMR to consider the services of AYUSH doctors in the fight against COVID-19, he added. To a query, Mr. Sriramulu said that 6,500 Kannadigas stranded abroad would arrive in Bengaluru on May 11, 12 and 15 and the State government has issued fresh guidelines making 14-day institutional quarantine compulsory for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/random-sample-survey-ordered-in-the-wake-of-rising-covid-19-cases/article31539756.ece
09 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Patient 363 recovers, discharged from KIMS||A 63-year-old man, a resident of Karadi Oni in Hubballi, who had tested positive for COVID-19 (P-363), has been cured and discharged from the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi, on Friday. His throat swab samples tested negative and the doctors confirmed that the patient did not have any lung-related problems, said a release from Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patient-363-recovers-discharged-from-kims/article31539755.ece
09 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Textile workers in Hassan say they want to go home||Migrant workers in textile firms in the industrial area in Hassan have appealed to the district administration to send them to their native States. The workers, natives of Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, and Assam, gathered in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Friday. Speaking to mediapersons, the workers said they had been suffering for many days with no proper food and shelter. Neither the employer nor the district administration had bothered to fulfil their needs. Their health would deteriorate if they continued to stay put in the same condition for a few more days, they said. A few workers said they had sought the State’s help to reach their native place through the Seva Sindhu, a mobile-based application. However, they did not get any response, prompting them to visit the DC’s office. When The Hindu contacted Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, he said he had conveyed them to help once their applications were cleared by the nodal officers of the respective States. “We will arrange buses for them once the nodal officers of the States concerned respond to their pleas. As per the norms, the officers of the receiving States have to clear these applications. Meanwhile, I have instructed the people concerned to provide them food and other essentials,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/textile-workers-in-hassan-say-they-want-to-go-home/article31539577.ece
09 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Leopard caught||The Forest Department staff, on Friday, captured a male leopard at Chowragal in Arkalgud taluk. The staff members had kept a cage with a bait to catch the animal near the village following complaints of its movements in the locality. Local people noticed the animal caught in the cage on Friday morning and informed the officials. The officials said that the animal would be released later. The villagers heaved a sigh of relief as they were all worried about their safety with the animal roaming around in the vicinity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-caught/article31539753.ece
09 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Uttara Kannada records 12 new cases related to P-659||Uttara Kannada Deputy Commissioner K. Harish Kumar has said that in the wake of 12 new cases being reported from the containment zone in Bhatkal, bandobast would be further strengthened. Addressing a press conference in Karwar on Friday, Mr. Harish Kumar said that all the 12 new cases were related to the young woman (P-659) who tested positive on May 6. Of these 12 patients, 10 are family members of the young woman and one a friend, while another is a neighbour. He appealed to the people of the district not to panic as the source of infection had been traced and found limited to Bhatkal which was already a containment zone. Further steps were being taken to strictly enforce the lockdown in the containment zone, he said. Mr. Harish Kumar said that they had received information regarding three families from Bhatkal visiting a neuro hospital in Mangaluru for treatment. Anybody who had gone to the neuro hospital in Mangaluru for treatment should voluntarily give information to the district administration, he said, making an appeal to the citizens not to opt for self-medication. He said that as per the guidelines and relaxations announced by the State government, economic activities were being allowed in the district barring Bhatkal taluk. People coming to the district from other States and also from abroad would be compulsorily quarantined as per the COVID-19 advisory. However, citizens should not look down upon people arriving here from other States and also those from abroad, he said. Chief Executive Officer of Uttara Kannada Zilla Panchayat M. Roshan has said that all the COVID-19 positive patients were being shifted to the designated ward at the Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences. All facilities would be extended to them, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uttara-kannada-records-12-new-cases-related-to-p-659/article31539758.ece
09 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||14 more patients test positive in Davangere||Davangere district has continued to witness an upward trend in terms of COVID-19 cases with 14 more patients testing positive on a single day on Friday, and the tally reaching 61. According to the district authorities, all the patients who tested positive on Friday had come in contact with two other positive patients, a staff nurse (P-533) and an elderly man (P-556) who is dead. While 10 patients are contacts of the staff nurse, four are contacts of the elderly man. All the 14 positive patients are from Davangere. The Davangere district administration has declared five localities — Basha Nagar, Jali Nagar, Imam Nagar, Betur Road, KTJ Nagar and SPS Nagar — as containment zones and regular surveys are being conducted in these areas. So far, the district has collected and sent 1,500 samples for test and of them, 1,243 have tested negative. The district is still awaiting results of 257 swabs. It has witnessed four deaths and two patients, who have recovered, have been discharged from hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/14-more-patients-test-positive-in-davangere/article31539757.ece
09 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||7,539 migrant workers reach Kalaburagi in five days||As many as 7,539 migrant workers from Kalaburagi, stranded in Bengaluru, have returned to their houses in the last five days. Of these workers, 4,600 reached the district on 262 bus services run by Karnataka State Road Transportation Corporation on May 4 and May 5. Of the total number of migrant workers arriving here, 695 are from Kalaburagi city and the other travellers from several taluks. The officials of the Health and Family Welfare Department and the city corporation screened each passenger who arrived at the city bus stand and collected their travel history. The passengers were also provided with food packs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7539-migrant-workers-reach-kalaburagi-in-five-days/article31539754.ece
09 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Migrant workers arrive at Mangaluru Central station, return||Going by some false information that the government had arranged a train to north India, several migrant workers in the city turned up at Mangaluru Central Railway Station on Friday morning only to return later. Convinced by officials, they returned in 10 KSRTC buses arranged by the district administration. The officials took nearly two hours to convince them to leave. It was from 7 a.m. that the labourers began arriving at the station. “We were told that trains to Jharkhand will start from Friday. Hence we all came here,” said Rasool Ansari, who was among the group of about 40 labourers who had walked to the station from Kunjathbail. Labourer Sunil Chowdhury said he and 11 others from Jharkhand had booked their tickets in January for journey on April 22. “We need to go there for harvesting. There is no work here and there is no point in continuing our stay,” said Mr. Chowdhury. Labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Rajasthan had also come with their bags to the station. “It’s nearly a fortnight since registering our names in the Seva Sindhu portal. We are yet to hear from officials,” said Brij Mohan, a painter, hailing from Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh. Determined Gopi Singh, another Jharkhand resident, added that the State government had arranged buses to send labourers of Karnataka to different parts of the State but did not do anything to send migrant labourers from other States working in Karnataka to their respective States. “The builders who did not care for us during the lockdown period are now offering us food and wages and are asking us to stay back. But we have made up our mind to go to our native places,” said labourer Abu Sahma. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Arunangshu Giri showed labourers a tweet by Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren mentioning about the government’s committment to bring back stranded labourers from different parts of the State. Additional Deputy Commissioner M.J. Roopa and Labour Officer Wilma who arrived at the station told them that the State government was in talks with other States. “Once we receive approval from the government’s concerned, we will pick you up from your places and send you back,” Ms. Roopa told the labourers. “As many as 9,000 labourers have registered on the Seva Sindhu portal,” Ms. Wilma added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/migrant-workers-arrive-at-mangaluru-central-station-return/article31539576.ece
09 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||In quest for promised land, people of Chengadi set to relocate||For the nearly 200 families of Chengadi ensconced deep inside M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary of Chamarajanagar district, it will be a one-way trip away from their ancestral village to a promised land on the forest periphery. The villagers volunteered to seek relocation hoping for improvements in their living conditions, following which the State government constituted a committee to take up their rehabilitation. The village is 12 km deep inside the thick forests and is out of bounds, given its remote location and tough terrain. All these years, the authorities were hamstrung, unable to complete the “last-mile” connectivity to provide basic amenities, including roads, schools, and medical facilities, while the villagers were always on edge, aware of the possibility of coming into conflict with the wild animals that roam free in the jungle. In case of a medical emergency, they had to trek 12-15 km to reach either M.M. Hills or Cowdahalli. Chengadi’s disconnect from the mainstream was such that the entire swathe of forest around the village was found safe enough for the forest brigand Veerappan to operate without fear of the Special Task Force that was scouring for him. The body of former Minister Nagappa, who was abducted by the brigand in 2002, was also found on these terrain. V. Yedukondalu, Deputy Conservator of Forests, M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, told The Hindu that the Government Order approving rehabilitation was issued early this week and the committee implementing the works would be headed by the Chamarajanagar Deputy Commissioner. No facilities There are nearly 600 people in the village, living at present without basic facilities such as sanitation, education, and healthcare. Only a handful of people from the village have completed their education, and a majority have not gone to college. Agriculture is the main occupation of these villagers, but extending irrigation facilities to a hamlet in a forest was out of question. So farming activities were under rain-fed conditions and provided employment to youngsters only three months a year. “What is unique about Chengadi is its population profile, as only senior citizens live there along with the children and women folk. The youngsters relocate in search of greener pastures and visit home once in a while,” said Mr. Yedukondalu. The first task of the committee will be to finalise the list of beneficiaries, document the details pertaining to their land holdings, and arrive at a compensation package within two months. The private lands will be transferred to the Forest Department. Then the rehabilitation works, expected to cost between Rs. 30 crore and Rs. 40 crore, will commence on a patch of revenue land bordering the forest and Chikkallur village. “It will be similar to the Nagapura rehabilitation project on the outskirts of Nagarahole,” Mr. Yedukondalu explained. There are a few more villages which are equally remote and backward inside M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, which is set to be declared a tiger reserve any time now. Hence, the villages have to be relocated. But the authorities said the locals have to volunteer for relocation and would not be coerced. They want the Chengadi rehabilitation exercise to serve as a model for others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-quest-for-promised-land-people-of-chengadi-set-to-relocate/article31539565.ece
09 May 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||All 38 in quarantine in Chamarajanagar test negative||All 38 persons from Belathuru village in Chamarajanagar district, who had been quarantined in the wake of the visit of a police head constable from Bengaluru, were sent home on Friday after they tested negative for COVID-19. The district administration had quarantined them after receiving information that the head constable, who was visiting his relatives, had tested positive. Though the head constable tested negative during a retest and his earlier positive result was attributedto confusion during swab collection and sample testing, health officials in Chamarajanagar were not willing to take any chances. The administration collected the samples of all 38 quarantinedpersons in the district and sent them to COVID-19 testing. Chamarajanagar District Health Officer Ravi said the authorities were also awaiting the results of the head constable’s samples from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for a confirmation of the retest result. The border district, which is a green zone as of now, has been carrying out rigorous screening at its check-posts bordering Tamil Nadu and Kerala, besides districts such as Mysuru, Mandya and Ramanagaram in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-38-in-quarantine-in-chamarajanagar-test-negative/article31539584.ece
09 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||No cases in Mysuru||Mysuru, which had become a major cluster and is a red zone district, did not record any new case of COVID-19 in the last one week. In fact, 18 patients were dischar-ged during this period. Kodagu, Udupi, and Gadag also did not record any cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-cases-in-mysuru/article31539593.ece
09 May 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),KARNATAKA||Workers engaged for Polavaram works protest||More than 1,000 migrant labourers engaged at work sites staged a protest, demanding that the government must send them back to their home States. The officials tried to pacify the protesters, but to no avail. Finally, they assured the labourers that they would take the matter to the notice of the government. More than 2,150 workers from Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Bihar, Assam, Chhattisgarh and other States are working at Polavaram sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workers-engaged-for-polavaram-works-protest/article31539569.ece
09 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||6,000 register seeking return to Udupi||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Friday that nearly 6,000 persons from other States have registered their names seeking return to Udupi district. Chairing a meeting of school and hostel heads here, Mr. Jagadeesha said that these persons would start arriving as soon as the State government gave clearance. They would have to undergo compulsory quarantine for 14 days in schools and hostels designated by the administration, or in hotels at their own expense. They would undergo medical check-up on their arrival and would be shifted to hospitals, if they showed symptoms of COVID-19. The administration was expecting nearly 20,000 people to arrive here from other States and foreign countries, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/6000-register-seeking-return-to-udupi/article31539760.ece
09 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||270 workers leave Malpe||As many as 270 migrant workers from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh working at the Malpe Fisheries Harbour left for their respective States on nine Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses on Friday. The workers boarded the buses at the Malpe Harbour. While three buses left for Ramananthapuram in Tamil Nadu, one left for Kakinada; and five buses are on their way to Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/270-workers-leave-malpe/article31539759.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Autorickshaw, taxi drivers queue up for compensation||Over the next few days, Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi is expected to receive hundreds of letters from anxious autorickshaw and taxi drivers requesting that he transfer Rs. 5,000 into their accounts. Lack of communication on the part of the government and rumours on social media resulted in chaos on Friday as drivers stood in long queues outside post offices to send letters to the Deputy CM. The State government had on May 6 announced one-time financial compensation to people from various sectors. Though the guidelines stated that drivers could apply online on the ‘Seva Sindhu’ portal and that the money would be transferred into their accounts, the infrastructure to facilitate the transfer was not ready on Thursday. Based on some messages on social media, drives started gathering at post offices armed with letters in which they had included their personal details, such as bank account numbers, address, DL. However, none of these messages on social media were from the government. Manjunatha, a driver, said, “For close to two months, I could not earn even a single rupee. After a long delay, the government announced that it will provide Rs. 5,000. On Thursday, I came across a forward on WhatsApp stating that we should send a letter to the transport minister furnishing details. So I sent a letter, but I don’t know when I will receive the money.” The effort that Mr. Manjunatha and his colleagues put in to send their letters was futile. Anand N.R., a taxi driver, said that the government should have come out with more detailed information. “Even I went to the post office to check why drivers were sending letters to the minister and whether applications were being handed out.” Eventually, the transport department sent out a release stating that the process to facilitate online applications on ‘Seva Sindhu’ portal is not ready yet. “The money will be transferred to bank accounts of all eligible drivers who apply online. Hence, there is no need to panic,” stated the release. Transport Commissioner N. Shivkumar told the media that the portal will be ready within three days. Drivers can also visit Jana Seva Kendra, Karnataka One or Bengaluru One offices to apply online. He maintained that letters sent by drivers will not be considered as valid documents. The government’s decision to offer compensation is likely to benefit 7.75 lakh drivers across the State. While drivers welcomed the compensation, they said that Rs. 5,000 represented just a fraction of the losses they have incurred since the start of the lockdown. They are demanding other relief measures, such as waiver of road tax for the year. Commenting on the day’s events, Somashekar of Namma Chalakara Trade Union said that some people were misleading drivers on social media. “We are trying to educate drivers. We have sent out messages on social media stating that sending physical letters will not help them get the compensation, and have urged them to wait till the portal of the transport department is ready.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/autorickshaw-taxi-drivers-queue-up-for-compensation/article31539563.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Solitary reaper!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/solitary-reaper/article31539762.ece
09 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Organic vegetable project for expatriates||Expatriates returning to their houses at Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat in Alappuzha will not have to go job hunting. The local body, known for organic vegetable farming, has come up with Pravasi Jaiva Pachakari Krishi, an organic farming project aimed at rehabilitating the expats. According to the panchayat authorities, returnees who wish to become farmers by doing organic vegetable farming will be provided land, saplings, and fertilizer free of cost. Apart from this, subsidy will be provided on labour cost and the Agriculture Department will provide Rs. 80,000 as subsidy to each farmer for setting up drip irrigation facilities. The panchayat president said that it would produce 10 lakh vegetable saplings and distribute it to farmers on May 20. At least 340 people from the local body are living abroad. “We are expecting several of them to return to Kanjikuzhy following the crisis created by COVID-19 pandemic. It is important that all returnees are provided with means of livelihood. Our decision to launch an organic farming project for the rehabilitation of those coming from abroad is based on the agricultural tradition of the place. The project will help them rebuild their lives,” says M.G. Raju, president, Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat. Land on lease Those who do not possess their own land will be given one acre of land on lease for a specified period. No lease amount will be taken from them. The land will be prepared for cultivation by technicians of the panchayat’s own Karshika Karmasena. The project is expected to benefit 150 people initially.  The Pravasi Jaiva Pachakkari Krishi project was launched by Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/organic-vegetable-project-for-expatriates/article31539873.ece
09 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Woman ends life over COVID-time lay off||A 26-year-old woman, an employee of a company at Infopark in Kochi, ended her life allegedly after losing her job following the COVID-19 crisis. The deceased was identified as Jeena Joseph of Kavalam, Kuttanad. According to the Kainady police, she was found dead in her room on Thursday morning. “After the imposition of the lockdown, she was working from home. On Wednesday, the company communicated to her its decision to lay her off and also that she will be appointed in another branch of the company after the lockdown period. The pain caused by the job loss may be the reason for her taking the extreme step,” said a police officer. Suicide Prevention Helpline Number: DISHA- 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-ends-life-over-covid-time-lay-off/article31539875.ece
09 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||10 Gulf returnees put in KTDC facility||Ten people from Alappuzha who reached Cochin International Airport from Abu Dhabi on Thursday night were shifted to a facility of the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (COVID-19 care centre) at Thanneermukkom to serve the mandatory institutional quarantine period. Officials said that a total of 17 people, 15 from Abu Dhabi and two from Dubai, had reached the district on two different flights on Thursday. Allowed to go home “Of the 15 people who arrived from Abu Dhabi, five have been allowed to go to their homes as per the government direction. They will remain in self-quarantine for two weeks. “Two persons - a pregnant woman and her husband - who arrived at the Karipur airport from Dubai have also been allowed to self-quarantine at their home,” said an official. Officials further said that three persons hailing from Alappuzha would reach the Karipur airport from Riyadh on Friday night. Meanwhile, 102 people who reached the district from red zone localities in other States have been shifted to COVID-19 care centres. 547 so far So far, 547 people have reached the district from other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-gulf-returnees-put-in-ktdc-facility/article31539874.ece
09 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Stringent steps to curb rush at Muthanga check-post||The Wayanad district administration has decided to adopt stringent steps at the Muthanga inter-State check-post on the Kerala-Karnataka border to curb rush. Heavy rush was witnessed at the check-post, the only designated facility in the district for the return of Keralites stranded in other States, on Thursday midnight. Many returnees had reached the check-post without completing the registration process. However, only 703 persons were permitted to enter the State. As many as 2,231 persons have returned home through the Muthanga check-post since May 4. While 267 persons crossed the border on the first day, as many as 421 persons in 197 vehicles entered the State on Friday. “Those who have registered through NoRKA Roots and COVID-19 Jagratha online portal alone could enter the State through the check-post after obtaining permission from officials,” District Collector Adeela Abdulla said. “No one will be allowed to enter the State without completing the registration process. A decision in this regard was taken in the wake of the huge rush witnessed at the check post. Such incidents pose serious health threats to officials at the check-post,” she added. Meanwhile, the Collector directed travellers to reach the check-post only at the allotted time to ensure social distancing. Returnees will be checked at Moolaholla on the Kerala- Karnataka border, instead at Muthanga, from Saturday, she said. Ms. Abdulla visited the check-post on Friday to assess the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stringent-steps-to-curb-rush-at-muthanga-check-post/article31539827.ece
09 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur airport all set to receive expatriates: Minister||The Kannur International Airport is equipped to accommodate the returning expatriates, Ports Minister Kadannappally Ramachandran has said. The Minister said the district administration and the airport authorities had taken all steps to receive expatriates arriving in Kannur for the first time since the outbreak of COVID-19. The returnees must fully comply with the quarantine conditions and the government had put in place a comprehensive system to ensure that, he said. Though the passengers were returning after a series of health checks abroad, the possibility of infection could not be ruled out, he added. Mr. Ramachandran said the first flight with passengers from Dubai would land at Kannur at 7.10 p.m. on May 12. As per preliminary reports, the Air India Express flight will have more than 170 passengers. A 20-members team would guide the passengers from the aircraft, ensuring social distancing norms. After Health Department checks, those with COVID-19 symptoms will be shifted to an observation area. After immigration procedures, they will be taken to hospitals in ambulances. Pregnant women, their partners, children under the age of 14 years, and older persons will be sent home. Those who cannot go home will be accommodated at government observation centres. Special counters have been set up to gather necessary information to ensure quarantine. KSRTC buses have been arranged for those travelling to other districts. Those placed under home surveillance may travel in their own vehicles. Taxi services too will be available at the airport.  Though the passengers are returning after a series of health checks abroad, the possibility of infection cannot be ruled out Kadannappally Ramachandran Ports Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-airport-all-set-to-receive-expatriates-minister/article31539825.ece
09 May 2020||Kasaragod,KERALA||Kasaragod to have more quarantine facilities||A meeting of people’s representatives and nodal officers chaired by Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan on Friday decided to provide more facilities for quarantining expatriates reaching the district. At present, there are 1,851 rooms with toilet facilities and 20,303 beds to treat patients. Besides, another 903 beds had also been arranged, the Minister said. 7-day monitoring He added that those who had undergone antibody testing in foreign countries would be monitored for seven days in institutional quarantine. “If the test results are negative, they will be allowed to be in home quarantine. Those who have not undergone any test must stay in 14-day institutional quarantine. The elderly, pregnant women, and children have been excluded from this,” he said. The Minister said cases registered against quarantine violations using a special app required re-examination as the phone received signals from different towers at the same time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kasaragod-to-have-more-quarantine-facilities/article31539833.ece
09 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Health experts sceptical about ‘dilution’ of quarantine period||The government’s decision to divide the quarantine period — to institutional and home — for those returning to the State has created some confusion all around. Experts feel it hints at a dilution of quarantine norms. As information on COVID-19 is still evolving, they believe Kerala should stick to 28 days of quarantine. If the returnees are in home quarantine in a green zone, where there are more concessions on movement and more shops are open, they might bypass the strict isolation norms. The success Kerala achieved in the first two waves was because of the strict 28-day quarantine, says Dr. Padmanabha Shenoy, immunologist and rheumatologist. Reducing it to seven days in institutional care would not bode well as there is a likelihood of missing 25% cases, he says, quoting a study published on quarantine period effectiveness in the Annals of Internal Medicine . Assuming that about five lakh Non-Resident Keralites will return in the next two months and the likelihood of anyone carrying SARS-CoV-2 to be 0.5%, there could be 2,500 cases, and 25% of these, which is about 650 cases, would be missed. Tracing the contacts of these people would be a big task, since the primary contacts could number around 30,000. In a 14-day quarantine, the numbers that could be missed would be reduced to 2%, which could be around 60 cases. However, if quarantine is imposed for 28 days, the chances plummet to 0.012%, which would mean missing just five cases. Why should the government give concessions on quarantine period, bringing it to 7+7 (institution + home), when there is a tested method that has proved good for the State, Dr. Shenoy asks. Still ambiguous Tinku Joseph, interventional pulmonologist, says there is no clarity yet on how long a person remains infectious. Quoting a study in Lancet , Dr. Joseph says of 21 patients with mild illness, 90% gave repeated negative test results on nasopharyngeal swabs after 10 days of the onset of symptoms. In contrast, in another study of 56 patients with mild to moderate illness, the tests were positive for 24 days on an average (the longest being 42 days), he says, emphasising the need for a 28-day strict quarantine. ‘14 days will suffice’ However, pulmonologist A. Fathahudeen, nodal corona officer at Government Medical College, Ernakulam, says even in most developed countries only the very sick are being kept in hospitals. Here, all positive cases are hospitalised and are discharged only after their tests turn negative. Regarding the returnees, he says a test on the seventh day can pick up a likely positive case. Fourteen days of quarantine, as a combination of the institutional and home settings, is sufficient, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-experts-sceptical-about-dilution-of-quarantine-period/article31539851.ece
09 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Flight from Bahrain to bring home 177||A special flight evacuating Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) stranded in Bahrain is expected to arrive at the Cochin international airport at 11.30 p.m. on Friday. As The Hindu goes to press, the Air India Express flight IX 474 has taken off and is on the way to Kochi with 177 passengers. This is the second flight to Kochi after the flight from Abu Dhabi on Thursday night. The airport would follow a similar protocol as on Thursday in handling the incoming passengers. They would be cleared in batches of 30. A review meeting held by the airport authorities earlier in the day had found its arrangements, including even a delivery room complete with a gynaecologist, faultless. The Ernakulam Rural police have deployed 200-odd personnel under the charge of three Deputy Superintendents of Police and four inspectors for the smooth clearance of passengers. Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses and special taxis have been deployed for the transportation of passengers. The police would provide escort and pilot for passengers headed to other districts up to the borders from where their counterparts would take over.  Essential staff Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in the capital that the police would allow only essential services staff such as the police and health workers into the airports designated to receive NoRKs. He said the threat of a community spread of infections had necessitated the step.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flight-from-bahrain-to-bring-home-177/article31539849.ece
09 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records COVID-19 case in over a month||The arrival of Non-Resident Keralites has brought in the first COVID-19 case in Ernakulam district after it remained disease-free for over a month. A 30-year-old woman, a resident of Chennai, who arrived at a city hospital on May 6 for renal transplant, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Since she had developed symptoms, the private hospital alerted the medical authorities, and her swab was collected and sent for testing at the Medical College Hospital (MCH) at Kalamassery. She will continue her treatment at the private hospital. Meanwhile, her contacts were placed in quarantine. The number of people in home quarantine in the district on Friday stood at 361. As of now, there are 820 persons in home quarantine after 13 completed their observation cycle. There are 10 persons in the high-risk category in home quarantine. Ten persons were placed in hospital isolation on Friday, with six of them at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Ernakulam, and four at a private hospital. Ten persons were discharged from various hospitals, and they included three from MCH, one from the Aluva District Hospital, and six from a private hospital. The number of patients in hospital isolation is 17. The district had sent 55 samples for testing. The results of 54 are awaited. There are 100 COVID-19 Care Centres in the district and 5,105 rooms for patients. The number of patients at COVID Care Centres is 216. Meanwhile, the district control room received 878 calls on Friday. The control room can be accessed by calling 0484-2368802.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-covid-19-case-in-over-a-month/article31539823.ece
09 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Evacuation ends a youngster’s nightmare||When the Air India Express flight with evacuees from Abu Dhabi landed at the Kochi airport on Thursday night, it was the end of a prolonged nightmare for Kiran Felix. Having suffered from a lengthy spell of fever and chest infection, the 30-year-old from Kochi, had a real scare when his condition deteriorated into pneumonia while he was still at ICAD in Abu Dhabi. “Despite hopping from one hospital to the other, no proper treatment was forthcoming. I was turned away from every hospital citing that neither bed space nor doctors were available as everything was reserved for COVID-19 patients. I was told though I was tested negative for the pandemic, I remain very vulnerable owing to my health conditions to be admitted alongside pandemic patients,” recalled Mr. Felix from the Kalamassery Government Medical College where he was admitted after he shared his health complications with officials on his arrival at the airport. Making matters worse was the less than hospitable treatment extended to him by his company. Despite being home-quarantined since March 25 and struggling with poor health, the company where he was serving as a supervisor, paid him a pittance, forget about salary. “I had to bear the medical expenses beyond the meagre insurance. It was after Hibi Eden, MP, contacted the Indian embassy that the company released my passport and I was able to fly back on priority basis,” Mr. Felix said. Mr. Felix remains stable with tests showing favourable results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/evacuation-ends-a-youngsters-nightmare/article31539822.ece
09 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi plant to dispose of non-biodegradable waste||The government has provided temporary sanction to Clean Kerala Company (CKC) for treatment and disposal of 2,000 tonnes of non-biodegradable solid waste at the Common Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facility (CHWTSDF) operated by the Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd (KEIL) in Ambalamedu. The Environment Department has issued an order stating that the sanction had been given considering the public health hazard created by the accumulation of municipal solid waste in the State and the absence of access to an alternative facility in view of the lockdown. CKC approached the Environment Department as the State Pollution Control had issued a stop memo to the agency after it dumped about 600 tonnes of non-biodegradable waste at KEIL’s landfill in violation of the conditions stipulated for operating the facility. Under SC norms The facility can be used only for treatment of hazardous waste as per the rules prescribed by the Supreme Court Monitoring Committee on Hazardous Waste and the Central Pollution Control Board. The board had requested the government to issue a suitable order on the temporary usage of the facility in view of the absence of a sanitary landfill in any local body in the State. The order said the waste taken to the facility shall have a maximum limit of 2,000 tonnes, inclusive of the 600 tonnes dumped at the landfill since March. CKC and KEIL should ensure proper segregation and elimination of biodegradable components and all chances of flammable gases and fire hazard, the order said. Sanitary landfill sites The Department of Local Self-Government or CKC shall develop sanitary landfill sites to treat and dispose municipal solid waste in all municipal local bodies at the earliest, as per their mandate under the Municipal Solid Waste Rules, 2016, so that this facility is not used for the purpose in future, it said. The Environment Department has pointed out that the disposal of municipal solid waste, particularly wet biodegradable wastes, along with hazardous waste in the landfill at Ambalamedu will result in rapid filling of the landfill cells and closure of the lone hazardous waste treatment facility available in the State. The mixing of municipal solid waste and hazardous waste creates an inflammable and explosive situation, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-plant-to-dispose-of-non-biodegradable-waste/article31539845.ece
09 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Non-wearing of masks to invite heavy fine||The city police on Friday embarked on a special awareness-cum-enforcement drive to ensure compliance with the requirement to wear face masks by all those who venture out of homes. The enforcement is set to be made more stringent from Saturday with steep fines for violators. “We carried out drives as per the directions of Vijay Sakhare, City Police Commissioner. Those found without face masks were given face masks and charged with a petty case under IPC Section 290 (public nuisance). They were also made to pay a fine of Rs. 200,” said K. Laljy, Assistant Commissioner of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/non-wearing-of-masks-to-invite-heavy-fine/article31539821.ece
09 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Portal launched for islanders||The Lakshadweep Administration has launched a portal where people stranded in Kerala and Mangaluru, and on islands away from their homes can register, to be transported back to their respective islands. This will be done after they clear COVID-19 tests, said P.P. Mohammed Faizal, Lakshadweep MP. Those stranded on the isles and wanting to return to Kerala must register on the NORKA portal. “They will be transported to Kerala once the State government permits,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/portal-launched-for-islanders/article31539819.ece
09 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Cop held with illicit liquor||The Excise Special Squad seized 14.50 litres of suspected illicit Indian Made Foreign Liquor and arrested two persons, including a policeman, from a house at Thoppumpady on Thursday evening. The arrested are Vignesh and Dibin, a civil police officer (CPO) attached to the district police headquarters. Another CPO, Basil Jose, has also been arraigned as an accused. The liquor was seized from the house of the first accused, Vignesh, where it was kept in 29 bottles of half litres each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cop-held-with-illicit-liquor/article31539820.ece
09 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Facilities arranged for quarantining expatriates||The district administration has arranged 10,361 beds for expatriates who will require quarantine facilities before returning home. Spread across 349 centres, there are also 1,254 air-conditioned rooms with all amenities. District Collector B.Abdul Nasar on Friday assessed the facilities at various centres, including hotels and tourist homes, and issued instructions to the officials concerned. Expatriates returning to the district will be accommodated at various places under the supervision of a committee formed for the purpose and tahsildars will be the welfare officer in charge of the quarantine centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facilities-arranged-for-quarantining-expatriates/article31539876.ece
09 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||A Malayalam song from Italy to beat the pandemic||Pisa, like the rest of Italy, is on the slow path to the return of normalcy after COVID-19. But the pandemic-ravaged Mediterranean nation has managed to keep its spirit high. From the streets of the cradle of the Renaissance, you could hear Viva la nostra Siena , which translates to Hooray for our Siena . Italians across the country pick songs, open windows, and sing on their balconies. Fr. Simone Barbieri, a deputy director of the city's Inter-diocesan Seminary, has, not surprisingly, found solace in music. Only the medium changes: he turned his attention to Malayalam to keep the morale of his countrymen up. He sang the song Aayiram Kannumayi... , rendered originally by K.J. Yesudas and K.S. Chithra for the 1984 film Nokketha Doorathu Kannum Nattu , besides playing the flute and the keyboard. It was then uploaded on YouTube by the Pilgrims Communications attached to the Archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly of the Syro-Malabar Church. “I heard the song for the first time from some Malayali students while I was studying in Rome,” he told The Hindu over phone from Pisa. “I was bowled over by the sweetness of the melody. Then I started learning the song.” Fr. Barbieri, who had spent a fortnight last year in Kerala, could write and read Malayalam. He directs the choir at his diocese (Livorno). He says the service could resume in his church later this month. Italy is among the most affected countries.  Appreciation He is glad to find out that his attempt at singing one of Malayalam cinema's most popular songs has been appreciated by Malayalis. Among those impressed is the song's composer Jerry Amaldev, who came to know of it when it was forwarded to him by the Rome-based Fr. William Nellikkal. “It is gratifying to note that a song I tuned some 36 years ago has appealed to an Italian musician,” says Jerry. He says the song was born out of a brief from director Fazil. “He told me and lyricist Bichu Thirumala that he needed a song that should make the listener feel nostalgic,” he recalls. “Then Bichu stumbled upon a book by Changampuzha and came across a line that inspired him. I straightaway came up with the tune.” Four years ago, American singer Grady Lang had performed it for an award ceremony in the presence of Jerry and Yesudas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-malayalam-song-from-italy-to-beat-the-pandemic/article31539848.ece
09 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Youth in quarantine dies of renal failure||A tribal youth who was in home quarantine in Attappady died on Friday after he suffered renal failure. Karthik, 23, from Varakampadi at Sholayur died while being shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, on Friday morning. Health officials said the death was not due to COVID-19. They said his tests had returned negative. Karthik had reportedly attended a wedding reception in Coimbatore three weeks ago. He returned home on foot through the forest along with a six-member gang on April 29. He reached the Tribal Specialty Hospital at Kottathara and tested for SARS-CoV-2, and was advised home quarantine. He was admitted to the tribal hospital on Wednesday when started vomiting. Later, he was shifted to EMS Cooperative Hospital at Perinthalmanna. When his condition worsened on Friday, he was shifted to Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. He died on the way. The Health Department has sought a detailed report on his death from the Tribal Specialty Hospital authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-in-quarantine-dies-of-renal-failure/article31539832.ece
09 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||7 NoRKs reach Pathanamthitta||As many as seven persons who came from Abu Dhabi and Dubai in two Air India Express flights to Kochi and Karipur on Thursday night reached the district on Friday morning. While six persons came from Abu Dhabi one came from Dubai. Four of them, natives of Kuriyannur, Vaipur, Vechoochira, and Peringara, were taken to Pathanamthitta in a KSRTC bus from the Cochin airport, along with those bound for Kottayam. District Collector P.B. Noohu welcomed them at St Peter’s Junction in the town around 4.30 a.m. All the four, two of them women, were taken to a COVID care centre set up at Gateway Residency in Ranni. They will be in quarantine there for the next 14 days. Two pregnant women left for their homes at Nedumpram and Eraviperoor near Thiruvalla in taxis from the Cochin airport itself, where they will be in quarantine. One person who reached the Karipur airport in Kozhikode from Dubai on Thursday night to attend the funeral of his father was taken to his home at Chittar in an ambulance. He will be in quarantine at his home. The local self-government institution concerned will supply food to the quarantined people and health workers will carry out periodic check-ups. Seven persons bound for Pathanamthitta will reach Karipur from Riyadh on Friday night. People from the district will also be arriving by a flight from Doha to Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday night. 110 care centres Mr. Noohu said the administration had set up 110 COVID care centres for quarantining those coming from abroad and other States at Thiruvalla, Ranni, Konni, Mallappally, Kozhencherry, and Adoor. He said 2,133 bath-attached rooms with 4,261 beds and 1,298 non-attached rooms with 3,183 beds had been arranged for quarantining people in the first phase. Of this, 2,431 rooms had been set apart for men and 1,000 rooms for women. Mr. Noohu said the administration had set up seven COVID first-line treatment centres for treating COVID-19 patients and those with symptoms akin to the viral infection. Only 5 in isolation wards With no new COVID-19 case being reported from the district for the last 26 days, the number of quarantined persons at the hospital isolation wards came down to mere five on Friday. As of now, only one person remains at the isolation ward of the Pathanamthitta General Hospital and two each at the Adoor General Hospital and at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry. Meanwhile, 155 persons have reached the district from various other States, taking the total number of home quarantined people to 440 on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-norks-reach-pathanamthitta/article31539864.ece
09 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Women’s panel seeks report on novice’s death||The Kerala Women’s Commission have sought a detailed report from Pathanamthitta District Police Chief (DCP) K.G. Simon regarding the death of 21-year novice Divya P. John at the Basilian Sisters (Daughters of St. Macrina) convent in Thiruvalla under suspicious circumstances on Thursday. The commission has asked the DPC to conduct a comprehensive probe into the death. Sources said the commission took the initiative on the basis of media reports. On Thursday, Fire and Rescue Service personnel had retrieved the woman’s body from a well on the premises of the convent attached to the Syro-Malankara Church at Paliyekkara in Thiruvalla after they were alerted by the monastery. Body handed over The body was handed over to the relatives after a post-mortem examination at the Government Medical College in Kottayam on Friday. The novice, who hailed from a middle-class family at Chunkappara, near Mallappally, was doing her final year theology studies at the convent. The congregation is an Italy-based Catholic religious order for women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/novices-death-panel-seeks-report/article31539844.ece
09 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC to ply for Secretariat staff||After 53 days, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation will resume bus services in the capital on May 11 exclusively for Secretariat employees. Nine special fare services will be operated in the mornings and evenings from nine depots in the district to the Secretariat. The fare will be double as only a limited number of passengers can be transported on the buses, a KSRTC official said. The KSRTC will deploy fast passenger buses for the service. In view of the social distancing norms, only 30 passengers will be allowed on the buses. Passengers will not be allowed to stand on the buses and everyone will have to wear masks. In the morning, the services will be from Kattakada (8.55 a.m.) Poovar (8.50 a.m.), Aryanad-Kattakada (8.30 a.m.), Aryanad-Nedumangad (8.50 a.m.), Kilimanoor (9 a.m.), Attingal (8.40 a.m,), Neyyattinkara (9.30 a.m.), Vizhinjam (9.20 a.m. ) and Nedumangad (9.25 a.m.). The return trip will commence from the Secretariat at 5.20 p.m. The same buses will be used for the morning and evening trips. The crew will be provided masks and gloves. The service would be only for the lockdown period, he said. In between, the KSRTC had operated services for the Health and Civil Supplies employees in the capital and its buses were used for taking sanitisers to all districts. The fleet is also being used for taking expatriates arriving at airports to corona care centres for the mandatory quarantine.  Only 30 passengers will be allowed in the buses which have seating capacities of 48 and 52.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtc-to-ply-for-secretariat-staff/article31539866.ece
09 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State brings down infant mortality rate||In a significant achievement, Kerala has brought its infant mortality rate (IMR), down from 10 to the single digit of 7 (per 1,000 live births), according to the latest Sample Registration System (SRS) bulletin. This means that Kerala has achieved the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) target for IMR reduction, set at eight for the year 2020. The State’s IMR for rural areas is 9 and for urban areas, 5.  The data, released by the Office of the Registrar General of India, with the reference year of 2018 put the State far ahead of the national average of 32. Kerala is also the only State to have achieved the single digit IMR of 7 amongst bigger States, the closest being Delhi with an IMR of 13. Smaller States Among smaller States, Goa and Sikkim have done as well as Kerala, with an IMR of 7, while Nagaland and Mizoram have also done extremely well with IMR figures of 4 and 5. Senior health officials said that Kerala’s achievement was specifically due to the major initiatives and investments it had made in the area of neonatal health. The data specific to neonatal and under-five mortality would however be released only next month. Achieving target “We achieved the IMR of 10 in 2018 (reference year being 2016) and seven out of these 10 infant deaths were neonatal deaths. Our IMR had been stagnant at 12 for several years till 2016, when we turned our attention to improving neonatal mortality,” a senior official said.  Since 2016, the State’s strategy has been to focus on improving critical care of neonates with substantial investments in major tertiary-care maternity hospitals at Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Kozhikode, which now seems to have paid off, the official said. ICU beds The number of neonatal ICU beds was increased in all these centres. Kerala’s birth rate has also reduced fractionally from 14.2% to 13.9%, which is also the lowest in the country among bigger States.  Health officials say State’s achievement is specifically due to the major initiatives and investments it has made in the area of neonatal health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-infant-mortality-rate-falls/article31539846.ece
09 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3,000 more come home through 6 check-posts||The six designated entry points for Keralites returning home from COVID-19-affected States continued to witness a heavy inflow on Friday. As many as 1,925 Keralites returned home through Walayar in 10 hours from 6 a.m. on Friday. The check-post witnessed a heavy rush since morning. The 14 counters set up to clear the incoming vehicles appeared insufficient. The police said more counters would be opened. More than 200 people who returned from red zones were shifted to corona care centres. More people were likely to be shifted as the inflow continued, said nodal officer R.P. Suresh. As many as 11,511 people have so far entered Kerala through Walayar since Monday. They returned in 4,302 vehicles. The district administration has issued passes for 5,183 vehicles since registration started on May 2. Most of those returning were from Bengaluru, Chennai, and Coimbatore. No COVID-19 cases The inter-State border at Inchivila witnessed the entry of 190 Keralites on Friday. None of them were diagnosed with any COVID-19 symptoms. While 160 came from Tamil Nadu, the remaining came from Karnataka. Of the 55 people who came from red zone areas, 40 were placed under observation in the corona care centre at the Mar Ivanios College hostel. The others were transported to their homes in ambulances. A total of 91 persons from other States entered through the Aryankavu check-post till 2 p.m. on Friday. Apart from 14 Kollam residents, people from Kottayam, Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha also crossed the border through Kollam. As many as 34 vehicles, including cars bikes, and ambulances, were issued exit pass. While 35 were placed in institutional quarantine, the rest were put under home isolation. As many as 382 persons comprising 195 men, 133 women and 54 children from various States crossed via the Kumily check-post on Friday. While 341 persons came from Tamil Nadu, 31 came from Karnataka, and 10 from Telangana. Of those who crossed over, 209 were from the district while 173 belonged to other districts. Among them, 209 who came from red zones were sent for observation in their home districts and others in home quarantine. At the Talapdy check-post, near Kasaragod, 383 Keralites residing in other States crossed over. Though 2,142 people had applied for entry into the State, only 601 passes were issued. So far, 3,206 people have so far crossed through Talapady after the administration received 14,585 applications. As many as 421 people in 197 vehicles crossed the Muthanga check-post on the Kerala-Karnataka border till 6.30 p.m on Friday. With this, 2,231 people have returned home through the check-post since May 4.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kollam, Idukki, Kasaragod and Wayanad Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3000-more-come-home-through-6-check-posts/article31539841.ece
09 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Summer rain likely to continue, says IMD||Indications are that the current spell of summer showers is likely to continue in strength through May in the State. Some of the north Kerala districts are likely to experience heavy rainfall early next week, an IMD (India Meteorological Department) weather advisory said on Friday. Yellow alerts signalling the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall (6.4 cm to 11.5 cm in 24 hours) have been issued for Kozhikode and Kannur for Monday and Tuesday, Wayanad for Monday and Kasaragod for Tuesday. “The summer shower activity peaks over Kerala in May. The conditions are favourable for it at present,” K. Santhosh, Director, IMD Meteorological Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, said. “For Kerala, the normal pattern is that the summer showers continue through May,” he said. The intensity of the summer showers or the lack of it has no impact on the southwest monsoon which follows it. In its long-range forecast published on April 15, the IMD had predicted the likelihood of a normal southwest monsoon for the country as a whole this year. Thus far, Kerala has received its normal quota of summer rainfall, with only three of the districts — Alappuzha, Kasaragod and Kollam — reporting deficiency in rainfall. Forecast In its outlook for the next two weeks issued on Friday, the IMD has forecast scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/thundershower activity featuring isolated heavy rainfall over Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep till May 14. Kerala and Mahe can expect near-normal rainfall between May 15 and May 21 while Lakshadweep is likely to experience below normal rainfall. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority has reiterated its warning that the State could witness strengthened lightning activity between 2 p.m. and 10 p.m. The public have been asked to take adequate precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/summer-rain-likely-to-continue-says-imd/article31539843.ece
09 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||5,000 acres of fallow land in capital to be used for farming||As much as 5,000 acres of fallow land will be used for cultivation in the district as part of the Subhiksha Keralam project launched by the State government to ensure self-sufficiency in vegetable production. The project has been launched in view of the expected shortage of vegetables coming from neighbouring States following the COVID-19 outbreak. Announcing the plans for the district here at a press conference on Friday, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said the project brings together the Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Industries, Fisheries, Water Resources, and Cooperative departments. Workers of the Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Scheme, Kudumbashree volunteers, cooperative banks, volunteers and farmers’ organisations will be made part of the activities. The Agriculture Department will provide quality seeds and saplings, sourced from agricultural farms and universities. Planting festival will be organised in fallow lands between May 25 and 30, with harvesting expected to take place by July end. Projects amounting to Rs. 3,863 crore across the State are being planned under the Subhiksha Keralam project. A total of 25,000 hectares of land will be brought under cultivation, out of which paddy will be grown in 5,000 hectares, vegetables and plantain in 7,000 hectares each, tubers in 5,000 hectares, pulses and food grains in 500 hectares each. Mr. Surendran had earlier chaired a meeting of people’s representatives to chalk out the programmes in the district as part of the project. District panchayat president V.K. Madhu and city Corporation Mayor K. Sreekumar were present at the press conference. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5000-acres-of-fallow-land-in-capital-to-be-used-for-farming/article31539868.ece
09 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||One from Ernakulam tests positive||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said that one person tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the State and 10 other test results turned negative. The positive case was from Ernakulam. The patient had come from Chennai and suffered from a kidney ailment, he said. 484 recovered Of the 503 cases reported so far from Kerala, 484 had recovered from the disease. At present, only 16 patients were undergoing treatment in the State. The total number of persons under surveillance in the State was 20,157, out of which 19,810 were in home quarantine and others, 347, in hospitals. As many as 127 were admitted to various hospitals in the State on Friday with flu symptoms. The government had tested 35,886 samples so far, of which 35,355 had tested negative. Of the 3,380 sentinel surveillance samples collected from front-line health and emergency service workers and other priority groups in the population, 2,939 samples yielded negative result. The CM said that as part of strengthening containment activities, 3,770 temporary posts in 34 categories were being created and personnel appointed through the National Health Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-from-ernakulam-tests-positive/article31539859.ece
09 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stricter norms for care centre at college hostel||The district administration has tightened the enforcement of precautionary measures in the corona care centre that functioned in the Mar Ivanios College hostel. The move comes amid complaints raised by a section of residents about the poor compliance with the quarantine guidelines by many others. After a visit by District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan to the facility, the residents were directed to refrain from gathering and to confine themselves within their rooms. They have also been barred from visiting others in their rooms. Those accommodated at the facility have been advised to wear masks and replace them with unused or washed ones every six hours. With the arrival of more people from red zones in various parts of the country through Inchivila, the number of people quarantined in the centre has gone up to 205. The authorities placed 576 people under quarantine on Friday, increasing the number of people being closely monitored to 3,637. Of these, 3,389 people were quarantined in their homes. Fifty samples While 19 people were admitted to various hospitals with symptoms of the disease, 14 people were discharged. Fifty samples were submitted for detailed examination by the district authorities. The City police slapped petty cases on 209 people for not wearing masks outdoors. Fifty-seven were booked for violating other lockdown norms. Twenty-five vehicles were seized. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police registered 234 cases, arrested 240 people, and seized 128 vehicles. The police reopened traffic through Kizhakke Mukkola in Pallimukku under the Mannanthala police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stricter-norms-for-care-centre-at-college-hostel/article31539867.ece
09 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Virtual queue system likely for liquor sale||The State government is reportedly considering an online order based on virtual queue system to prevent tightlines and long queues of consumers at State-run liquor outlets. The Police Department had employed a comparable scheme to regulate visitors at Sabarimala by allotting them specific time for arrival at the temple. The virtual queue system might require consumers to register online and make the purchase at the time allotted by the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco). The government does not want a replay of huge crowds in front of liquor shops as in other States as it takes tentative steps to resume the sale of liquor with the phased easing of lockdown restrictions. The government might also allow bars and beer and wine parlours to sell liquor as takeaways. Sales tax hike The government is also looking at liquor sale as a significant source of revenue. It reportedly plans to hike the sales tax on liquor by making suitable amendments to the Kerala Goods and Services Tax Act. The State reportedly plans to hike the sales tax on alcohol that costs Bevco Rs. 400 a case by 20% and less than Rs. 400 by 10%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virtual-queue-system-likely-for-liquor-sale/article31539853.ece
09 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KHS online challenges for teenagers||In order to energise teenagers during COVID-19 times, the Kerala Health Services (KHS) has launched a campaign, ‘Ente Sweet Challenge’, here on Friday. The objective of this is to target them through online challenges to draw their attention to trending activities online and thus engage them in productive, fruitful and safe activities. It was launched by Health Minister K.K.Shylaja. Popular playback singer Vidhu Prathap and his artist wife Deepthi Vidhu Prathap will be spearheading the campaign. Teenagers can post their entries with the hash tag ‘Ente Sweet Challenge’, and it would be managed by the Prathaps. Launching the campaign, Ms. Shylaja urged parents and adolescents to participate in the campaign as this is aimed at beating the stress during these challenging times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/khs-online-challenges-for-teenagers/article31539922.ece
09 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A kit for those keen on veggie farming||Mayor K. Sreekumar on Friday launched the civic body’s ‘vegetable challenge’ in association with the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam. As part of the challenge, a kit containing grow bags, vegetable seeds, trays, organic manure and a guideline will be provided at reduced rates to those interested in taking up vegetable farming. The kits are priced at Rs. 250 and Rs. 600 and will be distributed in vehicles across the Corporation’s 100 wards. The kits will be supplied directly to residents’ associations if there are at least 50 buyers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-kit-for-those-keen-on-veggie-farming/article31539869.ece
09 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Holiday on Sundays not for industry sector||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Friday the mandatory holiday on Sundays would not apply to industries and businesses that could ill afford to stop and start operations impromptu. He said the government would issue a detailed order soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holiday-on-sundays-not-for-industry-sector/article31539854.ece
09 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police to tighten watch on quarantined citizens||State Police Chief Loknath Behera has issued directions to Janamaithri beat officers to keep a close watch on citizens in home quarantine and ensure that they do not flout the prescribed norms. The move follows reports that many persons in home quarantine were visiting neighbours and relatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-tighten-watch-on-quarantined-citizens/article31539857.ece
09 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bonds to be issued||The government is issuing bonds worth Rs. 500 crore to mobilise funds for development projects in the State. The bonds will be auctioned on May 12 at the Mumbai Fort office of the RBI through the e- kuber system. For details, visitwww.finance.kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bonds-to-be-issued/article31539856.ece
09 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Home quarantine mandatory||Keralites arriving from other States and aged above 75 years children below 10 years and accompanying parents, and pregnant women and children and husbands accompanying them should undergo 14-day home quarantine. An order issued by the General Administration Department on Friday also said there would be no paid quarantine facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/home-quarantine-mandatory/article31539852.ece
09 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU declares first-semester BTech results||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has declared the results of the first semester BTech examinations (2019 scheme) conducted in December last. The deadline for applying for revaluation and the copies of answer scripts will be announced later. In the case of Life Skills course, which is a ‘pass or fail’ course, those who have passed will be graded ‘P’. Details onwww.ktu.edu.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-declares-first-semester-btech-results/article31539855.ece
09 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||1,140 workers from Thrissur board train to U.P.||The first train from Thrissur to Uttar Pradesh, arranged for migrant workers and their families, left the Thrissur railway station at 4.45 p.m. on Friday with 1,140 passengers. The passengers included 397 people from the camps in Thrissur Corporation, 159 from various municipalities and 584 from panchayats. Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen, Government Chief Whip K. Rajan, District Collector S. Shanavas, police chiefs and Labour Department officials reached the railway station to see them off. Migrant workers were brought to the railway station in KSRTC buses after health check-ups. Earlier, a special train from Thrissur had ferried 1,143 workers to Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1140-workers-from-thrissur-board-train-to-up/article31539829.ece
09 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||38 sent to quarantine in Thrissur||When the KSRTC buses with 38 Pravasis from the Nedumbassery airport reached Mammiyur near Guruvayur by 3.30 a.m., Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen, Collector S. Shanavas, Municipal Chairperson M. Rathi, and other officials were waiting for them. The passengers, who reached the airport by 10.20 p.m., started from there by 1.30 a.m. Among the 72 NRIs who returned from Abu Dhabi, 34, including pregnant women, were sent to home quarantine. The other 38 persons, including 10 women and one child, were taken to Sterling Hotel, Guruvayur. Kudumbashree will serve food for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/38-sent-to-quarantine-in-thrissur/article31539834.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Home-bound||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/home-bound/article31539831.ece
09 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 more cases reported in Anantapur district||After a lull, there is a spurt of COVID=19 positive cases in Anantapur district with the number of cases coming in double digit for three days in the past one week and all of them from Hindupur town. On Friday, 16 new cases were reported from the district, of whom 15 were from Hindupur and one from Anantapur city taking the total to 126 positive cases (27 of these are shown in 'others' category). The silver lining, however, is the discharge of two patients from the COVID Hospital. One of them was a 24-year-old youth from Housing Colony in Hindupur and another a 48-year-old woman from Guntakal, who was referred to Tirupati State COVID Hospital. The woman was discharged on Thursday night and returned to the district on Friday. With this the total number of patients getting discharged has gone up to 42, according to Additional DMHO Padmavathi. Meanwhile, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu on Friday received PPE kits and other safety material from Golden Globe Infra Private Limited MD N. Ravikumar and disposable aprons from Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/16-more-cases-reported-in-anantapur-district/article31539950.ece
09 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gales, rain lash Anantapur district||Heavy gales accompanied by rain lashed several parts of Anantapur district with Anantapur city, Gooty, and Kalyandurg suffering the worst on Thursday night and people spending sleepless nights in most areas due to power outage. Big trees got uprooted and fell on vehicles parked in streets. A car and several two-wheelers in Anantapur city were damaged and the Anantapur Municipal Corporation was doing its best to clear them till Friday evening. Power lines got snapped at hundreds of places and electricity could be restored to only 50% of the affected areas by Friday morning and 70% by 1 p.m., said APSPDCL officials. Total loss to power infrastructure was put at Rs. 11.40 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gales-rain-lash-anantapur-district/article31539951.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka sees record spike||Karnataka saw a record spike with 48 cases, 11 of them children and 24 women. With this, the State’s tally touched 753. Three cases in Bengaluru were detected through random testing. Telangana reported 10 more cases on Friday taking its total to 1,132. The number of people discharged after treatment touched 728 including 34 on Friday, with Health Minister Eatala Rajender asserting that those under treatment were recovering well. No additional deaths were reported and the toll remained at 29, while active cases stood at 376. Nine districts including Yadadri-Bhongir, Warangal (Rural) and Wanaparthy met green zones norms. The State government requested the Centre during a video conference to certify 14 more districts which did not report any case in the last 14 days as green. The Centre was expected to take a decision on Monday. In addition, three districts, Nizamabad, Suryapet and Warangal Urban that were in the red zone had shown significant improvement and were ready to be brought under the orange zone, for which a request was sent to the Centre. Mr. Rajender dismissed criticism that testing was low, stating that the government adhered to guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research. On red zone districts like Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal, he said only urban areas in the two districts abutting the State capital were affected. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had instructed officials to focus on GHMC areas, the old city in particular, to strictly enforce containment measures. Random test cases Of Karnataka’s new cases 14 were from Davangere. Besides, 12 cases were reported from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada, 11 from Hirebagewadi and Kudachi in Belagavi, seven from Bengaluru Urban, three from Chitradurga and one from Ballai. In Bengaluru Urban, four of the seven cases were from containment zones and three from Padarayanapura, the latter found through random testing. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister insisted that there was no link between lockdown relaxation and the spike. “All are contacts of cases in containment zones,” he told the media. Following complaints that senior specialists, specialists and teaching faculty were not attending to COVID-19 patients in their hospitals, the government said the Medical Superintendent of the Medical College and District Surgeon would be nodal officers for hospital administration. They would ensure that specialists and teaching faculty performed duty on rotation basis.  Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that one person had tested positive for COVID-19 in the State and ten other test results were negative. The positive case was from Ernakulam, a patient from Chennai with a kidney ailment. Of the 503 cases reported so far by Kerala, 484 had recovered and 16 patients were undergoing treatment. On Friday, 127 persons were admitted to hospitals with flu symptoms. The government had tested 35,886 samples so far of which 35,355 had tested negative. Of 3,380 sentinel surveillance samples from health and emergency workers, 2,939 samples yielded a negative result.  TN case tally crosses 6,000 Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases passed the 6,000-mark as another 600 persons tested positive on Friday. Chennai alone accounted for over half the new cases with 399. Three more patients died of the virus in the State - two in Chennai and one in Tirunelveli. The State had a total of 6,009 COVID-19 cases. In fact, this comes just a day after the State crossed the 5,000-mark - from 4,829 cases on May 6, the total tally increased to 5,409 on May 7. The cases continued to surge in Chennai, taking its total count to 3,043. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the increase in the number of positive cases need not cause fear among people as it was a result of “aggressive testing”. On the fatalities he said a 78-year-old man from Tambaram was admitted at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on April 30 and died at 9 p.m. on May 7. He had co-morbid conditions. The Minister said the State’s mortality rate was 0.68%, the lowest in the country. As on Friday, the State has reported a total of 40 deaths due to COVID-19 with a mortality rate of 0.66%.  (With inputs from Telangana, Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-die-in-andhra-pradesh-karnataka-sees-record-spike/article31539501.ece
09 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restarting trains a relief, but some migrants continue trek||Re-starting of Shramik trains from Karantaka to various States has come as a relief to migrant workers who had begun their journey on foot to States such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Nearly 300 of them, who began their walk on Wednesday but were detained by the police and housed in two choultries at Kodigehalli, left for Uttar Pradesh on a train on Friday evening. “We had given up hope, but the government has shown some mercy at last. I find it hard to believe that I will actually reach home in three days,” said an elated Chanchal, 29, a carpenter from Gorakhpur district of Uttar Pradesh, speaking to The Hindu from the train. Still on foot Not all labourers, however, have stopped their trek back home. Several new groups of labourers began their walk home on Friday, despite knowing that the trains have restarted. “We spent nearly a week to register online. We don’t trust that we will get a train ticket any time soon,” said Mohammed Asgar, 31, a plumber from Sarangpur, Uttar Pradesh. He was detained by the police on the highway as he was walking home and said he was biding his time to restart his walk after nightfall. Girish Chand, 28, a painter from Gorakhpur district, said they had no place to wait for the government to put them on a train. “The landlord made us vacate the house for non-payment of rent. The Rs. 6,000 advance we had paid was made good for rent of two months we were unable to pay. We are anyway on the streets, so better we start walking home,” he said. Bhimashankar Guled, DCP (Northeast), said they had been patrolling National Highway 44 on Friday and detained over 1,500 persons who had begun their walk home the same day. “We sent back those who had accommodation to stay in the city, telling them to wait for their turn to get on a train. We also arranged two shelters where there are around 150 labourers who did not have houses to go back to,” he said. Migrant labourers are taking the highway in the zone to leave the city. Dr. Guled said there was a special train to Uttar Pradesh on Saturday only for people in the zone.  Till Hyderabad Meanwhile, several of the labourers The Hindu had caught up with on Thursday as they trekked along the highway had reached Hyderabad by Friday evening. Rajesh Paswan, 31, a painter, said most of them walked till the Andhra Pradesh border where the police stopped them. “They gave us dinner and asked us to return to Bengaluru. But we refused. Eventually, they put us in a truck to Hyderabad. We are trying to find some transport from here. If not, we will resume our walk on Saturday,” he said. Mohammed Naushad, 28, who sold ready-made garments on the pavements of Majestic, said Andhra Pradesh police sent them back towards Bengaluru. However, as they were walking back, a truck driver offered them a ride. “We are a group of eight. We will get dropped till Nagpur in the truck as it is headed there,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restarting-trains-a-relief-but-some-migrants-continue-trek/article31539490.ece
09 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 positive cases with Koyambedu links emerge in Chittoor district||After a week’s lull, Chittoor district witnessed a sudden spike in positive COVID-19 cases on Friday, with the detection of 10 cases in a single day, all linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai. The official machinery, led by Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar and District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah, rushed to V. Kota, 30 km from Kuppam, where five positive cases had emerged. All these five were drivers, cleaners and collection agents, residing at Patrapalle locality of V. Kota mandal headquarters, working in the transportation of vegetables from Kuppam region to Koyambedu market. The five were among the 21 suspect cases sent for quarantine, the DMHO said. Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari said that two positive cases were reported at Mulakalacheruvu and Madanapalle mandals on Friday. These two were also linked to the Koyambedu market. “Several people in Madanapalle division eke out a living depending on vegetable crops, transporting them to Chennai and Bengaluru. Now, the new cases are those who visited the Koyambedu market. Identification of other possible contacts is under way,” Mr. Achari said. At Satyavedu, two positive cases were reported with Koyambedu links. A week ago, the neighbouring Uttukotta town in Tamil Nadu, just one kilometre away from Nagalapuram police limits, witnessed positive cases linked to Koyambedu. Immediately, the Satyavedu circle police launched identification of people who maintained links with Koyambedu. In this process, two COVID-19 positive cases had surfaced. One more positive case linked to Koyambedu was reported at Varadaiahpalem mandal. The area police earmarked red zones in the two mandals. Mr. Senthil Kumar told the media at V. Kota that due to the inter-State business activity involving vegetables, several people kept shuttling between Chennai and Chittoor district, from Satyavedu in the east to Kuppam in the west. Meanwhile, V. Kota was converted into a containment zone on the Chittoor-Krishnagiri-Hosur NH. Testing mandatory Meanwhile, the district issued a notice to all traders buying supplies from the wholesale market to notify the control room. Collector Ch. Hari Kiran announced that the wholesale traders of vegetables and fruits in the district should alert 08562-245259 or 259179 about the trucks arriving into the district, details of their drivers and information on the workers involved for loading and unloading the cargo. Such persons should visit the COVID hospital at Fatima college, Proddatur Government Hospital or contact their nearest medical officer to get themselves checked as a precaution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-positive-cases-with-koyambedu-links-emerge-in-chittoor-district/article31539954.ece
09 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur bracing up for massive community testing||With a capacity of 2,784 tests per million, the Guntur district administration is bracing for a massive community testing of those returning from foreign countries and neighbouring States. The district that has borders with Kurnool, Krishna, Prakasam is bracing up for a possible influx of students and professionals from other parts of the country. “We have identified Primary Health Centres/village/ward secretariats for sample collection using Rapid Test Kits to diagnose COVID-19. The Nasopharyngeal Swab Specimens are then tested at VRDL lab at GMC and TrueNAT test labs which have a combined testing capacity of 900 samples per day. Those who are coming from other States or foreign countries will be quarantined for 14 days in their villages or towns,” District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said on Friday. Ever since the first positive COVID-19 case was identified on March 27, the district administration had been on its toes, identifying, isolating, testing and treating COVID infected persons. Nearly after a month of lockdown, the first case was reported from Narsaraopet with a 53-year-old cable collection agent succumbing to COVID. The entire neighbourhood where he lived was infected and of 373 cases reported so far, Narsaraopet accounted for 163 cases, overtraking Guntur, which recorded 159 cases. Further, the district administration has identified multi-disciplinary teams to distribute essential commodities to people in containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-bracing-up-for-massive-community-testing/article31539955.ece
09 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State successful in tackling challenges in times of COVID-19, says Sajjala||Real time and innovative market interventions, decentralisation of markets and ensuring uninterrupted supply of essential commodities have helped in distress management during lockdown, according to Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Adviser, Public Affairs, Government of Andhra Pradesh. It was a formidable challenge to the State government to plan and implement containment strategies while ensuring that the essential commodities were within the reach of the common man, Mr. Reddy said. “COVID-19, the global pandemic, has thrown an unprecedented challenge, but the State government is able to tide over it, by effective market interventions. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy led from the front in COVID-19 management like a team leader, but at times, he was a team man, taking part in wide ranging discussions on COVID-19 management. Never during this 45-day period, the Chief Minister pressed the panic button , and he constantly motivated his Ministers and officers,'' said Mr. Reddy. The State was able to move five lakh tonnes of perishable communities across the borders, decentralised markets into 950 rythu bazaars and ensured uninterrupted supply of essential commodities. Innovations like fruit kits delivered to the doorstep of people in containment zones have come in handy, he said. Continuous supply “As nationwide lockdown enters the last phase, the State government will play the role of facilitator in ensuring continuous supply of chain of agricultural commodities to keep the liquidity going.” “We will start agricultural processing units in villages after the lockdown, cold chain management will be key in ensuring shelf life to dairy products and we will also open aqua markets,” said Mr. Reddy. Yet another major intervention, that has helped paddy farmers to sell their produce, was the farm-gate procurement process, where paddy was purchased at the doorstep of the farmer. The entire procurement has been handled by village secretariats said Mr. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-successful-in-tackling-challenges-in-times-of-covid-19-says-sajjala/article31539957.ece
09 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aarogya Setu app: HC seeks Centre’s response||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court, comprising Justice Shaji P. Chali and Justice M.R. Anitha, on Friday asked the Centre to respond to a writ petition challenging its directive to make the Aarogya Setu app mandatory for all employees, including those in the private sector. In his petition, Thrissur Congress committee general secretary John Daniel said the app was a tracking mobile application, which used the GPS and Bluetooth features in smartphones to track COVID-19 patients. It collected the personal information during registration and stored it in the cloud. He sought to strike down as unconstitutional the directive of the Centre. The directive, issued as part of COVID-19 management, said it should be the responsibility of the head of the respective organisation to ensure 100% use of the app among employees. Mr. Daniel pointed out that the directive violated the fundamental rights of the citizen and there was a possibility of misuse of the personal information. It raised concerns of surveillance by the Centre. The directive took away the right of a person to decide on the use and control of information about him/her. It had been made clear prosecution would be launched against those who did not comply with the directive, under Section 58 of the Disaster Management Act 2005. In fact, an employer who had only a work relationship with an employee could not compel him/her to install a mobile app and use it diligently. Besides, the directive did not specify which department or ministry or official would be accessing the data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aarogya-setu-app-hc-seeks-centres-response/article31539491.ece
09 May 2020||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||GCC nations facing a tough fight in curbing virus spread||Even as thousands of Non-Resident Indians are eagerly waiting to return home, the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations are attempting to limit the outbreak of COVID-19 in different ways. An early lockdown appears to have curbed the spread, but success in battling the virus is still far away. The count in the six GCC nations (UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Oman, Kuwait) is inching towards one lakh, with nearly 500 deaths. What is worrying is that the majority of cases are Asian expatriates, including Indians, and in that category Non-Resident Keralites account for the highest number of cases and deaths. Besides, deaths go unreported due to the overlap between comorbidity and COVID-19 mortality. UAE-based Pravasi Bandhu Welfare Trust chairman K.V. Shamsudeen said only serious cases had been admitted to hospitals. “Others have been quarantined in their apartments. Many without proper living conditions for domestic quarantine have been transferred to makeshift institutional facilities,” he said. Already, expatriates are bearing the brunt of job losses and salary cuts. “The worst-affected are blue-collar workers,” he said, adding that oil prices had hit a historic low. For hundreds of workers, he said, there was no point of staying without a job. Earlier, the situation was different when expatriates managed to secure a job, Mr. Shamsudeen said. Local governments have given a call to replace the foreign labour in Saudi and Oman. “This may be replicated in other nations despite the fact that the GCC nations depend on foreigners all these years. The UAE has warned labour-source countries such as India and Pakistan to repatriate their citizens,” an employee with a supermarket chain said. Health-care workers getting infected with SARS-CoV-2 is another problem in the GCC countries. However, treatment for patients is done without any discrimination and testing is done by government agencies in Saudi Arabia. A few hotels have been converted into quarantine centres. In Qatar, all offices except schools are functioning with 20% staff. The pandemic has entered the peak phase a few days ago. At the same time, some Gulf countries have eased curfew with the start of the holy month of Ramzan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gcc-nations-facing-a-tough-fight-in-curbing-virus-spread/article31539486.ece
09 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||New cases fall to single digit in Kurnool||There has been a downtrend in the number of COVID-19 positive cases getting reported from Kurnool district for the past two days with only seven cases each registered on Friday and Thursday. While the number of positive cases got reduced to single digit, the number of persons getting discharged significantly increased on consecutive days. A noteworthy turn of events has been the discharge of 14 patients from the first-ever COVID Care Centre at Chaitanya College. All of the 14 were asymptomatic and treated in a more non-formal hospital set up and sent home on Friday after they tested negative twice. A total of 27 persons, including a 80-year-old man from the city and a 1- year and 4-months old child, were discharged on Friday. District Collector G. Veerapandian said that the total number of discharged patients had gone up to 218 so far. There were two deaths in the GGH taking the total number of deaths to 14 in the district, that recorded 547 positive cases with two cases each coming from Kurnool and Nandyal and one from Adoni. There are 315 patients getting treated in the district. Both the dead were from Kurnool city and one of them was 76-year-old.  Central team’s visit Meanwhile, the District Collector said the Central Public Health experts team visit Kurnool on Saturday evening and will be there for six days to take stock of all aspects of the fight against the pandemic. He held a meeting with all the officials involved in the fight against the COVID at which Municipal Commissioner D.K. Balaji, Joint Collector Ravi Pattanshetty and trainee Collector Vidhekare were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-cases-fall-to-single-digit-in-kurnool/article31539959.ece
09 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||152 return from Riyadh||An Air India special flight (AI-922) from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia reached the Calicut international airport at Karipur on Friday evening bringing home 152 expatriates. They included 103 women and four children. Another special flight had brought 182 Malayalis from Dubai on Thursday night. Health officials said 84 of the passengers who returned from Riyadh were pregnant women. The health team at the airport had been augmented by adding gynaecologists and specially trained nurses to handle the situation. Eight persons among the passengers were from Karnataka, two were from Tamil Nadu, and the rest from Kerala.  Thermal scanning The passengers were subjected to thermal scanning as they left the flight and entered the aerobridge one by one. In groups of 20, the passengers were led to emigration and customs queues after collecting vital information about their medical history, living conditions, and travel movements in the last few months. Pregnant women, children below 10 years of age, senior citizens above 75 years of age, and those requiring urgent medical follow-up treatment were allowed to go home. Those with symptoms and other sickness were carried in ambulances to Government Medical College Hospitals at Manjeri and Kozhikode. All others were shifted to corona care centres at different places. They will remain in quarantine for at least a week there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/152-return-from-riyadh/article31539495.ece
09 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||No fresh cases in Nellore district||The number of active coronavirus cases came down to 33 in SRSP Nellore district with one more person being recovered in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of patients discharged rose to 60.The patients under treatment are responding well and more persons are likely to be discharged in the coming days, according to COVID-19 nodal officer M. Narendra. With no fresh cases, the total number of confirmed cases stood at 96 in the district. In the neighbouring Prakasam district, only one active case remained in the Government General Hospital. Test reports of 750 persons received on Friday turned out to be negative. Liquor sale begins Meanwhile, liquor sale was started in parts of the district on Friday. In the Markapur excise circle, 90 of the 102 liquor shops were opened . As many as 109 retail liquor outlets in the Ongole excise circle could not be opened as the IMFL depot itself in Pernamitta came under the red zone. There were no untoward incidents , said Markapur Excise Superintendent A. Avulaiah after overseeing the sale process by a team of excise, police and revenue staff. Twelve liquor shops, four in Markapur town and eight in Kanigiri town, were not opened as they came under containment zones, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-fresh-cases-in-nellore-district/article31539960.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navy ship with 698 evacuees leaves Male||Navy ship INS Jalashwa departed from the Port of Malé in Maldives on Friday with 698 Indians on board, and is scheduled to reach Kochi on May 10. The 698 include 595 men, 103 women, including 19 pregnant women. The Navy launched this evacuation effort under ‘Operation Samudra Setu’. “After the voyage of INS Jalashwa today, we expect a voyage by INS Magar to Kochi on May 10. We expect voyages by the same ships to Thoothukudi on May 12 and 14,” Sanjay Sudhir, High Commissioner to the Maldives, told The Hindu . INS Jalashwa, the Navy’s landing platform dock, reached Malé on Thursday. ‘Complex operation’ Mr. Sudhir termed the entire effort a “very complex operation” since Indians are spread over 200 islands across the 800 km length of the Maldives and there are restrictions in place on island to island movement. “There are a lot of medical cases, including pregnant women, where ferrying them to Malé is a challenge. There are a lot of senior citizens with specific medical requirements. What made it challenging was the fact that Malé is under lockdown and all offices and Ministries are closed,” he said. The envoy was all praise for the Government of Maldives for the “wonderful support and helping hand” they had received despite the fact that the city was under lockdown. “They made available immigration and baggage facilities at the Velana International Airport though it is a sea voyage. Alongside berthing for the ship was provided at Malé Port which made embarkation very easy for the passengers,” he added. Compelling cases Official sources said that in all about 1800-2000 Indians would be evacuated from Maldives and priority was being given to compelling cases such as medical, senior citizens, family emergencies and jobless. About 4500 Indian community members out of approximately 27,000 have conveyed their wish to travel back, the sources added. The Indian High Commission in Maldives said an “evacuation service charge” of $40 per head would be collected from Indians embarking on naval ships from Maldives to return to India as stated by the government to charge for all repatriations. This marks the first time passengers being evacuated by the Navy are being charged. All those being repatriated under ‘Operation Vande Bharat’ will be quarantined at facilities set up across the country. Under this, the three Services have set up six quarantine facilities that can accommodate up to 2,100 Indians arriving from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Malaysia. The facilities have been established in Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Bhopal, Kochi, Visakhapatnam and Chennai. Two amphibious ships, INS Airawat and INS Shardul, are proceeding to the United Arab Emirates but the modalities for evacuation are still being worked out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navy-ship-with-698-evacuees-leaves-male/article31539498.ece
09 May 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police bid a tearful adieu to their 'Raja'||A tracker dog, Raja, which served the Police Department for about six years, died of ill-health at the police headquarters here on Friday. Police officers of all ranks paid floral tributes to the canine. Eluru Range Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police K.V. Mohan Rao said the tracker canine had helped the Krishna district police in detecting sensational cases. Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, Additional SP M. Sathi Babu, dog handler P. Ravi and other officers placed the wreaths and paid tributes to the animal at the police grounds. Officers consoled Mr. Ravi who was seen crying during the last journey of his pet animal. Remaining dog handlers and the officers bid a tearful send off to the dog. “Raja won silver medal during training at Moinabad in Hyderabad. The canine won bronze medal during the All India Police Duty Meet in 2015, and won first prize in refreshment course held in 2016,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. The dog handler said that Raja used to be very active and clever in investigation and catching the suspects. Urinary infection “The canine suffered from urinary infection and we took it to the hospital. After observing the scan and X-ray reports, doctor prescribed medicines. Suddenly, the condition of Raja deteriorated and the animal breathed its last at 4. a.m. Raja used to follow the instructions of the handler strictly and give much respect to the officers,” Mr. Ravi recalled. ASP Sathi Babu said the canine detected the sensational murder cases of Avanigadda, A. Konduru and Nuzvid police station limits. Police fired into the air and paid official honours to the tracker dog. They saluted and mourned the death of the canine. ASP (AR) Satyanarayana, Special Branch DSP Dharmendra, ST and ST Cell DSP Uma Maheswara Rao, CIs Chandrashekar and Venkata Narayana and others were among those who paid tributes to the police canine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-bid-a-tearful-adieu-to-their-raja/article31539964.ece
09 May 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant workers engaged for Polavaram project stage demonstration||More than 1,000 migrant labourers engaged at work sites staged a protest, demanding that the government must send them back to their home States. The officials tried to pacify the protesters, but to no avail. Finally, they assured the labourers that they would take the matter to the notice of the government . Many workers left sites More than 2,150 workers from Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Bihar, Assam, Chhattisgarh and other States are working at Polavaram sites. Some workers have been demanding to send them back to their native places and stopped the works. “With the Centre extending the lockdown till May 17, about 500 migrant labourers have walked to the nearby railway stations in the last few days. A few workers have reportedly left the site,” said an officer. West Godavari Collector Revu Mutyala Raju and SP Navdeep Singh Grewal visited the Polavaram project sites on Friday and reviewed the situation. They officials assured to provide them with sanitisers, masks, accommodation facilities and food. But, the workers insisted that they be sent home. Speaking to The Hindu , Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao said that the situation was under control at Polavaram now. “The officials have started enrolling the names of the labourers, along with their native places and family details. Medical camps will be set up to conduct COVID-19 tests and arrangements are being made to arrange Shramik Special Trains for them,” a labour officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/migrant-workers-engaged-for-polavaram-project-stage-demonstration/article31539981.ece
09 May 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water purification plant commissioned||Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkatramaiah (Nani) on Friday commissioned a water purification plant built at a cost of Rs. 22 crore granted by the Union government under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation scheme in Machilipatnam. The plant’s purification capacity is 22 million litres per day. The facility will enable the municipal corporation to supply the drinking water every day from early July. “Another purification plant with a capacity to purify 16 million litres per day is also ready for use,” he said. Municipal Commissioner S. Sivarama Krishna, engineer Trinath Babu and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-purification-plant-commissioned/article31539521.ece
09 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vidya Nagar in Tirupati made red zone||After a positive case emerged at Vidya Nagar in Tirupati West, the authorities have marked the vicinity of 500 metres as a red zone and blocked all forms of inward and outward movement. A control room operating for 24 hours has been established at the village secretariat, which can be contacted at 91544 70027 for essential commodities, milk and vegetables to be door delivered. TUDA Chairman Ch. Bhaskar Reddy reached Vidya Nagar Colony and sprayed sodium hypochlorite around the residence of the COVID-19 positive case. Mr. Bhaskar Reddy also appealed to the sanitary workers, volunteers and medical staff not to get disheartened at the development and work sincerely to bring the situation under control. Meanwhile, Srikalahasti legislator Biyyapu Madhusudhan Reddy visited Uranduru to distribute relief. He visited the ST Colony of the village and distributed vegetables an eggs to the inhabitants. Mr. Madhusudhan Reddy later distributed essentials in Kuntipudi, Kothur, Papannapalli, Vampalli and Rajulapalyam villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vidya-nagar-in-tirupati-made-red-zone/article31539961.ece
09 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central team enquires about frontline workers who contracted COVID-19||A six-member Central team that arrived here on Friday interacted with officials of the Medical and Health Department, and enquired about the COVID-19 frontline workers who contracted the disease. It also sought details of paid quarantine facilities in the State and the death rate. Replying to the queries, the officials said that 67 medical and health staff and 89 government officers contracted the virus. They included employees of the Police and Revenue departments, sanitary workers, ward / village volunteers and ASHA workers. Free quarantine “The government is providing quarantine facilities free of cost. Also, the government plans to set up paid quarantine facilities for the NRIs,” the officials told the team members, and claimed that the death rate in the State was 2.07%. Making a presentation on the situation in the State, Medical and Health Commissioner K. Bhaskar said the government was taking measures to contain spread of the virus. Scale of testing “Andhra Pradesh is ahead of others with regard to scale of testing. About 10,000 tests have been conducted in a single day a couple of days ago. So far, 1.84 lakh samples have been collected, and 23,539 are pending collection. If found defective, the samples are being drawn again. Klia tests are being conducted in Kurnool, Krishna, Guntur and other districts. If Klia tests proved positive, RTPCR tests are being conducted for confirmation. In all, 12,246 Klia tests have been conducted. Of these, 89 tested positive and RTPCR tests have been conducted for validations,” he said. Apart from ensuring medical and health facilities, the government had been conducting a survey to identify persons with COVID-19 symptoms. Persons with suspected symptoms were being sent to the quarantine facility, he said. “The government is gathering data from drug stores through the pharmacy app. It has opened fever clinics in the containment clusters. COVID care centres have been set up near COVID hospitals. As many as 14,095 beds have been made available at the care centres. Apart from MBBS doctors, specialists are also made available,” the officials told the team members. Of the six members, Dr. Vivek Adhish and Dr. Rishi Gailang would tour Krishna district, Dr. Sanjay Sadhu and Dr. M. Dhobe Kurnool, and Dr. Bobby Paul and Dr. Nandini Bhattacharya Guntur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/central-team-enquires-about-frontline-workers-who-contracted-covid-19/article31539971.ece
09 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Settle claims, Jagan tells insurance firms||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday wrote to Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) Chairman M.R. Kumar urging him to immediately settle the pending claims to help the affected families. In the letter, Mr. Jagan said that at present, 42,060 claims were pending for settlement with the LIC. Firstly, there was inordinate delay in extension of convergence scheme, and now there was delay in settling the claims. Delay in extension of PMJJBY/AABY converged insurance scheme caused lot of hardship to the bereaved families of deceased workers besides inconvenience to the Government, he said. Mr. Jagan said the State government was implementing the convergence scheme under PMJJBY/ AABY/ PMSBY to benefit workers in the unorganised sector. The Union government issued guidelines to LIC to extend the scheme from December 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 after several appeals and continued persuasion from the State Government. Accordingly, the premium amount from Central government of Rs. 190 crore had been released to LIC and the State government also released the second tranche of our premium portion of Rs. 126.47 crore. The LIC had also accepted the same, Mr. Jagan added. In another letter to United India Insurance Company Chairman Girish Radhakrishnan, Mr. Jagan said 3,547 accidental death claims were pending for settlement as on date with the company for more than eight months. The objective of supporting the poor families during the period of grief is defeated, if immediate financial relief was not provided, Mr. Jagan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/settle-claims-jagan-tells-insurance-firms/article31539523.ece
09 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Explore option of relocating hazardous industries in Vizag’||A day after the gas leak tragedy at LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the A.P. Pollution Control Board (APPCB) officials to identify the hazardous industries that use poisonous gases in and around the Port City, particularly those located in the residential localities, and prepare a roadmap to ensure a safe and risk-free city. At a review meeting on Friday, the Chief Minister asked the officials to prepare an action plan to shift the hazardous industries that use poisonous gases away from human habitations. He also asked them to focus on the measures to be initiated to ensure that such incidents did not recur. “Explore the possibility of shifting the chemicals / raw materials in the polymers factory to another place. Alternatively, examine the option of using them up completely,” he said. Safety audit “Ensure public safety. A comprehensive safety audit of all the industries should be taken up and standard operating procedure enforced,” he made it clear. Asking the PCB officials to take a proactive role in preventing accidents, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “Conduct a fair and transparent investigation into the accident and come up with a comprehensive report.” He asked Special Chief Secretary (Environment and Forests) Neerabh Kumar Prasad and APPCB Secretary Vivek Yadav to be a part of the high-level inquiry team, and asked them not to hesitate to recommend the relocation of the industries from the residential areas if needed. He asked the officials to release the ex gratia to the victims immediately. ‘Situation under control’ Meanwhile, officials said that the situation was brought under control. “Over 60% of the chemical has already been polymerised, and the remaining will be used up in 18-24 hours,” they added. Chief Secretary Neelam Sawhney, DGP D. Gautam Sawang, Visakhapatnam Collector V. Vinay Chand, and Police Commissioner R.K. Meena were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/explore-option-of-relocating-hazardous-industries-in-vizag/article31539969.ece
09 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Close down LG Polymers: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has demanded immediate closure of LG Polymers factory in Visakhapatnam. Later, the factory should be shifted to some other place as health and lives of people are more important, he said. Addressing the media on Friday, Mr. Naidu sought to know how the LG Polymers was allowed to operate during the nationwide lockdown period though it was not into production of essential commodities. The government needs to examine why the factory management failed to take necessary precautionary measures to prevent technical error, if any. Another lapse was the failure of alarm system. Why it was failed, he pointed out. The TDP leader said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has reacted 'so casually' to the incident which claimed many lives. The victims should be kept in mind but not the company management while reacting to the incident, he said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy's reference to LG Polymers as a multi-national firm in the present context was unwarranted and his meeting with the 'accused' company executives was objectionable. The immediate focus should be on fixing whether it was a human error or a technical snag, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/close-down-lg-polymers-naidu/article31539972.ece
09 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 dead, 54 test positive in 24 hours in State||Of the 7,320 samples tested in the last 24 hours, 54 have tested positive for COVID-19 taking the total tally to 1,887 in the State. Three new deaths take the total to 41 so far. Persons who have tested positive are being quarantined and 842 of them have been sent home after recovery, while 1,004 people are undergoing treatment. Kurnool still a hotspot The virus claimed three lives in the last 24 hours, two in Kurnool, a hotspot, and one in Visakhapatnam, which has started showing signs of the virus spread. Meanwhile, the Medical and Health Department authorities have issued a notification for the appointment of 835 specialists to COVID-19 Hospitals. Of this, 284 posts are for General Medicine, 282 Pulmonologists, and 269 Anesthesiologists. A notification has been issued for the appointment of 235 specialists in the government hospitals. Break-up of the vacancies is: OBG-84, Paediatrics-32, ENT-11, Radiology-45, Micro Biology-9. Cardiology-23, Neurology-9, Nephrology-2, SPM-9, TBCD-5, and Emergency Medicine-6. Qualified persons interested to join the posts can apply online dme.ap.nic.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-dead-54-test-positive-in-24-hours-in-state/article31539966.ece
09 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two police constables suspended||Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao on Friday suspended two Armed Reserve (AR) police constables, P. Kiran Kumar and V. Naresh, for allegedly possessing liquor. Action has been taken against the two constables for violating the lockdown rules. The Krishnalanka police registered a case and took up investigation, Mr. Tirumala Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-police-constables-suspended/article31539526.ece
09 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Arrest LG Polymers management’||The Central Committee of the Organisation for Protection of Democratic Rights (OPDR) has demanded a judicial probe by a sitting Supreme Court judge into the styrene gas leakage that resulted in death of 12 persons and hospitalisation of hundreds in Visakhapatnam. OPDR central committee chairman Ch Bhaskara Rao in a press release here on Friday said steps should be taken to arrest the persons responsible for the gas leak. But taking advantage of the recent relaxations by the central government, the management attempted to restart production with a workforce that was not sufficient, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrest-lg-polymers-management/article31539522.ece
09 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Create more workdays under NREGS’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has emphasised on creating more workdays for workers under the MGNREGS. “However, social distancing has to be maintained while executing the works,” he said. During a review meeting on Friday, he was told that the MGNREGS works, which were badly affected due to COVID-19, had resumed. The Chief Minister directed the officials to generate maximum number of workdays for the workers before the onset of monsoon. Mr. Jagan discussed the village development projects . The officials said 16,208 vacant posts in the village secretariats need to be filled, besides completing the construction of the secretariat buildings by August 31. Works under the ‘Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu’ initiative would be completed by July 31, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/create-more-workdays-under-nregs/article31539967.ece
09 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Door delivery of quality rice from Sept. 1||The government has geared up to roll out the delivery of quality rice at the door steps of beneficiaries from September 1. It already launched a pilot project in Srikakulam on September 6, 2019. During a review meeting with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday, Civil Supplies Commissioner Kona Sasidhar said , the quality rice will be delivered in the entire State from this September. About 13,370 mobile units are being set up with electronic weighing machines. The seal of teh rice bags will be opened in front of the beneficiary . The strip seal system is to ensure transparency in the distribution by avoiding adulteration and irregularities during transportation. About 2.3 lakh MT of rice will be distributed every month in the state, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/door-delivery-of-quality-rice-from-sept-1/article31539973.ece
09 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak under control, Collector informs CM||The containment of the styrene vapour gas leak at LG Polymers in RR Venkatapuram village on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam is in full swing, and almost 60% of the liquid styrene has already been polymerised. This was disclosed by District Collector V. Vinay Chand in his report to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy through video-conference, here on Friday. Twelve people died after inhaling the toxic vapour and scores fell sick when the gas leaked out of a storage tank at the chemical plant in the wee hours of Thursday. In a report submitted to the Chief Minister, Mr. Vinay Chand said that it might take 18-24 hours for the remaining liquid in the tank to polymerise. “All measures are being taken to plug the leak completely and experts are closely monitoring the situation. The situation is now fully under control,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, who is also in the city to oversee the containment and relief measures, said that the situation was under control and there was no further danger. Ms. Sawhney also said that the five-member high power committee constituted to probe the incident has begun its preliminary work and said that the report will be submitted in a month’s time. The Collector also stated that once the experts declare RR Venkatapuram village as a safe zone, the people who have been evacuated from there will be sent back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gas-leak-under-control-collector-informs-cm/article31539991.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak victims yet to come out of shock||It has been almost 48 hours since the gas leak from the LG Polymers, which has claimed 11 lives and left hundreds sick. The residents of R.R. Venkatapuram still remain a bundle of nerves. Most of the residents, carrying their children, ran out of their homes. There was no time to pack bags or carry even a water bottle. Many did not even care to lock their houses. “I ran holding the hand of my daughter. I could not find my husband in the melee. It was a mad rush amid thick fog. After running for a while, we boarded an auto-rickshaw. Finally, we found the Goshala shelter home. My husband is somewhere at Gopalapatnam. We had no time to pack our bags. I have not changes my sari since I left home,” said Lakshmi, a resident of R.R. Venkatapuram. Had a warning siren been sounded a little earlier, more lives could have been saved, said some residents. Not very far from the Simhachalam foothills, daily life in R.R Venkatapuram is more that of a village than a typical city even as it comes under the limits of GVMC. The demography is a mix match of people from various socio-economic strata. Shelter homes Most of the affected families have gone to their relatives houses, while the others are taking shelter at facilities arranged by the civic body, Simhachalam Devasthanam and others at Gopalapatnam, NAD Junction, Pendurthi and Simhachalam. They are eagerly waiting to return home. “The locality is a very peaceful . The gas leak incident we want to forget but it is difficult to give the horror a go-by . A siren from the company would not have led to such loss of lives. May Lord Simhadri Appanna protect us from such incidents,” said Nagaraju, another resident. On Friday, a few youth from R.R. Venkatapuram went to their houses and brought clothes and other essentials. The rumours created on Thursday night that there was a fresh gas leak triggered the more panic, they said. Eager to return home “We are expecting a call from officials so that we can return home, but it is yet to happen. People even called their acquaintances who work closely with the administration. But, there is no clarity at all,” said K Chinna, a painter from RR Venkatapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gas-leak-victims-yet-to-come-out-of-shock/article31539976.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP seeks inquiry, shifting of plant||Opposition TDP leaders on Friday demanded immediate shifting of the LG Polymers plant as it was situated in a densely populated area. They also sought an inquiry into the lapses that led to the incident, and the steps to be taken to ensure full medical care for the victims in view of any long-term health problems for the affected people. Former Minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy said that an inquiry conducted by bureaucrats would not be fully impartial, alleging that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was favourable towards the company and had even met its representatives at the Visakhapatnam airport. Mr. Satyanarayana Murthy also questioned why the Chief Minister did not visit the affected area. The former Minister addressed a press conference here along with MLA V. Ramakrishna Babu, MLC Duvvarapu Rama Rao, former MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao and GITAM president M. Sri Bharat. “The Chief Minister visited the city, held a meeting with officials and left. The announcement to leave for a safe place came much later amid contradictory statements from two key officials,” Mr. Satyanarayana Murthy alleged. As a result, people had to leave for safe places several kilometres away at short notice late on Thursday night, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-seeks-inquiry-shifting-of-plant/article31539987.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HRF seeks criminal case against plant||Alleging that negligence had led to the gas leak from LG Polymers, the Human Rights Forum (HRF) has demanded criminal prosecution of the factory management as well as the officials of the regulatory bodies. “The case registered against LG Polymers must be pursued diligently,” said HRF AP and Telangana State Coordinator V.S. Krishna on Friday. Taking strong exception to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy describing the LG Polymers as a ‘good company’, Mr. Krishna said that the company is responsible for the death of 11 people and serious health concerns for hundreds of citizens. HRF AP State general secretary K. Sudha said the long-term impact of the gas on the public health was yet to be known. “This company has been running for many years in open violation of basic environmental norms, a fact it admitted in an affidavit submitted to the State-level Environmental Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) in May last year,” alleged Ms. Sudha. ‘Corporate crime’ Dubbing the gas leak incident as a “corporate crime”, she said any attempt to underplay the case would be disgraceful. “Have we forgotten the monumental injustice of Bhopal over 35 years ago,” she asked. The HRF members further alleged that regulatory bodies such as the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) and the Factory Inspectorate were “willfully compromised and criminally pliant knowing well the dangers involved”. Liability must be fixed on town planning authorities for looking away from the running of a large red category hazardous industry in close proximity of a densely populated area, they pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hrf-seeks-criminal-case-against-plant/article31539989.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CISF team plays key role||The fire wing of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) posted at Visakhapatnam Steel Plant played a key role in the efforts to contain the styrene vapour leak at LG Polymers and also helped in evacuating affected people from the affected area on Thursday. The CISF commandant rushed the firefighting equipment and personnel to assist in the operations at the district administration’s request to RR Venkatapuram near Gopalapatnam. Eighteen CISF fire personnel led by Santosh Kumar, Deputy Commandant, reached the spot along with a foam fire tender, hydraulic platform (snorkel), BA sets (breathing apparatus) and oxygen cylinders. CISF Commandant Irfan Ahmad monitored the rescue operations. The tyre-mounted hydraulic platform mobile equipment, which was only available at Visakhapatnam Steel Plant in the entire city, was rushed along with CISF personnel, which played a crucial role in the initial phase of the rescue operations. A RINL official said the CISF team rescued many affected people in nearby villages, who were then sent to various hospitals by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cisf-team-plays-key-role/article31539993.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. will take up safety audit of 86 industries, says Mekapati||Concerted efforts were being made by a team of experts to neutralise styrene vapour that leaked from the tank of LG Chem, part of South Korean multinational LG, here killing 11 people and affecting many others, said Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutam Reddy on Friday. This was revealed at a high-level review meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoM), which included Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Kurasala Kannababu, Botcha Satyanarayana, Dharmana Krishna Das, Muttamsetti Srinivas Rao and P. Jayaram. Earlier, the Ministers consoled the victims at the KGH. Mr. Goutam Reddy said there was no need to panic as experts were doing their best to neutralise the gas. He said stern action would be taken against those found guilty after obtaining the inquiry report, and asked people not to believe in rumours. He said it might take 48 hours to neutralise the gas. The government had only been a facilitator for the industries till date. “But now, it has taken up the task of safety audit of 86 industries,” he added. With reference to the gas leak, the Minister said it occurred during maintenance. Production did not start during lockdown, he added. ‘All patients out of danger’ Mr. Kali Krishna said the government was involved in the relief and rehabilitation measures. He said 554 victims were shifted to hospitals, out of whom 128 completely recovered. “There are 305 persons, who included 52 infants, being treated in KGH. There are 121 others being treated at various private hospitals, and all of them are out of danger. Nobody is on ventilator support,” the Minister said. The government would provide complete medical support to all of them, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-will-take-up-safety-audit-of-86-industries-says-mekapati/article31539979.ece
09 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolated heavy rain likely: IMD||Heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places over north-coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam on May 10, the IMD said, adding that thunderstorms accompanied with winds reaching 40 kmph speeds are also likely. The change in weather is due to an an upper air circulation that is now hovering over South Andaman Sea, authorities said. Thunderstorms accompanied with gusty winds are likely to occur at isolated places over Rayalaseema during the same time. The trough/wind discontinuity from Vidarbha to south Tamil Nadu now runs from northwest Madhya Pradesh to south interior Karnataka across interior Maharashtra and north interior Karnataka, extending up to 0.9 km above mean sea level. The upper air circulation over south Anadaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal now lies over south Andaman Sea and adjoining Sumatra coast extending up to mid-trophospheric levels, IMD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/isolated-heavy-rain-likely-imd/article31539984.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety apparatus goes for a toss at LG Chem||The leakage of styrene at LG Chem factory has baffled many. The management is under fire for allegedly not following standard operating procedures and Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board and Directorate of Factories under whose supervision such activity should have been undertaken were yet to share their views on what might have led to the accident . LG Chem General Manager Mohan Rao immediately after the incident blamed the lockdown for the tragedy while the Collector hinted at safety lapse at a review meeting held by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday. Expertspeak According to experts, Styrene got leaked due to temperature fluctuation . “Auto-polymerisation of styrene monomer, about 1,800 tonnes could have taken place, because of hot weather, coupled with release of heat of polymerisation led to vaporisation of liquid in the storage tank ,” a chemical scientist said. “Normally Styrene is stored with inhibitors to avoid self-polymerisation . The quantity and temperature of liquid Styrene and inhibitor decide the rate of polymerisation and release of heat. One large tank needs 100kg to 200 kg inhibitors as well as auto-sprinklers must be provided near the storage tank to quench the heat,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-apparatus-goes-for-a-toss-at-lg-chem/article31539977.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drinking water to be tested||The drinking water supply from the Meghadrigedda reservoir to the city will be temporarily stopped until tests are conducted on the water and it is deemed fit for consumption, officials said. The reservoir is in the vicinity of the LG Polymers plant. Water will continue to be supplied from Mudasarlova, Yeleru and Tatipudi reservoirs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drinking-water-to-be-tested/article31539988.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 new COVID cases in city||Eleven new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the city in the last 24 hours taking the total number of cases in the district to 57, the State Health Bulletin said on Friday. Of the 11 new cases, three were from Dandu Bazaar, and the remaining from Vepagunta, Sriharipuram of Gajuwaka, Pithapuram Colony and Relli Veedhi. Meanwhile, unconfirmed reports said that five more tested positive – three from Dandu Bazaar and one each from Railway New Colony and Pithapuram Colony. If confirmed, the total cases will go up to 62.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-new-covid-cases-in-city/article31539985.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unions blame officials for lapse in action||Trade unions attending a roundtable meeting held by the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) to discuss the gas leak at LG Polymers said district officials were to blame for failing to take immediate action. “Even though the vapour started leaking after midnight, the officials responded after 5 a.m.,” the union leaders said. Ambulances came after 5 a.m., by when 11 persons had already died, they added. The union leaders also blamed the authorities for failing to release information to the people on Thursday midnight when they fled their homes in panic after rumours spread on social media that there was another leakage. The unions wondered why the top officials of the company were not arrested immediately, and found fault with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy allegedly praising the LG Polymers management at a meeting during his visit to the city on Thursday. The representatives sought a high-level inquiry into the mishap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unions-blame-officials-for-lapse-in-action/article31539994.ece
09 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanna seeks judicial probe into gas leak incident||Terming the gas leak from the LG Polymers in RR Venkatapuram in the city as a ‘human error’, BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has demanded a judicial probe into the incident. The BJP leader on Friday interacted the victims undergoing treatment at the King George Hospital (KGH) and consoled the family members of those died in the tragedy. Speaking to the media, Mr. Lakshminarayana demanded an impartial inquiry into the cause of the gas leak by a sitting High Court Judge and punishment to the guilty. Referring to the prompt response by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Minister of Home Affairs Amit Shah in deputing the NDRF and the NDMA teams, he said that para-tertiary butyl catechol (PTBC), a chemical that can neutralise the Styrene gas, was airlifted by a flight to Visakhapatnam. “The Prime Minister is in constant touch with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and taking stock of the situation,” he said. Relief package hailed The BJP leader lauded Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy for announcing the compensation package to the dependents of those who were killed in the gas tragedy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kanna-seeks-judicial-probe-into-gas-leak-incident/article31539974.ece
09 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clamour at inter-district border continues||The residents of R.R. Venkatapuram in the vicinity of the LG Polymers from where Styrene gas was leaked on Thursday, claiming 11 lives and leaving hundreds sick, continued to flee towards the inter-district border of Vizianagaram on Friday. After the pre-dawn tragedy, the panicky residents ran for their lives and approached towards Kothavalasa in Viziangaram district, some 15 km from the affected area. Registration of names The situation turned for the worse after the rumours of a fresh gas leak spread thick and fast around Thursday midnight and the residents from the other areas of the city also joined the crowd, seeking to cross the inter-district border that has been closed in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The police personnel deployed at the Chintapalem checkpost at their wits’ end when it came to management of the crowd. Given the gravity of the situation, the police finally allowed the entry but insisted that the residents must register their names before crossing over to Vizianagaram district. By Friday morning, several places such as Kothavalasa, S. Kota, L. Kota became the shelter areas for hundreds of people from Visakhapatnam. Traffic jam was witnessed between Pendurthi and Chintalapalem. “We tried to convince residents that there was no need to panic as the leak had been arrested. But, they people refused to budge,” said Kothavalasa Circle Inspector G. Govinda Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clamour-at-inter-district-border-continues/article31539982.ece
09 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another case recorded in Vizianagaram||The number of COVID-19 positive cases increased to four on Friday with the confirmation of another case in the Vizianagaram district. A middle-aged migrant labourer, who came back four weeks ago from Vijayawada, was tested positive. He belonged to Vompilli village of Bondapalli mandal. District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal directed officials to conduct survey for all his family members, relatives and villagers. He said that all the officials should be alert since three labourers were already tested positive .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-case-recorded-in-vizianagaram/article31539962.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court reserves judgment in SEC case||A division bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday reserved the judgment in the case relating to petition filed by former State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar against the State government over the ordinance that change the service conditions of the post. Chief Justice Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy reserved the orders after hearing the arguments of the counsel of former SEC and the Advocate General representing the State government. The bench also heard the arguments of the advocate representing SEC V. Kanagaraj and his Secretary and asked them to furnish the full arguments by Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-reserves-judgment-in-sec-case/article31539835.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Survey of all houses sought||BJP National Executive member Somu Veerraju has demanded a case by case study of all houses in the colonies surrounding the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram. Mr. Veerraju visited KGH and interacted with the victims of the gas tragedy on Friday. He referred to the statements of the police that they had to break open the doors of many houses to rule out the possibility of anyone lying unconscious after inhaling the gas. He suggested that the services of ward volunteers and supervisory staff could be utilised for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/survey-of-all-houses-sought/article31539983.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panic at midnight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panic-at-midnight/article31539996.ece
09 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||State enhances procurement price for seven minor forest produce||The State government has enhanced the procurement price of seven different kinds of minor forest produce (MFP), the most important of those being ippa or mahua flower (Madhuca indica). “This is meant to be a relief measure for tribal people during COVID-19 related restrictive period,” observed Sarveshwar Reddy, in-charge general manager of Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC). The enhanced price is on a par with the minimum support price announced by the Union government. The purchase price of mahua flowers has been increased from Rs. 17 a kg to Rs. 30 a kg and that of wild honey has been increased from Rs. 195 a kg to Rs. 225 a kg. The GCC., which is the government agency which purchases MFPs from tribals, will also insist on purchase of quality MFPs so that it does not incur losses at a later stage when it wants to dispose off the produce, according to Mr. Reddy. Among other notable feature is the permission to procure gum karaya or gum Sterculia after a gap of 4 years at a price of Rs. 114 a kg., against the earlier Rs. 108 a kg, accorded to the corporation. There is less expectation of gum arriving at the GCC purchase centres in former composite Adilabad district what with vanishing of Sterculia trees in these parts. There is also not much hope of the tribals under the Utnoor Division of GCC selling dried mahua flowers to the corporation as the produce commands double the price in open market. Mahua picking “Mahua collection has decreased by about 50% due to unfavourable weather conditions. Moreover, lesser number of tribals collected the produce this season,” pointed out Godam Krishnamurthy giving his reason for tribals not benefitting from the government’s move. Kodapa Maruthi, a Kolam tribal from the remote Gattepali Kolamguda in Indervelli mandal of Adilabad district said dried up mahua is fetching about Rs. 60 per kg in nearby Chorgaon village. It is fetching better price in open market apparently because it will be used in manufacture of hooch, a trend which has reappeared during the recent dry lockdown days. The dried up mahua flowers will be sold to petty businessmen and middlemen in August and September when they would have sufficiently decayed to be fit for production of liquor. The liquor which is being made in villages now is from last year’s flowers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-enhances-procurement-price-for-seven-minor-forest-produce/article31539805.ece
09 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||E-learning app for tribal students in COVID times||In a move to engage homebound tribal students for continuous learning, the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Bhadrachalam, has embarked on an exercise to harness the e-learning platform amid lockdown. The ITDA has set into motion an action plan to help students of the tribal welfare educational institutions to make effective use of the TS Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society’s educational app ‘OAKS’. Thanks to the initiative of the tribal welfare department, all class VI to IX students of tribal welfare ashram schools and hostels having smartphones, downloaded the educational app, a few days ago, ITDA sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/e-learning-app-for-tribal-students-in-covid-times/article31539771.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Containment zones drop to 57 in city, patients 274||Attribute it to effective management of the disease by authorities or blame it on insufficient testing, but COVID-19 cases in city are showing a declining trend, even as the GHMC area continues to be on the list of red zones. The number of COVID-19 containment zones in the city has dropped by more than half in the last one week, as apparent from the official data available as on Friday. The number of patients too has dropped considerably during the period. On May 1, the number of the zones was 129, with the number of COVID-19 positive patients at 415. After a week, on May 8, the number of zones has dropped to 57, indicating de-notification of 72 zones during the week gone by. The number of patients too has dropped to 274, indicating that a total of 141 patients have been cured completely, their mandatory post-recovery quarantine period too having come to an end. Containment zones have been de-notified in several areas where positive patients have returned cured, though they will still be on records as patients till their quarantine period is over, officials informed. Mehdipatnam circle, which was home to the maximum number of containment zones in the city when they were first notified after COVID-19 breakout, now has only two zones, with two patients in them. On April 13, the circle had a total of 21 containment zones. “At the peak stage of the disease, over 200 locations were notified as containment zones across the city, which are gradually coming down, indicating a slow-down in the spread of the disease,” an official informed. As of now, Karwan circle has the maximum number of zones at eight, while Santosh Nagar has the largest number of patients at 60, which includes the convalescent patients. Charminar has the largest number of containment zones at 18 and patients at 190. COVID-19 containment zones are notified to confine the possible spread of the virus to other locations in the city. Residents of the zones are made to stay strictly indoors, with all their needs taken care of by teams of officials from various departments, including Police, GHMC and Revenue. Fever surveys are conducted by Medical & Health teams on regular basis inside the zones, to identify persons suffering from COVID-19 symptoms, so that they can be tested and if positive, shifted to hospital. Disinfection protocol inside the zones involves spraying of bleach solution twice a day by GHMC Entomology teams, thoroughly covering all possible points of contracting infection. Though initially covering up to 100 to 150 households around the residence of each positive patient, the definition of the zone has been later modified to confine a single household wherever there is only one patient or patients from one family. Where there are multiple cases from a locality, the whole locality is being barricaded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/containment-zones-drop-to-57-in-city-patients-274/article31539778.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Who said Hyderabad is locked down?||Hyderabad was back to near normal on Friday as more shops were opened and vehicular traffic picked, leading to traffic slowdown as the enforcement of COVID-19 lockdown slackened. “The law takes its own course. We are enforcing normal traffic rules,” said a traffic police official at Khairatabad, where traffic lights have been switched on after nearly 45 days. Traffic is being allowed on a few of the flyovers in the city which were closed during the lockdown Phase 1 and 2. A few hospitals put out banners about resumption of Outpatient Consulting (OPD) for a limited number of hours during daytime. While GO 64 issued on Thursday allowed e-commerce in all commodities in orange and green zones, online stores are sticking to sale and supply of essentials. “It is a relief that I got to open my shop. There was no problem for coming here and I am planning to shut shop and return home by 4.30 p.m.,” said Waseem Khan who lives inside the Golconda fort and has a shop dealing with welding-gas cylinders in Kantareddy Nagar. Hardware stores, electrical shops, bakeries and a few electronic goods shops were aslo open in the city. The new lockdown regulations allow opening of all individual shops with a caveat that the adjacent ones should stay shut. The result could be seen on the roads with heavy flow of traffic and the police enquiries limited to traffic rule violations. By 11 a.m. on Friday, there was traffic congestion at Panjagutta, Paradise, Shaikpet, Banjara Hills Road no 1 and many other places. At Panjagutta, the triggering factor was turning the junction into a massive roundabout. Change of mood The change in the mood of the city could be seen at liquor outlets where a long line of people waited to buy the goods. However, by evening, the city returned to the grim lockdown mode as vehicles disappeared from the road and police enforced the evening curfew. “We are counselling people and letting them go. Today, we booked 130 cases till now and seized 100 vehicles as the drivers were not wearing mask or two persons were riding the vehicle,” said Balaswamy, a police official attached to Langer Houz PS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/who-said-hyderabad-is-locked-down/article31539784.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana tops nation-wide paddy procurement||Telangana has emerged as a major contributor to the nationwide procurement of paddy in the second crop cultivated this year. The procurement at the national-level was about 50 lakh tonnes, of which the contribution by Telangana alone was 34.36 lakh tonnes as on Friday which is half the targeted prourement from the State for the season. Andhra Pradesh procured another 10 lakh tonnes. Chairman and Managing Director of Food Corporation of India D.V. Prasad has said that the FCI was closely monitoring the procurement, movement and storing of food grains in the State. It was making sure that the State government lifted the entire allocation under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana which envisaged supply of 2.87 lakh tonnes of food grains to 191.62 lakh poor people affected by coronavirus. The allocation by the Centre to the State cost Rs. 1,100 crore. The Telangana unit of FCI has moved 10.47 lakh tonnes of rice by 374 train loads, the highest ever till date in a month’s period, for distribution to poor in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal and Jharkhand. ‘Good coordination’ This healthy pace of operations amidst wide ranging challenges posed by lockdown was the outcome of team work between FCI and Telangana Civil Supplies Corporation, according to Mr. Prasad. The movement of rice has created a vacant storage space of seven lakh tonnes in the godowns of the FCI. Presently, the corporation had a stock of 14 lakh tonnes, including 10.6 lakh tonnes of boiled rice and 2.95 lakh tonnes of raw rice, in the godowns. The total storage capacity of godowns of all agencies in the State was 60.13 lakh tonnes which effectively meant that a lot more space had to be vacated and additional space added to store about 70 lakh tonnes of rice targeted for procurement by the end of the season. The FCI had also issued rice at a subsidised rate of Rs. 22 a kg to 57 charitable trusts and NGOs running relief camps for poor in view of lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-tops-nation-wide-paddy-procurement/article31539801.ece
09 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||10 new COVID cases in State||The State reported 10 more COVID cases on Friday taking the total number of affected persons to 1,132. The number of people discharged after undergoing treatment reached 727 including 34 on Friday and Health Minister Eatala Rajender asserted that those undergoing treatment were recovering well and there was no cause for concern. No deaths were reported during the day and the number remained at 29 while there were 376 active cases. Nine districts including Yadadri-Bhongir, Warangal (Rural) and Wanaparthy fulfilled the norms prescribed for green zones. The government requested the Centre, during a video conference to declare 14 more districts that did not report any case in the last 14 days. The Centre was expected to take a decision on Monday. In addition, three districts, Nizamabad, Suryapet and Warangal Urban, which were in the red zone had shown significant improvement and we’re ready to be brought under the orange zone. A request to this effect has also been sent to the Centre. “Declaration as green zone will allow operation of more than 80% of services,” he said. Mr. Rajender dismissed charges over low number of tests conducted on people claiming that the government adhered to the guidelines prescribed by the ICMR and was taking up testing accordingly. Steps taken by the government ensured that there was no scope for sudden spurt in virus incidence and the impact could be seen from the discharge of a pregnant woman after delivering a baby and a 75-year-old person. In respect of red zone districts Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal, he said urban areas in the two districts abutting Hyderabad were affected while rural areas were not. “We are hopeful the entire State will be declared zero corona soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10-new-covid-cases-in-state/article31539774.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No mask, get tracked!||Beware! If you take wearing a mask lightly or covering your face with a piece of cloth, the hawk eyes of Telangana police will track you and a police team will approach you in just a few minutes. For the first time in India, police here have decided to roll out Artificial Intelligence (AI) based face mask violation enforcement. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior officer at the DGP office said that leveraging computer vision and deep learning techniques is being implemented on surveillance cameras across three urban police commissionerates — Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda — to recognise people who are not covering their faces while moving on the streets. “The initiative to use the latest technology developed by our IT team with the help of AI is the first of its kind in the country. So far, law enforcement agencies or for that matter any government department has not used this technology anywhere,” he said. He said that police will identify erring persons through the video analytics of various CCTVs and immediately concerned police will be alerted. Within a few minutes, police will approach the violator with evidence and warn him to wear the mask. “Though the government has issued a GO to penalise the person who is not wearing a mask, for the initial few days we want to create awareness before we start penalising such a person, as the system on trial run,” the officer said. He said that CCTV cameras across the three commissionerates are upgraded to identify the violators. “Already our men on the field are questioning those not wearing masks. People should maintain discipline to contain the spread of coronavirus. Wearing a mask is an important step to contain it,” he said. The core IT team at the DGP office was developing the new system since the day the State government made masks mandatory while moving on the streets, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-mask-get-tracked/article31539781.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Beyond the call of duty||What started as a small drive to help a few hundred Indian students facing hardships in the US, has now snowballed into a large and organised movement, benefiting over 1,500 students already. Most beneficiaries turned out to be girl students under the initiative called ‘Meri Zimmedari’, Sudheer Bandigari, Hyderabadi data engineer in Richmond, Virginia, said. A few weeks ago, Mr. Sudheer and fellow Indians, mostly students or fresh graduates, had started out with an online drive to help students unable to work and fend for themselves during the COVID-19 crisis in the US. While he expected requests from about 200 students, more than a thousand requests poured in within a week of making the online application live. The majority of requests were coming from girl students who couldn’t work because of the pandemic, and had no easy access to grocery where they stay. Mr. Sudheer, who is also the president of the Indian Overseas Youth Congress, raised funds by making a video appeal and said that they distributed groceries to Indian students living in 29 different states of the US. Another 700 requests were pending and arrangements were being made to help them as well. He said that a lot of students were unable to ask their parents in India for financial help at this time because many of them are into business, laid off or have not received their full salaries, including government employees. The group hence decided to create bags of groceries with Indian staples such as rice, lentils, five varieties of vegetables, spices, breakfast cereals and some snacks for a group of four students at their doorstep to keep on for at least a month. Each bag costs at least US $100. “Our volunteers, mostly students who applied for assistance, from each state are delivering groceries to students. We place an order with the nearest store, and pay them in advance, which are later picked up the Indian youth to delivery them to their fellow countrymen in need,” Mr. Sudheer said. The rate of new requests is more than 100 per day making their prediction around 3,000 requests in the next one week. “Our goal is to help every student who reaches out for help in our limited capacity. We have donated money for this purpose but in order to continue to help the student community, we also initiated the fund raising campaign,” the youngster said. “My friend who is away from her usual university place, faced major issues, the immediate being no food, and loneliness, as she knows no one there. Meri Zimmedari team helped her out,” said Sushmita, a student of New York Institute of Technology, from Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/beyond-the-call-of-duty/article31539794.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police will release seized vehicles, says DGP||Here is a breather to the motorists whose vehicles were seized during the lockdown for misusing the leniency shown to them to buy essentials. The Telangana police have decided to release all seized vehicles due to the ‘great difficulty’ faced by field officers in providing proper parking. “It is decided to release the seized vehicles kept at various places which cannot be transported to courts and it is considered not necessary to keep property in police custody,” Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy said on Friday. So far, police sezied over 2.12 .lakh vehicles across Telangana.  Compounding fee In a circular issued to all unit and senior officers across the State, Mr. Reddy instructed that vehicles seized under the provisions of Motor Vehicle Act can be released after compounding the cases and payment of compounding fee, under proper acknowledgement. “Ensure that the process is completed in a seamless manner,” he said. Vehicles seized under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC and National Disaster Management Act can be released under the provisions of Section 102 (3) of Cr.P.C after obtaining an undertaking from vehicle owners to produce it before the court as and when the court orders. Bond for Rs. 1,000 for two- and three-wheelers and Rs. 2,000 for four-wheelers should be taken from owners before releasing the vehicle. The top cop clarified that keeping the original vehicle documents was not desirable and photocopies should be kept for record purpose. While cases registered under other Sections of Indian Penal Code or Special Act for serious offences, including obstructing public servants, assault on police officers, doctors or other public servants will be dealt with as per law and charge sheets will be filed under the provisions of Criminal Procedure Code in the competent court of law. However, the seized vehicles can be released after obtaining acknowledgement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-will-release-seized-vehicles-says-dgp/article31539789.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bharat Biotech to lead human monoclonal antibodies project||A project sanctioned by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to develop human monoclonal antibodies as therapy for COVID-19 infections will be led by Bharat Biotech. Announcing this on Friday, the Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer said though efforts were underway for development of drugs and vaccines for controlling the pandemic, they were slow and expensive with uncertainties. Therefore, an alternate therapeutic regimen for early deployment is critical. The project has been sanctioned under CSIR’s the New Millennium Indian Technology Leadership Initiative (NMITLI) and bring together academia - National Centre for Cell Science (NCCS), Pune, and the Indian Institute of Technology, Indore and industry - PredOmix Technologies, Gurgaon and Bharat Biotech for a public health emergency. The project aims at an alternate therapeutic regimen by generating highly effective and specific human monoclonal antibodies capable of neutralizing the SARS-CoV2 virus. Such virus-neutralizing antibodies can block the spread of infection by binding to the virus and rendering it ineffective. Monoclonal antibody therapy is a highly effective and safe method, a release from Bharat Biotech said. Chairman and MD Krishna Ella said, “The purpose of vaccination is to protect the healthy against future infections and it alone may not provide the complete solution. We feel the monoclonal antibody therapy will provide a viable option.” “The question is how to treat those who are already infected? We do not yet know how effective an anti-SARS-CoV2 vaccine will be for the elderly and those with co-morbidities. Given the large number of Indians suffering from hypertension, diabetes and heart diseases, this becomes an important issue.” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bharat-biotech-to-lead-human-monoclonal-antibodies-project/article31539775.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PCCF directives for wildlife protection||Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Head of Forest Force R. Shoba, through a video conference on Friday, issued instructions towards measures to ensure wildlife protection during the summer. She directed the field staff to ensure continuous availability of drinking water for wild animals by way of solar pump sets and saucer pits. Already orders have been issued to provide artificial water, where natural resources are not available. The camera traps of the forest department recorded wild animals roaming around the area where plenty of water is available. In view of the threat it may pose by way of snares by poachers, foot patrolling should be increased in all such locations, Ms. Shoba directed. Forest higher officials are keeping track of field staff and beat officers in their respective areas through Note Cam app. While seeking district-wise information on compensatory afforestation, Ms. Shoba directed officials to take up works pertaining to urban parks, protection walls, and trench digging around forest land, stalled owing to COVID-19 scare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pccf-directives-for-wildlife-protection/article31539779.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Migrants from Bihar return to workplaces||Telangana received the first group of migrant labour in the reverse direction from and Bihar when a 'shramik special', which had taken off here with more than 1,000 passengers a few days ago, returned with about 220 labourers from Khazaria to the Lingampalli station around 1.30 p.m. on Friday. What makes it interesting is that all the passengers hail from Bihar and are actually returning to their workplaces across the districts and not just in the twin cities. Earlier, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had stated that the railways can bring back stranded labour from the northern states instead of running empty rakes in the return direction. The government has been paying for the movement of the special trains from here and and this return trip fare too was borne by it, according to senior railway officials. The workers were registered by the Bihar government there, checked and put into the train. As soon as they landed here, officials thermal-screened them with the help of medical personnel. “All these workers had gone to their native places for ‘Holi’ and got stranded there. The government had arranged buses for them to be taken to their places of work, including Jagityal, Karimnagar, Kamareddy, Khajaguda, Mancherial, Nalgonda, Siddipet and Peddapalli,” they said. But, it was not clear if they had to follow the 14-day quarantine in their homes or in identified institutions. The SCR, in association with TS and AP governments, ran seven migrant labour special trains between Thursday midnight and Friday morning. These include two from Lingampally towards Varanasi and Gonda in UP, two more from Ghatkesar onward to Jabalpur and Rewa in MP and another from Aurangabad in Maharasthra to Misrod in MP. From the AP side, two trains were pressed into service, one from Kurnool towards Barabanki in UP and the from Rayanapadu to Nakhbir in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/migrants-from-bihar-return-to-workplaces/article31539786.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tight vigil to be maintained on State borders||The State Government has decided to intensify vigil on the movement of agricultural produce, particularly in the areas bordering with the neighbouring States of Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh with the possibility of grains produced there making into Telangana for sale at procurement centres as the lockdown measures are being relaxed. In addition to the increased vigil, not only on the main inter-State roads but also on the other connecting roads, the government has decided to conduct random surprise checks at the procurement centres to ascertain the details of where it was produced. The Agriculture Department has requested the Vigilance Department to conduct surprise checks to find whether those bringing the produce are genuine local farmers or traders, their agents and others. “The scale on which the procurement of crops going on in Telangana is not happening in any of the neighbouring States. Such a large-scale procurement makes farmers of neighbouring States, particularly of the bordering villages, to take chances in moving their produce here. Sporadic instances of neighbouring farmers getting their stocks in the guise of local farmers take place every year but the chances are higher this season due to closure of agricultural markets every where,” a senior officer unwilling to be quoted said. During his visit to Medak district, Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao was on record to state that farmers from the neighbouring Bidar district are trying to sell bengalgram by moving it through non-motorable routes and sell it in the procurement centres in Zaheerabad and Narayanakhed constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tight-vigil-to-be-maintained-on-state-borders/article31539795.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paddy purchased from 5.8 lakh farmers in one month||The State government has purchased over 34.36 lakh tonnes of paddy from farmers in a month’s time. Started on April 9, paddy has been purchased from about 5.8 lakh farmers at a total of 6,237 procurement centres opened in villages. According to officials, a maximum of about 5.44 lakh tonnes has been procured in Nalgonda district followed by 3.16 lakh tonnes followed by over 2.76 lakh tonnes in Suryapet, 2.64 lakh tonnes in Khammam, 2.10 lakh tonnes in Kamareddy, 1.86 lakh tonnes in Yadadri, 1.76 lakh tonnes in Jagitial, 1.66 lakh tonnes in Karimnagar, 1.39 lakh tonnes in Peddapalli, 1.35 lakh tonnes in Wanaparty, 1.17 lakh tonnes in Medak district. The value of procured paddy was about Rs. 6,000 crore and of which over Rs. 2,800 crore has already credited into the accounts of farmers concerned. On some delays in payment, the officials said the amount was being credited into the farmers’ account only after getting confirmation of the quantity from the millers. Besides, over 4 lakh tonnes of maize has also been procured from nearly 75,000 farmers at 1,090 procurement centres. Similarly, over 76,000 tonnes of bengalgram and 6,032 tonnes of sunflower has been procured from farmers at minimum support price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paddy-purchased-from-58-lakh-farmers-in-one-month/article31539798.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Centre trying to usurp States’ powers in energy sector’||Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy has accused the Centre of attempting to take over the States’ control on electricity generation, transmission and distribution activities. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, the Minister said the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, being brought by the Centre was part of its conspiracy to privatise the energy sector completely in the country to harm the interests of majority sections of society such as domestic consumers and farmers. The Bill had the provision of fixing energy meters to all agricultural pumpsets and, if passed by Parliament, it would harm the interests of farmers in Telangana, which has about 25 lakh agricultural pumpsets, who are being supplied 24×7 power free of cost. The Minister made it clear that Telangana, through its MPs in Parliament, would strongly oppose the Bill and mobilise support of other like-minded States and parties in the country to oppose the Bill in Parliament. Stating that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had already made his intentions clear on the issue, Mr. Jagadish Reddy sought to know how the Centre was planning to push the Bill to handover the energy sector having huge social responsibility to the private sector and allow them to make money .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-trying-to-usurp-states-powers-in-energy-sector/article31539797.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC suspends decision to surrender PG diploma courses||Telangana High Court has passed an interim direction suspending the State government’s decision to surrender medical post-graduate diploma courses for securing more PG medicine seats for the year 2020-21. A bench of Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T. Amarnath Goud gave the order, after hearing a petition filed by an in-service doctor P. Bhavana. In her petition, the doctor stated that he lost an opportunity to pursue medical PG diploma course in Medical Radio Diagnostics due to the government’s decision. The decision was taken by Medical Council of India, Union Ministry of Health, State government and the University of Health Sciences. Six medical colleges in the State, both government and private, surrendered 18 medical PG diploma course seats to secure an equal number of medical PG courses. With this, these medical colleges will have 18 PG course seats instead of diploma courses. Normally, doctors who join government service (in-service doctors) are given weightage of marks in getting admission to medical PG diploma courses. In-service doctors aspiring to join diploma course availing the weightage of marks are at a disadvantage because of the surrendering of diploma courses. The decision would be helpful to private medical colleges and deprive the government doctors rendering services in rural areas of pursuing diploma courses. This is not the way the government doctors, who are waging a relentless war against COVID-19, should be treated, the bench observed. “The decision only benefits private medical colleges and deprives poor people of the services of an efficient government doctor with upgraded skills,” the bench said in its order. “The decision also undermines the public health care system and prima facie against the public interest and cannot be taken in the present circumstances,” the order said. The bench issued notices to the Central and State governments along with MCI, Health University, Kakatiya Medical College - Warangal, Pratima Medical College - Karimnagar, Kamineni Medical College, MNR Medical College and Gandhi Medical College to file their counter affidavits by June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-suspends-decision-to-surrender-pg-diploma-courses/article31539799.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CRS to probe railway accident||The South Central Railway (SCR) has announced a high-level inquiry headed by Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS), South Central Circle, into the incident of a goods train running over 16 persons sleeping on the track. The train was proceeding towards Manmad and the incident occurred between Badnapur and Karmad stations on the Parbhani-Manmad section of Nanded Division around 5.22 a.m., said a spokesman on Friday. While 14 died on the spot, two others died at a hospital, and one person who had a lucky escape with minor injuries was said to be recuperating at the Aurangabad Civil Hospital. The incident occurred even as the loco pilot of the goods train honked the horn when he noticed them on the track and made all possible efforts to stop the train, he claimed. Divisional Railway Manager of Nanded division Upinder Singh reached the site to monitor relief operations. A Medical Relief Van also rushed to the spot. “We have instructed our field staff on all sections to keep a watch on migrant labour walking on tracks and alert the authorities. Round-the-clock vigil is usually maintained during the monsoon and not during hot summer so it is very difficult to notice anyone on track on ‘unguarded’ sections. Loco-pilots too have been cautioned,” said senior officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crs-to-probe-railway-accident/article31539785.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cost revised for KLIP work component||The State government has given administrative approval for the revised cost of Rs. 996 crore for Package-9 works in Link-III of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP) for lifting 11.635 tmc ft water over 120 days a year from Mid Manair Reservoir in Rajanna-Sircilla district to Upper Manair Reservoir also in the same district. As per the initial revised approval given in May 2017, the estimate of cost of work was Rs. 911.32 crore for the Package-9 work excluding Malkapeta reservoir and including works such as vehicle pocket of size 15m x 10m x 5m and packing of 300m (tunnel work) as part of re-engineering of the original Pranahitha-Chevella project. In November last year, the Engineer-in-Chief requested the government to accord revised administrative sanction to the Package-9 work for lifting 11.635 TMC of water over 120 days from Mid Manair Reservoir to Upper Manair Reservoir for Rs. 996.01 crore. Orders were issued by Principal Secretary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cost-revised-for-klip-work-component/article31539796.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID positive woman delivers baby boy||In a first in Telangana, a COVID positive woman delivered a baby boy at Gandhi Hospital on Friday. The 22-year-old woman was admitted at the hospital after testing positive. The newborn’s swab samples were sent for testing immediately after birth. Hospital superintendent M. Raja Rao said that the gynaecology and paediatrics departments were involved in the procedure. Doctors of the gynaecology department, headed by Goli Mahalakshmi, performed the caesarean on the woman. Both the mother, from Hyderabad, and the newborn are said to be safe. There are at least four other pregnant women at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-positive-woman-delivers-baby-boy/article31539773.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PAGE 3 Mayor, Prl Secy speak to migrant workers||Municipal Administration Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar said the government has arranged 16 trains so far for migrant workers to leave for their native places. He interacted with migrant labourers at the My Home Hub construction site at Raidurg, which he visited along with Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan on Friday. The Mayor said the government had paid Rs. 4 crore to SCR to facilitate travel of migrant workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-mayor-prl-secy-speak-to-migrant-workers/article31539787.ece
09 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||More food grain during Congress regime: Uttam||Launching a scathing attack against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for deceiving the farmers with false propaganda, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that the Telangana region produced more food grains in the integrated Andhra Pradesh State. The Telangana farmers had produced 1.05 crore metric tonnes of food grains during the year 2013-14, he said and added that the integrated Karimnagar district topped in paddy production in the integrated AP with the projects constructed by the Congress government. “As an Opposition party, we will examine all options and expose the government by approaching the Governor and the courts for solving the farmers’ problems,” he stated. He also appealed to the farmers not to accept the extra weight during the procurement. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy along with MLC T. Jeevan Reddy, TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar, AICC secretary Sampath Kumar and others visited various paddy procurement centres in Husnabad, Huzurabad and Manakondur assembly segments in the integrated Karimnagar district on Friday and interacted with the farmers about the procurement of the paddy and higher weighment, among others. Talking to newsmen in Karimnagar, the TPCC president alleged that the TRS government had neglected the farmers and had not made any payments to farmers who sold their redgram, maize and paddy so far. He said that the government was purposefully delaying the procurement to force the farmers to resort to distress sale by extra weighting to benefit millers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-food-grain-during-congress-regime-uttam/article31539809.ece
09 May 2020||PEDDAPUR (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||They risked death instead of staying back||For both Madina and Gayatri, it was an unexpected turn in the life. While expecting their babies, they were forced to walk and take up a journey of more than 50 days to reach their native place. Madina has completed ninth month on April 30 and delivery was expected any time. Gayatri has completed eighth month. They are part of an 18-member team that started its journey at Coiambatore in Tamil Nadu to their native village in Karoli district of Rajasthan, about 2,500 km. With great difficulty, they reached the border of Andhra Pradesh at Done in Kurnool district where they were kept in a shelter for 40 days, they claimed. Two days ago they were released stating that permission was accorded for their return. With the help of different vehicle drivers, they reached Hyderabad where they caught a lorry. The driver dropped them at Peddapur though he had promised to take them to Maharashtra. "Come what may, we want to go to our native place, Guwreda. We will go by walk if necessary but are not ready to stay here. We are already fed up with our situation. We are ready to die on the way rather than being here," Ms. Madina and Ms. Gayatri, both in tears, told The Hindu . There are about five or six children playing among themselves unaware of the crisis they are facing. "Our parents back home are a worried lot. They are not eating at all. We fear that we will be kept here for a few more days in the name of quarantine. We will touch your feet. Do something and send us to our native place," urged Vijayender and Sonu, members of the group. Knowing about the pregnant women, District Medical and Health Officer Rathod, Sadasivapet Circle Inspector Sridhar Reddy and Mandal Revenue Officer Asha Jyothi rushed to the spot and got them convinced. Both the women were shited to district hospital for medical checkup. Despite repeated appeals by authorities, they left for their destination late on Thursday night by catching a lorry. The driver this time promised to drop them at Nagapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/they-risked-death-instead-of-staying-back/article31539791.ece
09 May 2020||Ramapuram (SURYAPET),TELANGANA||Well organised process at AP-TS checkpost on national highway||Unlike the Vadapalli inter-State border checkpost in Nalgonda, where the stranded had to wait for inordinate hours or walk the river to cross over to Andhra Pradesh, the Ramapuram border control between the Telugu States on the NH-65 (Vijayawada-Hyderabad) offers comfortable transfer. Spread over a dozen tables to receive incoming returnees from AP, the checkpost, manned by at least 50 officials of the three departments — Health, Revenue and Police — record department-wise entries, and one can be assured of leaving the spot under 30 minutes. A returnee after recording his/her outgoing entry with AP police about 200 metres away on the other side, reaches the check post tent here, and has to walk the ‘L counters’ to complete the compulsory procedure. “First, they register their vehicle with the RTA officials, discuss health history with the on-duty doctor and submit passes and documents to the Revenue. The three departments record entries again, separately,” explained officials. “Compulsorily, each person’s temperature is noted down and the left hand stamped with 14-day ‘home quarantine stamp’ in indelible ink, and then they can leave.” A separate counter converges all the details and updates online reports every two hours. Major difference in procedure at Vadapalli border checkpost in Nalgonda, is that there are few stampings, even few temperature checks, RTA officials are absent, and the exercise is largely driven by the police. “When Vadapalli and Ramapuram are compared. That is mass, this is class. This is a major post on the National Highway between the Telugu States, and most people come prepared with passes and in private vehicles,” police personnel in khaki tents on the opposite side, who only check and record outgoing numbers, said. According to Chilkur Tahsildar J. Srinivas Sharma, in-charge of the post, a total of 3, 435 people in 1698 vehicles crossed into Telangana since May 2 till May 7 afternoon. And the District Collector has issued 114 passes for the 554 persons belonging to AP who reached the checkpost without passes to enter their State, he said. However, luggage-carrying migrants from Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Bihar walk the empty highway night and day, they are not stopped and their details are not recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/well-organised-process-at-ap-ts-checkpost-on-national-highway/article31539803.ece
09 May 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Crocodile found in agricultural field||A crocodile made its way to an agricultural field in Indur village of Raikod mandal on Friday. The villagers on noticing it, gathered strength and trapped it. They later handed it over to the forest officials. Crocodiles are coming to fields as there is no water in Manjeeera river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crocodile-found-in-agricultural-field/article31539810.ece
09 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Rain water enters houses at R&R Colony||Last month, some oustees of Mamidyala in Mulugu mandal filed a petition before the High Court stating that house sites allotted to them at the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony at Tunkibollaram were in Full Tank Level (FTL). Some of the villagers, who have been demanding compensation under the LA Act- 2013, and approached the High Court, were forcibly evicted on the night of April 30 from the village and shifted to single room houses constructed on 60 yards. True to their allegations, on Friday, water entered their houses. There was heavy rain for about 40 minutes and their houses were in the midst of rain water. Not only that the roofs to were leaking. “Fighting for our rights has become an eyesore for the officials. They have treated us very badly and have thrown us here,” D. Ramesh, one of the oustees, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-water-enters-houses-at-rr-colony/article31539812.ece
09 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||‘RWA cannot stop entry to doctors’||A day after the Residents’ Welfare Association of a society in Ghaziabad threatened to stop doctors and paramedical staff working Delhi from entering their residences in the society, the district administration has clarified that the association has no power to issue such an order. Neel Padam Society’s RWA had issued the notice while referring to guidelines issued by the Ghaziabad Municipal Commissioner Dinesh Chander. The RWA had advised the doctors to find a temporary residence in Delhi during lockdown. After the Indian Medical Association (IMA) intervened, the Ghaziabad Chief Medical Officer N.K. Gupta issued a clarification stating that the district administration had stated that it was advisable if frontline health staff working in Delhi, a red zone, could find accommodation in Delhi as a safety measure for their family and neighbours.  13 new cases Before Lockdown 3.0, Ghaziabad was an orange zone but has seen a spike in cases over the last week. On Friday, the district reported 13 new cases, taking the tally to 133. District president of the IMA V.B. Jindal, told The Hindu that the association took a strong objection to the order/advisory as it could generate a stigma against healthcare workers. In a meeting on Friday, the district magistrate told the IMA that the advisory was not binding and was meant only for doctors and paramedical staff who are on COVID-19 duty. “He admitted that the advisory was poorly worded and created confusion,” said Dr. Jindal. Earlier, Col. (Retd.) Tejendra Pal Tyagi, chairman of the Federation of RWAs in Ghaziabad, agreed that the RWA had no right to issue such a notice to doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rwa-cannot-stop-entry-to-doctors/article31539732.ece
09 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Gautam Buddha Nagar sees first COVID-19 death||Gautam Buddha Nagar recorded its first COVID-19 related death on Friday. A 60-year-old man who was first admitted to a private hospital and later transferred to Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida passed away in the early hours of Friday, an official release said. “The cause of death was respiratory failure,” said Sunil Dohre, District Surveillance officer (Gautam Buddha Nagar). Sources in GIMS said the person tested positive on Thursday and was shifted to GIMS after that. Meanwhile, the district recorded 12 new cases on Friday, taking the tally to 214. Out of these, 95 are active cases. The district is a red zone and has 332 people in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gautam-buddha-nagar-sees-first-covid-19-death/article31539731.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||2 deaths, 338 new COVID-19 cases||Two deaths and 338 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Friday, taking the total number of deaths to 68 and cases to 6,318, according to the Delhi government. Of the 6,318 cases, 2,020 people have recovered and there are 4,230 active cases. Commenting on AIIMS-Delhi Director Randeep Guleria’s prediction that COVID-19 cases are likely to peak in June-July, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said: “Earlier also cases were predicted, but the cases are lesser than what we predicted. If they say that COVID-19 cases will reach their peak in June, it might happen, patterns of other countries are also similar.” He added that a COVID Care Centre with nearly 400 beds will start functioning in the next two-three days in Burari. On allegations by opposition parties that the government was hiding information, Mr. Jain said: “We are not hiding anything. There is no question of hiding any data by the Delhi government because if someone tests positive, it should not be hidden. Once the reports come, the hospitals have to inform the government. If we are hiding cases, then why would we say there were 448 cases (on Thursday), which was the highest till now?” Reacting to rising cases of infected medical staff, the Minster said that “all over the world 15% health workers are getting infected”. Meanwhile, the government has acquired 170 rooms in three city hotels that will be made part of Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) for treatment of infected Delhi government officials and their family members. “If the Delhi government officials or family members are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic then they will be admitted to the hotels, else they will be moved to the hospital. RGSSH will continue to treat other patients,” a hospital official said. The three hotels are: Hotel Ginger in Vivek Vihar; Park Plaza in Shahdara, and Leela Ambience in CBD Ground. The last two are five-start hotels, according to the government. Meanwhile, the daily health bulletin issued by the Delhi government stated that an order has been issued for constituting an enquiry committee to look into the various aspects of “major discrepancies in the reports of Dr. Lal Path Lab”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2-deaths-338-new-covid-19-cases/article31539748.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||Second train ferrying migrant workers leaves for Muzaffarpur||The second train for migrant workers left Delhi on Friday afternoon for Muzaffarpur in Bihar, officials said. The train carrying 1,200 people left from New Delhi railway station around 3 p.m. and more such trains will transport migrant workers back to their States during the week, Delhi government officials said. Also, the Delhi government has decided to bear the cost of train journey of migrant workers, if their home States do not respond on the matter of bearing the travel cost. “The train carrying 1,200 migrant labourers left for Muzaffarpur, Bihar today. The Arvind Kejriwal government will bear their full travel cost,” Labour Minister Gopal Rai said in a tweet. “As per current guidelines, the Central government and the home State of the migrant workers should bear the cost of their travel. The Delhi government has already reached out to the respective States with the list of migrant workers stranded in Delhi. Most of these States are yet to respond on the matter of bearing the travel costs of these stranded people, therefore, the Delhi government has taken the decision to bear the cost to avoid any further inconvenience to stranded workers,” an official statement said.  Screening On Friday, the Delhi government arranged buses to bring migrant workers from shelters across Delhi to the railway station. Teams of doctors were appointed to screen them and after a thorough check-up, a medical certificate was issued to each one of them. “About 125 migrants from our district have left for the railway station in buses,” said Deepak Shinde, District Magistrate (North). The government also provided lunch besides food and water bottles for the train journey. “Social distancing is key to combat COVID-19 pandemic. To ensure social distancing the Delhi government permitted only 12 people on a bus while taking the migrant workers to the railway station. Thermal screening of the passengers was also done before they boarded the bus,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/second-train-ferrying-migrant-workers-leaves-for-muzaffarpur/article31539742.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Juvenile among four held for robbing five labourers in city||Three men were arrested and one juvenile apprehended for allegedly robbing five labourers who were going to catch a train from Old Delhi railway station to return to their village in Bihar amid the ongoing lockdown, the police said on Friday. The accused have been identified as Amar (22), a resident of Baljeet Nagar; Sonu (21), a resident of Pandav Nagar and Arjun (21), a resident of Prem Nagar, all near central Delhi and the juvenile, they said. At around 3 a.m. on Wednesday, the victims who used to work in a factory in Mayapuri, started walking along the railway track to reach Old Delhi railway station to catch a train for their village after they came to know that trains were ferrying stranded workers, a senior police officer said. The five labourers, all from Chhapra district in Bihar, were robbed near a railway crossing in Prem Nagar. When the robbers were trying to run away, the labourers chased them and caught Amar, the officer said. At Amar’s instance, two other accused were nabbed and the juvenile was apprehended. Mobile phones, purses with cash and documents have been recovered from their possession, the police said. The labourers were convinced to stay back and sent back to their accommodations in the Capital, the police said. Except Shramik Special Trains, which are ferrying migrant workers to their villages, and goods trains, the rail operations is shut since the nationwide lockdown was imposed. The first train to originate from New Delhi, carrying 1,200 migrant workers to Chattarpur in Madhya Pradesh, left on Thursday while the train to Bihar left on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/juvenile-among-four-held-for-robbing-five-labourers-in-city/article31539733.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Wife, son of deceased constable infected||Three days after Constable Amit Kumar died of COVID-19, his wife and three-year-old son have also tested positive, his family informed Delhi Police. “They have been moved to a hospital in Sonipat where they are undergoing treatment,” an officer said. Mr. Kumar had died on Tuesday night just hours after developing symptoms. Earlier in the day, Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava said he has offered a job to Mr. Kumar’s wife. “Expressed deepest condolences to the wife and family members of Late Const Amit Kumar over Video conference. Pooja, his wife is working as a contractual teacher. She was offered a suitable job in Delhi Police if she applies for it,” Mr. Shrivastava tweeted.  He also approved the creation of a ‘Let’s Fight Covid-DP’ WhatsApp group to coordinate the grievances of infected officials. “This has been necessitated because of the increasing number of COVID-19 infected police personnel,” an order read.  Joint CP (Central) added that a facility has been arranged to house asymptomatic personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wife-son-of-deceased-constable-infected/article31539738.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA to inspect properties in non-containment zones||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Friday said it will resume inspection of properties in unauthorised colonies for the grant of ownership rights, in all areas except those in containment zones. “The surveyors will contact the applicants in advance and will visit the properties of the willing applicants only. The surveyors have been advised to strictly adhere to the social distancing norms and take other necessary precautions prescribed,” the DDA said in a statement. The GIS mapping of 70,000 registrants have been completed, while 65,000 residents have received their GIS survey ID, the urban body said while asking the latter to file their detailed application on the online portal. The DDA further added that in a bid to continue services during the ongoing lockdown, back-end scrutiny of applications will be carried out as the scheme is completely online. “Online Deficiency Memo will be issued, if any deficiency is noticed. Applicants who receive online Deficiency Memos are advised to file their replies online itself. They can correct or update their applications online,” the statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dda-to-inspect-properties-in-non-containment-zones/article31539730.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||BJP accuses govt. of failing to deal with COVID-19||BJP MLAs on Friday accused the Delhi government of “completely failing” to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, at a meeting of the Delhi BJP Legislature Party chaired by Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri. Expressing concern over the “rapidly growing” cases of COVID-19 in the Capital, BJP MLAs said that the death of a policeman due to lack of treatment had “exposed” the claims of the Delhi government in this regard. The MLAs demanded that one of Delhi’s major hospitals be identified for the treatment of all “COVID-19 warriors” in the city. “Delhi Police constable Amit Kumar’s companions took him to two examination centres — Ambedkar Hospital and Deepchand Bandhu Hospital — but he was not admitted anywhere. Eventually he died. The case is a testimony to the Delhi government’s failure to deal with the disease,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of suppressing figures related to deaths due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-accuses-govt-of-failing-to-deal-with-covid-19/article31539734.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||Another Hindu Rao doctor infected||A total of 10 health care workers have tested COVID-19 positive at Hindu Rao Hospital so far, a senior official of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which runs the hospital, said on Friday. Among the fresh cases is a doctor from the gynaecology department of the hospital, an official confirmed. Four other doctors and two nurses had tested positive for the virus earlier this week. Contact tracing of all who have been found positive has been carried out and they have been placed under quarantine, the official said. Last month a nurse at the hospital tested positive, after which the hospital had been shut, sanitised and all her contacts traced and tested. Also, 46 people from the hospital who had been quarantined earlier have been asked to return to work. Apart from this, five health care workers have been found positive at Kasturba Hospital and one staff has tested positive at RBTB hospital so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/another-hindu-rao-doctor-infected/article31539739.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘DU panel on exams must have elected representatives’||In a step towards conducting examinations for the current academic session, Delhi University set up a “working group” to review preparedness and take appropriate steps, but the move invited criticism from teachers bodies on Friday. University executive council members, Rajesh Jha and JL Gupta, decried the formation of the committee without sanction from its statutory bodies, calling it “arbitrary and undemocratic”. In a letter to the Vice-Chancellor, the two attacked the grounds of the formation of the committee, inclusion of certain “nominated members” and other issues. Similarly, the Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA), in a letter to the V-C wrote: “It is unfortunate that the statutory bodies of the university – the Executive and Academic Council – have been ignored in the formation of this working group.” The group argued that the committee must be expanded to include elected representative of teachers. It also appealed that the committee must look into concerns raised by students as well DUTA’s opposition to online examinations. Meanwhile, the Delhi government released Rs. 18.75 crore as part of the first instalment of grant-in-aid to 12 DU colleges run by the government. Earlier, DUTA had been petitioning the Chief Minister and Education Minister to release the funds, the stoppage of which meant staff at these colleges had reportedly not been paid salaries for a month. The present amount, however, has been inadequate, DUTA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-panel-on-exams-must-have-elected-representatives/article31539735.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC declines plea on||The Delhi High Court on Friday refused to entertain a petition seeking directions to the government to involve veterinarians to help prevent spread of COVID-19 between humans and animals. It said the governments were taking all necessary steps while dismissing the plea by animal rights activist Sangeeta Dogra that claimed that a tiger in Pench Tiger Reserve in M.P. had died due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-declines-plea-on/article31539729.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||IIIT brief||The Delhi government has sought the help of three IIIT Delhi professors — Pravesh Biyani, Tavpritesh Sethi and Ponnurangam Kumaraguru — to develop and maintain the IT infrastructure (website and app) necessary for disseminating vital information on COVID-19 and the efforts being taken to manage the outbreak in the city. The professors will be part of a multi-disciplinary Technology Innovation Group set up by the Delhi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/iiit-brief/article31539740.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||11 educational institutes to be converted to questing facilities||Eleven educational institutes, including the NSIT in Dwarka and the DTU in north-west Delhi will be converted into quarantine facilities over the coming days, sources in the Delhi government said here on Friday. ‘Take Over Orders’ for these would be issued over the coming days. Maharaja Agarsen College, Ambedkar College, ITI Jail Road and ITI Arab ki Sarai are also among the institutes to be converted into such facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/11-educational-institutes-to-be-converted-to-questing-facilities/article31539744.ece
09 May 2020||noida,||Fake bus service for Bihar migrant workers in Delhi-NCR busted, 2 held||Noida Police busted a fake bus service on Friday for duping people on the pretext of providing free transportation service of the Bihar government for migrant workers stranded in Delhi-NCR, officials said. Two men were arrested and two privately-operated buses impounded during the police action around 1.30 a.m. on a Noida-Greater Noida road, they said. The accused had stationed the two buses bearing banners that read “Free bus service for migrant labourers by Bihar government”, a police spokesperson said. “When officials from the local Phase 2 police station inquired from passengers about the service they were told that they got on the bus thinking it was a free service but were being charged Rs. 3,000 per passenger,” the policeman said. When they questioned the drivers, they showed a purported permission letter from the “District Magistrate of Siwan, Bihar” on their mobile phones. When told to furnish the original copy, they tried to flee. The men were arrested for violating lockdown rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fake-bus-service-for-bihar-migrant-workers-in-delhi-ncr-busted-2-held/article31539743.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/back-to-work/article31539737.ece
09 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||52 new cases in Odisha||Odisha recorded the highest ever single-day spike in COVID-19 positive cases with 52 new cases, including 43 from Ganjam district, taking the State’s total to 271 on Friday. Of the remaining nine new cases, five were reported from Kendrapara, two from Bhadrak and one from Bhubaneswar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/52-new-cases-in-odisha/article31539727.ece
09 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||AMU academic session from Aug.||Aligarh Muslim University has decided to begin the academic session 2020-21 for existing and newly admitted students from August 1 and September 1 respectively. The admission and departmental tests for various courses are rescheduled in the months of July/early August so as to ensure that admissions for the session 2020-21 are completed by August 31. It was decided at a meeting of deans of the various faculties and other university officials under the chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor.  Online teaching Online teaching, conduct of university examinations and academic calendar for the session 2019-20, and 2020-21 were also discussed. According to an official release, the V-C emphasised the need to safeguard the academic career of students in view of the extraordinary and unprecedented circumstances caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. In order to strengthen the online teaching, it was decided that e-content/e-lab experiments will be prepared by the teachers concerned and uploaded on the website. The use of ICT and online teaching tools will be encouraged and the teachers should strive to complete about 25% of the syllabus through online teaching and 75% syllabus through face-to-face teaching. And each student will be assigned a faculty adviser who will maintain regular contact with the student. According to Mujib Ullah Zuberi (Controller of Examinations), online teaching for the session 2019-20 will continue up to May 31, and the period from June 1 to June 15 would be utilised for finalisation of dissertation/project work/e-labs/completion of syllabus/ internal assessment /assignment/reports, etc. The period of lockdown may be treated as ‘deemed to be attended’ by all the students and their attendance computed accordingly. Earlier, around 1300 students from different parts of Bihar left for their homes by a special train arranged by the university administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amu-academic-session-from-aug/article31539726.ece
09 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||‘Take us home, we don’t want anything else from you’||Mungeli is more than 700 km away. Yet the distance is not too far for Lalaram and his family, as they set out on foot towards home in Chhattisgarh from Lucknow on Thursday evening. Lalaram took along his wife, their four-year-old daughter, his father and other relatives. Back home, the labourer has three more kids, aged 6, 10 and 12, to take care of. The stranded migrants from Chhattisgarh have run out of patience and just want to go home even at the risk of their safety. A construction worker living in a slum colony in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar area, Lalaram has been out of work since the lockdown began. Though he, like other labourers living in the colony, has been occasionally receiving ration kits and food packets from NGOs, local authorities and a political workers, Lalaram argues this is not enough for sustenance. “We get puris. How long will we survive on puris? We also need money for our expenses,” he said. Since there is no bus or train service yet to transport them back home from U.P. to Chhattisgarh, the family wants to attempt this on foot, like several thousand people across the country already have. Govt. blamed Lalaram's wife Santoshi is agitated. She blames the government for not taking note of their situation even after two months. “ Kya kare, sarkar toh andha ho gaya hai (The government is blind, what can we do),” she says in anger. “ Hume kuch matt de, khali humko ghar chorde, Chattisgarhh (We don't want anything from the government. We just want to be dropped home).” Since the family doesn’t own any land back home, where opportunities are limited, they say they will be compelled to return to Lucknow for labour work once life becomes normal. But home offers emotional and social support, especially in times of a crisis like COVID-19. “ Yahan marenge toh koi nahi dekhega. Gaon mein marenge toh koi hamare parivar toh dekh lega (Nobody will care even if we die here. If we die in our village, at least we will have our families with us),” said Santoshi. The journey is precarious. On Wednesday night, a migrant couple from Chattisgarhh's Behmetara district living in a slum in Jankipuram area of Lucknow, Krishna and Pramila, who had set out on foot towards home were crushed to death by a vehicle on a road on the outskirts. Their two little children survived but were seriously injured. Meanwhile, the total number of cases in U.P. climbed to 3,215 and the death toll to 66. Lucknow has reported 247 cases so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/take-us-home-we-dont-want-anything-else-from-you/article31539728.ece
09 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Take back changes in labour laws: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has demanded that the Uttar Pradesh government take back its decision to exempt businesses and industries in the State from most of the labour laws for the next three years. Ms. Vadra said the State government should “immediately annul” the changes made to the labour laws. “You are not prepared to help the labourers. You are not providing their families any security shield. And now you are making a law to crush their rights,” Ms. Vadra said in a tweet in Hindi. The labourers are builders of the nation, not your hostage, she told Mr. Adityanath. The Uttar Pradesh government has cleared an ordinance exempting businesses and industries from labour laws, except for a handful, for the next three years as a measure to get the State’s industrial activities back on track in wake of the COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/take-back-changes-in-labour-laws-priyanka/article31539722.ece
09 May 2020||Patna,||Bihar government to do random testing of migrants on arrival||With thousands and thousands of migrants, carrying stories of pain, agony and trauma, returning every day to their home districts in Bihar from all over the country, the State government has decided to start random testing. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has asked the Health Department officials to start random testing by procuring TrueNat machines. These machines, endorsed by the Indian Council of Medical Research on April 10, will be used for the first time in Bihar for screening COVID-19 cases. “We’re going to do random testing because many positive cases are asymptomatic… District Magistrates have been asked to go for it,” said Principal Health Secretary Sanjay Kumar. The migrants coming to the State are being classified according to the three zones — red, orange and green — they come from. “Those coming from the red zone and above 60 years will be tested on priority basis,” said Mr. Kumar. “If a sample tests negative on the TrueNat machine, it means no novel coronavirus, but if it is positive, then it will subjected to the RT-PCR test,” said Mr. Kumar. As many as 40-42 samples could be tested on this machine in a day, he added. Bihar has currently been conducting sample tests on an average of 1,200-1,300 people in its seven labs located in district government hospitals. So far, 31,693 tests have been done. Seven more COVID-19 positive cases have now taken the total number to 563 — six males and one female from Darbhanga, Saharsha, Supaul and Katihar districts. In a meeting with officials on Wednesday, the Chief Minister asked officials to do skill mapping of returning migrant workers “to help the government in using their services as per their skill”. “The government will do skill mapping of migrants through an app... it will help us in providing them jobs as per their skill other than the MGNREGA,” Minister Neeraj Kumar said. Arrivals by trains Migrants continue to reach the State from different parts of the country. According to government sources, over 20,000 were scheduled to reach by 17 trains at different stations on Friday. On Thursday, 24 trains carrying 28,000 migrants reached the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bihar-government-to-do-random-testing-of-migrants-on-arrival/article31539724.ece
09 May 2020||Karachi,||Pakistan court orders auction of ex-Taliban chief’s property||A Pakistani judge ordered the auction of five properties purchased by former Taliban chief Mullah Akhtar Mansour with fake documents before he was killed in a U.S. drone strike in 2016, two investigators familiar with the case said on Friday. Mansour bought the properties, estimated to be worth about $2,00,000, after he replaced Taliban founder Mullah Mohammad Omar, whose death was announced in 2015. Mansour’s properties were detected in the port city of Karachi after he was killed in a drone strike in Baluchistan province, the investigators said on condition of anonymity for security reasons. The officials said the judge, whose name was not revealed for security reasons, recently ordered the government to quickly finalise arrangements for auctioning the properties, which were seized earlier this year. The investigators said authorities published advertisement in Pakistani newspapers to determine if there were any claims to the properties. Money collected through the auction will go to the government. The properties include small apartments and plots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-court-orders-auction-of-ex-taliban-chiefs-property/article31539429.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. Justice Dept. to drop case against former NSA Flynn||The U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ) will drop its case against former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn as per a court filing. Mr. Flynn, who had pleaded guilty in a case related to Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. elections, was awaiting sentencing. Mr. Flynn should have never been interviewed by the FBI to start with as his contacts with then Russian Ambassador to the U.S., Sergey Kislyak, were “entirely appropriate”, the Justice Department said in a court filing on Thursday, according to the Associated Press, which first reported the story. Mr. Flynn, who pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI in December 2017 and then cooperated with Mr. Mueller’s probe, faced time in prison and sought to withdraw his plea after firing his original lawyers. The DoJ has been conducting a review of its handling of the case. Last week, Mr. Flynn’s lawyers released notes from the FBI’s internal deliberations on how to handle Mr. Flynn. “What's our goal? Truth/Admission or to get him to lie, so we can prosecute him or get him fired?” then Counterintelligence Director Bill Priestap had written as per the released documents. “If we’re seen as playing games, WH [White House] will be furious. Protect our institution by not playing games.” Mr. Priestap wrote. While supporters of Mr. Flynn, including Mr. Trump, jumped on the released documents and cried foul play, commentators have said strategising about investigative strategy is standard FBI procedure. Innocent man: Trump “He was an innocent man,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Thursday, adding that Mr. Flynn was targeted in order to take down a President. “And I hope a lot of people are going to pay a big price because they’re dishonest, crooked people,” Mr. Trump said, referring to the Obama administration Justice Department. Mr. Trump had repeatedly criticised the case against the former three-star General. “Attorney General Barr’s politicisation of justice knows no bounds,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a statement, adding that Mr. Barr’s Justice Department was trying to cover up for Mr. Trump. ‘Outrageous move’ This is not the first time Mr Barr has faced such allegations. In February, more than 1,100 former DoJ officials had called on Mr Barr to resign for his “interference in the fair administration of justice,” because department officials had sought to reduce the sentencing recommendation of Mr. Trump’s friend, Roger Stone. House Intelligence Committee Chair, Jerrold Nadler, called the Department’s move “outrageous” and said Mr. Barr would be called by the House to testify.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-justice-dept-to-drop-case-against-former-nsa-flynn/article31539433.ece
09 May 2020||beijing,||China, U.S. commit to implement trade deal despite row over virus||Chinese and U.S. trade representatives agreed on Friday to “create favourable conditions” for the phase one trade deal signed in January, officials said, despite recent tensions over the coronavirus pandemic. Vice Premier Liu He, who had led Beijing’s negotiations, held a call in the morning with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. ‘Good progress’ “Both sides said they should strengthen macroeconomic and public health cooperation, strive to create a favourable atmosphere and conditions for the implementation of the phase one U.S.-China economic and trade agreement, promoting positive results,” a notice from China’s Ministry of Commerce said. U.S. officials said after the call that both parties agreed “good progress” is being made on creating the governmental infrastructures needed to make the agreement a success. “They also agreed that in spite of the current global health emergency, both countries fully expect to meet their obligations under the agreement in a timely manner,” said the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative and Treasury in a statement. The countries have also agreed to maintain communication and coordination. The call is believed to be the first time they have officially spoken about the agreement since it was signed, and comes after both nations traded barbs over the deadly virus. Last week, U.S. President Donald Trump threatened new tariffs against China after claiming there was evidence linking COVID-19 to a top-security lab in the central city of Wuhan, where the pathogen first emerged late last year. China has denied the claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-us-commit-to-implement-trade-deal-despite-row-over-virus/article31539419.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump to get virus tested daily||U.S. President Donald Trump will be tested daily for COVID-19 after one of the President’s military aides tested positive for the infection on Thursday. The President also said that he and Vice-President Mike Pence tested negative on Thursday. “I just had a test, as you probably heard. In fact, I had one yesterday and I had one today, and it’s negative. Mike [Pence] just had a test, and it’s negative,” Mr. Trump said. “Now we’re going to go testing once a day. But even when you test once a day, somebody could — something happens where they catch something.” Hogan Gidley, Deputy White House Press Secretary, confirmed that a White House staff had tested positive for the virus and that Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence had tested negative. Presidential valet The story of the U.S. Navy member, who serves as a personal valet to the President, testing positive, was first reported by CNN. Normally, presidential valets, who work either in the West Wing or in the residence part of the White House, have duties that bring them up close to the President — from wardrobe management to handling food and drink. President Trump said on Thursday that he had had “very little contact” with the aide in question. On Wednesday, visuals emerged of President Trump, without a mask, interacting with nurses in the Oval Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-to-get-virus-tested-daily/article31539434.ece
09 May 2020||berlin,||Europe, U.S. mark 75 years since end of Second World War||The world must draw lessons from the past and work together to beat the coronavirus pandemic, European leaders urged as the continent marked 75 years since the end of the Second World War in Europe. With parades and commemoration events cancelled or scaled down as part of measures to contain the outbreak, Europe and the U.S. marked the victory over Nazi Germany in sombre mood. In Berlin, German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier and Chancellor Angela Merkel kept their distance as they paused in front of wreaths at Neue Wache — the country’s main memorial to the victims of war and dictatorship. Mr. Steinmeier called on nations to remember how they joined forces to fight the tyranny of Nazism and said the same unity was needed to defeat the virus that has killed over 2,70,000 people. “We want more, not less cooperation in the world — also in the fight against the pandemic.” In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson, in a letter to veterans, said: “On this anniversary, we are engaged in a new struggle against the coronavirus which demands the same spirit of national endeavour that you exemplified 75 years ago.” U.S. President Donald Trump, in a statement, said, “Today, as we reflect on the 75th anniversary of the end of the World War II, we are reminded that no challenge is greater than the resolve of the American spirit,” he said. “Over the past months, our Nation has faced remarkable adversity during the pandemic. But just as we have so many times before, America will triumph.” Russian President Vladimir Putin, in a video message for the Austrian people to mark the anniversary, said, “We are all fighting against this epidemic and mutual support is very important at this difficult time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/europe-us-mark-75-years-since-end-of-second-world-war/article31539422.ece
09 May 2020||beijing,||China for WHO-led review of global response to virus||China said on Friday it supports a World Health Organization-led review into the global response to the coronavirus outbreak, but only “after the pandemic is over”. The comments from Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying came as China faces pressure to allow an international probe into the origins of the pandemic. The review should be conducted in an “open, transparent and inclusive manner” under the leadership of WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Ms. Hua said at a press briefing.   She said China would cooperate with WHO efforts to trace the origin, but rejected U.S. calls for an investigation, accusing it of “politicising the issue”. She stressed that any inquiry should be based on the International Health Regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-for-who-led-review-of-global-response-to-virus/article31539420.ece
09 May 2020||COLOMBO,||India sends essential medicines to Colombo||The Government of India on Friday sent a 12.5-tonne gift consignment of essential medicines to Sri Lanka, as part of its ongoing COVID-19 assistance in the neighbourhood. High Commissioner-designate of India to Sri Lanka Gopal Baglay travelled on the same flight, and will assume duty as per the stipulated health protocol, the Indian High Commission in Colombo said. High Commissioner Baglay succeeds Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu, who was posted to Washington DC earlier this year. On his arrival, Mr. Baglay greeted President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa over telephone on Friday. “I conveyed the Indian leadership’s greetings to them and expressed our strongest commitment to sharing our resources with our friends and partners,” he told The Hindu . Friday’s gift consignment of medicines is the fourth to arrive in recent weeks, and underscores Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision conveyed to SAARC leaders during the March 15 video conference, the Indian mission said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-sends-essential-medicines-to-colombo/article31539431.ece
09 May 2020||Washington,||U.S. pulls out Patriot missile batteries from Saudi Arabia||The U.S. is pulling out four of its powerful Patriot missile systems from Saudi Arabia, after determining that the threat from Iran that sparked an arms buildup in the region last year had waned, a Defense Department official said on Thursday. Two of the anti-missile batteries deployed following the September attacks on Saudi oil installations “are now leaving,” the official said on condition of anonymity. Tehran and Houthi-backed rebels in Yemen were blamed for the combination rocket and drone attack which left two of state oil giant Aramco’s processing facilities — one in Khurais and another in Abqaiq — heavily damaged, roughly halving Saudi Arabia’s oil production. Two other batteries had been kept in the region in March following an attack by pro-Iran factions on the Iraqi base of Taji, north of Baghdad. Two Americans and one British soldier were killed in the attack. “I think everyone knew it was going to be a temporary plus-up at the time, unless things got bad, “ the official said. “Things did not get bad, so they had to go.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-pulls-out-patriot-missile-batteries-from-saudi-arabia/article31539428.ece
09 May 2020||Moscow,||Russia adds 10,000 cases||Russia on Friday registered more than 10,000 new COVID-19 cases for the sixth day in a row. A government tally showed 10,669 new cases over the past 24 hours, fewer than Thursday’s record of 11,231 and bringing the total to 1,87,859. The country also recorded 98 new deaths, for a total of 1,723. Russia ranks fourth in Europe in terms of the total number of cases, behind Britain, Italy and Spain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-adds-10000-cases/article31539423.ece
09 May 2020||United Nations,||‘Tsunami of hate and xenophobia’||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called on Friday for an “all-out effort” to end the “tsunami of hate and xenophobia” sparked by the novel coronavirus pandemic, without naming specific countries. “Anti-foreigner sentiment has surged online and in the streets. Anti-Semitic conspiracy theories have spread and COVID-19-related anti-Muslim attacks have occurred,” Mr Gutteres said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tsunami-of-hate-and-xenophobia/article31539426.ece
09 May 2020||Hong Kong,||Rival camps clash in Hong Kong legislature||Rival Hong Kong lawmakers clashed on Friday inside the city’s legislature which has been paralysed for seven months as pro-democracy politicians attempt to scupper a controversial law that bans insulting China’s national anthem. The chaotic scenes come weeks after Beijing sparked a constitutional row by calling for filibustering Opposition politicians to be removed from office. Pro-democracy lawmakers are trying to stop bills progressing to a vote in order to scuttle the anthem law. Friday’s clashes were sparked by a row over who gets to control the House Committee, which scrutinises bills before they go to the floor and has been without a committee leader since October.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rival-camps-clash-in-hong-kong-legislature/article31539425.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||When a virus finds space in India’s largest slum||While the roads in India have remained largely empty since Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 24 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, Dharavi in Mumbai stands in stark contrast. Dharavi is many things: Asia’s largest slum, one of the most densely populated areas in the world (with 3.6 lakh people per sq. km) and, now, also a containment zone. Driving through its narrow lanes, chock-a-block with settlements and thronging with people, it is evident that the one necessary norm to prevent the spread of COVID-19, physical distancing, is practically impossible here. On March 18, a 68-year-old domestic help living in a congested slum pocket in Mumbai’s central suburb of Ghatkopar tested positive for COVID-19. The previous day, her U.S.-returned employer was found to be infected. At the time, there didn’t seem much to worry about. Mumbai had merely eight cases, all of them with a travel history abroad, barring this senior citizen. But things changed on April 1. It was on that day that Dharavi recorded its first positive case of COVID-19. The index patient was a 56-year-old garment unit owner. He had mild cough and fever. After consulting a local doctor, and when his symptoms worsened, he was admitted to the civic-run Sion Hospital. His throat swab was sent for testing and it returned COVID-19-positive. By the time the civic officials were informed and they could reach him to investigate his contact history, the garment unit owner succumbed to the disease on the evening of April 1. The resident of Dr Baliga Nagar Housing Society, one of the oldest clusters of buildings in Dharavi’s Jasmine Mill Road, had a simple routine. “Going by what his wife and two sons told us, he would go to his garment shop and to a nearby mosque to offer prayers everyday. So, we began our contact-tracing exercise as per that information,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G-North Ward, which includes Dharavi. Dighavkar said the entire housing society was sealed the same day the patient died. It was during contact tracing that one of the locals passed on an important tip to the civic officials. He told them that the garment unit owner had another house nearby, where he had hosted some people a couple of weeks ago. “When we questioned the family about the other house, they got angry. We eventually had to take the help of the police. They investigated this further,” said Dighavkar. The police found that the garment unit owner had hosted five couples in his vacant house. All his visitors had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March, India’s first big cluster of COVID-19 cases. “He took care of their food and other requirements. While the women slept in the house, the men would step out at night and sleep in the nearby mosque,” Dighavkar said. The visitors had arrived on March 18 and stayed for five days before taking a flight back home to Kerala. But during their time at Dharavi, they had come in contact with 75 people, including the garment unit owner. Each one of them was isolated, in an attempt to break the chain of infection. But there was little reason to heave a sigh of relief. By this time, the number of cases in Mumbai had gone up to 181. The virus had quickly entered many other densely populated slums sprawled across the financial capital, making contact-tracing a nightmarish exercise. Alarm bells A surgeon working in Wockhardt Hospital, which had reported many infections among its healthcare workers, was Dharavi’s second case. The doctor, who lived in Dharavi’s Vaibhav Apartment, got tested and admitted himself to the nearby SL Raheja Hospital after he suspected that he had contracted the virus. He then informed the civic officials that he had tested positive. The officials traced his contacts, isolated them and sealed his residential building. The doctor’s wife also tested positive later. Meanwhile, a 30-year-old woman from Dr Baliga Nagar Housing Society also tested positive. “This case was again linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. The visitors hosted by the Dharavi’s index patient had attended a birthday celebration in this woman’s house,” said Dighavkar. But the real alarm was set off on April 4 when a positive case was reported from Dharavi’s slum, Mukund Nagar. In the official books, this was the fourth case from Dharavi. The 48-year-old-man lived with 11 members of his family in a two-room house, each room barely 100 sq ft. “He complained of chest pain and breathlessness. So, we immediately rushed him to Sion Hospital where they found that he was positive for COVID-19. The next day, they shifted him to Kasturba Hospital,” said the patient’s son adding that they were all quarantined in a facility in Dharavi. “We don’t know what they treated him for. On April 13, we received a call saying he had passed away. We continued to be confined in the quarantine facility,” he said. His father’s burial was carried out by the civic staff in the presence of a family friend. When they returned home after completing the 14-day-long quarantine period, the family members were told to strictly remain at home and maintain distance from one another. “Can you imagine maintaining distance in such a small space,” the son asked. “Dharavi is a maze of tiny lanes and by-lanes. You cannot escape rubbing shoulders multiple times even when you step out to attend nature’s call.” The problem of common toilets India’s most famous slum was a mangrove swamp originally inhabited by fishermen. As small factories and units found a footing in the area, it gradually grew into a dense slum that today offers livelihood to lakhs of people. According to the 2011 Census, Dharavi, which is spread over 2.5 sq km, is home to a population of 6.53 lakh people. “But there are over 2.5 lakh migrant workers who are unaccounted for,” said Dighavkar. The biggest issue in the area is common toilets, he said. “Most houses are merely 10x10 feet and you will find eight to 10 people living in such small rooms. How does one contain the virus in such a cramped space?” It is challenging to keep people confined to their homes, he said. “We are now providing 19,000 lunch packets and 19,000 dinner packets so that people don’t venture out for food. But even during food distribution, we have crowds.” As a result, Dighavkar has put all his energy into removing the possible contacts of patients, or those with symptoms, from the area and placing them in quarantine facilities. “This is the only way to deal with the problem in Dharavi,” he said. In Dharavi nearly 3,000 quarantine beds have been made available — across a large sports complex, schools, a nature park, marriage halls, hotels and guest houses. Dighavkar claimed that 66% of the cases that have been found positive in Dharavi were people who were already in quarantine facilities. Activists in the area are not convinced that this will stop the virus from spreading. Only if all the common toilets are sanitised aggressively at hourly intervals and people are made conscious about hygiene will infection stop spreading, they said. Dharavi has 275 municipal toilet blocks and 125 Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) toilet blocks. Each block consists of an average of 10 toilet seats. While a few buildings in the area and some pockets like Dharavi-Koliwada have their own toilets, the majority of the population depends on these common toilets. “We have been urging the civic officials to make sanitisers available for people at the entrance of the toilets. But even this basic step has not been initiated so far,” said Raju Korde, president of the Dharavi Development Committee. Closing a crucial link The residents of Dharavi-Koliwada decided to take it upon themselves to safeguard their population. They have barricaded the area to keep out outsiders. Koliwada, neighbour to Mukund Nagar, Shastri Nagar, and 60 Feet Road, which are hotbeds of COVID-19 cases, has recorded about five cases so far. “We don’t want an explosion of cases in our area. Therefore, we have barricaded all the entry points,” said Digambar Koli, secretary of the Dharavi Koli Samaj Trust. Koliwada has plenty of shops and markets, including a fish market. “Barricading our entry points was the only way to stop the public from walking into the area,” he said. The lockdown is practically non-existent in most of the area, he said. “Within Koliwada, we are trying to maintain discipline as much as possible,” he said. “Walk into Dharavi any time in the morning or evening, it is like a mela,” said Anjum Shaikh, 60, a resident of Diamond Apartment on Jasmine Mill Road. “People living in buildings follow some discipline. But for others, it is impossible to stay inside their homes. With the ongoing holy month of Ramadan, many people step out in the evening to buy fruits and other things. Given the population of the area, even a few people form a large crowd.” A railway track separates the Transit Camp area at the eastern edge of Dharavi from the high-rise buildings in the suburb of Sion. Since the lockdown, a key bridge connecting the slum and the city has been shut. Locally known as Dhobi Ghat Bridge, it has long been a vital link for the residents of the area to access key medical facilities including the civic-run Sion Hospital. Dharavi residents now have to wait for an ambulance or a vehicle to take them to the other side, which was merely a five-minute walk from the bridge. “Many people have had a tough time reaching the hospital. We don’t even know how many have died because of the delay,” said Rahul Medhe, a resident of the area who has been organising food camps since the lockdown started. Residents say that the bridge was closed as Dharavi started recording more cases and the people on the other side became apprehensive of its residents crossing over. The local doctors have shut their clinics too, which has added to their hardships. “The Transit Camp area has only three doctors opening their clinics,” said Medhe. Chemists in the area are also regularly running out of their stock of drugs, he said. The queues and the struggles remind him of the demonetisation days, Medhe said. The status of Dharavi being Mumbai’s COVID-19 hotspot is doing the area more harm than good, said residents. “Hospitals are turning away patients coming from Dharavi. Even as grocery stores and other essential services remain open, many employees living in Dharavi have been asked to stay at home, which has affected livelihoods,” said a resident. ‘Pushed to the margins’ “ Aaj Dharavi lawaris ho gayi hai (Today Dharavi is orphaned),” said Babu Khan, president of the Dharavi Garment Association. Khan feels that it is unfair that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has to deal with Dharavi alone. The State and Centre should have pitched in, he said, especially given that there are so many migrant workers in the area. “It is the migrant workers who have made Dharavi a manufacturing hub for garments and leather. Today, they have been pushed to the margins,” he said. Khan claimed that there are as many as 10 lakh migrant workers (higher than the BMC estimate) in the region, many of whom have had no choice but to subsist on handouts. “For how long can you survive on daal khichadi ,” he asked. According to Khan, the only solution to the spread of infection in Dharavi is to allow the migrant workers to leave. This would decongest the area. “This should have been done much earlier, but it is not too late even now.” “We want to go back home. Nobody wants to die here. If I have to die, I might as well die while I’m with my family back home,” said Triveni Yadav from Jharkhand, who was employed to carry out interior work in homes. Desperate to submit his application to get back home, Yadav stood in line for three hours from 6 a.m. only to be driven away by the police. In another corner of the Transit Camp, Haseena Shaikh, a widow raising four children, said she has been unable to buy milk for them for the last three weeks. “We got ration at the beginning of the lockdown, but after that there was nothing. We are dependent on the food distributed every night,” she said. Shaikh said going back home to Gulbarga in Karnataka was not an option for her. “My two brothers are rickshaw drivers and they don’t have any income now. How will they support me?” Akkubai, who has lived in Dharavi for the last 40 years, said she has never seen a situation as bad as this. “Every day we see long queues outside doctors’ clinics and outside police stations; hundreds standing in the hot sun. People may just die in this heat,” she said. Many residents of Dharavi question the BMC’s statistics while some remain completely oblivious of the spurt in cases in their neighbouring lanes, which is only a stone’s throw away. “I don’t think the number of cases is so high,” said Jagan Nadar, a resident of Kannada Chawl, which is close to Mukund Nagar, where many cases have been reported. “I have not come across any person who knows of a positive case. If the threat is so big, why has there been no medical check-up in our area,” he asked. The way forward But Dighavkar has a different take. He said Dharavi’s popularity has played a crucial role in bringing focus to the area during the pandemic. “Every small development, every single positive case is reported by the media. The residents of Dharavi are constantly watching this, and it is helping spread awareness as well as caution,” he said, as he received a music video of a new Dharavi pandemic rap song on WhatsApp. Featuring Bollywood stars, the trilingual music video by rappers from the area has a simple message: stay home, stay safe. Dighavkar hopes that the music video will create further awareness. In an attempt to detect people with symptoms early, a door-to-door screening exercise in Dharavi has covered a population of 90,000 people till Friday. Health workers have also been tasked with checking the blood oxygen levels of senior citizens. Nearly 7,000 senior citizens have undergone this check-up and 250 were referred to hospitals for treatment after their oxygen levels were found low. On Thursday, a Central government team, including the Joint Secretary of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Lav Agarwal, visited Dharavi and suggested that all focus should be on institutional quarantine to break the chain of infection. Till date, Dharavi has quarantined 2,480 people in various institutions. Only 2,400 people from the slum have been tested for COVID-19 so far. By Friday, Mumbai had recorded 12,142 cases of which 808 were from Dharavi. Of the 462 deaths in the city, 26 patients were from Dharavi. All eyes are on Dighavkar. Will he be able to stop an exponential jump in cases and deaths? Where will Dharavi stand by the end of this month? “As we screen more people and isolate them, we are likely to see a substantial decrease in the number of cases in the coming days. But I can’t give you a specific number,” he said.  Dharavi is a maze of tiny lanes and by-lanes. You cannot escape rubbing shoulders multiple times even when you step out to attend nature’s call. Resident   We have been urging the civic officials to make sanitisers available for people at the entrance of the toilets. But even this basic step has not been initiated so far. Raju Korde President, Dharavi Development Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/when-a-virus-finds-space-in-indias-largest-slum/article31539417.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Slower growth and a tighter fiscal||The impact of COVID-19 will be debilitating for the global as well as the Indian economies. Various institutions have assessed India’s growth prospects for 2020-21 ranging from 0.8% (Fitch) to 4.0% (Asian Development Bank). This wide range indicates the extent of uncertainty and tentative nature of these forecasts. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has projected India’s growth at 1.9%, China’s at 1.2%, and the global growth at (-) 3.0%. The actual growth outcome for India would depend on: the speed at which the economy is opened up; the time it takes to contain the spread of virus, and, the government’s policy support.  Growth prospects India slid into the novel coronavirus crisis on the back of a persistent economic downslide. There was a sustained fall in the saving and investment rates with unutilised capacity in the industrial sector. In 2019-20, there was a contraction in the Centre’s gross tax revenues in the first 11 months during April 2019 to February 2020, at (-) 0.8%. These trends continue to beset the Indian economy in this crisis. We examine the growth prospects for 2020-21 from the output side, making reference to real gross value added (GVA). In 2019-20, which would serve as the base year, India may show GVA growth of about 4.4%, well below the Central Statistics Office’s second advance estimate of 4.9%, as the fourth quarter number is likely to be revised downwards on account of the adverse impact of the virus on economic activities. The IMF’s GDP growth estimate for 2019-20 is at 4.2%. GVA is divided into eight broad sectors. Although all sectors have been disrupted, some may be affected less than the others. We divide the output sectors in four groups. In group A, we consider two sectors that have suffered only limited disruption — namely agriculture and allied sectors, and public administration, defence and other services. In the case of agriculture, rabi crop is currently being harvested and a good monsoon is predicted later in the year. Despite some labour shortage issues, this sector may show near-normal performance. The public and defence services have been nearly fully active, with the health services at the forefront of the the COVID-19 fight. For the group A sectors, it may be possible to achieve 90% of the 2019-20 growth performance. Next, we consider the group that is likely to suffer maximum disruption (Group D). This includes, trade, hotels, restaurants, travel and tourism under the broad group of “Trade, Hotels, Transport, Storage and Communications”. This sector may be able to show 30% of 2019-20 growth performance. Group B comprises four sectors which may suffer average disruption showing 50% of 2019-20 growth performance. These sectors are mining and quarrying, electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services, construction, and financial, real estate and professional services. In the last group (Group C), we place manufacturing which has suffered significant growth erosion in 2019-20. It is feasible to stimulate this sector by supporting demand. In this case, we apply a 40% performance factor, not on the 2019-20 growth which is an outlier, but on the average growth of the preceding three years. Considering these four groups together, a GVA growth of 2.9% is estimated for 2020-21. Realising this requires strong policy support, particularly for the manufacturing sector which has a weight of 17.4%. It is also based on the assumption that the Indian economy may move on to positive growth after the first quarter. In the first quarter, GVA growth will be negative. Calibrating policy support Monetary policy initiatives undertaken so far include a reduction in the repo rate to 4.4%, the reverse repo rate to 3.75%, and cash reserve ratio to 3%. The Reserve Bank of India has also opened several special financing facilities. These actions will have a positive impact on output only after the lockdown is lifted. These measures need to be supplemented by an appropriate fiscal stimulus. Although industry has been clamouring for a large fiscal stimulus, cash-constrained central and State governments have taken expenditure reducing measures by announcing a freezing of enhancements of dearness allowance and dearness relief. This may result in savings of Rs. 37,000 crore for the Centre and about Rs. 82,000 crore for the States, together amounting to 0.6% of GDP. There is also a talk of substantially reducing non-salary defence expenditure. With lower petroleum prices, fertilizer and petroleum subsidies may be reduced. These expenditure cuts are contemplated to keep the fiscal deficit under some control. On fiscal deficit Fiscal stimulus can be of three types: relief expenditure for protecting the poor and the marginalised; (b) demand-supporting expenditure for increasing personal disposable incomes or government’s purchases of goods and services, including expanded health-care expenditure imposed by the novel coronavirus, and, bailouts for industry and financial institutions. The Centre had earlier announced a relief package of Rs. 1.7-lakh crore of which the additionality was only Rs. 65,000 crore, since it included a frontloading of the budgeted expenditures. The Centre’s budgeted fiscal deficit of 3.5% of GDP may have to be enhanced substantially to make up for the shortfall in budgeted revenues; account for a lower than projected nominal GDP for 2020-21, and provide for a stimulus. Thus, the Centre’s fiscal deficit may increase to 6.0% of GDP. Expenditure on construction of hospitals, roads and other infrastructure and purchase of health-related equipment and medicines require prioritisation. These expenditures will have high multiplier effects. Similar initiatives may be undertaken by the State governments which may also enhance their combined fiscal deficit to about 4.0% of GDP to account for 3.0% of GDP under their respective Fiscal Responsibility Legislation/Law and to provide for the shortfall in their revenues and some stimulus. Financing of the fiscal deficit poses a major challenge this year. On the demand side, the Central (6.0%) and State governments (4.0%) and Central and State public sector undertakings (3.5%) together present a total public sector borrowing requirement (PSBR) of 13.5% of GDP. Against this, the total available resources may at best be 9.5% of GDP consisting of excess saving of the private sector at 7.0%, public sector saving of 1.5%, and net capital inflow of 1.0% of GDP3. The gap of 4.0% points of GDP may result in increased cost of borrowing for the Central and State governments. This gap may be bridged by enhancing net capital inflows including borrowing from abroad and by monetising some part of the Centre’s deficit. Monetisation of debt can at best be a one-time effort. This cannot become a general practice. C. Rangarajan is former Chairman, Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council and Former Governor, Reserve Bank of India. D.K. Srivastava is Chief Policy Advisor, EY India and former Director, Madras School of Economics. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/slower-growth-and-a-tighter-fiscal/article31539411.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Shaping India’s response in a global hinge moment||India finds itself in an increasingly dangerous world, one that is fragmenting and slowing down economically. We are today in a new geopolitical situation, caused primarily by the rise of China, India and other powers — Indonesia, South Korea, Iran, Vietnam — in a crowded Asia-Pacific, which is the new economic and political centre of gravity of the world. Rapid shifts in the balance of power in the region have led to arms races and to rising uncertainty, also fuelled by the unpredictability, disengagement and the transactional “America First” attitude of United States President Donald Trump. China-U.S. strategic contention is growing, uninhibited so far by their economic co-dependence. As China seeks primacy in a world so far dominated by the U.S., the world faces a destabilising power transition which may or may not be completed. It is a hinge moment in the international system. Strategic autonomy What should India’s response be to the new situation? Fear leads some to suggest alliances. Some Indians are so worried by what they see as an unstoppable China that they advocate that India enter into an alliance with the U.S. India is much greater and more resilient than these people think. There is a common thread running through the foreign and security policies of successive governments of India until this one, irrespective of their various political persuasions: it has been the pursuit of strategic autonomy for India. If there is any situation in which India should retain the initiative and not get entangled in others’ quarrels, keeping India’s powder dry and free to pursue its own national interest, it is this disorganised and uncertain world. This is a world that calls for creative diplomacy and flexibility, adjusting to the fast-changing balance of power and correlation of forces around us. An alliance seems to be exactly the wrong answer. The Doklam crisis of 2017 is only the most recent example that shows that no one else is ready to deal with India’s greatest strategic challenge — China. It saw a tepid reaction from the rest of the world. To expect anything else is unreasonable. The China question China’s rise is the foremost challenge which could derail India’s quest. But it is also an opportunity. The big question, of course, is how to handle China. One possibility is to engage China bilaterally to see whether the two countries can evolve a new modus vivendi , to replace the one that was formalised in the 1988 Rajiv Gandhi visit. That framework is no longer working and the signs of stress in the relationship are everywhere. The more India rises, the more it must expect Chinese opposition, and it will have to also work with other powers to ensure that its interests are protected in the neighbourhood, the region and the world. The balance will keep shifting between cooperation and competition with China, both of which characterise that relationship. The important thing is the need to rapidly accumulate usable and effective power, even while the macro balance will take time to right itself. A calculus of interests suggests that India-China relations are more complex than simple narratives suggest, and indeed that there is room here for both sides to seek a new modus vivendi . This would require a high-level strategic dialogue between the two sides about their core interests, red lines, differences and areas of convergence. The U.S. is an essential partner for India’s transformation. But it is withdrawing from the world, less certain as to how it will choose to deal with China. Certainly, it will no longer be the upholder of international order, economic or political, and seems to have tired of that role. India must work with other powers to ensure that its region stays multi-polar and that China behaves responsibly.  Double opportunity awaits We are living in a time when there is a deep sense of strategic confusion. In India’s case, that confusion extends to it being not just about the ultimate goal India’s foreign policy should pursue but also over the best means to achieve them. Indians seem to mistake controlling the narrative with creating outcomes, which is the real task of foreign policy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has declared a goal of India to be a ‘Vishwa guru’, or world teacher, which is still a long way away when it is an importer of knowledge and technology. Nor is it clear that this status will actually contribute to transforming the lives of India’s citizens, though it might satisfy the ego. It is important for India to remain optimistic. It has a moment of double opportunity if it changes its ways. Tactically, China-U.S. contention — which is structural and, therefore, likely to continue for some time with a paradigm shift away from cooperation to increasing contention, despite temporary deals and “victories” declared by one or both — opens up opportunities and space for other powers. Both China and the U.S. will look to put other conflicts and tensions on the back burner while they deal with their primary concern, the other. This effect is already perceptible in the Wuhan meeting between China’s President Xi Jinping and Mr. Modi in early 2018, and the apparent truce and dialling back of rhetoric by both India and China, even though this does not extend to a new strategic framework or understanding or to a settlement of outstanding issues. Today, India is more dependent on the outside world than ever before. It relies on the world for energy, technology, essential goods like fertilizer and coal, commodities, access to markets, and capital. When you add the new security agenda and the contested global commons in outer and cyberspace and the high seas to India’s traditional state-centred security concerns, you can see why there is greater worry or a sense of insecurity. India risks missing the bus to becoming a developed country if it continues business and politics as usual, or tries to imitate China’s experience in the last 40 years, does not adapt, and does not manage its internal social and political churn better. The most important improvement that India needs to make concerns its national security structures and their work — introducing flexibility into India’s thinking and India’s structures. For change is the only certainty in life. Shivshankar Menon is a former National Security Adviser. A longer version of this argument appeared in “India’s Foreign Affairs Strategy”, Brookings India Impact Series, May 2020||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/shaping-indias-response-in-a-global-hinge-moment/article31539413.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Eradicate it||Sudan’s decision to outlaw the practice of female genital mutilation (FGM) is a landmark victory for women’s rights in a country that is still in a transition from dictatorship to democracy. The development follows the transitional government’s decision to scrap the repressive social codes and humiliating penalties that targeted women during the nearly 30-year dictatorship of Omar al-Bashir, which fell last year amid protests. Hundreds of Sudanese professionals who spearheaded the protests, had clamoured for a broad-based and inclusive constitutional order. The new measure, which entails punishment with a fine and a prison sentence, must still be approved by the Supreme Council, made up of civilians and military officials, that oversees the democratic transition. The government’s decision builds on the curbs already in place in a number of provinces, although enforcement has been a concern. The UN estimates that some 87% of Sudanese women have had their external genitalia removed on non-medical grounds during childhood, leaving them with life-long emotional and physical injuries. While the latest measure has been widely welcomed, campaigners remain cautious about a shift in attitude against this custom, regarded as crucial prior to matrimony. According to the UN, over 200 million women in several African countries, including Sudan, Egypt, Nigeria, Djibouti and Senegal, and some in Asia, have been subject to this brutal social custom. While there is ongoing research to rectify the damage, WHO is somewhat sceptical about the effectiveness of recent reconstruction surgeries. The prevailing scenario thus underscores the need for stronger campaigns and bold actions to stop this social scourge. Even in countries where FGM is outlawed, enforcement remains an issue. In Egypt’s first FGM trial in 2014, six years after Cairo clamped a ban, the doctor who had carried out the procedure, as well as the father of the deceased girl, were acquitted, despite incriminating forensic evidence. In Somalia, the country with the highest prevalence rate but no legal ban, the death of a girl in 2018 after a similar procedure led to the first prosecution in such incidents. In Uganda, reports last year of some 300 cases of mutilation within a month shed light on the government’s uphill task to back existing legislation with vigorous awareness campaigns. In Kenya, where the practice was criminalised in 2011, the government strategy last year requiring girls to be tested for circumcision raised concerns of victimisation and privacy violation. These practices suggest that legislation alone may not stop this practice that has deep cultural roots. The government has to eradicate it. Sustaining the country’s progressive currents and democratic transition would be crucial to consolidate the gender reforms it has introduced in recent months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/eradicate-it/article31539405.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Contempt for labour||At a time when everyone is awaiting an early end to the health and economic crisis caused by the global pandemic, the interests of labourers and workers are once again set to be sacrificed. The revival of business and economic activity after weeks of forced closure is indeed a key objective to be achieved. However, it is amoral and perverse on the part of some States to address this need by granting sweeping exemptions from legal provisions aimed at protecting labourers and employees in factories, industries and other establishments. Madhya Pradesh has embarked on a plan to give a boost to business and industry by allowing units to be operated without many of the requirements of the Factories Act — working hours may extend to 12 hours, instead of eight, and weekly duty up to 72 hours. Going by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s remarks, it appears the State has used Section 5 of the Act, which permits exemption from its provisions for three months, in the hope that the Centre would approve such suspension for at least a thousand days. However, this exemption can be given only during a ‘public emergency’, defined in a limited way as a threat to security due to war or external aggression. Uttar Pradesh has approved an ordinance suspending for three years all labour laws, save a few ones relating to the abolition of child and bonded labour, women employees, construction workers and payment of wages, besides compensation to workmen for accidents while on duty. Reports suggest that several States are following their example in the name of boosting economic activity. Changes in the manner in which labour laws operate in a State may require the Centre’s assent. One hopes the Centre, which is pursuing a labour reform agenda through consolidated codes for wages, industrial relations and occupational safety, health and working conditions, would not readily agree to wholesale exemptions from legal safeguards and protections the law now affords to workers. The most egregious aspect of the country’s response to the pandemic was its inability to protect the most vulnerable sections and its vast underclass of labourers from its impact. The emphasis in the initial phase was on dealing with the health crisis, even when the consequence was the creation of an economic crisis. While the country watches with horror the continuance of the collective misery of migrant workers well into the third spell of the national lockdown, the attitude of the ruling class towards labour remains one of utter apathy, bordering on contempt. Why else would a government relieve factories of even elementary duties such as providing drinking water, first aid boxes and protective equipment? Or suspend requirements such as cleanliness, ventilation, lighting, canteens, restrooms and crèches?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/contempt-for-labour/article31539404.ece
09 May 2020||BENGALURU,||When can sports resume in India?||The German Bundesliga will be that rare sports event to restart, on May 16, even as the world continues to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. This raises the question — how ready is India to resume action? The Hindu caught up with eminent sports personalities for their views.   Vimal Kumar, former National badminton champion and coach:  Tournaments can start only after September, but elite athletes have to start training now to be ready. But at the moment, no decision-maker is taking responsibility. Many people are making a living out of sports, but no one is bothered. Countries like Australia have come out with clear guidelines to reboot sport, but here there is only fear. Sportspersons are the most health conscious people and will certainly take precautions. What bothers me is that sportspersons themselves are keeping quiet and instead sending messages like ‘stay home and stay safe’. If Virat Kohli bats for the athletes, the whole country will listen.   Terry Phelan, former Manchester City footballer and South United FC technical director:  I don’t expect to see football matches with packed crowds any time this year. The Bundesliga is set to resume, but is it really behind closed doors? You will still have around 300 people — players, club staff, groundstaff, officials, etc. — at the venue. No safety plan is foolproof; there is still risk involved. When medical experts in India give the green light to resume playing, we can start by building confidence among kids, their parents and schools. Health comes first.   Vinay Kumar, former India cricketer:  With cases still on the rise, resumption of cricket any time soon is out of the question. We do not have full knowledge about this virus yet. Unless a vaccine is discovered, the risk is too high. A player or umpire could be infected — that infected person may even be asymptomatic. Fielders and bowlers — purely by habit — will use saliva and sweat, which is dangerous. What happens if a player or umpire contracts the virus in his neighbourhood? It is impossible to monitor everyone all the time.   Zeeshan Ali, Indian Davis Cup coach:  About 70% of tennis in India is recreational and such an activity will be the last to start. For now, I only see serious tennis players beginning one-on-one sessions. There are certain precautions to be taken: like marking tennis balls with player names for individual use and wearing gloves. These may have sounded ridiculous three months ago, but will be the norm. I am in touch with the AITA but I don’t see tournaments happening before September.   Ashwini Nachappa, athlete and Olympian:  The AFI says the season will begin in September. Within the country not many spectators come anyway and they can be distanced out. But it is going to be difficult because preparation is uncertain. If athletes are already staying together in training centres, they can train rather than just be confined to their rooms. But the problem is that fear has set in. You cannot lead a life in fear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/when-can-sports-resume-in-india/article31539550.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anand takes India to first win||Viswanathan Anand overpowered Teimour Radjabov to give fifth-placed India its first win in the FIDE Chess.com Online Nations Cup, over Rest of the World (RoW), on Friday. For India, which had held Russia 2-2 before losing to USA 1.5-2.5 on Thursday, P. Harikrishna nailed Cori Jorge while Vidit Gujrathi lost and D. Harika drew. Top seed and leader China defeated Europe 2.5-1.5 to reach the Superfinal, scheduled on May 10. After draws, Anand pulled off a 17-move stunner against Russia No. 1 Ian Nepomniachtchi, had USA’s Hikaru Nakamura on the run in their drawn encounter before punishing Radjabov for two late errors. Anand’s conquest of Nepomniachtchi stood out. The maestro chose to sacrifice a bishop and pushed one of the kingside-pawns to the sixth rank. Nepomniachtchi resigned while staring at the impending checkmate of his castled king. India was very close to beating Russia on Thursday when it led 2-1 and Harikrishna appeared set to hold Vladislav Artemiev. But an apparent mouse-slip saw Hari blunder his rook and resign immediately.  The results: Seventh round: India bt RoW 2.5-1.5 (Anand bt Radjabov; Vidit lost to Firouzja; Harikrishna bt Cori; Harika drew with Muzychuk); China bt Europe 2.5-1.5; USA bt Russia 2.5-1.5.   Sixth round: USA bt India 2.5-1.5 (Nakamura drew with Anand; Caruana drew with Vidit; So bt Adhiban; Krush drew with Humpy); China bt RoW 3.5-0.5; Europe bt Russia 2.5-1.5.   Fifth round: India drew with Russia 2-2 (Anand bt Nepomniachtchi; Harikrishna lost to Artemiev; Adhiban drew with Karjakin; Harika drew with Girya); China bt USA 1.5-1.5; Europe bt RoW 2.5-1.5.   Standings : 1. China (13); 2-3. Europe, USA (9); 4. Russia (5); 5. India (4) and RoW (2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-takes-india-to-first-win/article31539533.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||No room for complacency even after lockdown: SATS||Tests, masks and social distancing will be mandatory, at least for the initial few weeks, at all stadia in Telangana once training starts post lockdown, according to a senior official of Sports Authority of Telangana State (SATS). “Aarogya Setu app will be compulsory for all trainees, coaches and maintenance staff at all the stadia. There is no way we are going to take things easy even if the lockdown is lifted,” the official informed The Hindu on Friday. Disinfection tunnels are also being considered as a serious option at all single entry points of the stadia. “The Administrators might also be asked for medical certificates, stating that they have no symptoms, before they resume training,” he said. “The other important aspect is sanitisation — every stadium and all equipment will be sanitised thoroughly,” the SATS official said. “Obviously, the biggest challenge will be the swimming pools,” he added. Referring to the Swarnandhra Pradesh Sports Complex (Gachibowli), the biggest in the state, the official admitted the measures there have to be more stringent as the near-by Games Village (built for the 2007 World Military Games) has been converted into a Covid-19 hospital, he said. “We will issue the guidelines, once finalised, to all private academies in the State too,” he stated. Former SATS deputy director and volleyball coach G.A. Shobha said coaches should focus only on individual training for the first few weeks even in a team sport like volleyball. Players should practise spiking, upper hand and lower hand touches, smashing and blocking instead of drills as a team, she felt. “Forget about tournaments for the next six months. “The emphasis should be on safety in training to start with,” she insisted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-room-for-complacency-even-after-lockdown-sats/article31539766.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||Different strokes for different folks||They are two of the best students of coach C.V. Nagraj from The School of Power Tennis in Secunderabad. Davis Cuppers and multiple Asian Games medallists Vishnu Vardhan and Saketh Myneni took different paths to success, as they explained to hundreds of coaches around the country in a webinar. Preparing for life While Vishnu stayed at home and pursued the sport, Saketh chose collegiate tennis in America, which prepared him well for life, as he was out of his comfort zone, doing everything himself. “I didn’t give up education because it does teach you a lot of things,” Saketh said. Both serve big, a speciality of the trainees of Nagraj, but play different styles. Vishnu recalled how his game hit a different level once he was chosen to partner Leander Paes for the 2012 London Olympics. “Leander’s dad Dr. Vece Paes made a three-month training plan for me, which included a stint in the US. I was really sharp when I reached Wimbledon for the Olympics. “Leander helped me get the best out of myself and taught me how to deal with pressure,” said Vishnu. While Vishnu won silver with Sania Mirza in the mixed doubles at the 2010 Asian Games, Saketh won gold with her in the 2014 edition. “I was nervous playing with Sania, but he was relaxed,” said Vishnu. “Each person is different. Some are vocal and some silent. There are no rights and wrongs. You decide what works for you,” said Saketh. Focus on fitness A crafty player, Saketh conceded that he could have gained more by focusing on fitness at an early age. “I was growing tall and was injury-prone. With the height, the mechanics of strokes also change,” recalled Saketh. For Vishnu, the transition from juniors to the big league was tough. “I started focusing on men’s tournaments when I was around 16. For the first couple of years it was depressing as I was losing a lot. But it certainly helped me develop,” said Vishnu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/different-strokes-for-different-folks/article31539683.ece
09 May 2020||Chennai,||Important to read body signals, says Sharath||A few months shy of his 38th birthday, Sharath Kamal has proved that he is still a force to reckon with, and is now the highest-ranked Indian — 31st — in the world. The paddler from Chennai has shouldered the sport in the country for a better part of the last two decades. Sharath has been at the top of his game for a sustained period despite a career-threatening injury in 2015. Speaking at the webinar, organised by Sports Authority of India and Table Tennis Federation of India, Sharath spoke about injury management, giving fresh insights about the one he sustained five years ago. Sharath had a hamstring tear during a World Championship match against Simon Gauzy in Suzhou (China) when he was leading 3-0 in the fourth game. After battling pain and winning the match in five games, Sharath had to pull out of the rest of the tournament. He underwent surgery, confining him to a wheelchair for a month and crutches for a few more weeks. Stiff back Highlighting the lessons he learnt through his injury, Sharath said, “It is important to know your body and the signals it sends. I was playing without any rest for my club in Germany and was pushing myself despite having a stiff back. “Often the root cause of an injury could be at a different place. I had a tear from my hip bone to my muscle. Had I taken care of my back, maybe I might not have needed it.” The Padma Shri awardee said that it took time for the muscle to regain its memory, and it was vital to go through the rehab process thoroughly and not rush back to action. “When you return from injury, the other muscles might work harder to compensate for the injured one. Hence, it is important to look for pain and niggles one might develop and sort them out immediately.” After returning permanently to India in 2016, Sharath has been largely injury-free, crediting former India cricket team trainer Ramji Srinivasan for helping him regain peak fitness. He also pointed out the importance of a healthy relationship between the player, coach and physio as he looks to continue till the Asian Games in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/important-to-read-body-signals-says-sharath/article31539595.ece
09 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Shyama Dey eager to resume her cricket connection after lockdown||Having recovered from the injuries suffered in a road accident, woman Test cricketer Shyama Dey is looking forward to resuming her connection with cricket once the lockdown is lifted. Shyama, a Bengal women’s team selector, and her colleagues Chandana Mukherjee and Purnima Mukherjee were injured when the vehicle carrying them met with an accident on November 3, 2019. They were travelling to an under-23 camp in Dubrajpur in Birbhum district. All of them were admitted to Chittaranjan Advanced Medical Referral Institute before being shifted to the Apollo Hospital following Cricket Association of Bengal’s initiative. Shyama, a top-order left-handed batswoman who played three Tests and five ODIs in the mid-1990s, underwent several surgeries for multiple facial injuries and fractured bones. Recently she was declared fully fit. Now, Shyama is eager to experience her ‘new life’. “I have missed the ground so much and can't wait to rejoin. This is a new life for me and I want to tell everybody to stay positive and stay safe in the difficult times we are going through. We will get through this,” said Shyama. The 48-year-old thanked the CAB for its support. “I don't know how to thank the CAB and everyone who was there with us during that period. CAB took care of every possible thing, starting from bearing all hospital expenses to the aftercare costs. “Avishek Dalmiya (CAB president) is working hard for women's cricket. I have seen few who support women cricketers like this,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shyama-dey-eager-to-resume-her-cricket-connection-after-lockdown/article31539680.ece
09 May 2020||Coimbatore,||Priyanka’s WGM dream gets stuck||K. Priyanka was on a high at the start of the year, having secured the Woman International Master title. She was all the more thrilled as she received it from chess legend Viswanathan Anand. It motivated her so much that she decided to chase her dream of turning a Woman Grandmaster by taking part in quite a few international tournaments. But the COVID-19 lockdown has cut short her plans. Board exams “After playing some great games in the Chennai GM Open tournament in January, I took a break to prepare for my class 12 Board exams. Soon after that, I planned to play two international tournaments in Dubai and Sharjah. But the pandemic has upset all plans,” said Priyanka. The young girl has challenged many on the 64 squares but finds the inaction a bit too hot to handle. “I eagerly wanted a break because I had worked so hard, but this one is too long and forced upon me. I enjoyed those initial days with my family, but now I terribly miss playing tournaments,” said the Commonwealth chess champion. “Forget about the results, the atmosphere and joy that tournaments give is hard to describe. I have always been a ‘tournament person’, as my life’s lessons are learnt there,” she added. Priyanka realises that things are out of her control right now. “I know there is no point cribbing. I have started to accept life. Now, I have decided to take part in competitive online tournaments. There are many happening, which makes a chess player’s life a little easy. I am working on endgames. I did not enjoy doing this before, but now I do,” she said. Priyanka has also been learning new languages, and enjoying dishes cooked by her mother K. Marudhambal. She is eagerly waiting for things to return to normalcy. “My favourite catchphrase is ‘no matter what life throws at you, keep chasing your dreams until it turns colourful’. I am doing just that,” she concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/priyankas-wgm-dream-gets-stuck/article31539531.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Mirza seeks to confirm personal quota for Tokyo||While the postponement of the Tokyo Olympics has left several athletes dealing a break in momentum, Asian Games double-silver medal-winning equestrian rider Fouaad Mirza is in equal parts restless and relieved to be able to take things easy. Mirza is stationed in Bergedorf, a sparsely populated village in Hamburg State, Germany, training under Sandra Auffgarth, former World champion. Quite bad “It’s quite bad actually. But, it’s not a red zone where I stay. We go to the supermarket once in three weeks. Going out to fetch supplies for our animals is permitted here,” Mirza told The Hindu . Mirza has secured India a berth at Tokyo but is seeking to confirm his personal quota for the Olympics here. He had earmarked a Four Star Long competition in Motilibretti, Italy, when COVID-19 hit Europe. “I was still ready to risk it all and go for this event because I thought it’s better I got this done early rather than leave it for later. “It obviously got cancelled and set off this domino effect where all my qualification events just kept dropping off the calendar. “The priority then became to tend to the horses and keep them fit so that I am event-ready as soon as it’s safe to resume,” he said.  A big boost for Mirza is the possibility of his old running-mate, Seigneur Medicott, recovering in time for the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mirza-seeks-to-confirm-personal-quota-for-tokyo/article31539535.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Manu gets electronic target installed at home||One of the brightest prospects of Indian shooting, Manu Bhaker has not let lockdown blues get to her, thanks to parental care. The Youth Olympics champion, who swept six of the Asian and global mixed air pistol gold medals in 2019, Manu has managed to get an electronic target installed at her home.  “We got the electronic target and I installed it myself, a few days ago. Before that, Manu was practising on paper targets,” says Manu’s father, Ramkishan Bhaker, who has kept her focused on a healthy routine. Despite the restrictions, the Bhakers have managed to have the electronic target delivered to their home in Charkhi Dadri, Haryana, about 90km from Delhi, with suitable support from Olympic Gold Quest (OGQ). The 10m air pistol target will help in basic training for Manu, who is also a master of the 25m event and sports pistol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manu-gets-electronic-target-installed-at-home/article31539548.ece
09 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||SAI cricket trainees attend webinar||The COVID-19 pandemic has confined the trainees of SAI-Regional Cricket Coaching centre to their homes for quite sometime and they have been undergoing fielding and fitness drills assigned to them on WhatsApp by their coach Biju George. However, the former fielding coach of the Indian women’s cricket team felt it was necessary to engage a reputed sports psychologist to improve the mental strength of the players. “Many of the boys had come to me with issues which were beyond the technical and physical factors. At the highest level, mostly it is players with the right attitude who succeed. I thought the lockdown was the ideal time for the boys to attend a webinar on sports psychology. I roped in famed sports psychologist and former woman cricketer Mukta Joshi of CatFit Psychologist,” said Biju. How to get over the match or performance anxiety, how to focus on controllable factors, training mind to respond positively to any situation were some of the key topics at the programme which was held early this week. Positive feedback “The feedback from the boys was positive. Sanju Samson, Vinoop Manoharan and P. Prasanth were among the attendees. Already a few have suggested more follow-up sessions with Mukta Joshi. As a former cricketer she could relate to the mental problems facing young players”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sai-cricket-trainees-attend-webinar/article31539813.ece
09 May 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI mulls hosting simultaneous series||Cricket, like everything else, may emerge in a new avatar in the post-pandemic world. And Indian cricket — the cash cow of the global cricketing fraternity — may adopt an innovative measure to make up for lost time by making the white-ball and red-ball squads play international games simultaneously. It may sound incredible, but playing multiple internationals on the same day is among the different options being considered for “making up for lost time”. “None of us know when sport, especially international cricket, will resume. But if we have to safeguard the interests of all our stakeholders — from sponsors to spectators — one of the options is to select two different squads and play a Test series and a T20I series simultaneously,” a Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) official told The Hindu . If the BCCI is forced to squeeze several games into a limited window to take care of the broadcaster’s interest, it will have to field two squads. Fans may thus watch a Test during the day followed by a T20I under floodlights.  The Hindu understands that the BCCI hierarchy has sounded out the coaching staff, who have been crunching numbers to work out the possibilities of having two competitive squads at their disposal, should the need arise. Second instance If the plan is adopted, India would become the second team, after Australia, to play two different series simultaneously. In February 2017, a day after hosting Sri Lanka in a T20I at the Adelaide Oval (Feb. 22), Australia began a four-Test series in India in Pune. Obviously, Australia fielded two different squads in the series, something that India — and others — may be forced to do in future.  Coaching staff exploring options for fielding two competitive squads the way Australia did in 2017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-mulls-hosting-simultaneous-series/article31539529.ece
09 May 2020||CHENNAI,||TNBA to the rescue of players and officials||The Tamil Nadu Basketball Association (TNBA) has announced a financial relief of Rs. 10 lakh to the basketball fraternity in order to support them during the COVID-19 times. The TNBA will have a meeting with its association members on Saturday (May 9) via videoconference to discuss the finer details. The TNBA is also the first State sports association to announce a benefit scheme for the well-being of the players, referees and coaches, said Aadhav Arjuna, secretary of the TNBA, in a release. The scheme is for those economically vulnerable players from the State team and those in the age-group of U-13, U-16 & U-18 where their education fees and sports kit requirement for the year will be completely borne by the TNBA, it further stated. Referees and coaches with an income less than Rs. 20,000 per month will be provided with an aid of Rs. 3,000 per month (May 2020) to support their needs. TNBA requested the State government to grant permission to sportsmen representing the State and the country at the National, Olympic and other sporting events to start their training, with sufficient safeguards. Speaking to The Hindu on Friday, Aadhav further said: “The promised amount will reach those in need by May 25.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnba-to-the-rescue-of-players-and-officials/article31539596.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||BCCI ad-hoc body may run DDCA||Without a president and its secretary in jail, the controversy-ridden Delhi and Districts Cricket Association (DDCA) is set to be directly governed by the BCCI through an ad-hoc committee. The BCCI, which has already stopped DDCA’s annual grant, conducted an Apex Council members’ teleconference a couple of days back to discuss the formation of an ad-hoc panel. “There are endless complaints of corruption at all levels in the DDCA. Most of the Apex Council members feel that an ad-hoc panel should manage the association’s affairs until a proper set-up can be put in place,” said a senior BCCI official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-ad-hoc-body-may-run-ddca/article31539678.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||Only four foreigners in ISL, I-League||The Technical Committee of the All India Football Federation on Friday recommended the implementation of the continental body’s rule on fielding foreign players in a domestic match from next year, reducing the number to four from five, a decision which is in line with national team coach’s thinking. India head coach Igor Stimac had in March expressed unhappiness at the number of foreign players featuring in a match in Indian Super League and I-League. The AIFF’s Technical Committee met on Friday via video conference and took the decision to recommend the 3+1 (three non-Asians and one Asian) rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/only-four-foreigners-in-isl-i-league/article31539536.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||FIH Congress officially postponed||The FIH Executive Board has confirmed postponement of its upcoming Congress this year till May 2021 in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The 47th Congress was scheduled from October 28-November 1 this year in New Delhi. The decision also means the tenure of Batra and other EB members (two men and women each) would also be extended till the next Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fih-congress-officially-postponed/article31539684.ece
09 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Online chess fund-raiser||V. Raghav Srivathsav is conducting the Play2Help online chess tournament on May 10 from 7 p.m. as part of the weekend series till May 31 on the chess.com website. The proceeds will go to the PM-CARES Fund to fight COVID-19.  For more details, call 81870 93036.   Sports Coaching Foundation (Masab Tank) brought out a coaching manual in different sports. It will be distributed free of cost to the trainees during the lockdown, according to founder-secretary and former Ranji player K. Sai Baba. Call 93965 59440 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/online-chess-fund-raiser/article31539764.ece
09 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Mass hatching of Olive Ridley turtles begins at Odisha’s Rushikulya rookery||Mass hatching of Olive Ridley turtles began at Odisha’s Rushikulya rookery, a major nesting site of these marine turtles, on Thursday night. Thousands of hatchlings came out of the nests buried in sand to crawl towards the sea to start their long journey. On an average 80 to 100 turtles hatch from each nest. According to Berhampur Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Amlan Nayak, the event marked the beginning of mass hatching at the rookery. Set to increase The number of mass hatchings were expected to increase in the coming days. “In the past few days, the eggs collected from sporadic nesting spots to be incubated at artificial hatcheries of the Forest department along this coast have also started to hatch,” he added. This year, 3,23,063 Olive Ridley turtles had nested at the Rushikulya rookery. The mass nesting process began in the wee hours of March 21 and continued till the night of March 28. Olive Ridley turtle eggs incubate on their own in the heat of the beach sand. Temperature matters They hatch in 45 to 60 days, depending on the temperature of the sand and atmosphere during the incubation period. As mass nesting numbers had gradually increased to reach the peak and then decreased, mass hatching was also expected to take the same path, said the DFO. To protect the eggs from predators and humans, the Forest department had put up metal net fencing over 5 km from Gokharkuda to Bateswar, and the area was divided into 50 segments for regular watching. Rabindranath Sahu, president of the Rushikulya Sea Turtle Protection Committee (RSTPC), an organisation of villagers living near the rookery involved in protection of Olive Ridleys, said this year there was minimal human intervention during the mass nesting, incubation period and continuing hatching process. The lockdown due to COVID-19 had stopped outsiders from reaching the spot. “But high tides related to new moon on April 23 had washed away a large number of nests,” Mr. Sahu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/mass-hatching-of-olive-ridley-turtles-begins-at-odishas-rushikulya-rookery/article31539528.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Siva’s love for devotees||When one’s heart is full of bhakti, there is no room for impure thoughts in one’s mind. And a person with bhakti will not respect people simply because they are wealthy or powerful. To him, riches and pelf do not matter. But he will always have regard for those who are devoted to God, said R. Narayanan in a discourse. Appar says that even if a person is as wealthy as Kubera, the God of wealth, he will be indifferent to him if he is not a devotee of Lord Siva. But if a man is a devotee of Lord Siva, then Appar will worship him even if he is without riches. So here Appar is saying that even a devotee of Lord Siva is worthy of being worshipped, and this reverence should be shown to him even if his body is in a state of decay, and even if he does not have a high status in life. Love for God thus translates into love for His devotees too. The Lord Himself prefers the heart of a true devotee to the most opulent temple. Poosalar Nayanar, devotee of Lord Siva, lived in Thiruninravur, in Tamil Nadu. He wanted to build a temple for the Lord. But he did not have the money for such a huge expense. Undeterred, Poosalar Nayanar built a temple for the Lord in his heart, visualising every aspect of the structure. At the same time, the Pallava king was building a temple for Siva in Kanchi. When the king wanted to fix a date for consecration of the temple, the Lord told him that he was going for the consecration of Poosalar Nayanar’s temple, and would be unable to come on the day decided upon by the king. The Lord asked the king to find an alternative date for the consecration of the temple built by him. Thus, the Lord preferred to reside in the imaginary structure erected by His devotee in his heart than in the magnificent temple built for Him by a king.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sivas-love-for-devotees/article31539474.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 07:43 IST,||Sudoku - May 9, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-9-2020/article31540261.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Carpe chicken 65 diem||When I am free — and that means all day these days - I try and recall some old food stories. Take a dish called Chicken 65. I think I was introduced to it sometime in the early 1990s by a great cook called Mr Suryanarayan, who used to work for Andhra Bhavan and then started his own food business. I remember asking him – and several other chefs thereafter – how the dish got its name. The more chefs I asked, the more number of explanations I received. Some said the name came about because it was started and popularised by Chennai’s Buhari Hotel in 1965; a few others claimed that the dish had to be prepared with a chicken that was 65 days old. And then there were others who insisted it was cooked with 65 different spices. I like all these stories, but I like the dish even more. It is hot and spicy, and leaves you asking for more (and for numerous glasses of cold water, if not a fire extinguisher). That is why, when I was going through the menu of a restaurant called Kerala Café the other day, I decided that I had to order in their chicken 65. It was one of those evenings when we wanted to eat something different. The choices are limited these days, but we had heard from our friend Jayan that Kerala Café, in Mayur Vihar Phase 1, had moved to a new place in the same neighbourhood. I called them up (9650696710) and found that they were delivering through Swiggy and Zomato. So we asked for a plate of Chicken 65 (Rs. 220), Kadala Curry (Rs. 120), Parottas (Rs. 30 for one), Chicken Biryani (Rs. 200) and Set Dosa (Rs. 120). And what a meal we had! The Chicken 65 was a dish of fiery looking stir-fried chicken (succulent, and not the least bit dry), and the parottas were flaky and crispy. I had them both with the Kadala Curry on the side. The small black chana dish came in a thick and tart gravy, and I enjoyed it immensely. The biryani was different – and much appreciated. The rice was light and fragrant, and even mildly sweet. The chicken in it was enveloped in thick gravy — so together, the light rice and rich chicken did quite a nice tango. We saved the set dosa —three round and soft dosas — for breakfast. The next morning we had the dosa with the light, onion-and-tomato-flavoured sambar that it had come with. It was quite a heavenly breakfast. It was nice to have Kerala food after a long time. The menu includes fish curry, egg curry, and chicken curry, as well as chicken roast and egg roast. Then there are utthapams, puttu, and egg dosas. The prices vary between Rs. 120 and Rs. 230, except for the prawn curry which is Rs. 300. There was a time when I used to regularly pick up food from the small Kerala eateries in INA Market. Those days seem like the golden age now. I find myself humming Mary Hopkins, “Those were the days, my friend; we thought that they’d never end”. That is why the wise say: seize the day. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/carpe-chicken-65-diem/article31539713.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Song of the village home||It’s very rare in Indian cinema that the backdrop itself becomes the protagonist of a film. Something like that happens in Achal Mishra’s fluid and assured debut feature Gamak Ghar . The silent but eloquent presence of a village home in Bihar tells the story of the changing dynamics of the extended family to which it belongs. On another plane, the film also becomes the marker — without setting out to be one — of the social and economic transformation of the country at large. The biography of a house, then doesn’t quite remain entirely its own.  Gamak Ghar is structured like a tripartite movement of a gentle musical piece that encompasses within it the cycle of life. The overture, set in 1998, is to do with the birth of a child and the festivities that accompany it. There is very little, almost no action in fact. Mishra’s meditative camera captures unhurriedly the myriad sights and sounds permeating the house — the tulsi plant, the handpump, the laughter of kids, men busy with their game of cards, children playing hide-and-seek and picking mangoes from the grove, women helping each other tie saris, kids watching films on a rented VCR. Avni Goyal’s production design gets the minutest of details — from the calendar on the blue wall to the suitcase atop the steel almirah to the mosquito coils and nets — making the home acquire a character and personality of its own. It’s a segment that may be viewed as wallowing in nostalgia, but it evokes the same in viewers. Nostalgia for what childhood was for some of us — of living apart in cities and gathering together under the roof of the ancestral home for festivities and holidays at least two to three times a year; the best days of our lives. Mishra strings together little, fleeting moments, the banal interactions and conversations of the family members. It’s like he is laying bare the family photo album, even as we see family members in the film clicking pictures themselves and organising the mandatory family photo shoot. As if trying to organise memories to hold on to for posterity. It’s in the second section — set in 2010 — that we are made aware of the changes creeping in. The longing for roots have made people build huge houses in the village but no one seems to have time to visit. One son has grown roots and bought a flat in Noida, his wife colours her hair now, the kids are all grown-up and prefer eating Maggi to potato fritters and thekua . There is a hint of a skirmish. One family member yet to ‘settle down’ in life, wants to sell off a part of the land to invest in a pharmacy store. But the festival of Chhatt, the diaries and writings of the grandfather and the recollection of mutton feasts cooked by him still manage to bind them, however tenuously. In the third and the last act, in 2019, we see the lonely house collapsing under neglect, with just an indifferent caretaker, and a few sparrows, giving it company. The tulsi plant in the courtyard has since shrivelled. There is persistent talk of the floods having taken its toll on the structure. We see the home framed in misty winter, derelict in its ripe old age. But it’s not the end of the road, hopefully. There is also a simultaneous call for renewal and a sense of hope that the glory days may well be back. Gamak Ghar is all about asserting that the village home should stay. Gamak Ghar will stream on Mubi India from May 10 onwards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/song-of-the-village-home/article31539710.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Who needs booze||If things went according to plan, by now lakhs of parched Tamil kudimagans (of whom I am one, mind you) would have broken the shackles of imposed temperance and displayed their determination and fighting spirit fighting for their spirits outside the doors of myriad TASMAC outlets. While I like a drink now and then (more then than now, sigh), I am aware of my shortcomings. Being an anaemic writer of weak prose, my personal seat doesn’t have the requisite padding for the spontaneous reception of police lathis . So, for the non-man’s man like myself, of whom there are many, I have come up with how one can experience the benefits of liquor while not having access to any — using the principles of method acting and cognitive therapy.   If you are a practitioner of yoga, this won’t work. But if you like spirits, most likely, you won’t be one. Yoga and liquor, we know, are like Arnab and Tharoor. Pick a YouTube video and jump right into yoganidrasana or garbha pindasana . If you are stuck in a position where your nose is directly in line with something God never intended, and it looks like you will be in that position till the advent of achhe din , you’ve won. What you experience for the next three days will feel like a hangover. You will hate life, promise yourself you’ll never do it again. Exactly like drinking.   Ring up an ex. Ring up your boss. In fact, put them on a conference call and bring in your wife. Let things unfold spontaneously. Tell your ex why she made a mistake leaving you. And that you married your current wife because she makes better kothu parotta . Tell your boss he deserves to be with your ex because they’re both ugly. Look your wife straight in the eye and say ‘I’m not scared of you’. You’ll regret everything the next morning. Exactly like drinking.    Go on, sneak out of your house. Stand at the street corner. Take a long, satisfying whizz. Attempt making an infinity sign on the wall. Sing an old Kishore Kumar song in Sirkazhi Govindarajan’s voice, off-key, with made-up lyrics. Threaten the lone cyclist on the road. Ask him if he knows who your father is. If he doesn’t, call your dad on the phone and introduce him to the cyclist. Ask your father if he knows who you are. Feel like a man. Exactly like drinking.   Call up your drinking buddies and speak at length about astrobiology. No, it isn’t what Swami Nithyananda majored in. It is the exploration of life outside Earth and the investigation of the origin of life on Earth. But you could say it is learning biology while looking at Bejan Daruwallah’s predictions for 2020. Become an expert. On the sex life of the African palm civet, the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. Anything. You know everything. Exactly like drinking.   Fill up that empty bottle of Dalwhinnie, the one your uncle brought you from his trip to Spain three months ago, with tea. Put some ice in a glass. There is no shame in having a single malt with ice. Take a pic. Post it on FB. Have all your friends say ‘You’re the man’ on your post. Get 432 likes. Go to bed weeping about how miserable your life is. Exactly like drinking. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/who-needs-booze/article31539379.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Cinema’s long road ahead||I distinctly remember the roaring in a Chennai theatre when Rajnikanth’s character in Baasha broke a pumpkin on his head and folded his hands to gesture ‘ vanakkam ’. More recently, that very loud, collective gasp when Thanos wiped out half of humanity, including some of our favourite superheroes in Avengers: Infinity War . And after the mind-numbing climax of Sairat , I stayed glued to my seat and wept; as did several others in the hall. Watching a film in a theatre is so much more than just sinking into a plush chair and relishing that tub of caramel popcorn. Its singular charm lies in experiencing a story as a collective with strangers. Like other public establishments, theatres across the country have also been in the dark for weeks now. While no one knows when we will be able to return to savour the movie-watching experience, it is obvious that like many businesses this one will also change in the post-corona world. The ‘new’ normal At present, most of the bigger chains are hoping to be up-and-running by the beginning of June. Once the government gives the go-ahead, they expect it to take another four-to-six weeks before films start releasing. The biggest challenge for every theatre would be building customer confidence. “After 30-40 days of lockdown, people would want to experience out-of-home entertainment, whether it is going to cinemas, restaurants or malls. But it’s up to us to convince them that it is safe to do so,” says Mohan Umrotkar, CEO Carnival Cinemas. Among the changes planned are sanitiser stations, paperless transactions and masks for everyone. “We will have to raise the bar now and focus a lot of time, effort and resources on deep cleaning our cinemas beyond the auditorium and lobby areas. We will check the body temperature of customers and employees when they enter the premises,” explains Kamal Gianchandani, CEO, PVR Pictures. Keeping in mind the need for social distancing, there is a possibility that not all seats in a cinema hall would be available for sale. Alok Tandon, CEO, INOX Leisure Ltd says, “We will follow cross-allocation of seats to ensure that distance is maintained among the audience. Online booking modes will be programmed to allocate seats in that order. Screenings will be scheduled in such a manner, that entry, intermissions and exits of two shows do not occur simultaneously, and to avoid crowding of lobbies and restrooms”. Cross allocation of seats means that no theatre will see a ‘House Full’ sign for a while and that will definitely impact revenues for both theatres and film producers.It is therefore understandable why Gianchandani at PVR Pictures hopes that this measure will only be temporary. “We hope to have the entire capacity at our disposal within two months or so,” he insists. Back to the future In the 1950s, when the outbreak of polio in the US became severe, a few drive-in theatres advertised that their venue was the perfect place to be ‘flu and polio protected’. It is not surprising that in this age of social distancing, classic drive-in theatres in the US, Canada, Germany and South Korea are seeing a surge in popularity. At the Vilnius International Airport in Lithuania, for instance, a drive-in cinema has come up in its apron area where one would usually see parked planes. There have been reports of patrons driving a few hours to get to the closest drive-in theatre in Florida; and of Autokino Essen, one of the only two year-round drive-in theatres in Germany, selling out every screening since early March. In South Korea, while large multiplexes have remained open, Korean movie buffs have stayed away, preferring to wait hours to book tickets in the few drive-in theatres that are operational. India currently has only two drive-in theatres — Prarthana (Chennai) and Sunset (Ahmedabad). PVR has plans of starting one in Mumbai’s Bandra Kurla Complex but Gianchandani says it “will take some time before it opens”. But he doesn’t expect drive-in theatres in India to overtake multiplexes or single-screens in popularity, and he’s not alone. Tandon of INOX Leisure lists out factors that work against them. “The concept comes with its own set of challenges. The biggest one being availability of land parcels closer to the heart of the city. Even if you secure such a land parcel, the possibility of operating only two shows a day would either challenge the commercial viability, or would make the operator charge a premium. Another aspect where the concept would face headwinds would be the climatic conditions in our country. India experiences extremely hot and extremely cold weather, and the mammoth monsoons may not be too friendly either.” Straight to digital For a few years now, theatres around the world have rued the decrease in footfalls and this has traditionally been blamed on the rising popularity of streaming services. Due to the pandemic, people are now filling the void of out-of-home entertainment with streaming services like Netflix and Amazon Prime Video. With the uncertainty of when theatres will reopen and, more importantly, whether audiences will return to them, movie producers across the country are contemplating the merits of going straight to digital. In Tamil Nadu, news of Jyotika’s upcoming film, Ponmagal Vandhal (originally scheduled for a March release) releasing online, was met with severe opposition from theatre owners. They, along with producers, are now reportedly framing guidelines on how to work in tandem, which will be followed post the lockdown. In Bollywood, there are rumours of at least half-a-dozen films being in negotiations with OTT platforms. Most of these are mid-sized films that can’t afford to wait months for a release and are in real danger of getting cannibalised by bigger releases when they finally do. Director Shoojit Sircar whose Gulabo Sitabo starring Ayushmann Khurrana and Amitabh Bachchan was scheduled to release on April 17, has said he is open to the idea of a digital release. Director-Producer Karan Johar in the past has often talked about how ‘big-ticket spectacle films’ will bring audiences back to theatres and trade analyst Komal Nahata believes that this could be a real possibility for the film business in the near future. Among the big budget films that were expected to hit our screen in the first half of 2020 are Rohit Shetty’s Sooryavanshi and Kabir Khan’s 83 , Aamir Khan’s Laal Singh Chaddha and Farhan Akhtar’s Toofan . “When this pandemic is over and people are ready to return to theatres, there will be a big backlog and only the big films will survive. These films will not go to OTT because it might not be fiscally feasible,” says Nahata. Whether we are watching them in hyper-sanitised theatres, from our cars or in homes, there is no doubt that movies will continue to be an integral part of India’s social fabric. Like director Christopher Nolan, whose Tenet is one of the films postponed indefinitely, wrote recently for The Washington Post , “When this crisis passes, the need for collective human engagement, the need to live and love and laugh and cry together, will be more powerful than ever.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cinemas-long-road-ahead/article31539364.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Boys R Us||As the sordid story of a secret Instagram group unfolds, two teenage boys have been detained while many other students are being questioned. The members of ‘Bois Locker Room’, reportedly from four or five South Delhi schools, posted photographs of female schoolmates, many of them underage, with offensive comments and even suggestions of rape. As I read the details, I am dismayed to find that I am not in the least bit surprised. I read with resignation, dread and complete recognition. It’s not as if it were unfolding for the first time. If not in details but in its essence, this utterly dysfunctional sexuality of our young men plays out over and over again. And we as a society are still clueless about how to respond. Outrage is alright and lasts a few weeks. What after? Many of us remember the horror story of the student, also in Delhi, who videotaped a sexual act with a classmate and shared it with his pals. What has changed since 2004? Nothing except the medium. Does that young man who shared the MMS feel remorse today? I don’t know, but the boys outed in the Insta scandal definitely don’t. Almost simultaneously with the exposé, they started a new group, asking members to use code names this time to avoid getting caught. One boy suggested circulating suggestive photos of the girls who had dared to complain. Young, old, teenaged, the average male thinks he is entitled to be crass about women. It’s seen not just as a male prerogative, but a male necessity. Boys are ingrained from childhood to believe that being ‘male’ means expressing sexual power overtly, exaggeratedly and aggressively. A failure to do so is seen as putting one’s masculinity in doubt. In these chatrooms, there is very little real desire involved. At stake is only male virility — the need to constantly brandish it and prove it. And ‘dirty talk’, which often becomes ‘violent talk’, becomes the way to establish virility. To paraphrase Margaret Atwood, men are constantly afraid the world will laugh at them. The pressure to avoid peer ridicule pushes them from a very young age into gratuitous sexual violence — it starts with sexist jokes and comments, grows into active misogyny, and ends in abuse. Each time these events occur, we demand harsher punishments — hang them, castrate them, throw them to the wolves. It’s pointless. Anger only serves to reinforce male insecurity and worsen the misogyny. Groups like Bois Whatever will continue to exist as long as men feel threatened by female sexuality and the enormous self-assurance of creation and nurture that it carries. Lacking this confidence, male sexuality remains the fragile thing it is, needing constant reassurance. Society encourages this, demanding a concept called “manliness” that nobody really understands. From infancy, all men ever know are guns and cars, taunts of “sissy” for being sensitive, admonitions not to cry, and a constant push to win, trample, triumph. Growing up, they’re forced to keep up the performance, laughing at vulgar jokes and sharing crude photos. Not doing so will immediately “unman” them. When the film Kabir Singh was received with fury by women, it actually puzzled many men because they saw nothing wrong in the hero’s violent passion. Like the film’s director, his fans were incapable of distinguishing between loving and trophy hunting. They asked why women weren’t grateful to be the object of such overwhelming desire, not realising that women don’t want to be objects at all. Their bewilderment was genuine. That’s why it is education and not retribution that’s required today. Every boy out there knows the mechanics of sex, but is ignorant about caring, empathy and mutual respect. They need lessons. On the importance of desire and how to express it. On the unimportance of masculinity and femininity. On how to give love and receive it. On how to handle rejection and move on. On how to nurture relationships. On how to be vulnerable and not be afraid of it. These are more vital to sex education than the mere biology. These are life lessons. And if we don’t want to see more and more Bois clubs, this is what we need to teach our young men. We imagine that carpentry and quantum physics need to be taught while living can be learnt — it’s actually the other way round. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/boys-r-us/article31539367.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Triumph at Tribeca||Prashant Nair remembers visiting Village East Cinema in Manhattan during his engineering days, long before an overwhelming passion for cinema forced him to switch gears to filmmaking. One of New York City’s last remaining Yiddish theatre buildings, the landmark has been one of the regular venues for the annual Tribeca Film Festival. It would have meant coming a full circle for Nair then, with his latest feature film, Tryst With Destiny , slated to have had its world première at the historic site on April 16 as part of Tribeca’s international narrative competition lineup. “I used to frequent the theatre a lot in my early 20s and was excited at the idea of going back there with my own film,” he tells us on a phone call from his countryside home in Mallorca island in Spain. That, unfortunately, was not to be in these Covid-19 afflicted times. Festival circuit The physical festival may have been cancelled, but the film was screened virtually for the festival jury. It also clinched the best screenplay award in the international narrative section. Jointly produced by Manish Mundra’s Drishyam Films and French studio Backup Media, Tryst With Destiny was the only Indian film in the Tribeca programme this year. The jury comprised well-known names like Danny Boyle, Demian Bichir, Judith Godrèche, Sabine Hoffman and William Hurt. Nair was on his guard the most when it came to Boyle who he says “knows India so well”. Two of Nair’s films have won awards in their première outings at prestigious and influential North American spaces for independent cinema. Umrika had earlier bagged the audience award in the international competition at Sundance Film Festival 2015. Incidentally both the platforms have cinema legends as founding fathers — Robert Redford for Sundance and Robert De Niro when it comes to Tribeca. “With awards, you can never really tell. It is all about how relevant the film is at that time. But it is amazing to have won in festivals where Indian films have never been awarded before,” says Nair. Born in Chandigarh and raised in Sudan, Switzerland, Syria, Zambia and Austria, thanks to peripatetic bureaucrat parents, “the rootless, homeless” Nair, as he describes himself, has gone on to live in USA, France, Czech Republic, Germany, Mexico, India and Spain. He took his first shot at filmmaking with a micro-budget feature, Delhi In A Day , that he refers to as his film school. The experience that taught him all. Umrika and Tryst With Destiny aside, he has also directed two episodes of Amazon Prime Video’s Made In Heaven . Back to 1947 A triptych with three sets of stories and characters, Tryst With Destiny ’s roots lie in the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s landmark speech of 1947 on the eve of India’s Independence (incidentally, Nair’s first child was born on 14/11, Nehru’s birthday, while he working on this film). “I was moved by the promises made in the seminal speeches, frustrated with several things and was evaluating how far we have come from the goals that we had set for ourselves,” he says. The anthology film explores the inequalities endemic in our society, across the entire spectrum, financial and social, in matters of class, caste, gender, race. One of them is about a billionaire in Mumbai who realises that money can’t buy him everything. Then there is one about a lower-caste couple in rural Uttar Pradesh attempting to rebuild their lives, and the third is centred on a corrupt Mumbai cop trying to make his mistress’ demand come true. All of them are seeking a better life, and each story also focusses on one colour of the Indian tricolour. Nair, who started shooting the film in late 2018 has a strong ensemble of actors on board — Ashish Vidyarthi, Suhasini Maniratnam, Victor Banerjee, Lilette Dubey, Jaideep Ahlawat, Palomi Ghosh, among others. “Each story is provocative, and I was looking at generating discussion around the ideas. It was challenging for the actors as they had to push themselves,” he says. Up next Coming up next is a web series with Endemol Shine India on the Uphaar Cinema tragedy. He is working on it, far away from the film industry, in Mallorca. Doesn’t the distance act as a hurdle? No, he says; it helps him stay happy and content and gives him the freedom to pursue what he wants. Though “at times I miss the feel and energy of Mumbai,” he admits. It may have made him miss out on opportunities, the films may have taken longer to make, but there is the quality of life, the green countryside and the beautiful sunsets that he wouldn’t trade off for anything.  Though the award has generated buzz for Tryst With Destiny , the future, as for everyone now, is looking unclear. “There is no manual to consult… we are waiting to see what happens.” Ideally he would like to screen the film in a couple of festivals before public screenings. Most important, however, is a screening for the cast and crew. “Watching your complete film with an audience for the first time is a magical experience,” concludes Nair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/triumph-at-tribeca/article31539375.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Recorded during quarantine||Few independent musicians are at home during this lockdown without anything to help them self-produce, including soundcards, mics and recording software/interfaces. Many have made their voice count, offering succour and hope, while praising frontline workers. Spotify advantage Across genres, from rapper DIVINE’s song ‘Salaam’ (that offers a nuanced look at the crises born from the pandemic in India) to Shillong bluesman Rudy Wallang’s ‘Deny the Bogeyman’ the idea is to raise awareness. Mumbai-based singer-songwriter Maalavika Manoj aka Mali has just released her new song ‘Age of Limbo’, off her upcoming album Caution to the Wind . While it was inspired by her disturbed state of mind over global strife, the song takes on a different meaning in the current situation. She sings, “Welcome to the age of limbo, welcome to no man’s paradise” over ominous string and synth work. “I wanted people to feel they were stepping into the unknown,” she explains. Recently selected amongst 36 global artistes for Spotify’s RADAR programme, Mali says, with some amusement, “Right now, I have more listeners in Sydney than I do in Chennai, which is my hometown.” Finding joy Meanwhile, The Bangalore Collective has launched a Hindi and English cover of Michael Jackson’s evergreen hit ‘Heal the World.’ Spearheaded by DJ Sasha Sammbi, who wrote the lyrics to the Hindi version, it has been produced by Brian C Bangera. Surprisingly, fashion designer Sounak Sen Barat (of House of Three) lends his voice to the Hindi version. While the initial objective was to create their own fund, they now work with the ‘Feed the Needy’ campaign by the National Restaurant Association of India and the Palresha Charitable Trust. With a UK tour cancelled and studio time reduced, Mumbai-based singer-songwriter Aditi Ramesh began (remotely) working on an all-new song, ‘Heal’. The wavy track proclaims early on, “If you’re hearing this song, you are privileged.” Between her Carnatic vocal harmonies, there are very real spoken-word portions about social inequities and how we can take joy in the little things even if we have trouble making rent. Some self healing Self-healing is a growing theme among musicians. Pune-based post-rock band Aswekeepsearching surprised fans with a new ambient album called Sleep . Though it was written much before the lockdown, as a means for frontman Uddipan Sarmah to try and recover from mental health struggles, the tender string section-aided album is an enveloping listen that can, in fact, help those messed-up sleep cycles. Sarmah says, “Mental health and wellness is a serious concern. Most times, we regress inwards and are afraid to express. We made this album with the intent of providing a form of comfort with our music, and we hope it helps anyone in need to, at the very least, sleep peacefully.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/recorded-during-quarantine/article31539384.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Mother’s Day: How do you celebrate this day without brunches and flowers? Italian heritage brand Ferragamo is hosting a series titled #MomToMom, with model Carolyn Murphy. Follow @ferragamo. PopSugar Fitness has live workout sessions to try with mum all day. Or sit back together and enjoy smooth R&B by 11-time Grammy-winning artiste Kenneth ‘Babyface’ Edmonds, on his Insta Live: @babyface.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article31539386.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Sleep assistants||To deal with the insomnia that has accompanied lockdown, audiobook platform, Audible, has launched a section to cope with sleep anxiety. This includes Honor Yourself (narrated by Diddy) and The Perfect Swing , an inspiring bedtime story narrated by Nick Jonas. 6 Sleep Myths Debunked , narrated by Arianna Huffington, gives the lowdown on how to improve your sleep cycle. Access this content through the Audible app — listeners can download the titles, set a sleep timer and cast to their connected devices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/sleep-assistants/article31539388.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Potter and film podcasts||Harry Potter reading the first chapter from the first book in the series: that’s the latest from the wizarding world. Daniel Radcliffe, the actor who played the titular role in the film adaptations, readsThe Boy who Lived. Other stars in the lineup include Stephen Fry and Eddie Redmayne. Available on Spotify. For movie magic buffs, two-time Oscar winner Roger Deakins now has his own podcast about filmmaking. The first six episodes of Team Deakins are now available on Apple Podcasts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/potter-and-film-podcasts/article31539390.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Kids teach kids||Two students of Class X from Sishya, Adam and Arun, are channelling their love of the ocean into an online camp on Understanding Oceans. Conducted over six Zoom sessions starting May 11, it is meant for eight to 11-year-olds. Marine biologists as well as experts on ocean ecology and conservation will also share their knowledge. The fee of Rs. 3,000 will be donated entirely to the Dakshin Foundation, a non-profit that works with Chennai’s fishing community.7550081070||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/kids-teach-kids/article31539392.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Rise Up New York!: Anti-poverty organisation, Robin Hood, is all set to raise funds for New Yorkers who are worst hit by the coronavirus pandemic. Hosted by Tina Fey (30 Rock,SNL), it will include musical performances by Bon Jovi, Billy Joel, Mariah Carey, Sting and others. All donations will go to food, health and mental health, legal services, etc. On May 12, 4.30 am IST; tune in at iheartmedia.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article31539394.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Pictures perfect||Chennai Photo Biennale continues its virtual events with a panel discussion on crisis reportage, today, from 9.30 pm. MaryAnne Golon from The Washington Post ; Paroma Mukherjee of Hindustan Times ; and Tanvi Mishra from The Caravan will weigh in. chennaiphotobiennale.com. Over on Instagram, fashion house Alexander McQueen is sharing images shot by photographers who were asked to capture their perceptions of nature during quarantine. @alexandermcqueen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/pictures-perfect/article31539396.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Art in an AR world||Use Snapchat’s latest augmented reality (AR) filter to create your own version of the iconic Spin paintings by artist Damien Hirst. Together, they are supportng the charity Partners in Health, who support vulnerable communities during the pandemic. Or add an immersive and experiential angle to your original artwork using Artivive. The AR tool allows artists to link classical with digital art — so you can add movement and music to make it a multi-sensory piece. Details: artivive.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/art-in-an-ar-world/article31539398.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||A global perspective||Widen your film horizons with a curated list of French content that is readily available on streaming platforms like Netflix. The French Institute in India has collated a number of resources, including free access to arte.tv, the European cultural channel, and an online festival of documentaries and feature films for the whole family (including podcasts, workshops and activities for kids). Look for lessons on cinema by Martin Scorsese and Wes Anderson, among other directors. Details on ifindia.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-global-perspective/article31539400.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today, singer-songwriter Sona Mohapatra talks creativity during lockdown with music writer Anurag Tagat. At 6 pm. On Sunday, we have a double-bill. Sports nutritionist Lovneet Batra will be in conversation with columnist Vasudha Rai on the best foods for various conditions like endometriosis or PCOD. At 5 pm. Followed by Chef Gaggan Anand at 7.30 pm — he will be sharing lessons learnt from the pandemic, with Shonali Muthalaly, editor, MetroPlus. All sessions are @thehinduweekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lockdownwithweekend/article31539402.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Cinema’s long road ahead||I distinctly remember the roaring in a Chennai theatre when Rajnikanth’s character in Baasha broke a pumpkin on his head and folded his hands to gesture ‘ vanakkam ’. More recently, that very loud, collective gasp when Thanos wiped out half of humanity, including some of our favourite superheroes in Avengers: Infinity War . And after the mind-numbing climax of Sairat , I stayed glued to my seat and wept; as did several others in the hall. Watching a film in a theatre is so much more than just sinking into a plush chair and relishing that tub of caramel popcorn. Its singular charm lies in experiencing a story as a collective with strangers. As are other public establishments, theatres across the country have also been in the dark for weeks now. While no one knows when we will be able to return to savour the movie-watching experience, it is obvious that like many businesses this one will also change in the post-corona world. The ‘new’ normal At present, most of the bigger chains are hoping to be up-and-running by the beginning of June. Once the government gives the go-ahead, they expect it to take another four-to-six weeks before films start releasing. The biggest challenge for every theatre would be building customer confidence. “After 30-40 days of lockdown, people would want to experience out-of-home entertainment, whether it is going to cinemas, restaurants or malls. But it’s up to us to convince them that it is safe to do so,” says Mohan Umrotkar, CEO Carnival Cinemas. Among the many changes planned are sanitiser stations, paperless transactions, and even masks for everyone. “We will have to raise the bar now and focus a lot of time, effort and resources on deep cleaning our cinemas beyond the auditorium and lobby areas. We will check the body temperature of customers and employees when they enter the premises,” explains Kamal Gianchandani, CEO, PVR Pictures. Keeping in mind the need for social distancing, there is a possibility that not all seats in a cinema hall would be available for sale. Alok Tandon, CEO, INOX Leisure Ltd says, “We will follow cross-allocation of seats to ensure that distance is maintained among the audience. Online booking modes will be programmed to allocate seats in that order. Screenings will be scheduled in such a manner, that entry, intermissions and exits of two shows do not occur simultaneously, and to avoid crowding of lobbies and restrooms”. Cross allocation of seats means that no theatre will see a ‘House Full’ sign for a while and that will definitely impact revenues for both theatres and film producers.It is therefore understandable why Gianchandani at PVR Pictures hopes that this measure will only be temporary. “We hope to have the entire capacity at our disposal within two months or so,” he insists. Back to the future In the 1950s, when the outbreak of polio in the US became severe, a few drive-in theatres advertised that their venue was the perfect place to be ‘flu and polio protected’. It is not surprising that in this age of social distancing, classic drive-in theatres in the US, Canada, Germany and South Korea are seeing a surge in popularity. At the Vilnius International Airport in Lithuania, for instance, a drive-in cinema has come up in its apron area where one would usually see parked planes. There have been reports of patrons driving a few hours to get to the closest drive-in theatre in Florida; and of Autokino Essen, one of the only two year-round drive-in theatres in Germany, selling out every screening since early March. In South Korea, while large multiplexes have remained open, Korean movie buffs have stayed away, preferring to wait hours to book tickets in the few drive-in theatres that are still operational. India currently has only two drive-in theatres — Prarthana (Chennai) and Sunset (Ahmedabad). PVR has plans of starting one in Mumbai’s Bandra Kurla Complex but Gianchandani says it “will take some time before it opens”. But he doesn’t expect drive-in theatres in India to overtake multiplexes or single-screens in popularity, and he’s not alone. Tandon of INOX Leisure lists out factors that work against them. “The concept comes with its own set of challenges. The biggest one being availability of land parcels closer to the heart of the city. Even if you secure such a land parcel, the possibility of operating only two shows a day would either challenge the commercial viability, or would make the operator charge a premium. Another aspect where the concept would face headwinds would be the climatic conditions in our country. India experiences extremely hot and extremely cold weather, and the mammoth monsoons may not be too friendly either.” Straight to digital For a few years now, theatres around the world have rued the decrease in footfalls and this has traditionally been blamed on the rising popularity of streaming services. Due to the pandemic, people are now filling the void of out-of-home entertainment with streaming services like Netflix and Amazon Prime Video. With the uncertainty of when theatres will reopen and, more importantly, whether audiences will return to them, movie producers across the country are contemplating the merits of going straight to digital. In Tamil Nadu, news of Jyotika’s upcoming film, Ponmagal Vandhal (originally scheduled for a March release) releasing online, was met with severe opposition from theatre owners. They, along with producers, are now reportedly framing guidelines on how to work in tandem, which will be followed post the lockdown. In Bollywood, there are rumours of at least half-a-dozen films being in negotiations with OTT platforms. Most of these are mid-sized films that can’t afford to wait months for a release and are in real danger of getting cannibalised by bigger releases when they finally do. Director Shoojit Sircar whose Gulabo Sitabo starring Ayushmann Khurrana and Amitabh Bachchan was scheduled to release on April 17, has said he is open to the idea of a digital release. Director-Producer Karan Johar in the past has often talked about how ‘big-ticket spectacle films’ will bring audiences back to theatres and trade analyst Komal Nahata believes that this could be a real possibility for the film business in the near future. Among the big budget films that were expected to hit our screen in the first half of 2020 are Rohit Shetty’s Sooryavanshi and Kabir Khan’s 83 , Aamir Khan’s Laal Singh Chaddha and Farhan Akhtar’s Toofan . “When this pandemic is over and people are ready to return to theatres, there will be a big backlog and only the big films will survive. These films will not go to OTT because it might not be fiscally feasible,” says Nahata. Whether we are watching them in hyper-sanitised theatres, from our cars or in homes, there is no doubt that movies will continue to be an integral part of India’s social fabric. Like director Christopher Nolan, whose Tenet is one of the films postponed indefinitely, wrote recently for The Washington Post , “When this crisis passes, the need for collective human engagement, the need to live and love and laugh and cry together, will be more powerful than ever.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cinemas-long-road-ahead/article31539714.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Recorded during quarantine||Few independent musicians are at home during this lockdown without anything to help them self-produce, including soundcards, mics and recording software/interfaces. Many have made their voice count, offering succour and hope, while praising frontline workers. Spotify advantage Across genres, from rapper DIVINE’s song ‘Salaam’ (that offers a nuanced look at the crises born from the pandemic in India) to Shillong bluesman Rudy Wallang’s ‘Deny the Bogeyman’ the idea is to raise awareness. Mumbai-based singer-songwriter Maalavika Manoj aka Mali has just released her new song ‘Age of Limbo’, off her upcoming album Caution to the Wind . While it was inspired by her disturbed state of mind over global strife, the song takes on a different meaning in the current situation. She sings, “Welcome to the age of limbo, welcome to no man’s paradise” over ominous string and synth work. “I wanted people to feel they were stepping into the unknown,” she explains. Recently selected amongst 36 global artistes for Spotify’s RADAR programme, Mali says, with some amusement, “Right now, I have more listeners in Sydney than I do in Chennai, which is my hometown.” Finding joy Meanwhile, The Bangalore Collective has launched a Hindi and English cover of Michael Jackson’s evergreen hit ‘Heal the World.’ Spearheaded by DJ Sasha Sammbi, who wrote the lyrics to the Hindi version, it has been produced by Brian C Bangera. Surprisingly, fashion designer Sounak Sen Barat (of House of Three) lends his voice to the Hindi version. While the initial objective was to create their own fund, they now work with the ‘Feed the Needy’ campaign by the National Restaurant Association of India and the Palresha Charitable Trust. With a UK tour cancelled and studio time reduced, Mumbai-based singer-songwriter Aditi Ramesh began (remotely) working on an all-new song, ‘Heal’. The wavy track proclaims early on, “If you’re hearing this song, you are privileged.” Between her Carnatic vocal harmonies, there are very real spoken-word portions about social inequities and how we can take joy in the little things even if we have trouble making rent. Some self healing Self-healing is a growing theme among musicians. Pune-based post-rock band Aswekeepsearching surprised fans with a new ambient album called Sleep . Though it was written much before the lockdown, as a means for frontman Uddipan Sarmah to try and recover from mental health struggles, the tender string section-aided album is an enveloping listen that can, in fact, help those messed-up sleep cycles. Sarmah says, “Mental health and wellness is a serious concern. Most times, we regress inwards and are afraid to express. We made this album with the intent of providing a form of comfort with our music, and we hope it helps anyone in need to, at the very least, sleep peacefully.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/recorded-during-quarantine/article31539696.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Triumph at Tribeca||Prashant Nair remembers visiting Village East Cinema in Manhattan during his engineering days, long before an overwhelming passion for cinema forced him to switch gears to filmmaking. One of New York City’s last remaining Yiddish theatre buildings, the landmark has been one of the regular venues for the annual Tribeca Film Festival. It would have meant coming a full circle for Nair then, with his latest feature film, Tryst With Destiny , slated to have had its world première at the historic site on April 16 as part of Tribeca’s international narrative competition lineup. “I used to frequent the theatre a lot in my early 20s and was excited at the idea of going back there with my own film,” he tells us on a phone call from his countryside home in Mallorca island in Spain. That, unfortunately, was not to be in these COVID-19 afflicted times. Festival circuit The physical festival may have been cancelled, but the film was screened virtually for the festival jury. It also clinched the best screenplay award in the international narrative section. Jointly produced by Manish Mundra’s Drishyam Films and French studio Backup Media, Tryst With Destiny was the only Indian film in the Tribeca programme this year. The jury comprised well-known names like Danny Boyle, Demian Bichir, Judith Godrèche, Sabine Hoffman and William Hurt. Nair was on his guard the most when it came to Boyle who he says “knows India so well”. Two of Nair’s films have won awards in their première outings at prestigious and influential North American spaces for independent cinema. Umrika had earlier bagged the audience award in the international competition at Sundance Film Festival 2015. Incidentally both the platforms have cinema legends as founding fathers — Robert Redford for Sundance and Robert De Niro when it comes to Tribeca. “With awards, you can never really tell. It is all about how relevant the film is at that time. But it is amazing to have won in festivals where Indian films have never been awarded before,” says Nair. Born in Chandigarh and raised in Sudan, Switzerland, Syria, Zambia and Austria, thanks to peripatetic bureaucrat parents, “the rootless, homeless” Nair, as he describes himself, has gone on to live in USA, France, Czech Republic, Germany, Mexico, India and Spain. He took his first shot at filmmaking with a micro-budget feature, Delhi In A Day , that he refers to as his film school. The experience that taught him all. Umrika and Tryst With Destiny aside, he has also directed two episodes of Amazon Prime Video’s Made In Heaven . Back to 1947 A triptych with three sets of stories and characters, Tryst With Destiny ’s roots lie in the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s landmark speech of 1947 on the eve of India’s Independence (incidentally, Nair’s first child was born on 14/11, Nehru’s birthday, while he working on this film). “I was moved by the promises made in the seminal speeches, frustrated with several things and was evaluating how far we have come from the goals that we had set for ourselves,” he says. The anthology film explores the inequalities endemic in our society, across the entire spectrum, financial and social, in matters of class, caste, gender, race. One of them is about a billionaire in Mumbai who realises that money can’t buy him everything. Then there is one about a lower-caste couple in rural Uttar Pradesh attempting to rebuild their lives, and the third is centred on a corrupt Mumbai cop trying to make his mistress’ demand come true. All of them are seeking a better life, and each story also focusses on one colour of the Indian tricolour. Nair, who started shooting the film in late 2018 has a strong ensemble of actors on board — Ashish Vidyarthi, Suhasini Maniratnam, Victor Banerjee, Lilette Dubey, Jaideep Ahlawat, Palomi Ghosh, among others. “Each story is provocative, and I was looking at generating discussion around the ideas. It was challenging for the actors as they had to push themselves,” he says. Up next Coming up next is a web series with Endemol Shine India on the Uphaar Cinema tragedy. He is working on it, far away from the film industry, in Mallorca. Doesn’t the distance act as a hurdle? No, he says; it helps him stay happy and content and gives him the freedom to pursue what he wants. Though “at times I miss the feel and energy of Mumbai,” he admits. It may have made him miss out on opportunities, the films may have taken longer to make, but there is the quality of life, the green countryside and the beautiful sunsets that he wouldn’t trade off for anything. Though the award has generated buzz for Tryst With Destiny , the future, as for everyone now, is looking unclear. “There is no manual to consult… we are waiting to see what happens.” Ideally he would like to screen the film in a couple of festivals before public screenings. Most important, however, is a screening for the cast and crew. “Watching your complete film with an audience for the first time is a magical experience,” concludes Nair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/triumph-at-tribeca/article31539697.ece
09 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Workers return to Gurugram unit||Half-a-dozen Muslim workers returned to work at Richa & Co. — a garments unit based in Udyog Vihar Phase-III in Gurugram — on Friday, a day after The Hindu reported that several of them were turned away citing their religion and told to wait till “there were orders from the higher-ups”. Around two dozen more are likely to join duty on Saturday. Babul Haq, an operator, who was among those turned away, said he got a call from his floor manager late on Thursday night regarding the management’s decision to allow the Muslim workers to join and his personal manager also rung him up on Friday morning asking him to return to work. Mr. Haq claimed that many other such workers also got a call from the two managers asking them to return to work. He said he along with six more of his Muslim colleagues worked on the first floor of the company and was handed over his movement pass as well, issued by the authority concerned on May 6. The company’s deputy manager (human resource and compliance) Amit Kumar had earlier said the workers were turned away since they did not have movement passes. Names in red The Muslim workers had earlier alleged that their names were marked in red and told that there was no work for “those offering Namaz and observing fast”. All these workers stay on rent in Dundahera village bordering Delhi and belong to West Bengal. Most of them the sole bread-winners said that they could not sustain themselves without work and had rent and other expenses to take care of. The company’s general manager Amardeep Dagar reiterated that the company had a large Muslim workforce and had never imposed religion-based restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/workers-return-to-gurugram-unit/article31539693.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||Sedition case: Khan moves court for anticipatory bail||Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) Chairman Zafarul Islam Khan, who is facing a sedition case over a tweet he posted last month, approached the High Court on Friday seeking anticipatory bail. The High Court will consider the plea on May 12 after Mr. Khan’s counsel Vrinda Grover appealed for an urgent hearing. Mr. Khan, 72, has been serving as the DMC chief since July 2017. In his plea, Mr. Khan stated that he suffers from heart disease and hypertension and was highly susceptible to COVID-19, which can be fatal for a person of his age and health condition. On April 30, the Delhi police had registered a case under Sections 124A (sedition) and 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) against Mr. Khan over a complaint received from a Delhi resident who alleged that he “made a social media post on Twitter and Facebook (on April 28), and the contents of the post are provocative, intended to cause disharmony and create a rift in society”. In his petition, Mr. Khan said the FIR was “misconceived, being made on a misrepresentation of facts and an erroneous, untenable reading of the law”. Defending his stand on the social media post, Mr. Khan said his tweet highlighted the plight of the minority population which had been targeted by certain elements in society, and further acknowledged the role of the international fraternity in raising concerns regarding the well-being of Indian Muslims. “Viewed as a whole, the statement does not allude to any tendency, leave alone incitement, of violence against the government or any section of the population... The social media post only refers to ‘Hindutva bigots’, which is not a religious group or community, but instead refers in this context to persons on social media posting hate speech and propagating communal disharmony,” read the plea. Earlier in the day, another Bench of the High Court asked authorities to consider the representation of a man seeking removal of Mr. Khan as DMC chief for his allegedly “inflammatory and threatening statements” against the majority community. Mr. Khan contended that as a “public-spirited individual and a distinguished member of the Muslim community” he has consistently spoken out against attacks, persecution and discrimination against the Muslim community. “The registration of an FIR on such a frivolous, unsubstantiated and ambiguous complaint for a tweet, reveals that the petitioner [Mr. Khan] is being targeted for his views and his work,” he added. While expressing his willingness to cooperate with the investigation, Mr. Khan had told the police about his inability to leave his residence because of his old age. He cited Section 160 CrPC which mandates that a person above the age of 65 cannot be compelled to appear in the police station, and that all proceedings may be carried out at his residence. The police has, however, still asked me to bring my laptop and mobile to the Cyber Cell in Dwarka on May 8, he added.  Viewed as a whole, the statement does not allude to any tendency, leave alone incitement, of violence against the government or any section of the population... Petition by DMC chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sedition-case-khan-moves-court-for-anticipatory-bail/article31539686.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||14-year-old boy dies after police ‘thrash’ him||A 14-year-old boy was allegedly thrashed to death by policemen in Rohini on Wednesday. A video that surfaced online on Friday shows that the boy — Rajneesh — was being revived while he lay unconscious in a vehicle. In the video, the family and others can be heard alleging that the policemen thrashed him, leading to his death. DCP (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said a bunch of boys had gathered in a park on Wednesday when a beat constable was announcing that people need to vacate area or action will be taken. “All the boys fled the spot when Rajneesh boy fell to the ground and fell unconscious. The officer then tried to revive the boy and also asked his colleague to bring a vehicle to take the boy to BSA Hospital from where he was further referred to Safdarjung Hospital,” Mr. Mishra said, adding that the boy died in a few hours. The family alleged that the police officer thrashed him. “The postmortem was conducted at Maulana Azad Medical College on Friday and the body was handed over to the family. Legal action will be taken after the report,” he said. In another video, a man from south-west Delhi’s Sagarpur, could be seen getting thrashed by a constable allegedly for “hugging people”. The officer has been suspended, an official said. In another video, medical staffers can be seen threatening a COVID-19 patient with a stick. The patient is learnt to have fled from Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital on Thursday evening after which an ambulance intercepted him in Connaught Place. In the video, he can be seen being forced inside the vehicle with a stick after medical staff circled around him while he sat on the road. In the fourth video, a man who was visiting Azadpur Mandi can be seen bleeding after being thrashed allegedly by security personnel. The probe revealed that there was a scuffle between the man and Civil Defence officials.  The post-mortem was conducted and the body was handed over to the family. Legal action will be taken depending on report P.K. Mishra DCP (Rohini)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/14-year-old-boy-dies-after-police-thrash-him/article31539694.ece
09 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Our fight is against unregulated social media: kin of dead teen||“This is a wake-up call for all of us to start using social media responsibly. It is not a platform to settle scores, it is not a platform to defame or seek relief,” read one of the many posts by the cousins of a teenager who committed suicide on May 4. He took the extreme step allegedly after a girl posted a message on her Instagram accusing him of molesting her three years ago, though adding that she had no proof of the incident. The teenager’s aunt told The Hindu that the family did not want their fight for justice to be a fight against the girl, but a fight against the faulty system. “The girl posted a message against him referring to a three-year-old incident and blew the details out of proportion. Soon, others on the social platform started posting messages trolling him. Some probably even called him. He could not take it and within a few minutes of the posting of the message, he took his life,” said the boy’s aunt. “The real justice for him will be when this filth on social media stops,” she said, adding that children have taken to wrong platforms to express themselves. Two days after the incident, the elders in the family — following much insistence from the younger family members — allowed the cousins to post messages putting across the boy’s side of the story. They even defended the girl when trolls started posting hate messages against her. “Many comments on our posts are aggressive and are abusing the girl. We do not support this. She was not able to talk to the correct sources and take the correct path – she is a child after all,” said a post by the boy’s family. The aunt rued that no documents were required for opening accounts on social media and that it was “highly unregulated”. She added that sending the girl to jail would not serve any purpose as she was a “misguided child and not a criminal”. Perhaps the arrest in the ‘bois locker room’ case in Delhi increased his fears that the allegations would affect his plans to study abroad, she added. The boy’s father has given a formal complaint in the matter demanding that “a case of abetment of suicide be registered against all persons who made illegal posts on Instagram”. The police said they are verifying the allegations and no case has been lodged yet.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. - 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/our-fight-is-against-unregulated-social-media-kin-of-dead-teen/article31539689.ece
09 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Children need laptops to access online classes’||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Centre and the city government to respond to a petition seeking directions to provide free laptops, tablets or mobile phones to poor kids so that they can access online classes during the COVID-19 lockdown. A Bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Sanjeev Narula also issued notices to the municipal corporations and 10 private unaided schools here seeking their stand on the plea by an NGO — Justice for All — by the next date of hearing on June 10. The NGO has contended that the private unaided schools’ decision to conduct classes via videoconferencing would affect over 50,000 students belonging to the economically weaker sections (EWS). The petition has contended that not providing the laptop, phone and high-speed internet, free of cost, to the poor kids would amount to a violation of their fundamental right to education. “The children belonging to EWS or disadvantaged group category are protected under Article 21A of the Constitution for getting an equitable quality education and the State is duty-bound to remove all financial barriers coming in the way of getting quality education in the same manner as their counterpart fee-paying students,” the NGO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/children-need-laptops-to-access-online-classes/article31539688.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Activists are often targets of cyberbullying’||The JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) on Friday condemned the trend of targeting activists through cyberbullying, saying it has been proven time and again that the “bois locker room” episode — that has recently come into light in Delhi — doesn’t stand isolated. “Highly disturbing, profane, violent and sexist comments under the live video of a woman JNUSU Councillor stand equally disturbing,” the JNUSU said. It has alleged that the right-wing has been tactically using it as a political tool to silence women who speak against the undemocratic, unconstitutional measures taken by the current government. Hate speeches They added that right-wing leaders have gotten away scot-free after delivering hate speech and misogynistic comments, while activists like Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider are slapped with UAPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/activists-are-often-targets-of-cyberbullying/article31539691.ece
09 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Food, beverage industry to develop digital platforms together: NRAI||The National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) on Friday said the food and beverage industry is coming together to develop and identify alternative digital platforms that will level the playing field between restaurants and food delivery platforms. The association said it has tied up with one of the largest player in this sphere and drawn out the blueprint to launch in a few months. It added that the move was taken as aggregators have become digital landlords and were destroying small restaurants. “While they came in to solve a genuine problem, their one-sided policies are destroying the business, especially small restaurants. The industry is working together to create an alternate technology solution to reorient and sustain their businesses in the post-COVID-19 world. The focus is on easy reconciliation, transparent pricing, cheaper delivery and protection of customer data,” the association said. NRAI president Anurag Katriarsaid the efforts are aimed at creating more viable alternative and not rivals to other aggregators or their current programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/food-beverage-industry-to-develop-digital-platforms-together-nrai/article31539692.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Mother’s Day: How do you celebrate this day without brunches and flowers? Italian heritage brand Ferragamo is hosting a series titled #MomToMom, with model Carolyn Murphy. Follow @ferragamo. PopSugar Fitness has live workout sessions to try with mum all day. Or sit back together and enjoy smooth R&B by 11-time Grammy-winning artiste Kenneth ‘Babyface’ Edmonds, on his Insta Live: @babyface.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article31539698.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Sleep assistants||To deal with the insomnia that has accompanied lockdown, audiobook platform, Audible, has launched a section to cope with sleep anxiety. This includes Honor Yourself (narrated by Diddy) and The Perfect Swing , an inspiring bedtime story narrated by Nick Jonas. 6 Sleep Myths Debunked , narrated by Arianna Huffington, gives the lowdown on how to improve your sleep cycle. Access this content through the Audible app — listeners can download the titles, set a sleep timer and cast to their connected devices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sleep-assistants/article31539699.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Potter and film podcasts||Harry Potter reading the first chapter from the first book in the series: that’s the latest from the wizarding world. Daniel Radcliffe, the actor who played the titular role in the film adaptations, readsThe Boy who Lived. Other stars in the lineup include Stephen Fry and Eddie Redmayne. Available on Spotify. For movie magic buffs, two-time Oscar winner Roger Deakins now has his own podcast about filmmaking. The first six episodes of Team Deakins are now available on Apple Podcasts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/potter-and-film-podcasts/article31539700.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Kids teach kids||Two students of Class X from Sishya, Adam and Arun, are channelling their love of the ocean into an online camp on Understanding Oceans. Conducted over six Zoom sessions starting May 11, it is meant for eight to 11-year-olds. Marine biologists as well as experts on ocean ecology and conservation will also share their knowledge. The fee of Rs. 3,000 will be donated entirely to the Dakshin Foundation, a non-profit that works with Chennai’s fishing community.7550081070||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kids-teach-kids/article31539701.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Rise Up New York!: Anti-poverty organisation, Robin Hood, is all set to raise funds for New Yorkers who are worst hit by the coronavirus pandemic. Hosted by Tina Fey (30 Rock,SNL), it will include musical performances by Bon Jovi, Billy Joel, Mariah Carey, Sting and others. All donations will go to food, health and mental health, legal services, etc. On May 12, 4.30 am IST; tune in at iheartmedia.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article31539702.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Pictures perfect||Chennai Photo Biennale continues its virtual events with a panel discussion on crisis reportage, today, from 9.30 pm. MaryAnne Golon from The Washington Post ; Paroma Mukherjee of Hindustan Times ; and Tanvi Mishra from The Caravan will weigh in. chennaiphotobiennale.com. Over on Instagram, fashion house Alexander McQueen is sharing images shot by photographers who were asked to capture their perceptions of nature during quarantine. @alexandermcqueen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pictures-perfect/article31539703.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Art in an AR world||Use Snapchat’s latest augmented reality (AR) filter to create your own version of the iconic Spin paintings by artist Damien Hirst. Together, they are supportng the charity Partners in Health, who support vulnerable communities during the pandemic. Or add an immersive and experiential angle to your original artwork using Artivive. The AR tool allows artists to link classical with digital art — so you can add movement and music to make it a multi-sensory piece. Details: artivive.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/art-in-an-ar-world/article31539704.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||A global perspective||Widen your film horizons with a curated list of French content that is readily available on streaming platforms like Netflix. The French Institute in India has collated a number of resources, including free access to arte.tv, the European cultural channel, and an online festival of documentaries and feature films for the whole family (including podcasts, workshops and activities for kids). Look for lessons on cinema by Martin Scorsese and Wes Anderson, among other directors. Details on ifindia.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-global-perspective/article31539705.ece
09 May 2020||May 09 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today, singer-songwriter Sona Mohapatra talks creativity during lockdown with music writer Anurag Tagat. At 6 pm. On Sunday, we have a double-bill. Sports nutritionist Lovneet Batra will be in conversation with columnist Vasudha Rai on the best foods for various conditions like endometriosis or PCOD. At 5 pm. Followed by Chef Gaggan Anand at 7.30 pm — he will be sharing lessons learnt from the pandemic, with Shonali Muthalaly, editor, MetroPlus. All sessions are @thehinduweekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdownwithweekend/article31539706.ece
