09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Three NGOs linked to Congress under Home Ministry scanner||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has constituted an inter-ministerial committee to probe alleged violation of various legal provisions by three NGOs — the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF), the Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust (RGCT) and the Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust (IGMT). All the three non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are linked to the Congress, and party president Sonia Gandhi is the chairperson of the RGF and the RGCT. A senior official of the Enforcement Directorate will head the committee. ‘Cannot be intimidated’ Reacting to the MHA’s decision, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Mr. Modi believes the world is like him. He thinks every one has a price or can be intimidated. He will never understand that those who fight for the truth have no price and cannot be intimidated.” An MHA spokesperson tweeted on Wednesday, “MHA sets up inter-ministerial committee to coordinate investigations into violation of various legal provisions of PMLA, Income Tax Act, FCRA, etc. by Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust & Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust. Spl. Dir of ED will head the committee.” The composition of the committee is not known yet nor are its terms of reference. The violations mentioned in the spokesperson’s tweet pertain to the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, the Income Tax Act and the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). As per the MHA website, both the RGF and the RGCT are registered FCRA associations, a pre-requisite for NGOs and other associations to receive foreign donations. The Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust is not a FCRA registered association. According to the latest annual returns filed by the RGF in December 2019, the NGO received zero foreign donations in 2018-19 but the total foreign contribution in its account carried forward from previous years is Rs. 14,03,64,727. The annual returns filed by the RGCT show that it received Rs. 23,24,35,975 from foreign donors in 2018-19, and the total donations in its FCRA account stood at Rs. 85,13,65,166. A sizeable part of the RGCT’s foreign donation in 2018-19 — Rs. 23,06,03,400 — came from the U.S.-based Bill Melinda Gates Foundation. The RGCT website says that it is a “registered, not-for-profit organisation” and was “established in 2002 to address the development needs of the underprivileged of the country, especially the rural poor.” BJP’s charge Recently, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party had alleged that the RGF continuously received donations from the Chinese embassy between 2006 and 2009. The allegations came in the middle of a build-up of Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh and the June 15 incident at the Galwan Valley, during which 20 Indian soldiers were killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-ngos-linked-to-congress-under-home-ministry-scanner/article32026705.ece
09 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||301 fresh cases take State’s count to 6,000||The cumulative burden of COVID-19 cases has crossed the 6,000 mark in the State, the jump by 1,000 cases occurring in the last four days. With 301 cases reported on Wednesday, the total case tally now stands at 6,195. What has marked the progress of the epidemic in the past one week is the exponential increase in the proportion of cases that have been springing up through local transmission. On Wednesday, the number of cases of local transmission was 107, with imported cases of infection numbering 194. Alarmingly, 60 out of the 107 “contact” cases or cases in the community have been reported in the capital district, where the disease has been spreading widely among fishers at Poonthura. Thiruvananthapuram also accounted for the maximum number of new cases reported on Wednesday with 64 cases, of which 60 are cases that have occurred through contact with asymptomatic infective persons. A chunk of these cases have been reported in Poonthura and the neighbouring coastal villages which are densely populated by fishers. Super spreader While it is speculated that Poonthura could be an isolated super spreader event, public health experts pointed out that the situation would be no different across the entire coastal line of the State and that only intensive testing in the local community would reveal the extent of actual disease transmission. Those who contracted cases from the community include three health-care workers, nine jawans of the Border Security Force in Thrissur, a Central Industrial Security Force jawan, a member of the Defence Security Corps in Kannur and three personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police. The number of persons currently in quarantine and under surveillance is 1,85,546, of whom 3,137 with mild symptoms have been isolated in hospitals in various districts. Malappuram, with 389 patients, has the maximum number of patients. This is followed by Kannur (324) and Thiruvananthapuram (238). The State has been aiming to increase testing to 15,000 samples a day and in the last 24 hours, the samples tested touched 11,250. With 12 new regions being newly designated as hotspots and four others dropped from the list, the total number of hotspots now is 169. Dead man tests positive Meanwhile, in Kasaragod, the test result of a 48-year-old man who was brought dead to the hospital turned positive on Wednesday. The man, a native of Kottakkunnu in Mogral Puthur panchayat, was living at Hubli in Karnataka. He was brought to the Kasaragod General Hospital after his health condition deteriorated on Tuesday. However, doctors declared him brought dead, said District Surveillance Officer A.T. Manoj. According to his relatives, the patient had a history of cardiac problems. One death in Kollam In another case in Kollam, a 65-year-old patient from Kayamkulam who was undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital here died on Wednesday. He was admitted on June 28 after he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. However, his swab collected on July 6 had tested negative. He was being treated for cardiac arrest, stroke and renal problems at the hospital. These two death cases have not been included in the official figures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/301-fresh-cases-take-states-count-to-6000/article32027033.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chinese troops move out of PP15 area in eastern Ladakh||Chinese troops have fully moved out of the Patrolling Point (PP) 15 of the Hot Springs area in eastern Ladakh as part of the disengagement underway to reduce tensions on the border, a defence source said on Wednesday. Separately, on Tuesday, Chinese Consul General in Mumbai Tang Guocai acknowledged Chinese casualties, without revealing any numbers, during the Galwan clash on June 15, which resulted in the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers. “At PP15, they have fully gone back. The disengagement is complete there. At PP17, the pullback is underway. It is expected to be over by Thursday or Friday,” the defence source stated. At the Finger 4 area of Pangong Tso, some more people and vehicles have gone back but there is no pull back as yet, the source stated. A complete disengagement at Pangong Tso is expected to take time. Buffer zone On the buffer zone that is being created, the source stated that it was not a buffer zone as being described, but it was decided only to prevent Galwan-like clashes during the disengagement process in future. “Given the incident last time during disengagement, it was decided during the Corps Commanders talks that in the intervening period [of disengagement], there should be no one in between [at the stand-off sites],” the source said, adding that it is purely temporary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chinese-troops-move-out-of-pp15-area-in-eastern-ladakh/article32026708.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan remotely lays stone for 125-ft Ambedkar statue||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday remotely laid the foundation stone for a 125-foot-tall statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar at Swaraj Maidan here. He also formally set in motion the process of the maidan’s transformation into a park. The foundation stone-laying ceremony was attended by Ministers Mekathoti Sucharita, Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Pinipe Viswaroop, Adimulapu Suresh and Perni Venkataramaiah and several MLAs in person. Mr. Jagan said Swaraj Maidan had been chosen so that it could be developed into a park that offers lung space to citizens as well as provide an opportunity for the public to learn more about the iconic leader. He said it would be the tallest statue of Dr. Ambedkar in the country, adding the park would be developed in 20 acres. Meanwhile, the government issued orders renaming Swaraj Maidan, also known as the PWD Grounds, as Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Swaraj Maidan. As per the orders, the grounds, under the control of the Water Resources Department, will soon be handed over to the Social Welfare Department which with the help of the APIIC will design and develop a huge park besides installing the statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-remotely-lays-stone-for-125-ft-ambedkar-statue/article32026693.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Private hospitals get nod to treat COVID patients||The State government has granted permission to private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients and fixed treatment rates separately for both critical and non-critical patients under the Dr. YSR Aarogyasri scheme. The hospitals should get permission from the District Collector and get notified. Special Chief Secretary (Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Wednesday issued an order to this effect. As per the recommendations of the technical committee that was headed by Dr. Jawahar Reddy, the government fixed the total cost per day for a non-critical patient at an Aarogyasri-empanelled private hospital at Rs. 3,250. The per day cost for patients requiring critical care has been fixed between Rs. 5,480 and Rs. 10, 380 depending on the requirement of ICU facility, ventilator and other treatment procedures and equipment. The cost covers hospital expenditure on medical personnel, PPE, disinfection, investigations, medicines and nutrition provided to the patient in both critical and non-critical cases. A patient will be considered non-critical if his or her symptoms and chest X-ray are normal.  The government asked the Collectors to classify private hospitals into three categories — exclusive COVID hospitals (Category A), hospitals that treat COVID and non-COVID patients(Category B) and hospitals that treat only non-COVID patients (Category C). Collectors will issue permissions to the private hospitals. Hospitals not empanelled under Aarogyasri have to display per day costs fixed by the government at the reception and maintain a detailed case sheet for every patient. The Category A and Category B hospitals are also asked to provide treatment in case of emergency without waiting for the test result for COVID. In case of such an emergency in Category C hospital and the need for better treatment, the hospital is responsible for transferring the patient to either Category A or Category B hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-hospitals-get-nod-to-treat-covid-patients/article32026694.ece
09 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Two U.P. policemen held for tipping off Dubey on raid||The suspended Station House Officer (SHO) of Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari, and beat in-charge K.K. Sharma were arrested on Wednesday on charges of allegedly providing a tip-off to wanted criminal Vikas Dubey about the police raid at his house on the intervening night of July 2-3 when eight policemen were shot dead in an ambush. The two policemen provided information to Dubey about the raid, said Senior Superintendent of Police, Kanpur, Dinesh Kumar. “After collection of evidence, it has come to light that Vikas Dubey had been alerted and [he] set up an ambush and killed the policemen after he had been provided information about the police raid beforehand,” said the SSP. The two were being sent to judicial custody, he added. Meanwhile, the police shot dead Amar Dubey, an aide of Vikas Dubey, who was often seen carrying a gun with him, in an alleged encounter in rural Maudaha in Hamirpur. An illegal semi-automatic .32 bore pistol was recovered from Amar Dubey, said Additional Director General-Law and Order Prashant Kumar. A constable was shot and injured in the encounter, in which Amar allegedly fired at the policemen despite being asked to surrender, the U.P. police said in a statement. Mr. Kumar also said that an absconding accused, Prabhat, and two others, Ankur Mishra and Shrawan Mishra, who allegedly provided him shelter, were arrested from a house in Faridabad in Haryana. Two 9 mm pistols looted from the police on the night of July 2-3, along with two other pistols and 44 live cartridges, were recovered from them, said Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-up-policemen-held-for-tipping-off-dubey-on-raid/article32026703.ece
09 July 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata blames Left regime for corruption||Facing protests over alleged irregularities in distribution of assistance to people affected by Cyclone Amphan, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the Left government’s legacy of corruption is to be blamed for malpractices at the panchayat level in the State. Ms. Banerjee said, “During the CPI(M) regime, there was 100% corruption at the panchayat level. We have been able to stop 90%. It is not possible to weed out all corruption, remove all thieves. We have instructed officials not to swindle public money.” On Wednesday, there were protests at two gram panchayats in Purba Medinipur. Ms. Banerjee said at some places there is 6% to 7% corruption and the police are taking strong action against it. The CPI(M) leadership took strong exception to the remarks, with Polit Bureau member Mohammad Salim saying that misappropriation of money has been rampant in Amphan relief efforts. “There are protests over irregularities across all districts from South 24 Paraganas to Murshidabad. There has not been a single case where the police have taken action,” he said. Mr. Salim added, “Today is Jyoti [Basu] Babu’s birth anniversary. He started the panchayat system and Mamata Banerjee has dismantled it.” Sujan Chakraborty, another CPI(M) leader, dared the Chief Minister to prove allegations of corruption against any minister in the Left regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-blames-left-regime-for-corruption/article32027093.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. Minister tests positive for COVID-19||Tamil Nadu Electricity Minister P. Thangamani tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Mr. Thangamani is the second Minister in the State to have contracted the infection after Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan, who has been undergoing treatment at a hospital since June 18. Besides, four legislators each from the ruling AIADMK and the principal Opposition party, the DMK, have tested positive so far. Sources said Mr. Thangamani visited a private hospital in Chennai and got himself tested. The test results returned positive, following which he was admitted as an in-patient on Wednesday. Incidentally, Mr. Thangamani had taken part in a meeting with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday. A photograph released by the Department of Information and Public Relations (DIPR) showed him in close proximity to the Chief Minister. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and other senior officials were present at the meeting. On Wednesday, the Minister skipped a meeting between the CM and Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Power R.K. Singh at the Secretariat. On Monday, he had taken part in a meeting at the AIADMK’s headquarters, which was also attended by Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Rajya Sabha MPs K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam, and former Minister Natham R. Viswanathan. AIADMK MLAs Amman K. Arjunan (Coimbatore South), K. Palani (Sriperumbudur), N. Sathan Prabhakar (Paramakudi) and R. Kumaraguru (Ulundurpet) recently tested positive for the virus. Former Minister and chairperson of the Tamil Nadu Textbook and Educational Services Corporation B. Valarmathi tested positive earlier this week. Among DMK MLAs, R.T. Arasu (Cheyyur), K. Karthikeyan (Rishivandhiyam) and K.S. Masthan (Gingee) have tested positive for the infection. J. Anbazhagan (Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni) died of COVID-19 last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32026795.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||No clarity on rations for returning migrants||The trains are full of migrants returning to their workplaces in cities, but the Centre is still considering how to ensure that those without ration cards do not go hungry. On Wednesday, the Union Cabinet approved the five-month extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana to give free grain and chana to 81 crore ration card holders. Speaking to journalists after the meeting, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar seemed to indicate that migrant workers would also benefit. “Even migrant labourers were also included at a later stage, and they have also got free rations. Now those who have returned will also continue to get,” the Minister said. “Because where they are now, they are already getting free rations. If they return, they will also get free rations.” Asked how this would be done, given that the Aatmanirbhar scheme to give rations for migrants without cards was only in effect for May and June, he had no clear response, making references to shelter homes and the card portability scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-clarity-on-rations-for-returning-migrants/article32026700.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS records new high of 1,924 COVID cases in a day||Telangana recorded a new high of 1,924 COVID cases in a day on Wednesday. The total number COVID-19 cases reached 29,536, just 464 short of 30,000 cases. The second highest of 1,892 cases in a day was recorded on July 3. Eleven more COVID-19 patients died on Wednesday, taking the toll to 324. Of the 1,924 cases, 1,590 are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 99 from Rangareddy, and 43 from Medchal. Of the total 29,536 cases, 11,933 are active cases, 17,279 were discharged and 324 patients died. Telangana stands sixth in the total number of cases in India. The cumulative Test Positivity Rate reached 21.9%. The State Health department officials said that of the 1,890 beds at Gandhi Hospital, which is Centre of Excellence for COVID care, 1,141 are vacant. However, doctors from General Medicine and Pulmonology departments working at the hospital said that they were over-stretched. Doctors from other departments too were allotted COVID duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-records-new-high-of-1924-covid-cases-in-a-day/article32026968.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,||2,062 cases, 54 deaths in a day in State||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 2,062 COVID-19 cases and 54 deaths — the highest tally on a single day so far. With this, the total number of positive cases touched 28,877 and the death toll rose to 470. Meanwhile, private hospitals in Bengaluru have agreed to set aside 3,000 beds for COVID-19 patients. They, however, insisted that admission for all patients, both paying and referred patients, should be made through a centralised allotment system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2062-cases-54-deaths-in-a-day-in-state/article32026746.ece
09 July 2020||Washington,||Trump starts withdrawal of U.S. from WHO||President Donald Trump on Tuesday formally started the withdrawal of the U.S. from the World Health Organization (WHO), making good on threats to deprive the UN body of its top funding source over its response to the coronavirus. Public health advocates and Mr. Trump’s political opponents voiced outrage at the exit from the Geneva-based body, which leads the global fight on maladies from polio to COVID-19. After threatening to suspend the $400 million in annual U.S. contributions and then announcing a withdrawal, the Trump administration formally sent a notice to UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, a State Department spokesperson said. The withdrawal is effective in one year — July 6, 2021. Joe Biden, Mr. Trump’s presumptive Democratic opponent in the November elections, vowed he would end the pullout if he won. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus responded to the news with a one-word tweet — “Together!” — as he linked to a discussion by U.S. health experts on how the move could impede efforts to prevent future pandemics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trump-starts-withdrawal-of-us-from-who/article32026701.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India says Jadhav was coerced||India on Wednesday said former naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, sentenced to death by a Pakistan Army court, had “clearly been coerced” into not appealing against his April 2017 conviction. The response came after Pakistan claimed earlier in the day that Mr. Jadhav, arrested on charges of espionage and terrorism in 2016, had refused to file an appeal in the Islamabad High Court. “Pakistan has obviously coerced Shri Jadhav to forego his rights to seek an implementation of the judgment of the International Court of Justice,” an External Affairs Ministry statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-says-jadhav-was-coerced/article32026706.ece
09 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Poonthura to be made separate cluster||The Health Department has formulated an action plan to prevent ‘super spread’ of COVID-19 in view of the increasing cases of local spread in the district. As per the action plan prepared at a high-level meeting chaired by Health Minister K.K. Shylaja on Wednesday, preventive measures will be taken by dividing areas such as Poonthura into separate clusters. Increase in testing and quarantining all those who have come into contact with those testing positive are being planned. Separate outpatient sections will be opened for those coming from neighbouring States, especially from areas having more virus spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/poonthura-to-be-made-separate-cluster/article32027038.ece
09 July 2020||Kolkata,||Shocked at CBSE’s decision to drop topics: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday took to Twitter to express shock over the CBSE’s decision to drop topics such as citizenship, federalism, secularism and partition from its syllabus in the garb of reducing the course load for students amid the COVID-19 crisis. The CM urged the Ministry of Human Resources and Development to ensure “vital lessons aren’t curtailed at any cost”. Partha Chatterjee, West Bengal Education Minister, also opposed the move. “This is a dangerous move to destroy our history, democratic rights, and the Constitution,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shocked-at-cbses-decision-to-drop-topics-mamata/article32027091.ece
09 July 2020||Kolkata,||Over 170 containment zones declared in Kolkata and districts||Lockdown will be imposed in containment zones in West Bengal for seven days from 5 p.m. on Thursday to check the surge in COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said. The State on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day spike of 986 cases, taking its case tally to 24,823. The government has made public a list of over 170 containment zones in Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and Howrah districts: the worst-affected regions in the State. Kolkata reported six of the 23 deaths recorded in the past 24 hours, North 24 Parganas six and Howrah five. Kolkata has 25 containment zones, North 24 Parganas 95, and Howrah 56.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-170-containment-zones-declared-in-kolkata-and-districts/article32027092.ece
09 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra crosses 2.2 lakh COVID-19 cases||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 6,603 new COVID-19 cases, its second-highest single-day surge yet, taking its tally to 2,23,723. The State also recorded 198 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 9,448. Mumbai’s total case tally rose to 87,856, with 1,347 new cases being reported. The city also recorded 62 more deaths, taking its toll to 5,064. Just three new cases were recorded in Dharavi on Wednesday, compared to one on Tuesday. The State Surveillance Officer said the State’s recovery rate stands at 55.06%, while its case fatality rate is 4.22%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-crosses-22-lakh-covid-19-cases/article32027159.ece
09 July 2020||Mumbai,||Loyalties shift as five councillors rejoin Sena||Five councillors from Parner in Ahmednagar district, who switched over from the Shiv Sena to the NCP last week, rejoined the Uddhav Thackeray-led party on Wednesday. The move comes two days after NCP chief Sharad Pawar held a meeting with Mr. Thackeray. The five councillors met Mr. Thackeray at his residence, Matoshree, in Mumbai and rejoined the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/loyalties-shift-as-five-councillors-rejoin-sena/article32027160.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Deferring online exam till after Aug. 15, DU tells HC||Delhi University on Wednesday informed the High Court that the online Open Book Examinations for final-year undergraduate students, which were scheduled to begin from July 10, have been deferred to the second half of August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deferring-online-exam-till-after-aug-15-du-tells-hc/article32026911.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Now, drivers, domestic workers to be screened||The Delhi government on Wednesday released a modified COVID response plan under which drivers, domestic workers, plumbers, electricians, carpenters, mechanics, among others have been termed as Special Surveillance Groups and will be enlisted and screened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-drivers-domestic-workers-to-be-screened/article32026912.ece
09 July 2020||Srinagar,||BJP leader, two relatives killed in attack in J&K||A BJP leader and two of his family members were killed in a suspected militant attack in north Kashmir's Bandipora on Wednesday evening, even as security was beefed up across the Valley on the fourth death anniversary of Hizbul Mujahideen ‘commander’ Burhan Wani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-leader-two-relatives-killed-in-attack-in-jk/article32026913.ece
09 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||Four deaths in Ballari, one each in Kalaburagi, Bidar||Four more COVID-19 deaths were reported in Ballari on Wednesday taking the toll to 40. As per a bulletin, three of the four dead were aged over 60 and two of them had co-morbidities. Three of them died on Sunday and one on Tuesday. A Kalaburagi patient having co-morbidities died on Sunday taking the toll to 30 and a 65-year-old patient in Bidar died on Monday taking the number of deaths in the district to 49.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-deaths-in-ballari-one-each-in-kalaburagi-bidar/article32026937.ece
09 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||Dharwad sees 89 new cases, seven deaths||As North Karnataka continued to register a rise in COVID-19 cases, Dharwad district recorded the highest single day increase of 89 cases on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the district recorded seven deaths in the last three days. A former Mayor and a former municipal councillor from the BJP, both residents of Hubballi, were among the 89 who tested positive. Both have been admitted to the designated hospital in Hubballi. Like on Tuesday, three districts in the region crossed the half-century mark. Haveri recorded 31 cases followed by Belagavi with 27 cases and Bagalkot with 24 cases. Uttara Kannada recorded 19, Gadag five and Vijayapura four. Vijayapura district also recorded two deaths on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharwad-sees-89-new-cases-seven-deaths/article32026938.ece
09 July 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu reports 3,756 new COVID-19 cases||Chennai, along with five northern districts, accounted for nearly 60% of the 3,756 new COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. With this, the State’s tally rose to 1,22,350. Sixty-four more persons died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-reports-3756-new-covid-19-cases/article32026797.ece
09 July 2020||Chennai,||25 IMH patients test positive for COVID-19||Nearly 25 patients at the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last few days. A majority of them are from a single ward for men. Official sources said the affected patients were shifted to a separate ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/25-imh-patients-test-positive-for-covid-19/article32026798.ece
09 July 2020||Chennai,||HC seeks details of PPE kit disbursal||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the government to spell out the frequency at which Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits were being distributed to the 21 government hospitals treating COVID-19 patients, since it had been reported that a kit cannot be used for more than six hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-seeks-details-of-ppe-kit-disbursal/article32026799.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||No political vendetta in RGF probe, says BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday refuted allegations of political vendetta against the Congress after the Union government instituted an inter-ministerial group to go into any irregularities in the funding of the Congress-linked Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF). At a press conference, BJP general secretary P. Muralidhar Rao said orders for the probe were a “natural outcome” of the information recently brought out into the public domain. “The government would not have waited for six years to order a probe if it had been at all politically motivated,” Mr. Rao said. He also accused the party of not behaving in a “responsible manner” as an Opposition. “During 1948, 1962, 1965, 1971 wars, we’ve behaved as Opposition, not as enemy to the government. We in no way have given any kind of direct/indirect strength to enemy countries. Today, Modi govt. is taking care of the poor, economy, growth while giving a model leadership to the world,” he said. While nobody is denying the crisis posed by COVID-19, Mr. Rao said the government had identified challenges and begun addressing them in a “360 degree manner”. “To help farmers, 70.32 lakh kisan credit cards have been sanctioned with a credit limit of Rs. 62,870 crore out of Rs. 2 lakh crore concessional credit under the ‘Atmanirbhar’ package, he said. This will benefit 2.5 crore farmers, including fishermen and dairy farmers,” he said. Mr. Rao said free ration scheme for over 80 crore poor people had been extended till November, while over Rs. 64.5 thousand crore has been distributed among 40 crore people under various welfare measures. “As many as 20 States have already come on board for one nation one ration care scheme, which will ensure that beneficiaries can get their share of free grains in any part of the country” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-political-vendetta-in-rgf-probe-says-bjp/article32026651.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Trace contacts within 72 hours’||The Union Health Ministry has asked all the States and Union Territories to ensure that contacts of at least 80% of new COVID-19 cases are traced and quarantined within 72 hours of confirmation. “States have followed the direction of the Ministry to substantially increase testing with the deployment of RT-PCR tests, Rapid Antigen Tests, which has helped in early identification of cases,” said a senior health official. Mobile apps He said that along with testing, contact tracing and house-to-house surveys had been intensified, especially in the containment zones. “States have developed several mobile apps to keep track of high risk population, including the elderly population, people with co-morbidities, pregnant women and small children. The involvement of the community, ASHAs and ANMs at the local government has led to effective surveillance in the community,” noted the Ministry. The Ministry on Wednesday said the number of samples being tested had substantially grown with 2,62,679 samples having been tested in the past 24 hours. Of these, more than 53,000 samples had been tested in private labs. It said the cumulative number of samples tested so far stood at 1,04,73,771. “The ramped up healthcare infrastructure in the States has resulted in distribution of the positive cases in different healthcare facilities, including dedicated COVID Hospitals, COVID health care centres and COVID care centres. This, coupled with effective treatment, has ensured in keeping the case mortality low. Ramping up of dedicated COVID facilities within the public and private sectors has ensured timely triaging and treatment of the patients,” the Ministry noted. Pulse oximeter Meanwhile, stating that measuring of oxygen saturation level is one of the most important parameters for monitoring the health of COVID-19 patients, the Ministry of Defence, the Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare, on Wednesday announced that it will reimburse the cost of pulse oximeter purchased by the Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) beneficiaries. “The ECHS beneficiaries who have been tested positive for COVID-19 infection are permitted to purchase one pulse oximeter per family,” noted the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trace-contacts-within-72-hours/article32026670.ece
09 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Local spread in Kerala widens with 107 cases||Kerala’s cumulative burden of COVID-19 cases crossed the 6,000 mark with 301 cases reported on Wednesday. The State’s case tally now stands at 6,195 cases, a jump of 1,000 cases over the last few days. In the past one week, there was a big increase in local transmission of cases. On Wednesday, local transmission accounted for 107 cases, with imported cases put at 194. Moreover, 60 out of 107 “contact” cases or cases in the community were reported in the capital district, where COVID-19 was spreading among the fisherfolk in coastal Poonthura. Thiruvananthapuram also accounted for the maximum number of new cases reported at 64, of which 60 were traced to contact with asymptomatic infective persons. A chunk of these cases were in Poonthura and the neighbouring coastal villages, densely populated by fisherfolk. While it was speculated that in Poonthura it could be an isolated event of mass spread, public health experts felt that the situation would be no different across the entire coastal line of the State and that only intensive testing in the local community would reveal the full extent of disease transmission. Those who contracted cases from the community included three health-care workers, nine jawans of the BSF in Thrissur; a CISF jawan, a member of the Defence Security Corps in Kannur and three personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police. The number of persons currently under quarantine and surveillance was 1,85,546. Karnataka reported a biggest single day spike of 2,062 new COVID-19 cases and a record 54 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 28,877 and the death toll to 474, the health department said. The day also saw 778 patients getting discharged after recovery. The overall mortality rate is at 1.19%. State Medical Education K Sudhakar said the managements of private hospitals have agreed to provide 3,500 beds for treatment of COVID-19 patients. Chennai along with five northern districts accounted for nearly 60% of the 3,756 new cases of coronavirus disease reported in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. The surge continued in the southern parts especially in Madurai, Kanyakumari and Thoothukudi. With this, the overall State tally rose to 1,22,350. A total of 3,051 persons were discharged from hospitals, while 64 more persons succumbed to the infection. There were 46,480 active cases, while 74,167 patients were discharged. The death toll stood at 1,700. Chennai recorded 1,261 COVID-19 cases, while its neighbouring districts Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu saw an increase in the number of new infections with 300 and 273 cases respectively. Vellore reported 160 cases, while Kancheepuram had 160 cases and Villupuram had 104 cases. Chennai’s total was 72,500 cases followed by Chengalpattu (7,215), Tiruvallur (5,507) and Madurai (5,057). Three districts - Kancheepuram, Tiruvannamalai and Vellore - had over 2,000 cases each, while 11 districts had over 1,000 cases each.  (With inputs from Chennai bureau and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/local-spread-in-kerala-widens-with-107-cases/article32026649.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Safety norms drawn up for university exams||Two metres space between examination desks; disinfection of walls, floors and doors; thermometers and sanitisers at all entry and exit points are some of the measures the Centre wants universities to take to safeguard students taking examinations physically. Students having symptoms such as fever, cough and cold should “either be made to sit in a separate room or given a chance to appear on another day”, according to guidelines framed by the Human Resource Development Ministry and sent to the National Testing Agency, University Grants Commission and the All India Council for Technical Education. Engineering and medical entrance examinations, as well as final year university examinations are scheduled to be held by the end of September, leaving many students apprehensive about health risks. While insisting that examinations are necessary to ensure “merit and lifelong credibility”, the guidelines directed institutions to address student concerns, including “anxiety and stress developed during the lockdown period and fear of COVID-19 after opening of campuses”. Apart from students, staff also face the risk of serious illness, it said. Staff advisory Staff conducting exams must self-certify their health status and submit to temperature screening. If they fail to meet health criteria, they will be requested to leave the centre immediately. For students showing symptoms, the guidelines are more circumspect, offering the choice of a separate room or an alternative examination date without stipulating who will get to make that decision. “The downloading of Aarogya Setu app may be advised for every staff and student,” the guidelines said. The standard operating procedures, which have been vetted by the Health Ministry, call for the floors, walls, doors, gates, staircase railings and lift buttons at all examination centres to be sprayed with disinfectant. Desks and chairs in the candidate seating area should be sanitised after every session, it said. Social distancing of two metres must be ensured at entry and exit as well as during the examination. All students must wear face masks and clean their hands, while staff must wear masks and gloves, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/safety-norms-drawn-up-for-university-exams/article32026691.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Quorum not needed for routine panel meetings’||Contradicting the Opposition’s argument for virtual meetings of standing committees to ensure quorum during deliberations, officials at the Rajya Sabha Secretariat have said that quorum is essential only when the committees take decisions or adopt reports and not during routine deliberations. Sources said this issue came up at a meeting on Wednesday chaired by Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu. Congress leader and Chairman of the Standing Committee on Science and Technology Jairam Ramesh had written to Mr. Naidu demanding a virtual meeting citing lack of quorum. Quorum for these meetings is generally 11 out of 30 members. The officials, sources said, told Mr. Naidu that out of 281 meetings of the eight department-related Standing Committees that are headed by Rajya Sabha members, 16% were held without quorum. “The committee on Science and Technology & Environment and Forests held 32 meetings during the past three years, of which 22% were without quorum. In respect of the 38 meetings of the committee on Home Affairs, 21% were without quorum,” a senior RS official said. Mr. Ramesh has been heading the committee only since September last year. He said that during his tenure, 11 meetings were held and quorum was complete in each one of them. According to sources, eight of the 30 members of the standing committee on Science and Technology which is to deliberate on “Preparedness for COVID-19” have confirmed attendance. Of them, other than Mr. Ramesh himself, one member from the Samajwadi Party and one from Bahujan Samaj Party, the remaining are from the BJP. All the members who have confirmed are either from Delhi or Uttar Pradesh, their constituencies within driving distance to Parliament. “Point isn’t about quorum alone. It’s about facilitating those MPs who want to attend and are unable to because of containment zones and quarantine restrictions in their home states,” Mr. Ramesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quorum-not-needed-for-routine-panel-meetings/article32026678.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Policymakers must realise that pandemic is still in early stage in India’||While nations across the world struggle to contain the fallout of the human toll and economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, public health experts such as Dr. Ashish Jha , K.T. Li Professor of Global Health at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and Director of the Harvard Global Health Institute, have been at the forefront of research and public policy guidance to public and private institutions dealing with the crisis. He shared insights into the epidemiological basis of the pandemic and what policy solutions hold out hope for the future in India.  You have argued that to measure the true impact of the coronavirus in India, we need to look beyond the official fatalities record of the government. Why do you believe this? First of all, the key metrics that we want to sort relate to how many people have been infected and how many people have died. Both of those are driven a lot by how carefully you look. If you have a lot of mild infections happening, and you are not testing extensively, you are going to miss those. Therefore, you might find that you have a very high case fatality rate because you are only testing the sick patients and finding very sick people. Alternatively, if you do not have a very good surveillance system for deaths, if every death is not thoroughly investigated, you might find that a lot of people die. You do not know why they are dying. You may think that your case fatality rate is really low, because you are missing a lot of deaths due to COVID-19. Understanding both how many people have been infected with and have died of this virus in India is a tricky business. You cannot just look at the official statistics. Is there any chance in India that the accuracy of recording deaths and causes of deaths is reasonably high and the estimated fatality rate is in the correct ballpark? The global fatality rate is about 1%, maybe a little less. When all is said and done, that will be the fatality rate in India. I actually expect that in India it will be lower than 1%, because India has a relatively younger population. But I am not particularly interested in fatality rate — I am interested in fatalities. Right now, the statistics suggest that around 20,000 people have died of this virus in India. That, to me, is very low. It is possible that we are doing a good job in India of ascertaining all the deaths, but I would not be surprised if we are missing a lot. The reason is that when I look at the U.S., U.K. and Western Europe, all of those countries have a lot more deaths than they have officially recorded. If high-income countries with very good surveillance systems are missing anywhere from 30%-70% of deaths from the coronavirus, why would I not expect that India would also be missing a similar proportion of deaths? I also think that the current estimate of 7,00,000 people having been infected is almost surely a very substantial underestimate. Is the government justified in conserving test kits and surveillance system resources over time, hence limiting testing to the numbers that we see? There is no limit to how much testing a country can do if it makes investments in reagents and other supplies. It can do very large numbers of tests. India has done about ten million tests so far. The U.S. has done about 40 million, Russia has done about 20 million. Why is India’s capacity less than Russia’s in terms of the ability to do testing? I just think it is a priority issue. If India decided tomorrow that it was going to invest substantial financial and intellectual resources into ramping up testing, I know nothing about India that makes me think it cannot do it, that it does not have the capacity. Is the theory of herd immunity our only hope until a vaccine arrives? Could either or both of these halt the pandemic in its tracks? Please explain how they work. The purpose of herd immunity is that once you have 60%-70% of the population immune to the disease, then the virus cannot spread anymore, it slows down, and it does not completely extinguish but it becomes a much smaller problem. How do you get to 60%-70% immunity? The best way to do it is through a vaccine. If you do not have a vaccine — and this is what people usually refer to as herd immunity — what if you just let the infection run? 60%-70% of India’s population will have to get infected — the idea of nearly a billion people getting infected. If you take a 1% fatality rate, that is 10 million people dying, and tens of millions of people getting very sick, hospitals completely overwhelmed over the next year. That is a disaster. So, herd immunity is the policy of complete and utter failure. With millions of people dying and hundreds of people getting very sick, the economy will be completely destroyed. India has had among the most stringent lockdowns across the world. Would you argue that that has had a substantial impact? Remember, the entire strategy here is to protect people until a vaccine becomes available. I believe a vaccine will be available for India sometime in 2021 and my hope is that it will be in the first half of 2021. But there is a lot of uncertainty. Let us assume that it is in July 2021. We have about a year to go until that vaccine becomes available. But lockdowns only buy you time. You cannot be locked down for a year, it is just not possible economically and socially. The key is to use that lockdown to substantially ramp up testing, communicate to the people of India what will happen when the lockdown ends, how our behaviour must change, put in those policies, and ramp up hospital capacity. Then, when you unlock, you will be better able to handle what will surely be a surge of cases, as we are seeing in India right now. When do you see the viral spread peaking in India and then coming down, and, accordingly, what advice would you give to the Indian government? What policymakers in India must understand is that the pandemic is still quite early in India. What will cause the peak and the decreasing of cases? Right now, less than 1% of the Indian population has been infected. What we have seen in other places is that left unchecked, that number will grow exponentially until we hit 60%-70% infection, which is a billion people. Of course, it is not going to be left unchecked, and I do not expect that that is going to happen. There are things that India can do to really reduce the spread of this virus and slow down that growth. Increasingly, we have good evidence around mask-wearing. People should be wearing masks outside, and indoors in any public space. Second, we have got to go after hotspots. Every time you detect an outbreak, you need to follow the testing, tracing, isolation strategy. That has worked in lots of places in India — in Kerala, and in Dharavi in Mumbai. There is no reason for me to think that that cannot beareally critical public health strategy. Third, for the next year ahead, no large gatherings. If India does all of that — the masks, the testing, getting rid of large gatherings — then I think India has a pretty good shot at keeping the virus from getting into exponential growth.  I think that the current estimate of 7,00,000 people having been infected is almost surely a very substantial underestimate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/policymakers-must-realise-that-pandemic-is-still-in-early-stage-in-india/article32026688.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Vicious and vengeful, says Congress||The Congress called the Narendra Modi government’s decision to set up an inter-ministerial committee to investigate donations to three organisations associated with it — Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust and Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust — “wholly vicious and vengeful”. In a detailed statement, the party’s media-in charge, Randeep Surjewala, said the Congress leadership will not be ‘intimidated’ by “blind witch hunt”. He accused the government of using these investigations to distract from the real questions on security and territorial integrity, mishandling of the COVID-19 crisis and the oncoming economic recession. “A desperate Modi-Shah government has fallen back on a devious hounding of those exposing its ineptitude by ordering a wholly vicious and vengeful investigation of the Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust and the Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust,” Mr. Surjewala said. ‘Nothing to clear’ At a press conference earlier in the day, Rajya Sabha MP and party spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said, “Rajiv Gandhi Foundation has nothing to clear. As law abiding persons, we are here to answer all the questions. Please ask all you want.” Redirecting the attack on the BJP and the NDA government, the Congress demanded that the government should answer questions on “unexplained donations to the PM’s fund by Chinese entities and continued promotion of Chinese-owned businesses”. Mr. Surjewala asked, “Will the Modi government hold an inquiry into the donations and the amounts received by the RSS from all sources including foreign sources, individuals, entities, organisations and governments?” The Congress also pointed out that a similar inquiry must be ordered into the donations and the amounts received by right-leaning organisations, such as the Vivekananda Foundation and the India Foundation, and into the source of funding for the “Overseas Friends of BJP”. The Congress pointed out that there has been nearly 500% increase in income and donations to the BJP, from Rs. 570.86 crores (in 2015-2016) to Rs. 2,410 crores (in 2018-2019). “Our determination to hold the government accountable to the people and speak for the deprived, the underprivileged and the downtrodden will only get strengthened by these desperate actions of a government too petrified to answer its own people,” Mr. Surjewala said. Congress treasurer Ahmed Patel said the BJP government is filled with hatred for the Gandhi family. “Entire focus of this government machinery is to humiliate & threaten the Congress president. But these things don’t deter us. History is witness — such tricks were tried even by the mighty Kauravas. The nation is watching” Mr. Patel tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vicious-and-vengeful-says-congress/article32026653.ece
09 July 2020||Srinagar,||BJP leader killed in attack in J&K||A BJP leader and his two family members were killed in a suspected militant attack in north Kashmir's Bandipora on Wednesday evening, even as security was beefed up across the Valley on the fourth death anniversary of Hizbul Mujahideen ‘commander’ Burhan Wani. "Terrorists fired upon BJP worker Wasim Bari at Bandipora. During indiscriminate firing, Bari, his father Bashir Ahmad and his brother Umer Bashir were injured and were shifted to a hospital. Unfortunately, all the three succumbed to their injuries," a police spokesman told The Hindu . All 10 personal security officials (PSOs) guarding the BJP leader were arrested after the attack,” Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar told The Hindu . The move has come as part of the investigation “into any security lapse”. A police official said the suspected militants opened fire from a close range on the BJP leader and his family near their shop. Security forces have launched an operation to nab the attackers. So far, no militant outfit has claimed responsibility for the attack. “I am shocked and saddened by the killing of young BJP leader Wasim Bari and his brother by terrorists in Bandipora. Bari’s father is also a senior leader. This despite 10 security commandos. My condolences to the family,” said BJP general secretary Ram Madhav. ”Sorry to hear about the murderous terror attack on the BJP functionaries and their father. I condemn the attack,” said National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah. Mobile Internet was snapped in parts of the Kashmir Valley “as a precautionary measure”. Security was also beefed up in south Kashmir’s Tral, the hometown of Wani. A shutdown was observed in parts of Kashmir. Civilian killed, 3 injured In Pir Panjal’s Poonch district, a civilian was killed and three were injured in fresh ceasefire violations along the Line of Control. The civilian, identified as Rashim Bi, 65, from Lanjoite Balakote, was killed in shelling and firing by Pakistan. Another person, Hakam Bi, 60, was injured in the shelling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-leader-killed-in-attack-in-jk/article32026655.ece
09 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Chartered flight ops from UAE to resume tomorrow||With the Ministry of Civil Aviation giving its clearance, chartered flight operations from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to bring back stranded Indians that were suspended last week will resume on Friday. The Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had curbed the repatriation flights after the UAE government enforced restrictions on the national carrier Air India and private Indian carriers. Hundreds of Non Resident Keralites (NoRKs) who had booked tickets for the chartered flights operated by Air Arabia, Emirates, Etihad and Flydubai were affected by the decision. Following the sudden DGCA decision, a chartered flight from Abu Dhabi was cancelled in the last minute, leaving many stranded. As the ban on the scheduled international flights continued, the NoRKs were running from pillar to post to get back home. Consent from States Since June 25, institutions and organisations were barred by the Centre from applying directly to operate chartered flights from various foreign countries. Instead, airline companies were asked to first approach the governments of the States to which the flights were to be operated for a consent letter and then secure the approval of the DGCA. “The DGCA has now asked the airlines that had applied earlier to submit fresh applications. The airlines have got the clearance for chartered operations from the UAE from July 10,” airline sources told The Hindu . Indian carriers, including private ones, ferried 32,435 stranded Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) from the UAE till July 2 while carriers from the UAE operated 356 flights to India, carrying 67,559 NRIs. Private Indian carriers have come forward to operate more repatriation flights. SpiceJet will operate 19 more flights under the Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate 4,500 stranded NRIs from the UAE, Saudi Arabia, and Oman. The flights will be from Ras Al-Khaimah, Jeddah, Dammam, Riyadh and Muscat to Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Kozhikode, Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram, and Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chartered-flight-ops-from-uae-to-resume-tomorrow/article32027043.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||UAE in support of open skies agreement with India||The UAE is keen to have an open sky agreement with India, its Ambassador to India A.R. Albanna said on Wednesday. “You need to have an open sky policy. You cannot be protective and at the same time say you want to become a hub. Open sky policy and fifth and sixth freedoms are two separate issues,” Mr. Albanna said at a webinar organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Bilateral agreement There are about 1,068 flights a week between India and the UAE operated by the airlines of the two countries under the bilateral Air Service Agreement. India has a open skies policy with SAARC countries and those beyond the 5,000-km radius, which implies that nations within this distance need to enter into a bilateral agreement and mutually determine the number of flights that their airlines can operate between the two countries. It is this policy that the Ambassador wants India to revisit. ‘Interest threatened’ Mr. Albanna sought to underline that this would not bestow the capability to operate flights from one country and fly them to a third country, which is also referred to as fifth and six freedoms of air, and where the interest of Indian airlines will be threatened by carriers like Emirates and Etihad. Addressing the webinar, Usha Padhee, Joint Secretary at Ministry of Civil Aviation, said that although 2.7 million passengers have been flown on domestic airlines since May 25, there have only been 800 COVID-19 positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uae-in-support-of-open-skies-agreement-with-india/article32026673.ece
09 July 2020||Mumbai,||Round-the-clock security for Ambedkar’s house||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday said it would be providing round-the-clock police protection to Rajgruha, Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar’s residence in Dadar, after miscreants vandalised the property on Tuesday evening. Based on CCTV footage, the police detained a suspect on Wednesday for allegedly entering the premises of the two-storey heritage bungalow in Hindu Colony, smashing potted plants and throwing stones at windows before fleeing. “We have decided to increase security. We will ensure that such incidents are never repeated,” Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said after a State Cabinet meeting. Police had stepped up security around the building in the morning as several politicians and Ministers, including Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad and BJP MLA Ashish Shelar, visited Rajgruha. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said the government will not tolerate the “desecration of a pilgrimage centre like Rajgruha”. “The incident is shocking. This building is important not only to Ambedkarites but also to all citizens. Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar has kept his treasure of books in this house. Anyone insulting this building will not be tolerated. I have instructed the police to take strong action,” he said. Prakash Ambedkar, Dr. Ambedkar’s grandson and Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader, appealed for peace. “I appeal to all to maintain peace and not gather outside Rajgruha. This is a place of respect for all of us,” he said. Earlier, the Matunga police filed an FIR against an unidentified person based on a complaint by Dr. Ambedkar’s grandson, Bhimrao Yashwant Rao Ambedkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/round-the-clock-security-for-ambedkars-house/article32026675.ece
09 July 2020||Pune,||‘Deliberate attempt to aggravate social tensions’||The Republican Yuva Morcha (RYM), an Ambedkarite outfit based in Pune, said the attack on Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar’s house in Mumbai was a deliberate attempt by right-wing forces to aggravate social and casteist tensions in the State. RYM president Rahul Dambale said the act follows a pattern of atrocities and insults against the Dalit community in recent times, starting with clashes at Bhima-Koregaon on January 1, 2018. “We strongly condemn the attack on Dr. Ambedkar’s house, Rajgruha, in Dadar. We urge the Maha Vikas Aghadi government to swiftly nab the masterminds. It is especially essential at this volatile moment for the police to get to the bottom of this affair,” he said. Mr. Dambale said the vandalism was an attempt to inflame the Ambedkarite community’s sentiments and get them to protest on the streets in large numbers. “I appeal to all members of our community to show restraint and not to be provoked by this act. An FIR has been registered and the police have begun investigations,” he said. Mr. Dambale said the lack of concrete progress in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, and a string of caste atrocities against Ambedkarite youths, had fostered mistrust against authorities. The Dalit community keenly feels a sense of injustice towards them, he said. “The bicentenary celebrations of the Koregaon-Bhima battle witnessed orchestrated violence on the Ambedkarite community on an unprecedented scale. But since then, Hindutva leader Milind Ekbote, a prime accused, is out on bail. Now, this act of vandalism on Babasaheb’s residence is yet another provocation by anti-social elements to break the peace,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deliberate-attempt-to-aggravate-social-tensions/article32027099.ece
09 July 2020||Kochi,||Focus on K.P. Kesava Menon’s accounts of Malabar rebellion||As the controversy over the 1921 Malabar rebellion is raging, the accounts of the turbulent times chronicled by freedom fighter K.P. Kesava Menon in The Hindu a century ago bring to light the multifarious nature of the movement. While Menon praised Moplahs for their enthusiasm to join the Khilafat movement and Congress committees during the pre-rebellion days, he also provided a critical account of the forced conversion of a Thiyya woman of Nilambur in the note, ‘Forced Conversion,’ ‘the Calicut Case,’ published on July 6, 1922. His notes and an interview published in The Hindu were recently retrieved from the archives of the newspaper following a debate surrounding Variamkunnath Kunhamed Haji, the protagonist of the rebellion. A letter written by Haji denying the allegations of forcible conversion of Hindus was also re-published. The house of the woman was burned by Gurkha soldiers during the time of the rebellion. Later, she was provided rice and money and offered a house at Calicut by some Moplahs of Nilambur. The woman told Menon, the then secretary of the Kerala Provincial Congress Committee, that she and her kids were taken to Edavanna, where she was called Rabia twice and made to “repeat Kilema”. “Then I understood that I was converted into a Mappila woman. I did not remonstrate. They had given me rice so long and I feared if I didn’t obey, there was nobody there to help me.” The heads of the children of the woman, who wanted to to go back to Hinduism, were shaved by Mappila barber on the night they reached Calicut and “on the next day they were given mappila caps.” She also recounted that during all the 14 days of her staying in the Pattanis house in Calicut, she was compelled “to repeat Kilema.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/focus-on-kp-kesava-menons-accounts-of-malabar-rebellion/article32026639.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Navy concludes Samudra Setu||Operation Samudra Setu, which was launched by the Navy on May 5 as part of the national effort to repatriate Indian citizens abroad during the COVID-19 pandemic, has culminated after successfully bringing back 3,992 individuals, the Navy said on Wednesday. Landing Platform Dock INS Jalashwa and Landing Ship Tanks INS Airavat , Shardul and Magar participated in this operation that lasted over 55 days and involved traversing more then 23,000 km by sea, the Navy said in a statement. The evacuated Indians disembarked at Kochi, Thoothukudi and Porbandhar. “The greatest challenge for the Indian Navy was to avoid any incident of outbreak of infection on board the ships during the evacuation operation. Rigorous measures were planned and medical/ safety protocols unique to the operating environment of ships were implemented,” it stated. Op Samudra Setu was undertaken utilising Naval ships best suited for the operation, allowing for COVID-19 related social distancing norms, medical arrangements and carrying capacity. Ships used for the operation were specially provisioned and the sick bay or the clinic on board was especially equipped with COVID-19 related equipment and facilities, the Navy said. “Women officers and military nursing staff were also embarked for the women passengers.” Basic amenities and medical facilities were provided to all evacuees during sea passage on these ships. One of the expectant mothers who undertook passage on INS Jalashwa , Sonia Jacob, gave birth to a baby boy within a few hours of reaching Kochi on International Mother’s Day, the Navy said. The Navy has previously undertaken similar evacuation operations as part of Operation Sukoon in 2006 (Beirut) and Operation Rahat in 2015 (Yemen).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navy-concludes-samudra-setu/article32026685.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||A.P. poll panel chief case: SC decision in 2-3 weeks||Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on Wednesday said the Supreme Court would hear and decide in “two or three weeks” separate appeals filed by the Andhra State Election Commission and BJP leader Atluri Ramakrishna challenging an Andhra Pradesh High Court order reinstating N. Ramesh Kumar as the State poll panel chief. Heading a three-judge Bench presiding over a virtual court hearing, Chief Justice Bobde said the court did not intend to pass any interim orders in the case, but would hear it on merits after three weeks. Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi for Andhra Pradesh suggested the court to allow the appointment of an interim State Election Commissioner to avoid any delay in election work. CJI’s observation “We will not talk about the conduct of elections. Elections should take place,” Chief Justice Bobde said. On June 10, the court had declined the State government’s interim plea to stay the High Court order setting aside the ordinance which amended the Andhra Pradesh Panchayati Raj Act of 1994. Now all three appeals on the issue would be heard together. The amendments had included restricting the State Election Commissioner post to only retired High Court judges. Prior to the amendment, retired bureaucrats were also in the zone of consideration. The curtailment of the tenure of the Election Commissioner to three years had compelled the then incumbent to step down. Subsequently, a new Commissioner was appointed. The High Court, on May 29, had set aside the amendments as retrospective legislation. It said the State did not have the power to appoint State Election Commissioners under Articles 243K and 243 ZA. Right to equality The power to make the appointments lies with the Governor. It had found the reduction of the tenure from five to three years arbitrary and in violation of the right to equality under Article 14, the High Court had said. The High Court had delivered the judgment on a batch of writ petitions, including the one by Mr. Ramesh Kumar against the amendments and the subsequent appointment of a new SEC. The YSR Congress government had on April 10 abruptly removed Mr. Ramesh Kumar from the post following the amendments to the 1994 Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-poll-panel-chief-case-sc-decision-in-2-3-weeks/article32026623.ece
09 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||UAE diplomat gives statement to Customs||A key official at the consulate of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) here has voluntarily talked to Customs officers investigating the illegal import of gold from Dubai via an air-shipment addressed to the office of the diplomatic mission in Kerala. Commissioner of Customs, Sumit Kumar, who is heading the sensitive inquiry, told The Hindu that enforcers had moved the Union Ministry of External Affairs for permission from the UAE to imbue the diplomat’s statement with a measure of legality under Section 108 of the Customs Act. “Otherwise, it would be a simple statement without any legal value,” he said. Such an inclusion would empower the Customs investigators to identify and prosecute the people who financed, organised and implemented the complex operation using diplomatic goodwill and international covenants as a cover. Legal immunity Mr. Kumar said diplomats had legal immunity under Article 36 of the Vienna Convention. Hence, investigating agencies had no power to summon them, seek evidence or conduct searches on person and premises. However, such persons could voluntarily give statements, which the UAE official has done commendably. Another officer said the diplomat had talked to the investigators for over 12 hours. He had denied he had imported the shipment, which contained mundane everyday items available off the shelf in Kerala. (Investigators had found 30 kg of gold valued at Rs. 15 crore by a conservative estimate inside the shipment.) However, the accused had used a letter purportedly written by the official that gave authority to the suspect to clear the freight imported in the name of the UAE consulate from the air cargo complex here. He had used the questionable document to portray the shipment as diplomatic baggage immune to Customs inspection. Role denied Investigators said the diplomat had categorically stated that he did not import the shipment, authorise its clearance and his signature on the document was forged. The Customs would send the official paper to the government examiner for questioned documents to verify whether it was a genuine one. Meanwhile, the Gulf-end of the gold smuggling probe appeared focussed on a Kochi-based businessman. He owned a trading and grocery company in the UAE. Investigators suspect he could be a front for “some powerful businessman” who had the wherewithal to invest considerable money in the smuggling run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uae-diplomat-gives-statement-to-customs/article32026628.ece
09 July 2020||Srinagar,||UN makes public third communication on J&K||United Nations Special Rapporteurs have made public their third communication forwarded to India since the August 5, 2019, decision to revoke Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, expressing “grave concern over alleged excessive use of force, ill-treatment during arrests and detentions”. Four rapporteurs had forwarded a joint communication to India on May 4, 2020 — on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; on extra-judicial, summary or arbitrary executions; on minority issues; and on freedom of religion or belief — and made it public recently, after 60 days of response time. “We would like to bring to the attention of Your Excellency’s Government information we have received concerning the continued deterioration of human rights conditions in J&K following severe restrictions imposed after August 5, 2019, in particular, citing arbitrary detentions, violations to the prohibition of torture and ill-treatment and rights of persons belonging to minorities,” it reads. The first communication was forwarded on August 16, 2019, on “restrictions on freedom of expression and freedom of peaceful assembly”. The second was communicated on February 27, 2020, on alleged “mass crackdown targeting those expressing dissent against the decision taken”. “We regret that no response has been received to either communication, in particular, the former.,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/un-makes-public-third-communication-on-jk/article32026662.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||CWC may have to extend Sonia’s tenure||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) may soon have to meet to decide on extending the tenure of party president Sonia Gandhi as she will be completing one year on August 10 in her present role. Though the party planned a Congress session around April after the Budget session of Parliament to have a full-time president, all plans were put on hold because of the COVID-19 pandemic. With no clarity on the process to appoint a full-time president, the CWC, the party’s highest decision making body, is left with limited options. At the last CWC on June 23, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had asked Rahul Gandhi to take over and Indian Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas had suggested a virtual Congress session. Mr. Gandhi, however, remained silent on such demands. “The CWC may have to decide on a further extension to Ms. Gandhi given the current circumstances,”said a senior party leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cwc-may-have-to-extend-sonias-tenure/article32026664.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED seizes Nirav’s assets worth Rs. 330 cr.||Assets worth Rs. 329.66 crore of the Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud ‘mastermind’ Nirav Modi, which were earlier attached by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), have been confiscated under the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act. In the money-laundering case against the diamond merchant, the ED has so far attached properties valued at Rs. 2,348 crore. The confiscated assets include four flats at the iconic building Samudra Mahal in Mumbai’s Worli, a seaside farmhouse and land in Alibaug, one windmill in Jaisalmer, a flat in London and some flats in the UAE, besides shares and bank deposits. On July 10, 2018, the ED had moved an application before a special court in Mumbai for declaring the accused a fugitive economic offender and allowing confiscation of assets worth about Rs. 1,396 crore, belonging to him and the entities related to him. The properties were earlier attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Through an order dated December 5, 2019, the special court declared Mr. Nirav Modi a fugitive economic offender and on June 8, directed the ED to confiscate the properties other than those mortgaged/hypothecated and secured to a PNB-led consortium. “The said properties shall stand confiscated to the Central government under Section 12(2) and (8) of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act,” said the agency. The court further directed the consortium to approach the PMLA court to claim the mortgaged, hypothecated or secured properties attached by the ED. Mr. Nirav Modi is facing extradition proceedings in a court in the United Kingdom, where he is lodged in judicial custody since March 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-seizes-niravs-assets-worth-rs-330-cr/article32026668.ece
09 July 2020||BENGALURU,||HC stays Karnataka ban on online classes||In a setback to the State government, the High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday stayed the initial ban and the subsequent curbs imposed on schools against conducting online classes from pre-primary level to class 10.  Prima facie the ban and the curbs imposed on conducting online classes violate Articles 21 and 21A of the Constitution, which guarantees fundamental right to education as the online mode is the only way available at present to impart education to the students in view of the closure of regular schools owing to COVID-19 pandemic, the court said. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy passed the interim order staying the government’s June 15 and 27 orders, legality of which were challenged by several parents and schools. The Bench said the government lacked powers under the Karnataka Education Act, 1983 to impose ban or restrictions on online education. Court’s clarification However, the Bench made it clear that this order should not be construed as if schools have the right to make online education compulsory and can charge fees to impart education in online mode. Also, it should not be construed that students who cannot opt for online classes can be deprived of the education when regular classes commence, the court clarified. Not being able to give online education in some sections of schools, including government schools, is not a ground to stop other schools from giving online education, the Bench said while referring to the government’s contention that petitions were filed by “elite” schools and parents sending their children to such schools, and many parents and schools cannot opt for online education. Going by the Article 21 and 21A of the Constitution, the State government will have to take steps to ensure that those students not studying in “elite” schools and those in the schools run by the government are not deprived of education during this pandemic, and, in fact, the government will have to create infrastructure to give education in such types of schools during this period. Noticing that the Union government, in its COVID-19 guidelines had favoured encouraging online education as regular schools are ordered to be closed till July 31, the Bench observed that considering the situation created by the pandemic, there is not even an expectation that the schools will be opened immediately after July 31. ‘No rational basis’ The Bench said that prima facie “no rational basis” can be found in the government’s decisions as on June 15 online education from pre-primary to class 5 was completely banned while allowing it for classes 6 to 10, and on June 27 severe curbs were imposed on online education for classes 1 to 10 while completely banning online education for pre-primary classes. ‘Strange embargo’ “It is difficult to understand what prompted the government to impose embargo on online education for classes 6 to 10 in the June 27 order when there was no such curbs in the June 15 order,” the Bench observed while pointing out that there was no intention to prohibit or curb online education in the Pragyata guideline for digital education of the Ministry of Human Resource Development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-stays-karnataka-ban-on-online-classes/article32026636.ece
09 July 2020||MADURAI,||‘Mask’ parottas create an appetite for safety||A restaurant in Madurai has turned the city’s love for the parotta into a symbol of safety in COVID-19 times. It has come out with a signature dish shaped like a face mask. Temple City, one of the biggest restaurant chains in Madurai, and its proprietor K.L. Kumar conceptualised the ‘mask’ parotta on Tuesday, and it was being served from afternoon the same day. It barely took any effort, he says. The idea was to make people realise the need for wearing masks in public, in order to reduce the spread of the infection, Mr. Kumar said. Madurai district is currently under a complete lockdown due to a surge in COVID-19 cases. Anything done for awareness is important now, he said. The number of active COVID-19 cases in Madurai district is second only to Chennai among the districts in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Kumar was concerned that many people were on the streets without a mask. When the restaurant opened briefly after the lockdown was relaxed in Madurai district between June 8 and June 23, it was difficult to convince several customers to wear masks. “When they walked into the restaurant without a mask at that time, we gave them one free. We are still handing them out for those who come to pick up deliveries,” he said. Temple City’s parotta master S. Sathish said that a surgical mask design was replicated using the traditional veechu parotta, which involves vigorous spinning. “We folded it in a particular way and crafted the handles. All ingredients are the same. It was success on our very first try,” the chef said. A hit among children Since word got out about the new menu item, hundreds have been calling. Children are particularly interested. Currently, two parottas, or one set, costs Rs. 50. Residents can pick it up at the eatery’s Mattuthavanai branch or order it through food delivery apps. “Not many in Madurai wear masks but everybody here loves parotta. We just put two and two together,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mask-parottas-create-an-appetite-for-safety/article32026750.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,||MoEF response sought on plea on draft EIA||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday asked for a response from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to a plea to give wide publicity to elicit public view on the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, dated March 23, 2020, which proposes changes to the existing EIA processes. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna issued the direction on a PIL petition filed by the United Conservation Movement Charitable and Welfare Trust, Bengaluru. The petitioner had said that such notifications having national impact were published in vernacular languages on newspapers earlier to keep people informed, but this time no such publication was done except for an upload on the website apart from publishing it in the gazette. It was also pointed out by the petitioner that the Environment Protection Act empowers the Union government to publish the notification in other manner as may deemed necessary from time to time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/moef-response-sought-on-plea-on-draft-eia/article32026748.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dhaka ‘diverges’ from India on Rohingya issue||Bangladesh on Wednesday claimed that India supports “fast” repatriation of the Rohingya refugees to Myanmar. A press release issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh said the message was contained in a letter written by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen. However, in his letter, Dr. Jaishankar had said that India understands the “urgency of this issue and an early, safe and sustainable repatriation of the displaced persons from Rakhine is in the collective interest of all”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dhaka-diverges-from-india-on-rohingya-issue/article32026686.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Syllabus reduction only a one-time measure: CBSE||Deleted sections of the syllabus have been covered under an alternative academic calendar provided to schools, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Wednesday. However, no question from these topics will be asked in the board exams for 2020-21, it clarified. CBSE was responding to the public and political furore that has erupted over its plan to remove topics such as federalism, citizenship and secularism from the Higher Secondary syllabus this year. The objective of the 30% syllabus rationalisation for 190 subjects for Classes 9 to 12 was “to reduce the exam stress of students due to the prevailing health emergency situation and prevent learning gaps,” said a statement from CBSE Secretary Anurag Tripathi. He emphasised that this was a one-time measure only for 2020-21, and added that schools have been directed to follow the National Council of Educational Research and Training’s alternative academic calendar while teaching the curriculum. Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Tuesday that the syllabus revision was to “reduce course load”, with the Ministry adding that teachers can explain deleted portions “to the extent required to connect different topics”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/syllabus-reduction-only-a-one-time-measure-cbse/article32026689.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana firm ties up with CSIR for drug trials||City-based Laxai Life Sciences Private Limited, in association with the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), has sought regulatory approval to undertake four-arm randomised controlled phase III clinical trial on Wednesday. The clinical trial named ‘MUCOVIN’ will be carried out in partnership with Medanta Medicity in Delhi and include a total of 300 patients in four groups of 75 patients each in the trials to be carried out for 17 to 21 days, including screening and treatment. The design principle of the study is to rationally combine and repurpose antivirals — viral-entry and replication inhibitors and Host-Directed Therapies (HDTs) addressing the disease-spread and pathology simultaneously and to determine safety and efficacy of the three combination drugs like Favipiravir+Colchicine, Umifenovir+Colchicine and Nafamostat+5-aminolevulinic acid) and a control arm with the standard of care in COVID-19 patients. CSIR Director-General Shekhar C. Mande said this unique combinatorial strategy (antivirals and HDTs) with repurposed drugs having complementary, additive and synergistic role, has been adopted to increase therapeutic options for COVID-19 treatment and help in faster recovery. The partner CSIR institutes in this important clinical trial are the CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Hyderabad and CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (IIIM), Jammu, he said. “The study aims to target viral proteins essential for its replication as well as host factors that play crucial role in the viral life cycle and contribute to the cytokine storm,” said Laxai Life Sciences CEO Ram S. Upadhayaya. “The co-sponsorship of this study by Laxai Life Sciences highlights the company’s commitment in bringing life-saving therapies in the service of humanity,” said MD Vamsi Maddipatla. The MUCOVIN clinical trials, if successful, will provide more options for treatment of COVID-19, said a CSIR release. Earlier this year in April, the firm had tied up with the CSIR-IICT to jointly develop and manufacture Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and Intermediates to reduce the dependency of the Indian pharmaceutical sector on Chinese imports. Specifically, the organisations decided to work for synthesis of drugs being used in the fight against coronavirus with focus on Umifenovir, Remdesivir and a key intermediate of Hydroxy Chloroquine (HCQ).  The MUCOVIN clinical trials, if successful, will provide more options for treatment of COVID-19. CSIR authorities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-firm-ties-up-with-csir-for-drug-trials/article32026625.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||AP turns down TS plea on Markfed building||The Andhra Pradesh government has put down the request of the State government to hand over a portion of Mahatma Gandhi Markfed Bhavan to Telangana Markfed in line with the orders issued by the Governor under Section 8 of the AP Reorganisation Act 2014. Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney said the AP Markfed was included in Schedule IX of the Reorganisation Act and the assets and liabilities of the institutions listed under the IX schedule were to be divided between the two successor States in accordance with Section 53 of the Act. In the de-merger proposal submitted on behalf of the two States, it was proposed that the land and head-office building was to be divided between the two States as per population ratio and the same was approved by the expert committee. She recalled the meeting convened by the Union Home Secretary in October last, wherein the Telangana representatives said they had no objection to the expert committee recommendations pertaining to 68 institutions, with AP Markfed being one among them. The proposal of the Telangana government was examined and the agreement of AP government was conveyed to the Union government in respect of 53 institutions, including the Markfed. The AP government reiterated its stand to deal with the recommendations of the expert committee as one lot instead of looking at recommendations of each institution separately. “The government of India’s views on the above proposal are awaited,” she said in a letter addressed to Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar recently. She recalled that the buildings in the Secretariat and those housing offices of certain heads of departments which were specifically requested by the Telangana government were handed over in pursuance with the orders issued by the then Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan in June last year.  AP Markfed was included in Schedule IX of AP Reorganisation Act and the assets are to be divided in accordance with Section 53 of the Act. Nilam Sawhney,Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-turns-down-ts-plea-on-markfed-building/article32027001.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||No clarity on rations for returning migrants||“Because where they are now, they are already getting free rations. If they return, they will also get free rations.” Asked how this would be done, given that the Aatmanirbhar scheme to give rations for migrants without cards was only in effect for May and June, he had no clear response, making references to shelter homes and the card portability scheme.  However, the Aatmanirbhar ration scheme meant for migrants in shelter homes has been ended, while the portability scheme is not in effect across the country. Asked for a clarification, a Food Ministry spokesperson confirmed that free rations to migrant workers without ration cards was only being given under the Atmanirbhar scheme which has ended. “Migrant workers’ problems continue to be under the consideration of the government,” said the Ministry. Asked about the number of returning migrants, Mr. Javadekar only said: “All the returning trains are full. People have their own arrangement with the owner, contractor or employment provider, and companies, and they are returning.” LPG scheme The Cabinet also approved a three-month extension of its scheme to give free LPG cylinder refills to Ujjwala beneficiaries, as a number of them are yet to avail benefits. They can now take delivery of the refill until the end of September. In another decision, the Cabinet approved the Rs. 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund promised by the Finance Minister in May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-clarity-on-rations-for-returning-migrants/article32026645.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||SHO, another cop held for tipping off Dubey||In Kanpur, police said it arrested three other accused — Shyamu Bajpai, Jahan Yadav and Sanjeev Dubey. Shyamu was injured in an alleged encounter on Wednesday. However, his family claimed that he had already been picked up by police hours after the killing of eight policemen on the morning of July 3. Shyamu was listed as one of the 18 accused persons absconding from the site after the incident and a bounty of Rs. 50,000 was placed on his head. He was shot in his left leg during the alleged encounter, said police. However, on Monday, his mother Ram Lakshmi Bajpai while talking to The Hindu claimed that on the morning of July 3, hours after the killing of eight policemen in an ambush, policemen came to her house, located behind the now demolished mansion-like house of Vikas. She claimed her son was sleeping in his room when he was picked up by police between 5.45 a.m. and 6 a.m. “I asked the police many times but they didn’t inform me about his [Shyamu’s] whereabouts,” she alleged. “He was sleeping and was wearing a towel and a vest [when they took him]. His wife, who is ill [and pregnant], was with him,” said Ms. Ram Lakshmi. Shyamu, around 33, worked as a labourer in a nearby detergent factory, his family said. Talking to the media on Wednesday while being taken to a hospital, an injured Shyamuclaimed he was at home on the night of the incident. He said he had returned home at 9 p.m. after work and had nothing to do with the encounter or Vikas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sho-another-cop-held-for-tipping-off-dubey/article32026642.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Chinese troops move out of PP15 area in Ladakh||“Given the incident last time during disengagement, it was decided during the Corps Commanders talks that in the intervening period [of disengagement], there should be no one in between [at the stand-off sites],” the source said, adding that it is purely temporary. As reported by The Hindu , the disengagement and pullback at PP4 in the Galwan Valley has already been completed and verified on the ground and a buffer zone of 3.5-4 km was created, which will be out of bounds for foot patrols from both sides for the next 30 days. The disengagement began after the telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Sunday, where it was agreed that both sides should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the LAC expeditiously. While the Indian Army had said that there were casualties on both sides during the Galwan clash, China has so far not formally acknowledged any deaths. Writing on India-China relations in the Free Press Journal on Tuesday, Mr. Tang said, “Although the Chinese side also suffered casualties, the Chinese media and self-media by and large have maintained a calmer stance and refrained from hyping it up.” When asked, the Chinese Embassy declined to give further details, or clarify whether the term casualties referred to deaths or injuries. In the first acknowledgement by China of casualties on their side, the Chinese Ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, had told news agency Press Trust of India in an interview on June 25 about “fierce physical conflicts and casualties between the two sides”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-troops-move-out-of-pp15-area-in-ladakh/article32026643.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||India says Kulbhushan Jadhav was coerced||Speaking at a special briefing arranged by the Pakistani Foreign Office in Islamabad, Pakistan’s Additional Attorney-General Ahmed Irfan stated that an ordinance had been issued in May that allowed Mr. Jadhav, his legal representative, or a representative of the Indian High Commission in Islamabad to file a review petition in line with the International Court of Justice (ICJ) verdict of July 2019. “India sought unimpeded access to Shri Jadhav to discuss his remedies under the ordinance. In a brazen attempt to scuttle even the inadequate remedy under the ordinance, Pakistan has obviously coerced Shri Jadhav to forego his rights to seek an implementation of the judgment of the ICJ,” an External Affairs Ministry statement said. It’s interesting that Mr. Jadhav, whose sentence was handed down by a Pakistani Army field general court martial, has now been extended the right to appeal in a civilian court — the Islamabad High Court. (Pakistani Army Chief Qamar Javed Bajwa had confirmed the court martial verdict). Mr. Irfan claimed that on June 17 Mr. Jadhav was “invited” to file a review petition in the Islamabad High Court against his sentence, but chose not to do so. Mr. Jadhav, instead, “preferred to follow-up” on his pending “mercy” petition. The Pakistani legal officer also claimed that they had written repeatedly to the Indian High Commission to file a review petition on behalf of Mr. Jadhav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-says-kulbhushan-jadhav-was-coerced/article32026644.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Rental housing scheme for migrants cleared||A scheme for providing affordable rental housing to about 3 lakh urban migrants was approved by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday. The creation of affordable rental housing complexes was announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on May 14 as a part of the package to address the COVID-19 crisis. At a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Cabinet approved the scheme, which will be a sub-scheme of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban that is implemented by the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry. About 1.03 lakh completed government-funded houses across cities that were yet to be allotted to beneficiaries under existing schemes would be converted into the rental housing complexes, Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said at a press briefing. He said the urban local bodies in cities would decide the rent amount. The vacant housing complexes would be converted through 25-year concession agreements, a statement said. It added that the target beneficiaries would be workers who come from rural areas or towns to work in manufacturing, hospitality, health, construction, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rental-housing-scheme-for-migrants-cleared/article32026671.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Panel for criminal law reforms lacks diversity’||Supreme Court and High Court judges, senior lawyers and academicians said a committee constituted by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to introduce reforms in criminal law lacks diversity and it needs to ensure transparency. A letter from them to the Committee chairperson and National Law University-Delhi’s Vice-Chancellor, Dr. Ranbir Singh, said the line-up of its members “lacks diversity, both in terms of the social identity of the members, as well as their professional background and experience”. The signatories include former apex court judges like Aftab Alam, Madan B. Lokur and Gopala Gowda, senior advocates Dinesh Mathur, Indira Jaising, Navroz Seervai, C.U. Singh, Rebecca John, Dayan Krishnan, Sanjay R. Hegde and Sanjay Parikh. “Create sub-committees with outside experts and other consultants with established track records in the field of criminal justice who can redress the lack of diversity and experience,” they advised. The committee has invited expert opinions and has begun an online consultation exercise from July 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-for-criminal-law-reforms-lacks-diversity/article32026676.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Vignettes of behaviour||A synoptic overview of the Mahabharata story is narrated in the Devi Bhagavata by the Suta Pauranika. Though brief, it is told in such a way that much care is taken to highlight the important and salient aspects of dharma. For instance, after the victory in the Mahabharata war, Yudhishtira insists that Dhritarashtra should be the ruler while he rules under his guidance. Being a dharmatma, Yudhishtira honours Dhritarashtra, and tries to alleviate the putra soka he experiences by his devotion and service. But Bheema is unable to toe his line and would hurt Dhritarashtra with his sharp verbal arrows. Both he and Gandhari had no option but to put up with his insults that never abated. These and other such vignettes reveal how the effects of one’s behaviour can make an indelible impact on one’s character, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. It shows that by causing harm to others one cannot be ever happy. After spending 18 years in Hastinapura palace, Dhritarashtra decides to go the forest and wishes to perform the rituals for his departed sons and asks Yudhishtira for money. Once again, Bheema refuses to comply. He cannot understand why they should give money for the benefit of Duryodhana and others who were openly antagonistic to them throughout. Bheema also expresses his disapproval of some of Yudhishtira’s actions that had played havoc in their lives. He does not mince words when he draws attention to his wrong decision to play the game of dice in the Kaurava court and the kind of repercussions that it brought in its wake. Bheema also speaks of the two instances, setting fire to the lac house and the killing of Keechaka, when he had not consulted Yudhishtira and had acted on his own instinct and buddhi that turned out to be beneficial to the Pandavas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vignettes-of-behaviour/article32026680.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Curb black marketing of remdesivir’||Weeks after a copycat version of Gilead Sciences remdesivir was launched in the country, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has written to the authorities concerned in the States and Union Territories to ensure that the COVID-19 drug is not sold above its MRP (maximum retail price). “You are requested to instruct your enforcement officials to keep strict vigil on the matter to prevent black marketing and sale of drug remdesivir injection above MRP,” the DCGI has said in a communication to Drug Controllers in the States and UTs. This follows community social media platform Local Circle writing to the National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority, Department of Consumer Affairs, and the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on the black marketing and overpricing of remdesivir by unscrupulous persons. In the letter, Local Circle, citing comments received from citizens, said, “The MRP of remdesivir marketed by Hetero Healthcare is Rs. 5,400 (per vial), but consumers have reported it being sold at a price anywhere between Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 60,000...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curb-black-marketing-of-remdesivir/article32026681.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIIMS starts tele-consulting sessions||Aimed at reducing the COVID-19 mortality rate, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Delhi) has started tele-consultation guidance for State doctors on COVID-19 clinical management. Ten hospitals with more than 1,000 beds participated in the first session. The sessions will be held twice every week. “Specialist doctors from AIIMS, Delhi will provide expert guidance and knowledge support to doctors manning ICUs in State hospitals,” noted the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday. Ten hospitals have been selected, including nine from Mumbai and one from Goa, for the sessions that started on Wednesday. The Ministry has noted that this exercise will be extended to 61 more hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aiims-starts-tele-consulting-sessions/article32026679.ece
09 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Probe ordered into picture with tiger cub||An inquiry was ordered on Wednesday into an incident involving a picture of a senior forest officer’s son at the Ranthambhore tiger reserve that showed him sitting in a jeep near a tiger cub. The photograph has gone viral on social media. The tiger reserve was closed for three months on July 1 for the monsoon. The photograph showed the young man sitting in the driver's seat in a government jeep, with the cub hiding behind bushes near the front wheels. Minister of State for Forest and Environment Sukhram Bishnoi said that he had ordered an inquiry into the incident. “I will take appropriate action after getting the report of the inquiry,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-ordered-into-picture-with-tiger-cub/article32026660.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||J&K police officer suspended||Days after he filed a police complaint against the Jammu and Kashmir Director- General of Police (DGP), a 2000-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer was suspended by the Union Home Ministry on Tuesday. Basant Rath, posted as Inspector-General, Civil Defence, Jammu, had on June 25 given a written police complaint against Dilbag Singh, alleging apprehension about his life and liberty. An order issued by the Ministry stated that disciplinary proceedings against Mr. Rath are contemplated in connection with “repeated instances of gross misconduct and misbehaviour”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-police-officer-suspended/article32026665.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||BMS to protest against ‘anti-labour’ laws||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), a workers’ union affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), on Wednesday announced that it would observe ‘Sarkar Jago Saptah’ from July 24 in protest against the anti-worker policies of the Centre and the State governments. The BMS had supported the three-day strike observed by coal workers last week against the government’s decision to allow commercial mining. BMS general secretary Virjesh Upadhyay said the union would organise protests from July 24 to 30, but the agitation would end only when the governments withdraw their anti-worker decisions. It was time for an “aggressive movement, a social movement,” he said during a virtual press conference. In a statement, the BMS said it would be raising the issues of the unorganised sector workers, especially migrant workers, non-payment of wages and massive job losses during the COVID-19 crisis. It will also focus on the suspension of labour laws in several States and the “unbridled privatisation” of public sector and corporatisation of defence and railway production units. Mr. Upadhyay said the BMS had reached out to 73 MPs, including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, to submit its memorandum on labour issues during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bms-to-protest-against-anti-labour-laws/article32026666.ece
09 July 2020||Idukki,||Police foil child marriage in Idukki||The Vellathooval police on Tuesday foiled the marriage of a 31-year-old man with a 16-year-old girl at Kunjithanny here and rescued the girl. The police said the ceremony was held at a temple at Kunithanny, which was attended by about 30 people. The police were informed after a complaint was received at the district child welfare committee office. An official of the child welfare committee accompanied by the police reached the house of the man and the girl was rescued when they arrived there after marriage, the police said. A case was filed against the bridegroom and the mother of the girl. The police said the girl and her mother, who is paralysed, were living near Thodupuzha after her father deserted them. The girl was produced before the child welfare committee on Wednesday and released with her mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-foil-child-marriage-in-idukki/article32026627.ece
09 July 2020||Mysuru,||Water level at KRS breaches 100-feet mark||The water level at Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) in Mandya district crossed the 100-feet mark on Wednesday, thanks to a steady inflow on account of rain in the catchment areas of the Cauvery in Kodagu district. The water level was 100.33 ft, as against the full reservoir level of 124.80 ft.The reservoir level on the same day last year was 83.65 ft, according to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). Heavy rain upstream has augmented the rate of inflow, which was 8,972 cusecs on Wednesday, as against 453 cusecs on the same day last year. However, the dam attaining the 100-ft mark provides only psychological comfort. The live storage — which is the quantum of usable water stored — is about 41.5% of its actual capacity. The live storage capacity of the reservoir is 45.05 tmcft. The available quantum of water as on Wednesday was 18.67 tmcft, as opposed to 8.07 tmcft available during the corresponding period last year, as per KSNDMC records. The rate of inflow to the reservoir is expected to increaseduring the next 48 hours as heavy rain has pounded Bhagamandala and other places in Kodagu. India Meteorological Department has issued a red alert for Kodagu and forecast very heavy rain during the next two days. The KRS water level has attained the 100-ft mark before July 10 on five occasions in the last 10 years. Last year, monsoon played truant during the first half of the season and the KRS level hovered between 86 ft and 88 ft till August 7. But what followed was unprecedented rains and floods in the catchment areas, that saw the inflow rate surge to nearly 204,000 cusecs on August 12. The dam attained the full reservoir level of 124.80 ft on August 15. Elsewhere Meanwhile, the water levels in other three major reservoirs in the Cauvery basin have also increased. The water level at Hemavati in Hassan district was 2,889.04 ft, as against the FRL of 2,922 ft, and the rate of inflow was 10,782 cusecs. The live storage in the dam was 12.17 tmcft, as against the capacity of 35.76 tmcft. The water level at Kabini was 2,267.88 ft, as against the FRL of 2,284 ft. The inflow rate was low at 1,0782 cusecs and the live storage was 6.82 tmcft, as against the storage capacity of 15.67 tmcft. The inflow into Harangi reservoir, located upstream of the KRS, was at a rate of 3,968 cusecs. The water level was 2,847.32 ft, as against the FRL of 2,859 ft. The live storage was 4.89 tmcft, as against the capacity of 8.07 tmcft. The cumulative live storage in all four reservoirs on Wednesday was 42.55 tmcft, according to the KSNDMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/water-level-at-krs-breaches-100-feet-mark/article32026631.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||COVID: Union Minister seeks help for Telangana||Minister of State for Home Kishan Reddy on Wednesday petitioned Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and sought continued medical assistance, in the form of ventilators and PPE kits, to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic in Telangana. The State government has come under criticism for not conducting enough tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-union-minister-seeks-help-for-telangana/article32026641.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI books Ahmedabad firm, directors for bank fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked Ahmedabad-based Chem Edge International Private Limited (CEIPL) and its directors for allegedly cheating the Bank of India (BoI) of Rs. 98.88 crore. This is the fourth case registered against the main accused persons in the past few days. In the latest case, among those named are Bharat R. Shah, Fenil B. Shah, Geetaben B. Shah, Ashish Tawalkey and Rajesh Sanghvi, besides unknown public servants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-ahmedabad-firm-directors-for-bank-fraud/article32026658.ece
09 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Former Assam CM calls for release of Akhil Gogoi||Former Assam Chief Minister and senior Congress leader Tarun Gogoi has called for the release of peasant leader Akhil Gogoi and others of his organisation. The founder-adviser of Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, has been in captivity since December 2019 on several charges, including sedition and instigation of violence during the Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests. “Detention of Akhil Gogoi and others is undemocratic, unlawful, and a violation of democratic rights. We are urging the government to release them immediately,” said the former Chief Minister, also expressing concern over the peasant leader’s deteriorating health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-assam-cm-calls-for-release-of-akhil-gogoi/article32026659.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||EPF contribution by govt. extended for three months||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved an extension of the support being given to establishments with up to 100 workers in the form of the government making the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) contribution instead of the employees and the employers. The government had announced that it would pay both the employees’ and employers’ 12% share each under EPF from March till May. The Cabinet extended the scheme for three months, from June to August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/epf-contribution-by-govt-extended-for-three-months/article32026657.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police tighten vigil around Ritchie Street||The police, in association with authorities and traders, have made elaborate arrangements and tightened vigil around Ritchie Street, the electronics hub of the city, to avoid another Koyambedu-like cluster of COVID-19 cases from forming. Over 750 shops were given colour coded and numbered passes and were allowed to open on alternate days, grouped into odd and even numbers. Business timings from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. would be strictly enforced. Joint Commissioner of Police, East, R. Sudhakar and Deputy Commissioner of Police, Triplicane, G. Dharmarajan were constantly monitoring the area. Mr. Dharmarajan told The Hindu , “There are six access points to the market and three of them were sealed. Adequate police personnel have been deployed at access points to regulate shoppers. Our personnel and Chennai Corporation staff are patrolling the area regularly. We seal shops which are in violation of the rules. Two-wheelers are not allowed inside and parking arrangements have been made outside the market.” Hindrance to traffic With the police not allowing vehicles inside the commercial hub, hundreds of vehicles were parked on Anna Salai, affecting traffic flow on the arterial road. Nearly half of Anna Salai along Ritchie Street was occupied by parked vehicles from the subway to the Simpson bus stop. The electronics market saw little to no crowd. However, most of the crowding was concentrated at shops located along Anna Salai. All shopkeepers were asked to wear masks, gloves and use sanitizers frequently. A volunteer group of traders monitored shops and cheked if they switched off their air conditioning units and disinfected regularly. Changed system R. Chandalia, secretary, Chennai Electronics and Infotech Traders’ Association said, “The market was opened two days ago, and now the entire system has changed. The market’s entry has been closed to two-wheelers, and the parking is now on Dams road. Circles have been drawn at a distance of 1 m each outside shops in order to maintain physical distancing. Not more than three people are allowed to wait outside the shop. Transportation is allowed only before 9 a.m. and after 6 p.m.” The traders’ association has sought allotment of space for parking at the Chennai Metro Rail premises, in addition to the parking on Dams Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-tighten-vigil-around-ritchie-street/article32026817.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu tops market borrowings among States so far||Tamil Nadu has so far raised Rs. 30,500 crore in fiscal 2020-21 and has topped market borrowings among all the States. Tamil Nadu accounted for 17% of the borrowings done through the issue of bonds, known as state development loans, according to data from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). With borrowings of Rs. 25,500 crore, Maharashtra accounted for 14%, followed by Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh at 17% each, as per the data. On July 7, Tamil Nadu borrowed an additional amount of Rs. 500 crore rather than the Rs. 2,000 crore originally planned. The State had planned to raise Rs. 2,000 crore through the issue of bonds of Rs. 1,000 each with tenures of 35 years and 3 years respectively. Tamil Nadu had an option to raise a further Rs. 250 crore in each of these securities, through what is known as the ‘green shoe’ option. Tamil Nadu raised Rs. 1,250 crore at the interest rate of 6.63% for the 35-year bonds and Rs. 1,250 crore at the rate of 4.54% for the three-year bonds in the auction conducted by RBI on July 7. The State has been borrowing additional amounts due to the drop in rates. On June 23, the State raised Rs. 1,250 crore through the issue of 30-year bonds at 6.7%. Tamil Nadu has also preferred the market borrowing route for raising funds to meet the increased expenditure and falling revenue situation amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami recently said that with industries and businesses remaining shut, the State would sustain a shortfall in revenue of about Rs. 12,000-Rs. 13,000 crore a month, as per the Finance Secretary’s projections. The State’s GST (Goods and Services Tax) collection fell 15% in June, higher than the 3% fall in national GST collections, amid the intense lockdown announced in a few districts. Long-tenure bonds The State has issued more long-tenure bonds when compared to other States, and has not tapped short-terms funding avenues like Ways and Means Advances. A senior State government official said market borrowings through long tenure bonds help in spreading out repayments and there is appetite for such bonds from Life Insurance Corporation of India and other pension funds. So far in the current fiscal year (7 April – 7 July 2020), 23 States and 1 Union Territory have cumulatively raised Rs. 1.8 lakh crore via market borrowings, which is a 75% increase from the borrowings in the corresponding period of 2019-20 (Rs. 1.03 lakh crore from April 9-July 9, 2019), according to Care Ratings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-tops-market-borrowings-among-states/article32026851.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Northern districts see 60% of new cases||Chennai, along with five northern districts, accounted for nearly 60% of the 3,756 new COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. The surge in cases continued in the southern parts of the State, especially in Madurai, Kanniyakumari and Thoothukudi. With this, the State’s tally increased to 1,22,350*. A total of 3,051 persons were discharged from hospitals, while 64 more persons succumbed to the infection in the State. There are a total of 46,480 active cases, while 74,167 patients have been discharged till now. Tamil Nadu’s toll stood at 1,700. Chennai recorded 1,261 COVID-19 cases, while its neighbouring districts Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu saw an increase in the number of new infections, with 300 and 273 cases, respectively. Vellore and Kancheepuram reported 160 cases each and Villupuram saw 104 cases. Madurai continued to record a high number of cases at 379, taking its tally past 5,000. While 141 cases were reported in Thoothukudi, there were 112 cases in Kanniyakumari. Coimbatore recorded 87 cases, while Cuddalore and Virudhunagar saw 70 cases each. Chennai now has 72,500 cases, followed by Chengalpattu (7,215), Tiruvallur (5,507) and Madurai (5,057). Three districts — Kancheepuram, Tiruvannamalai and Vellore — have more than 2,000 cases each. 63 returnees tested positive in the State. Of the 64 fatalities, 26 persons died in Chennai and nine in Madurai. Dip in cases The number of new infections has seen a dip in Chennai in the last few days. As it continued to stay at the 1,200-mark for the second consecutive day, a public health expert said there was a need to wait and watch the trend for the next 10 days. J. Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary, said that the work must continue with the same intensity. “We appeal to the people to strictly follow standard operating procedures (SOP) for each activity, and the common factors for all SOPs are 100% herd masking, physical distancing, handwashing and stepping out of houses only if necessary. The vulnerable need to be protected,” he said. He urged people not to hide symptoms and not attach any stigma to the disease. In the last 24 hours, a total of 35,979 samples were tested in the State. This took the total number of samples tested to 14,49,414. Two more government testing facilities — the Government Hospital, Harur, and the Government Headquarters Hospital in Erode — were approved for testing. There are a total of 98 testing facilities in the State now.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/northern-districts-see-60-of-new-cases/article32026847.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No shine in jewellery sales||Many jewellery shops that opened on Monday are managing only 10-20% of sales as they are witnessing low footfalls due to the pandemic. Jewellers in the city noted that shops were open till 5 p.m. following the State government orders. S. Santhakumar, secretary, Madras Jewellers’ Federation, said shops were open after more than a fortnight and followed safety norms. However, response was poor due to fears over the spread of COVID-19. Wedding purchases Most customers were those who visited for wedding purchases and other such events. “We are managing sales with available stock as most goldsmiths are yet to resume work in Chennai and other parts of the State,” he said. NSC Bose Road and Edapalayam, which are hubs for goldsmiths, remained deserted as several goldsmiths have returned to their home towns. N. Ramachandran, a goldsmith in Edapalayam, said, “Only 10-15% of the 2,000 goldsmith workshops have opened after the relaxations. We are not getting many orders as jewellery shops too are hit.” The sky-rocketing price of gold and silver was cited as another reason that has deterred people from buying ornaments. On Wednesday, one gram of 22-carat gold was priced at Rs. 4,692 as against Rs. 4,626 sold on the previous day. Fall in demand N. Ananthapadmanabhan, chairman, All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council, said the demand for physical gold has fallen as prices have escalated. More investors are turning towards Gold Exchange Traded Funds and gold bonds. The trend of more investment in gold across the world has led to a jump in prices. The political scenario in the U.S. and the elections would have an impact on gold cost. The prices may not come down till November, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-shine-in-jewellery-sales/article32026805.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Spell out frequency at which PPE kits are given to doctors’||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to spell out the frequency at which Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits were being distributed to the 21 government hospitals authorised to treat COVID-19 patients, since it had been reported that a kit cannot be used for more than six hours. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy sought to know the number of doctors, nurses and other healthcare providers falling under the high-risk, moderate-risk and low-risk categories in each of the 21 hospitals, and the number of kits being distributed to them. The directions were issued on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate S. Jimraj Milton through his counsel Balan Haridas, who claimed that a number of doctors in the State would not have tested positive for COVID-19 had the government provided sufficient, good-quality PPE kits to them. The petitioner also filed a supporting affidavit by activist-doctor G.R. Ravindranath. He told the court that though government doctors were not supposed to be engaged on duty for more than six hours a day, as per the Indian Council of Medical Research’s guidelines, they were being engaged for eight to 12 hours in some government hospitals. “PPE issued by the government in many places is not actual PPE. It is either a surgical apron or an HIV kit consisting of a mask, head cover, hand gloves and body cover. An HIV kit is meant for treating HIV patients and cannot be used for treating COVID-19,” the affidavit read. Additional Advocate General S.R. Rajagopal said the government was equally concerned about frontline healthcare providers, and hence, it had been supplying high-quality PPE kits to them. He said some doctors had tested positive because they couldn’t be expected to wear PPE round-the-clock. The court sought the government’s response by July 27 to four other issues, apart from the frequency of distribution of PPE kits. It asked whether all State and district-level statutory committees had been constituted as per provisions of the Disaster Management Act of 2005. Further, the AAG was asked to get instructions on the litigant’s claim of exorbitant treatment fees being charged by private hospitals for COVID-19, the need for establishing community kitchens and the government’s alleged failure to utilise volunteers willing to assist it in its efforts to contain the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spell-out-frequency-at-which-ppe-kits-are-given-to-doctors/article32026838.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chartered flight passengers tested||People arriving at the city airport in chartered flights are being tested at the hotels where they will be staying till their results are known. On Wednesday, nearly 170 passengers, who came from Kuwait in a chartered flight in the evening, were taken to hotels and their samples were collected. This was a shift from the regular practice, where those arriving in Vande Bharat flights would be tested at the airport and then be taken to government-allotted free or paid quarantine. Many stranded workers from private companies were being brought in by chartered flights.On arrival, they would be taken to hotels and representatives from private labs would collect samples for testing, airport sources said. “A company communicates to the State government that it is making arrangements for a chartered flight. We suggest a hotel and then give the name of a lab approved by the ICMR. The same day or the next, a staff from the lab collects the passengers’ sample at the hotel. Of course, the Chennai Corporation monitors the process,” an official of the Greater Chennai Corporation said. Labs provide the results to the government and officials inform passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chartered-flight-passengers-tested/article32026809.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special teams formed to help residents of Kannagi Nagar fight COVID-19||In a move to prevent more COVID-19 cases in the densely-populated Kannagi Nagar tenements, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has formed two groups called the Mask Force and the Interior Disinfection Force. While members of the Mask Force distribute masks around the locality, the other team visits every house and disinfects its interiors. There are over 35,000 houses in Kannagi Nagar. According to GCC officials, as of now there are over 240 active cases in the tenements. “Earlier, we used to get 50 cases per day, but now it has dropped to 15 on an average. We are trying every method possible to prevent the count from increasing,” an official said. The two forces were among the measures adopted to achieve this goal. The Mask Force comprises 15 volunteers mainly from the Police Boys and Girls clubs, as well as GCC staff. “This team goes around in the evening and gives masks to people who do not wear them. Another called the Mask Surveillance Team, comprising a policeman and GCC staff, patrols the locality to ensure that everyone wears masks,” said Alby John, GCC Regional Deputy Commissioner, South. The Disinfection Force also has around 15 members from the GCC. V. Murthy, a sanitary officer, said till about three days ago, only the exteriors of buildings used to be disinfected. “Now a team visits every house. The residents are asked to step outside and the interiors are completely sanitised. We want to make Kannagi Nagar a model for mask wearing and COVID-19 prevention measures,” he explained. Besides, the Corporation enumerators have been asked to ensure that they do not miss any person with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI). “We have tempo travellers and autorickshaws to help people reach testing centres,” a senior GCC official said. Staff were also identifying persons with comorbidities and keeping track of them, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-formed-to-help-residents-of-kannagi-nagar-fight-covid-19/article32026819.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State flags power-related issues with Centre||During an interaction with Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Power and New & Renewable Energy R.K. Singh on Wednesday Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami raised various issues, including the Electricity Act, 2003 (Amendment), Bill 2020, the PM-KUSUM scheme, liquidity infusion in distressed DISCOMs and coal and mines issues. Mr. Singh was in Chennai on Wednesday to call on Mr. Palaniswami at the Secretariat. Both the Chief Minister and the Minister from the Centre held a meeting with officials from departments concerned. “As for the Electricity Act, 2003 (Amendment), Bill 2020, it is the consistent policy of the Tamil Nadu government that the farmers should receive free power and it needs to be continued. Therefore, the DBT principle should not be applied for the agricultural sector. Further, the Tamil Nadu government has been providing 100 units free for all domestic consumers for which the government provides a subsidy to Tangedco. This scheme may also be kept outside the scope of the DBT system,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a representation handed over to the Union Minister. The draft Amendment Bill, 2020 allowing private franchisee/ sub-licencee, would only lead to cherry-picking of remunerative areas by the franchisee/sub-distribution licencee, affecting the DISCOMs directly and thereby the public interest, the Chief Minister contended. The State government also opposed the fixing of hydropower purchase obligations separately, as the hydel generation was seasonal and monsoon-dependent, and not in the control of the DISCOMs. While welcoming the Centre’s liquidity infusion package of Rs. 90,000 crore to the DISCOMs to clear the dues of generators and transmission companies, the Tamil Nadu government has requested the relaxation of norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-flags-power-related-issues-with-centre/article32026822.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. for continuing existing policy on OBC creamy layer||Opposing any revision of the criteria for determining creamy layer among Other Backward Classes (OBCs) by including salary and agricultural income, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to continue with the existing policy on the issue. In a letter to the PM, Mr. Palaniswami referred to media reports that the Centre was contemplating a revision of the criteria for determining the creamy layer among OBCs by including salary and agricultural income. “If salary and agricultural income of the parents are considered to be part of the overall income of the parents, this would disallow OBC status to several deserving OBCs candidates from availing reservation in admissions to jobs, as well as welfare schemes under the Central government,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami requested the PM to continue the existing policy. He suggested that the Centre may “consider providing OBC reservations by following the Tamil Nadu model, which would benefit the Backward Classes across the country equitably and render complete social justice.” Stalin writes to PM DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give up the proposal to include salary as part of income to determine the creamy layer among Other Backward Classes (OBCs). He also demanded abolition of the All India Quota for medical courses and the NEET. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Mr. Stalin urged him to ensure that the interests of the OBCs were protected. “With the country being in such a precarious situation with the pandemic, inequalities are only going to be exacerbated. It is very difficult to continue with the policies that only work to maintain existing inequalities or increase it,” he said. He reiterated that the underlying factor behind reservation was social and educational backwardness, not economic backwardness. He said the introduction of NEET had caused serious problems to medical education in TN.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-for-continuing-existing-policy-on-obc-creamy-layer/article32026827.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Custodial deaths: CBI team arrives in T.N.||A special team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials from New Delhi arrived in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday to investigate the deaths of traders P. Jayaraj, 58, and his son J. Benicks, 31, of Sattankulam, police sources said. The Central agency took over the investigation into the sensational case at the State government’s request. Though the CBI’s Special Crimes Unit – II had adopted the First Information Report (FIR) of the Kovilpatti East police station in both cases under Section 176 (A)(1) of the CrPC, the mention of “illegal detention, murder, destruction of evidence, etc,” in the re-registered FIRs have raised eyebrows. The FIRs registered by the Kovilpatti East police station were based on the complaints lodged by M. Shanker, Jail Superintendent, Kovilpatti sub-jail. The complaint referred to the health complications of remand prisoners Jayaraj and Benicks while in custody, and their subsequent deaths at a government hospital. The Jail Superintendent had requested the police to register a case and investigate the deaths of the remand prisoners. Two cases — both under Section 176 (1A)(1) (Inquiry by Magistrate into cause of death in custody) of the CrPC — were registered. However, in the FIRs registered by the CBI, the investigation officer has also invoked Section 176 (1A)(1) of the CrPC. The suspected offences have been mentioned as “illegal detention, murder, destruction of evidence, etc,” which were not mentioned by the Jail Superintendent in his complaint. While the place of occurrence of the incident was mentioned as the Government Hospital, Thoothukudi, in the original FIR, the CBI’s FIR mentions the premises of the Sattankulam police station, which is about 100 km away from Kovilpatti. The CBI’s FIR mentions June 19 to 22 as the date of occurrence, whereas the original FIR had mentioned June 22. “FIR is only a tool to set the process of law in motion. The investigating agency can alter the sections on the basis of further investigation. In this case, the allegations are very much in the public domain, and it is not wrong to make a mention of those charges on the list of suspected offences in the FIR,” a senior Tamil Nadu police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/custodial-death-cbi-team-arrives/article32026832.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||25 IMH patients test positive||Nearly 25 patients at the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last few days. A majority of them are from a single ward for men. Official sources said the affected patients were shifted and isolated at a separate ward in the institution. They were being monitored in coordination with doctors at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). Two of them were admitted to RGGGH. A majority of those who had tested positive for COVID-19 were from ward 9 of IMH. A senior doctor said the screening of patients was being carried out ward by ward. A protocol was in place at IMH for isolating and monitoring asymptomatic patients, and they would be shifted to the RGGGH if required. “A number of postgraduate students of IMH, who were deputed to COVID-19 Care Centres at Nandambakkam and Semmencherry, and assistant professors had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier. Ward staff and other hospital workers come from outside, and it is difficult to trace the source of the infection,” a doctor said on the condition of anonymity. ‘Test all residents’ Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers urged the State government to test all residents of IMH for COVID-19. Around 30% of the patients were elderly, and nearly 50% had co-morbidities. As of now, only those with symptoms were being tested, it said. The association’s State general secretary, S. Namburajan, said it had submitted a representation to Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on the issue, and he had given an assurance that all IMH patients would be tested for COVID-19 immediately. In a tweet, T.M.N. Deepak, president, December 3 Movement, urged the Ministers of Health and Social Welfare to test all IMH patients without delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-imh-patients-test-positive/article32026839.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. labs to now alert residents irrespective of result||The State government on Wednesday decided to send results of COVID-19 tests, by SMS, to those getting tested at government institutions. In a departure from the current practice, those testing negative, too, will now be informed of their results. Hitherto, only those testing positive for COVID-19 were alerted and those testing negative were left to assume their results. In a meeting chaired by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, and attended by IAS and IPS officers in-charge of anti-COVID-19 efforts in the Greater Chennai Corporation limits at the Secretariat on Thursday, it was decided that SMS would be sent to all those getting tested. A senior official told The Hindu : “We realised that the absence of information when a person tested negative was leading to anxiety and people had to assume that their results were negative. Clear information will help them stay clear of doubts.” So far, only those getting tested in private labs were sent detailed reports of their results, he said. “We have already started sending SMS from Wednesday evening,” he said. Though the State capital has been reporting a lesser number of cases in the last few days, the Chief Secretary has instructed officials against complacency. “Now that the complete lockdown has been lifted, we have to be vigilant to ensure house surveillance, early detection of symptoms through daily house-to-house visits, holding of fever camps and to make sure that intensive testing continues. The Chief Secretary also emphasised the need for immediate quarantining after getting a test done to stop the spread of COVID-19. Contact tracing is to be strengthened further,” a senior official said. The State government has also decided to form teams to monitor public behaviour in Chennai. “What we are reaping now [low cases] are the fruits of the lockdown. The unlock should not undo the efforts we took, and therefore, we want to monitor public behaviour with these teams,” the official said. For Chennai, fever camps and testing of over 10,000 samples, were among the strategies planned and reviewed. “Private labs’ unutilised testing capacities will be fully used to speed up results,” he added. Since the focus has now shifted to the southern districts, the State government has instructed officials to increase testing in these areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-labs-to-now-alert-residents-irrespective-of-result/article32026843.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stress management for police in south T.N.||Thousands of police personnel from southern Tamil Nadu took part in a yoga/meditation programme launched on Wednesday to bring about healthy changes in the force, which has been going through stress amid the increasing number of COVID-19 cases and deaths. While keeping a reserve of about 25% of the 1.25-lakh force as healthy standby strength, the Tamil Nadu police has deployed a majority of its uniformed personnel on COVID-19-related duties in containment zones, at border check-posts, major hospitals and others. At least 1,000 police personnel who were part of such frontline work have tested positive for COVID-19 and a few of them, including an inspector, have died. “The recent incident in Thoothukudi district, where a trader and his son died due to alleged police excesses at the Sattankulam police station, was another instance that added to the mental stress of the police, since it created a negative impression about the force in the minds of the people. This weekend, the yoga/meditation programme in the southern districts is expected to help manage stress and anger. The police come across a variety of people during the discharge of duties, every day, and not all are law-abiding citizens,” a senior police officer said. ‘A few bad apples’ The officer said that the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, which conducted a suo-motu hearing in the Sattankulam incident, had observed: “A few bad apples here and there should not be a reason to condemn the entire force of around 1.25 lakh police personnel, who are already at the forefront, battling the COVID-19 pandemic.” Hence, steps are being taken to ensure that police personnel, at all levels, get an opportunity to spend at least one day with their families. Experts are being roped in to share their thoughts on good practices such as a healthy lifestyle and food habits. The programme will be in addition to the ongoing police well-being project, being conducted by the M.S. Chellamuthu Trust & Research Foundation, Madurai, and the National Institute of Mental Health & Neuro Sciences, Bengaluru. “Police personnel have been advised to continue doing yoga/meditation exercises at home, every day, at a time convenient to them. During weekends, we will have reviews and upgrade the exercises to the next level. Superintendents of Police in the districts are sourcing expertise locally to conduct the programme,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stress-management-for-police-in-south-tn/article32026849.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Report sought on garbage removal from Vengadamangalam||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has directed the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) to submit a report on steps taken to remove garbage from Vengadamangalam or dispose of it in a scientific manner, and also to detail steps taken following a fire incident that occurred in the dumpyard near the lake. In February, the Bench declined permission to the Pallavaram Municipality to dump waste in Vengadamangalam without clearing the existing legacy waste already there. Following the orders of the Tribunal, the district environmental engineer (DEE), Maraimalai Nagar, inspected the area on July 2 and submitted a report. The DEE submitted that there was no discharge of leachate into the Agaram lake from the Integrated Municipal Solid Waste Management Facility of Pallavaram Municipality at Vengadamangalam. “However, it is submitted that the solid waste already dumped inside said facility may cause leachate during the rainy season and may reach and contaminate the water body,” the DEE said in the report. The DEE also submitted that the inspection was carried out along with the applicant and it was found that there was no dumping of ash on the side of the Agaram lake as stated by him in his application. However, the applicant had submitted photographs to the Bench in February that showed ash being dumped. The applicant’s counsel said even in March, there was a fire accident in the dumpyard, which led to an alarming situation. He said though dumping of waste was stopped in the area, no proper steps had been taken by the Pallavaram Municipality to remove the legacy waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-sought-on-garbage-removal-from-vengadamangalam/article32026814.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI team lands from Delhi to investigate custodial deaths||A special team of the Central Bureau of Investigation from New Delhi arrived in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday to investigate the deaths of traders P. Jayaraj, 58, and his son J. Benicks, 31, of Sattankulam, police sources said. The central agency took over investigation in the sensational case based on a request made by the State Government. Though the CBI’s Special Crimes Unit – II only adopted the First Information Report (FIR) of the Kovilpatti East police station in both the cases under Section 176 (A)(1) of CrPC, the mention of “illegal detention, murder, destruction of evidence etc” in the re-registered FIRs has raised many eyebrows. The FIRs registered by the Kovilpatti East police station were based on the complaints lodged by M. Shanker, Jail Superintendent, Kovilpatti Sub-Jail. The complaint referred to the health complications of remand prisoners Jayaraj and his son Benicks while in custody and their subsequent deaths in the Government Hospital. The Jail Superintendent requested the police to register a case and investigate into the death of the remand prisoners. Two cases both under Section 176 (1A)(1) (Inquiry by Magistrate into cause of death in custody) of CrPC were registered. In the FIRs registered by the CBI, though the investigation officer has also invoked Section 176 (1A)(1) of CrPC, the suspected offences is mentioned as “illegal detention, murder, destruction of evidence etc” which is not mentioned by the Jail Superintendent in his complaint. While the place of occurrence in the original FIR is mentioned as Government Hospital, Thoothukudi, the CBI’s FIR says premises of Sattankulam police station, which is about 100 kms away from Kovilpatti. The CBI FIR also mentions that the date of occurrence is June 19 to June 22 whereas the original FIR says it is June 22. “FIR is only a tool to set the process of law in motion. The investigating agency can alter the sections on the basis of further investigation. In this case, the allegations are very much in public domain and it is not wrong to make a mention of those charges in the list of suspected offences in the FIR,” a senior police officer in Tamil Nadu police said. When asked for his comments, People’s Union for Civil Liberties national general secretary V. Suresh said that it was definitely unusual and perplexing that the CBI added suspected offences of illegal detention, murder and destruction of evidence without any basis in the FIR. “But I don’t think this will affect the case in any way. FIR is only the beginning of a process...this is not a major issue. It will not fatally affect the case,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-team-lands-from-delhi-to-investigate-custodial-deaths/article32027152.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Electricity bills: HC reserves orders||The Madras High Court on Monday reserved orders on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) which termed as “unjust and arbitrary” the method adopted by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to calculate power consumption charges during the lockdown period when meter readings could not be noted down. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha deferred their verdict after observing that the litigant had not challenged the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code of 2004, as per which the electricity charges had been calculated. Additional Advocate General P.H. Arvindh Pandian said the calculation was strictly as per the Code. M.L. Ravi of DMSK had filed the PIL petition, claiming that consumers had to pay 12% to 50% more than the usual charges due to the methodology adopted by Tangedco to calculate power charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electricity-bills-high-court-reserves-orders/article32026852.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. issues order revoking FoP movement||The State government on Wednesday issued an order revoking the Friends of Police movement following an adverse report from the Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy. The movement, of which Director General of Police (Crime Branch CID) Prateep V. Philip is the founder and director, came into existence more than 25 years ago when he was Superintendent of Police in Ramanathapuram district. After more youth joined the organisation, the State government issued an order recognising the movement. Its volunteers, enrolled as per a set procedure, were attached to police stations across Tamil Nadu. Mr. Philip received the Queen’s award for innovation in police training and development for his contribution to community policing. However, there were several allegations of high-handed behaviour by FoP volunteers with the public owing to their proximity to the police. Order rescinded In the latest Sattankulam incident where a trader and his son died after alleged custodial torture in the police station, there were reports that FoP volunteers were also involved. But the organisation sought to refute the allegations by issuing a statement. The government on Wednesday rescinded an earlier order issued in 1994 extending the Friends of Police movement to the whole State of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-issues-order-revoking-friends-of-police-movement/article32026826.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Produce guidelines on managing bodies of COVID-19 patients: HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to produce before it the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on handling the bodies of those who had died after testing positive for COVID-19. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha directed State Government Pleader (SGP) to submit the guidelines by Friday. The direction was issued on a suo motu Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition taken up pursuant to the death of a neurosurgeon here in April. The surgeon’s body was not allowed to be buried at a cemetery in Kilpauk here by the local residents and therefore it had to be buried at another cemetery in Velangadu near New Avadi Road where again a mob had attempted to prevent the burial. Irked over such inhuman behaviour, a Division Bench led by Justice M. Sathyanarayanan had taken up the suo motu PIL petition and issued a general warning to all people that they would be arrested and subjected to criminal prosecution for indulging in such acts. Guidelines When the case was listed again before the Bench presided over by Justice Sundresh on Wednesday, the judge wanted to know whether any guidelines had been put in place. SGP V. Jayaprakash Narayanan replied the Centre had already issued elaborate guidelines. Titled ‘COVID-19: Guidelines on Dead Body Management’. the document states that the main driver of transmission of COVID-19 was through droplets and hence there wouldn’t be any risk of infection from a dead body if health workers and family members follow standard precautions. It suggested measures such as plugging of oral and nasal orifices of the body to prevent leakage of body fluids, placing the body in a leak proof plastic body bag, decontaminating the exterior of the bag with 1% hypochlorite and avoiding embalming and autopsies. Doctor’s wife’s plea In the meantime, it was brought to the notice of the court that the neurosurgeon’s wife too had filed a writ petition, through her counsel on record S. Elambharathi, for exhuming the body from Velangadu burial ground and transferring it to the Kilpauk cemetery. When senior counsel Ravikumar Paul made a mention about the writ petition and urged that he may also be permitted to make his submissions on the issue, the judges said they would hear him on Friday after going through the guidelines on dead body management.  The direction was issued on a suo motu Public Interest Litigation petition taken up pursuant to the death of a neurosurgeon in April||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/produce-guidelines-on-managing-bodies-of-covid-19-patients-hc/article32026854.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin introduces immunity boosting buttermilk||Aavin has launched immunity boosting buttermilk with tulsi , ginger, pepper, jeera , curry leaves, turmeric and lemon called Aavin Sakthi. The new variant of buttermilk, whose formula was provided by Tampcol, comes in a 200-ml-pack priced at Rs. 15 each. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami launched this and other products at a function in the presence of Minister K.T. Rajendra Balaji, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Dairy Development Secretary K. Gopal and Aavin managing director M. Vallalar. He also launched Aavin Long Life, a 500-ml-pack of milk with a shelf life of 90 days with 4.5% fat; chocolate flavoured and mango flavoured lassi (priced at Rs. 23 each) and Aavin Tea Mate, pasturised full cream milk with 6.5% fat, targeted at tea shops. All these products come in smart new packaging displaying a cute cow, which is Aavin’s mascot. The Ambattur Dairy will manufacture these products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-introduces-immunity-boosting-buttermilk/article32026801.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Film company staff booked for cheating||The Virugambakkam police registered a case against an accountant of actor Vishal’s film production company on charges of misappropriating company funds and cheating. Vishal Film Factory, owned by actor Vishal lodged a complaint alleging that Rs. 45 lakh was misappropriated by Ramya, an accountant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/film-company-staff-booked-for-cheating/article32026810.ece
09 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Fifteen held for smuggling liquor||The police on Wednesday arrested 15 persons for allegedly transporting Indian Made Foreign Liquor from neighbouring districts into the city. Nearly 819 bottles of liquor were seized from them. Since there was a prohibition on the sale of liquor in city limits, checking along district borders has been intensified. On Tuesday, police intercepted three bikes and an auto at the Vellivayal checkpost. They detained 12 people in possession of liquor. Similarly, police in Washermenpet caught two persons for carrying liquor bottles in a goods carrier. The Thirunindravur police nabbed a 25-year-old from Kodungaiyur after finding liquor bottles in his car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fifteen-held-for-smuggling-liquor/article32026806.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Call off highway tenders: NGO||Arappor Iyakkam has urged the State government to cancel tenders recently called by the Highways Department and utilise the money to provide economic relief for citizens, MSMEs and COVID-19 expenses. In a letter written to the Secretaries of Finance and Highways Departments, the NGO’s convener Jayaram Venkatesan, said the State was under severe economic stress. Therefore, expenditure must be re-prioritised according to the recommendations of the Rangarajan Committee to help the unorganised sectors. Tenders should be floated only for relaying roads that were in a bad condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-off-highway-tenders-ngo/article32026807.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plus-Two final exam on July 27||The State government announced that the final Plus Two exam that some students were unable to take up on March 24, will be held again for the absentees on July 27. Several students had missed writing the final exam on March 24 as there were restrictions in place for the national lockdown. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had announced that the students who missed the exam would be given another opportunity. Students can download their hall tickets from www.dge.tn.gov.in or collect it from their schools between July 13 to 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plus-two-exam-on-july-27/article32026828.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK to fete AIADMK stalwart on his centenary||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) président M.K. Stalin on Wednesday called upon partymen to celebrate the centenary of V.R. Nedunchezhian, one of the prominent leaders of the Dravidian Movement. Mr. Stalin said he would pay respects to Nedunchezhian at Anna Arivalayam on July 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-fete-aiadmk-stalwart-on-his-centenary/article32026856.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. can take call on thermal cameras: HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday left it to the State government to consider the possibility of installing thermal imaging cameras in public places to identify those who could be potentially suffering from COVID-19 by examining their body temperatures. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy took the decision while disposing of a case filed by A.S. Bilal. Observing that it was a technical decision that had to be taken by experts after examining the pros and cons of thermal imaging cameras, the judges refrained from issuing a positive direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-can-take-call-on-thermal-cameras-hc/article32026844.ece
09 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Codissia to incubate 10 start ups this year at its facility in Coimbatore||The defence innovation and incubation project, an initiative by the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) with the support of the Government to promote MSME participation in the defence sector, has taken off in Coimbatore. With the Central Government providing Rs. 2 crore and the industrial association bringing in Rs. 2.3 crore, the Atal Incubation Centre has been commissioned. It plans to incubate 10 startups at the facility this year. Director of Codissia Defence Innovation and Atal Incubation Centre V. Sundaram and Codissia president R. Ramamurthy told The Hindu on Wednesday that four incubatees were identified so far and they would be at the centre for a maximum of three years. The startups were established one or two years ago and were into areas such as Artificial Intelligence, drones, and electric vehicles. They would get co-working space at the Centre, mentoring facilities, and machinery that they can use to develop their products. “We (the centre) will place orders for machinery in another 10 days. The investment in machinery will be roughly Rs. 3 crore. It will be like a tool room that the incubatees can use,” Mr. Sundaram said. Nearly 15 applications were received and four startups were identified. Another six will be selected soon. “The advantage for these startups in the project is the linkage they will get with industries and exposure to the defence sector,” Mr. Sundaram added. There will be regular interactions with the authorities concerned from the defence sector. Further, members of Codissia and other MSMEs in the region that are looking at developing new products can partner with the startups and fund them to develop these. The plan is to make the MSMEs partners of the startups so that both benefit. Though the products conceptualised and developed by the startups at the incubation centre need not be directly linked to the defence sector, these can be applied for several purposes in the sector. For instance, the drone or AI products that have been identified can have defence applications too. Apart from the Atal Incubation Centre, a nodal officer for the Director General Quality and Assurance of the Ministry of Defence will be available at the Codissia office on Fridays and Saturdays. Industries that want to supply to the defence sector can contact the officer and register their unit. The officer will inspect the unit and if it gets his certification, it can participate in defence tenders, according to Mr. Sundaram and Mr. Ramamurthy. As part of the indigenisation programme of the defence sector, several products have been identified for manufacturing. However, the MSMEs will not know the priority that the products that they work on will get. The units will invest in product development and if the particular product is not a priority, they may not get immediate orders. Hence, a group of MSMEs here have been encouraged to start identifying and working on a few products. This is mainly to study and understand the scope and viability of developing products locally for the defence sector, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/codissia-to-incubate-10-start-ups-this-year-at-its-facility-in-coimbatore/article32026887.ece
09 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant deaths: expert panel urged to study use of pesticides, fertilizers by farmers||Nature enthusiasts want the expert committee that has been formed by the Forest Department to study elephant deaths in Coimbatore Forest Division to study aspects such as use of pesticides and fertilizers in farms close to forest areas and quality of water in waterbodies that are depended by elephants. According to sources from Sirumugai, one of the seven forest ranges in the division which alone witnessed eight out of 15 elephant deaths that were reported this year, a section of farmers who cultivate along forest peripheries use low dosage of pesticides to deal with crop raiding wild elephants. Also, fertilizers like urea are kept in containers in diluted form to hunt spotted deer which is often consumed by wild elephants. “Diluted urea is kept in small containers in farms abutting forest peripheries to catch spotted deer. While a spotted deer that consumes this solution collapses in the area, elephants walk away. But this solution can badly affect their gastrointestinal tract and cause further deterioration of health,” said a person in the know of the practice in the area on conditions of anonymity. Many elephants that died in the forest division were young and post-mortem examinations hinted that they did not have proper feed for several days before dying. According to K. Kalidas of Osai environmental NGO, the Forest Department should also study the quality of water in waterbodies in forests and peripheries that are depended by wild elephants in summer. “Lack of proper feed could also be a reason that led to the deterioration of the health of the elephants in summer. Around 40 elephants are said to be stationed at Pethikuttai beat of Sirumugai range where Seemai karuvelam ( Prosopis juliflora) constitutes the majority of flora. Pethikuttai is separated by the water storage area of Bhavani Sagar Reservoir from the Nilgiris eastern slope. Elephants are unable to move to the eastern slope which is comparatively greener even through the shallow portions of the water storage area as they seem to be afraid to step into marshy land,” he said. Of the eight elephants that died in Sirumugai range, seven of them died within the limits of Pethikuttai beat. Fragmented links of the forest beat with Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve also prevents them from moving to that part and force them to remain in a small area where green fodder is a rare sight during summer. Debasis Jana, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, said that there may be additions and changes in the seven member expert committee that was formed to study elephant deaths. Nature enthusiast Umesh Marudhachalam wanted the participation of local people too in the study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-deaths-expert-panel-urged-to-study-use-of-pesticides-fertilizers-by-farmers/article32026863.ece
09 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Maker of ‘COVID-19-curing’ mysurpa booked||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) on Wednesday suspended the licence of a sweet shop in Thottipalayam, near Coimbatore, after its owner sold a particular type of mysurpa, peddling it as a cure for COVID-19. K. Tamilselvan, designated officer of the FSSAI in Coimbatore; P. Krishna, Joint Director of health services (Coimbatore district); and C. Dhanam, Coimbatore district Siddha medical officer, inspected the sweet shop on Wednesday, based on directions from the District Collector. Dr. Tamilselvan said that Sriram, of Sri Ram Vilas Nellai Lala Sweets, was booked under sections 53 and 61 of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, for selling the mysurpa as a cure for COVID-19, without approvals from any department and for spreading false information through advertisements that consumption of the mysurpa would cure one from the infection, in a single day. The team of officials seized 120 kg of the mysurpa, claimed to be worth around Rs. 1 lakh, from the sweet shop. Dr. Tamilselvan said that Sriram was selling the sweet at Rs. 50 for 50 g. He added that the district Siddha medical officer took samples of the mysurpa for examination as it was sold as a product with herbal ingredients.  ‘Herbal ingredients’ The District Collector ordered that the sweet stall be raided, after fliers were issued by the shop claiming that the mysurpa was a cure for COVID-19. The fliers also had detailed prescriptions for the mysurpa’s intake so that one may recover from COVID-19. It also promised an immunity boost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maker-of-covid-19-curing-mysurpa-booked/article32026841.ece
09 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BU accused of favouring a college in course approval||Academics and activists have accused the Bharathiar University of favouring a private, self-financing college in granting approval to three courses and four diploma courses. They allege that the college concerned had applied for approval of one of the three courses before the October 31, 2019 deadline and for the rest thereafter. For course approval applications submitted after deadline, the college concerned has to be penalised. The college has not paid the penalty thereby causing financial loss to the University, they allege. In granting approval for the three courses, the University has also violated the rule that says colleges are not allowed to apply for new courses in lieu of existing courses. Besides, the University has approved of the courses that aren’t in its list of courses offered, a privilege extended to autonomous institution and not affiliating institution, which the college is, they add. In response, Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj says that the University has accepted course approval applications after deadline from not only the college in question but several other also colleges. All the colleges that have submitted after the deadline will have to pay penalty and the process to send them the demand notices are on. As for approving new courses in lieu of existing courses, he says the University has done so for several colleges. For approval of courses that aren’t in its list, the University asks the colleges concerned to send draft syllabi to be placed before the College Development Council and Boards of Study. The process is on for the college in question and for others as well and due process is being followed, Mr. Kaliraj says and denies and nepotism in the University’s decision.  The University has accepted course approval applications after deadline from not only the college in question but several other colleges also P. Kaliraj Vice-Chancellor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bu-accused-of-favouring-a-college-in-course-approval/article32026857.ece
09 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sapling plantation drive at RAF Battalion||NGO Chandrans Yuva Foundation and 105th Rapid Action Force (RAF) Battalion organised a sapling plantation drive at Vellalore on Monday. Nearly 20,000 saplings were planted under the ‘Go Green, Grow Green’ initiative at Vellalore where the 105th RAF Battalion is based, a release said. Manimekalai Mohan, founder and managing trustee of SSVM Group of institutions, B. Jayakrishnan, Commandant of 105th RAF Battalion and Vidya Jayakrishnan from the RAF Women Empowerment wing were the chief guests. G. Dinesh, Deputy Commandant, and S.K. Dubey, Second In-Command, from the battalion along with members of Chandrans Yuva Foundation took part in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sapling-plantation-drive-at-raf-battalion/article32026861.ece
09 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Van Mahotsav celebrated||ENVIS Resource Partner on Forest Genetic Resources and Tree Improvement at the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB), Coimbatore, celebrated Van Mahotsav-2020 by organising a sapling planting programme recently. ENVIS director C. Kunhikannan inaugurated the function and released an awareness poster for students. Saplings of indigenous medicinal and fruit tree species were planted by officers, staff members and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/van-mahotsav-celebrated/article32026885.ece
09 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. treads a unique path in interpreting rules||Coimbatore Corporation, it appears, has been interpreting law or court orders to suit its convenience, sometimes even when it goes against the State Government’s rules. The latest instance of such action from the Corporation is the letter Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath wrote to the Tangedco’s Coimbatore Distribution Circle asking it to consider the property tax assessment as the building completion certificate. The Commissioner’s letter ultra vires the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, which directs the Tangedco to issue power connection only to buildings with completion certificate. For residential buildings measuring up to 7,000 sq.ft. the Rules say that the certificate is not required, and for those that measure more the Local Planning Authority should issue a certificate. Therefore, the Commissioner is outside his authority in asking the Tangedco to equate tax assessment with the certificate, source say. In another instance of interpreting law or court orders to suit its convenience, the Corporation under Mr. Jatavath undid what his predecessor K. Vijayakarthikeyan did to cancel the agreement with an advertising agency allowing digital advertisements on 30 boards across the city. The reason the Corporation had cited for the cancellation in January 2019 was that the agency had violated the Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies Licensing of Hoardings and Levy of Advertisement Tax Rules, 2003, various court orders and against the Indian Road Congress norms. After proffering a few reasons to justify the Corporation’s reversal in decision, Mr. Jatavath referred to a case between the advertising agency and Tangedco – the agency had moved the court against Tangedco’s refusal to give power connection to the digital advertisement boards citing absence of approval from District Collector – to say that since it was the Coimbatore Smart City Limited that had floated tender for the erection of the 30 boards, the Collector’s approval was not necessary. In this instance too, the Corporation had usurped the powers of the District Collector as the latter issued only licenses for advertisements and not no-objection certificates. As a result of Mr. Jatavath reversing the earlier decision, the city has 30 digital boards that display advertisement and at places where it should not be, as per various Madras High Court orders and Indian Road Congress norms. In interpreting law to deny information to activists under the Right to Information Act there are umpteen examples, says activist S.P. Thiyagarajan. Citing a stay order the Madras High Court had issued in a court case filed by a contractors’ association, the Corporation not only denies information to petitioners but also the opportunity to view the files containing the information. The order prevented the Corporation from disclosing information related to contractors. But the Corporation cites it to justify not giving details on council resolutions or even the number of resolutions or even the money it has spent on vehicle maintenance, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-treads-a-unique-path-in-interpreting-rules/article32026870.ece
09 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Plea to allow Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations||Members of Bharat Sena petitioned District Collector K. Rajamani on Wednesday to allow Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations this year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Led by district general secretary Ruthram Muthu, the members carried idols of Lord Ganesha to the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-allow-vinayaka-chathurthi-celebrations/article32026859.ece
09 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Refund from wedding halls sought||Consumer rights group Citizens’ Voice Coimbatore (CVC) has requested District Collector K. Rajamani to direct all the wedding halls in district to return the advance payments to the parents for the wedding ceremonies that have been cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter to the Collector, CVC president C.M. Jeyaraman and secretary V.A. Shanmugam said that they received complaints that many wedding halls are not refunding the money paid in advance for the wedding ceremonies, which were later cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/refund-from-wedding-halls-sought/article32026866.ece
09 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Hope after Fire’ gets additional fund||Rotary Club of Coimbatore Metropolis has allocated an additional sum of Rs. 3 crore for ‘Hope after Fire', a programme it has been organising with Ganga Hospital for survivors of fire accidents. As many as 550 people have benefited from the programme since its launch in March 2012. Rotary Club of Oak Ridge through the Rotary Foundation has also contributed to this programme. S. Rajasabapathy, managing director, Ganga Hospital and chairman of the project, said that the aim of the project was to help restore the lives of these victims to normalcy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hope-after-fire-gets-additional-fund/article32026865.ece
09 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||People continue to enter Erode district without e-pass||Despite the police insisting motorists and people entering the district on foot to have e-pass, hundreds of people, mostly workers, continue to enter without e-pass every day. Following an increase in COVID-19 positive cases, the State government has imposed restriction on inter-district travel and asked people to obtain e-pass for entering other districts. The restriction has affected large number of office goers and workers from Pallipalayam and Kumarapalayam areas in Namakkal district who come to the district every day. While vehicles line up in large numbers at the check post at Karungalpalayam near River Cauvery, swab samples are lifted from people who cross the bridge on foot. The restriction is affecting the work force as they have to spend over an hour at the check post before entering the district. Most of the daily earners say that they are unaware of the procedure to obtain the e-pass or do not have any supporting documents to apply. A woman worker from Pallipalayam said she was a construction worker for the past 20 years and wanted permission to workers like her to enter Erode every day. Many office-goers also said that they be allowed after verifying their identity card. However, senior police officials said the purpose of restriction was to prevent the spread of the disease and wanted the workers to obtain e-pass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-continue-to-enter-erode-district-without-e-pass/article32026877.ece
09 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Online classes after July 13 for govt. schoolchildren||Online classes for government schoolchildren will begin after July 13, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said in Gobichettipalayam on Wednesday. Speaking to the media, he said that preparatory work for online classes was under way, and five private television channels had agreed to telecast the classes, for free, at scheduled times. “Textbooks will be distributed to the students, after which the Chief Minister will inaugurate the online classes,” he said. To a question on how Class 10 students who did not attend quarterly and half-yearly examinations would be declared ‘passed’, the Minister said that only four or five students had been absent for the examinations, in each district, and after finalising the list, consultations would be held with educationalists, and the Chief Minister would take a call on the issue. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that 34,482 Class 12 students were unable to write their exam on March 24, and only 718 were willing to write the exam now. “The Chief Minister will announce the date for conducting the exams and the results for the same will be declared in four days,” he added. He said that despite NEET (National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test) being postponed, 7,200 students continued to be trained for the test across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-classes-after-july-13-for-govt-schoolchildren/article32026835.ece
09 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Video clips of RTO staff demanding money goes viral||Two video clips of a Regional Transport Office (RTO) staff at Bannari check post demanding Rs. 400 from a truck driver went viral on social media here on Wednesday. The checkpost, located on the Dindigul – Mysuru National Highway near the Bannari Amman temple, is manned round the clock to monitor trucks and heavy vehicles that head to Karnataka. There were complaints that overloaded trucks were allowed to use the Dhimbam Ghat Road. The video clips, recorded by a lorry driver, shows him negotiating with the staff at the check post to allow him cross the check post. The staff demands money from the driver and he pays Rs. 400 and seeks a receipt. The time and date on which the video was recorded is not known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/video-clips-of-rto-staff-demanding-money-goes-viral/article32026873.ece
09 July 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||One death, 25 new cases in Karaikal||Karaikal district witnessed a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, with 25 out of 91 persons from whom swab samples were lifted on July 6, testing positive for the infection. The swab samples of a 60-year-old man, who died at Karaikal GH on Tuesday after admission on July 4 with lung infection and other co-moribidities, turned positive. The ICU where he was admitted was disinfected. With 24 new admissions inclusive of a lab technician and two conservancy workers, there were now 32 positive cases in the district. Of the 25 new cases, 12 contracted the infection from an asymptomatic person on Vayalkarai Street. The palmistry practitioner spread the infection while plying his trade, Collector Arjun Sharma said. He urged residents to conform to social distancing norms. In 90 % of the cases, the infection was spread by asymptomatic carriers. Most of the other infected persons were returnees from Mumbai, Singapore, Chennai, Puducherry and other hotspots. Though officials screened entrants at border checkposts, information about arrival of people from hotspot areas would help the district administration in preventing the spread of the infection. Enforcement of safety protocol would be made more stringent through fines, he said. So far, 3,025 peeople had been tested. The infection could be prevented to a major extent if people came forward to get themselves tested for influenza at the earliest, according to health officials.  Meanwhile, Karaikal District Citizens' Welfare Association president V. R. Dhanaseelane called for appointment of a Special Officer at a senior level conversant with Tamil language to streamline enforcement of lockdown measures. In a letter addressed to Puducherry Chief Minister, he said a need had arisen for deployment of CRPF personnel at checkposts. The practice of venturing outside Karaikal after obtaining e-passes for visiting Puducherry must be checked. There must be a separate COVID-19 testing laboratory at JIPMER Branch in Karaikal, the representation to the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-25-new-cases-in-karaikal/article32027179.ece
09 July 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||NCLP officials rescue siblings selling tea in Krishnagiri||A day after the media reported on two children helping out their mother by selling dry ginger tea, officials from the National Child Labour Project rescued the children and sent the eldest girl to a home in Dharmapuri, amid opposition from their mother. On Tuesday, the media reported on Ikkiya (13) and her younger brother Mohammad Yousuf (7) selling tea on government office premises and in Krishnagiri town, during COVID -19 lockdown to help out the household run by their mother Rehmat Banu. However, the media reports led to action by the National Child Labour Project and the Labour Department. Ikkiya was produced before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and sent to Vallalar home in Dharmapuri. When contacted, NCLP Project Officer Priya said the girl was not being separated from their mother, but only being sent to the home from where she would attend school. Asked about the trauma this was likely to cause the family, Ms.Priya said that upon seeing the report of children being out on the streets during a pandemic, they were mandated to act. According to Child Protection Officer Subhash, a preliminary inquiry will be held and a report will be submitted. The children had lost their father in an accident six years ago and they were helping out their mother by selling tea in a flask. On Wednesday, the mother and her children were summoned to the CWC, where the magistrate passed the orders to send the girl to a home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nclp-officials-rescue-siblings-selling-tea-in-krishnagiri/article32026875.ece
09 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||State students stuck in Kyrgyzstan wish to return||Students from Tamil Nadu studying at various universities in Kyrgyzstan submitted video pleas to India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on June 7, seeking safe return in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking to The Hindu on Wednesday, K. Ganesh Kumar, a student from Madurai who went to Kyrgyzstan’s Osh State Medical University in 2017, said only two flights had been arranged by the Centre to fly to Chennai in the four phases of ‘Vande Bharat’ mission. The flights accommodated 168 people each in two phases -- on July 2 and July 4. Visveswaran Rajeshwaran, another student from Madurai, said flights had been announced to Kochi and Hyderabad. There were regular flights to Delhi and Mumbai. “But without flights to Chennai, we will be spending a fortune to go back home and will be in an institutional quarantine for several days,” he added. According to Mr. Ganesh Kumar, close to 800 Tamil students are stranded in Kyrgyzstan in five university towns. “While some students can afford to catch a flight from Delhi, get quarantined there and then book another flight to Chennai, many others cannot. A lot of us have heavy student loans to pay back,” he said. M. Balaji, a student from Tiruchi who has completed his fifth year of his six-year course, said university administrations across Kyrgyzstan were requesting Indian students to return to their country as classes would not start now. “There are many deaths due to pneumonia too. The administration is afraid that hostels may be exposed. There are still close to 800 people from Tamil Nadu who still need to find a way back home,” he said. Mr. Balaji said students of Jalalabad State Medical University got only one meal a day. “It would be great if more people were sympathetic to our plight,” he added. The three students said they had been recording videos, tagging Ministers and the Indian Embassy regarding the matter. Mr. Rajeshwaran said if they got indication of what was the plan from the Indian Embassy, Tamil students would be prepared for that. Dharmapuri Member of Parliament S. Senthil Kumar on June 7 had written to the External Affairs Minister regarding the arrangement of flights for the students. The students said that they were yet to hear anything positive from the Embassy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-students-stuck-in-kyrgyzstan-wish-to-return/article32027146.ece
09 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman seeks probe into son’s death||Yet another case of custodial torture that resulted in the death of a youth has been alleged against the same Sattankulam police personnel who were involved in the custodial deaths of traders P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. This incident is said to have taken place prior to the twin deaths. In her petition filed at the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, S. Vadivu from Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district alleged that her younger son, Mahendran, was illegally kept in custody and tortured by the then Inspector Sridhar and Sub-Inspector Raghuganesh. Subsequently, Mahendran died, she said, and sought a probe into his death. Justice R. Pongiappan ordered notice to the State and sought a detailed counter. The hearing was adjourned till July 21. In her petition, Vadivu, a widow, said she was mother of three children, Durai, Mahendran and Santhanam. Her sons Durai and Mahendran were masons and her daughter Santhanam was married. It was alleged that her elder son Durai was involved in a murder case. SI Raghuganesh, along with a few other policemen, barged into the house of the petitioner at 9.30 p.m. on May 22 in search of Durai. However, they were informed that Durai had gone to Pappankulam. The next day, the policemen reached Pappankulam. Since they could not find him there, they nabbed Mahendran. It was said that Mahendran was hit on his head and private parts by the police. He was kept under illegal custody till 10.30 p.m. on May 24. Vadivu said while letting her son go, the police threatened her of dire consequences if she complained of any torture. Durai went to the police station on May 26 to explain that he was not involved in the murder case. But, he was detained and remanded in judicial custody, she said. Later, Mahendran was taken by the family members to Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for treatment of giddiness and pain. The CT scan report revealed that there was a blood clot in his brain. He died on June 13, she said. She alleged that the family was forced to receive the body without a post-mortem done. The villagers made complaints to the Collector, Superintendent of Police and other officials. But, there was no response, she said. Had the higher authorities taken the complaints seriously, the deaths of Jayaraj and Benicks could have been avoided, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-seeks-probe-into-sons-death/article32027153.ece
09 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Maids find doors, livelihood shut||After a gap of over two months, A. Hilda Mary, a domestic helper who works at S.S. Colony, resumed work in the first week of June. However, with the implementation of complete lockdown from June 24, Ms. Mary was again asked to stop coming to work. With no source of income and mounting debts, Ms. Mary says she would rather take up any job even at the risk of contracting COVID-19 infection than seeing her children starving. “I have to pay house rent and the moneylenders are knocking on my door every day demanding repayment of loan. The government must help us,” she says. With the rising COVID-19 positive cases in the city, many residents have asked their domestic help to stop coming to work as they fear that the maids might be carriers of COVID-19. “While some employers are empathetic and pay them the salary, most of them have not paid the salary to their domestic helpers. Also, many families have already asked their domestic help to stop coming to work, making them jobless,” says P. Clarammal, State Coordinator, Tamil Nadu Domestic Workers’ Union. Many gated communities and apartments in the city have asked the home owners to avoid employing domestic workers during the pandemic. B. Mariammal, another domestic worker, says the maids are ready to follow safety measures such as wearing face masks, washing hands frequently and avoiding any form of physical contact. “Working at homes is more riskier for us as if we get infected with COVID-19, we would not even have sufficient resources to have home treatment for COVID-19. But we still want to work as we are the sole breadwinners of the family,” she says. Though the government had announced a financial assistance of Rs. 2,000 for domestic workers, many have not received them yet, she adds. It is important for the government to provide additional financial assistance to the domestic workers to help them during this crisis, says S. Selvagomathy, Managing Trustee of Justice Shivaraj V. Patil Foundation. An official from Labour department says through mediation they are planning to help the employers understand the plight of domestic workers and make them pay at least a part of their salary. “Once lockdown restrictions are relaxed, we will work on this,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maids-find-doors-livelihood-shut/article32027138.ece
09 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Siddha medicine distributed||Principal District Judge A. Nazeema Banu distributed 100 boxes of ‘IMPRO’, a siddha medicine, which is a mixture of 66 herbs to the judicial officers of the Madurai District Court, here on Wednesday. The boxes of the medicine were distributed in the presence of Madurai-based Siddha doctor S. Subramanian who developed the herbal concoction. A team of experts constituted by the State government had tested IMPRO and found it to have an anti-viral effect. Following orders from the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, the siddha medicine has been sent to the Central Council for Research in Ayurveda and Siddha for a further test. Mr. Subramanian had sought a direction before the High Court for the Centre to test his herbal concoction and see if it can be used as a cure for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siddha-medicine-distributed/article32027145.ece
09 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Woman seeks probe into son’s death||Yet another case of custodial torture that resulted in the death of a youth has been alleged against the very same Sattankulam policemen who were involved in the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. The petitioner, S. Vadivu from Sattankulam, alleged that her younger son Mahendran was illegally kept in custody and tortured by the then inspector Sridhar and sub-inspector Raghu Ganesh attached to the Sattankulam police station. Subsequently, her son died, she said and sought a probe into the death. Taking up the petition for hearing, Justice R. Pongiappan ordered notice to the State and sought a detailed counter. The hearing was adjourned till July 21. In her petition, Ms. Vadivu said that she was the mother of three children — Durai, Mahendran and Santhanam. Both Durai and Mahendran were masons. It was alleged that her elder son Durai was involved in a murder case. On May 22, SI Raghu Ganesh, along with few other policemen, came in search of Durai. However, they were informed that Durai was in Pappankulam. The next day, on May 23, the policemen reached Pappankulam. Not finding Durai there, they nabbed Mahendran. It was said that Mahendran was hit on his head and private parts and kept in illegal custody till May 24. Ms. Vadivu said Durai went to the police station on May 26 to explain that he was not involved in the murder case. But he was detained and remanded. Mahendran was taken to the Thoothukudi Government Medical College and Hospital for treatment. The CT scan report stated that he had a blood clot in his brain. He succumbed to his injuries on June 13, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-seeks-probe-into-sons-death/article32026829.ece
09 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea for aid to legal heirs of victims of caste atrocities||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the State to file an additional counter affidavit in a public interest litigation petition filed in 2017 that sought a direction to the State government to provide employment, agricultural land, pension or house to the legal heirs of the victims of caste atrocities. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the State government to file the counter and adjourned the hearing in the case by four weeks. The PIL petition was filed by N. Dhanapal from Madurai who sought the relief for the legal heirs of the victims, under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Apart from this, the petitioner also sought a direction to the Central and State governments to bear the educational expenses of the children of the victims till their graduation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-for-aid-to-legal-heirs-of-victims-of-caste-atrocities/article32027139.ece
09 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials visit fever camps||Collector T. G. Vinay and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan took part in an inspection across various fever camps at Alwarpuram, Managiri, Pudur, Manmalaimedu and Vandiyur here on Wednesday. They checked the ways in which swab collection was done and fever cases were treated. Currently, there are 155 fever clinics that operate both out of urban primary health centres and mobile health vans. The fever camps check for all symptoms of COVID-19 in a bid to understand localised spread. The Corporation has been providing ‘kabasura kudineer’ to all those who visit fever camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-visit-fever-camps/article32027143.ece
09 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Advocate appears in vest||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday let off a young advocate with a warning after he had appeared in a vest during a virtual hearing. The High Court Bench in its notification has already directed the advocates to maintain a proper dress code during virtual hearings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advocate-appears-in-vest-during-virtual-hearing/article32027140.ece
09 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||SIT student bags national-level prize||A student of Sethu Institute of Technology won first place in a national-level technical blog writing competition on the topic ‘Healthcare Automation’. A press release from the college said S.K. Gayathri from Electronics and Communication Engineering department wrote a blog titled ‘Non-invasive Monitoring System for Stress-free Labour’. The blog proposed the usage of a device - ‘WeeCare’ designed by the student to prioritise a mother’s comfort. It is said to non-invasively detect the fetal and maternal ECG signals and extract heartrates separately. Another student from the same department Bharkavi Sandhiya got a consolation prize in the event. Her product ‘Medirobo for Elderly People,’ written on her technical blog, will aid elderly people in providing medical assistance when necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sit-student-bags-national-level-prize/article32027144.ece
09 July 2020||MADURAI/THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai’s tally crosses 5,000 mark||The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Madurai crossed the 5,000 mark as 379 more people – all indigenous cases – tested positive. It is the biggest single day spike in the district, which now has a tally of 5,057. The number of active cases is 3,811 and nine deaths were recorded on Wednesday that took the toll to 86. Thoothukudi recorded 141 fresh cases – all indigenous – which pushed the district’s tally to 1,558 and the number of active cases to 629. Kanniyakumari added 115 cases, including 112 indigenous cases, to its tally which now stands at 872 with 532 active cases. Tirunelveli reported six new cases, with which its total case count moved up to 1,300 and the number of active cases in the district stands at 589. Two patients, who had been admitted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for other reasons and later tested positive for COVID-19, died on Wednesday. Tenkasi added 27 more cases – 25 of them indigenous – to have a tally of 558 with 258 active cases. Theni Theni recorded 75 fresh cases which took the total number of cases to 1,297. The new cases were reported from Theni, Cumbum, Periyakulam and Uthamapalayam. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar reported 70 new positive case, with which the district’s tally rose to 1,298. The number of active cases is 686. The district has so far reported 10 deaths. Meanwhile, the third RT-PCR testing equipment has become functional at Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital. “With this new equipment, we will be able to test around 950 samples per day and it will help us clear all backlog samples,” said Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan. Virudhunagar district administration has invited applications from qualified people for the posts of medical officers, paramedical staff and nurses to provide COVID-19 treatment at government hospitals. In a statement, the Collector said a consolidated pay would be given to those appointed on a temporary basis for six months. Interested candidates can walk in to the office of the Joint Director (Health Services), Virudhunagar or the office of the Collector, or send their applications through email tovirudhunagar.jdhs@ gmail.comorcollrvnr@nic.in Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram saw its tally go up to 1,544, with the addition of 65 fresh cases. These cases were reported from Ramanathapuram, Kilakarai and Paramakudi. Sivaganga Thirty-five patients tested positive in Sivaganga, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 611. The cases were recorded from Devakottai, Sivaganga, Manamadurai, Tiruppuvanam and Singampunari. A total of 67 people were discharged from Government Sivaganga Medical College Hospital on Wednesday. Dindigul In Dindigul district, nine new cases were reported from Natham, Dindigul and Nilakottai. The district’s tally now stands at 739.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurais-tally-crosses-5000-mark/article32027142.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC agrees to examine DMK’s petition||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to examine a petition filed by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) against the Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker for allegedly delaying a decision on the anti-defection proceedings against 11 AIADMK MLAs who voted against the Edappadi Palaniswami government in a confidence motion in 2017. A Bench, led by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, issued notice and posted the case for hearing after four weeks. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal and advocate Amit Anand Tiwari, for the DMK, said the Speaker was deliberately trying to delay his decision till the government tenure is over. Mr. Sibal sought an early hearing, possibly in two weeks. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for the respondents, objected to the issuance of notice. “We have issued notice without asking you,” Chief Justice Bobde retorted to the objection. The Opposition party, through its leader R. Sakkarapani, alleged that Speaker P. Dhanapal was sitting on the disqualification proceedings for three years and would continue to do so till the government completes its term. The DMK said it took the Speaker three years and an intervention by the Supreme Court to even issue notice to the MLAs in February 2020. The party referred to how the Supreme Court had recently used its extraordinary powers under Article 142 to strip Manipur Minister T. Shyamkumar of his office and banned him from entering the State Assembly after the Speaker continued to delay a decision on his disqualification for defection under the Tenth Schedule. The DMK said the judgment in the Manipur case should apply to the Tamil Nadu Speaker. In February, the case against the T.N. Speaker’s inaction was closed after Advocate General for the State informed a Bench led by the Chief Justice of India that the Speaker had issued notice to the 11 MLAs under the scanner. However, the top court had not given the Speaker any deadline to decide the question of their disqualification. The CJI had left it to the Speaker’s discretion to “take a decision in accordance with the law”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-agrees-to-examine-dmks-petition/article32026855.ece
09 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry Raj Nivas shut after office assistant tests positive||Raj Nivas, the home-office of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, was shut for 48 hours on Wednesday for disinfection of its premises, after an office assistant tested positive for COVID-19. According to a source at the Raj Nivas, the staff member got tested on Monday and results returned positive on Wednesday morning. “The person worked in a section of the Raj Nivas and was not in contact with the office of the Lt. Governor,” he said. The Health Department has started contact tracing and will be testing about 15 persons, who worked in close quarters with the patient. All possible contacts are being quarantined. A press statement from the Raj Nivas said that as per the standard operating procedure, contact tracing had been done. Primary contacts had been identified and would be tested. Though asymptomatic, they were under home quarantine. “The lone staff member who tested positive had no access to the Lt. Governor and her personal office. The Lt. Governor is safe and healthy. However as a precaution, the Lt. Governor and the staff attached to her personal office are also being tested today [Wednesday],” the statement said. In a message, Ms. Bedi said: “As a measure of abundant caution, I, along with my personal office staff, are taking a COVID-19 test.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-raj-nivas-shut-after-office-assistant-tests-positive/article32026834.ece
09 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to provide Rs. 5,000 to cardholders||The opposition AIADMK has urged the territorial government to provide Rs. 5,000 each to all cardholders in the Union Territory. In a statement, AIADMK legislature party leader A. Anbalagan said that the Tamil Nadu government was providing essential commodities to cardholders through fair price shops since March last. The Centre’s scheme to provide monthly rice to the poor should be implemented in Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-urged-to-provide-rs-5000-to-cardholders/article32026833.ece
09 July 2020||S. SundarMadurai,TAMIL NADU||City tipplers create nuisance for villagers||With Madurai city facing a complete COVID-19 lockdown since June 24, many are heading to suburban areas to buy liquor from TASMAC outlets, in the process causing nuisance to local villagers. Serpentine queues are seen at the TASMAC outlets in Alanganallur and Tiruvathavur as people running out of Indian-made foreign liquor find ways to reach them. “Not just two-wheelers, but even cars from Madurai city are coming to Alanganallur to buy liquor and are creating a lot of confusion on the roads,” said a youth, who did not want to be identified. Three TASMAC shops are functional in Alanganallur and the roads leading to them at Gatekadai are a constant witness to haphazardly parked vehicles. “Most youth come riding as triples on bikes, while under lockdown rules only one person is allowed. And the worst part is they are racing towards the shop so as to be the first ones in the queue at the TASMAC shops at Tiruvathavur,” said President of Idayapatti panchayat, S.B.K. Krishna Sivaji. The vehicles that go through Othakadai reach Tiruvathavur through Idayapatti. “Right from early morning to late night, we see vehicles zooming past. The villagers, especially the aged, fear to cross the road because of the tipplers,” he said. Both complained that the youth, after buying liquor, park their vehicles on the road and start drinking in the open on farm lands. “Since they come in big groups, we are apprehensive about their behaviour in an inebriated state. Most of them are neither wearing masks nor following physical distancing norms,” people rued. “The situation on the stretch of road between Tiruvathavur and Pudu Thamaraipatti has become so bad that women had to stage a protest seeking closure of the TASMAC shop a few days back,” Mr. Sivaji said. He added that the sale at the Tiruvathavur TASMAC shop has increased 10 times in comparison to the pre lockdown times. “Instead of implementing lockdown only in the city, the administration should have done it in entire Madurai district and closed down TASMAC shops,” said Mr. Sivaji. Madurai Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan said that efforts would be taken to lessen the movement of people from the city to rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-tipplers-create-nuisance-for-villagers/article32027151.ece
09 July 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Gang nabbed; ganja, mobile phones seized||A three-member police team nabbed a seven-member gang near Ayyanarkoil tank at Maangudi in Tirupuvanam police station limits on Wednesday. It seized 22 kg of ganja, six mobile phones, eight two-wheelers, seven aruvals, three ‘veechu’ aruvals, among others, from the gang. Among the seven, six had criminal cases pending in many police stations while one had 40 cases pending against him. SP V Varun Kumar (Ramanathapuram SP, holding additional charge of Sivaganga district), told reporters that the gang used to waylay gullible people, barge into sand quarries in isolated places and indulge in robbery or burglary in houses or business establishments during night. Murugan, 38, of Avarangadu Tirupachethi here, who was wanted in 10 districts, would escape to a far off place after committing a crime and remain underground. He would strike again in another district after spending the money,’ the SP said. Appreciating the Special Branch team for specific input and tip-off, the SP said the Manamadurai DSP Rajesh, Inspector Elumalai and others had worked in a very coordinated manner in nabbing the gang. Ajaydevan, 20, Mukulan of Vembathur, Kaliswaran, 20, of Kalayarkoil, Rajesh Kannan, 32, of Tirunagar Madurai, Naveen Raj, 22, Pechiamman Padithurai from Madurai and others had role in murder cases in Madurai and Sivaganga districts. The police sent them to judicial custody after registering cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-nabbed-ganja-mobile-phones-seized/article32027130.ece
09 July 2020||Special Correspondent Theni,TAMIL NADU||Theni to get 26 more COVID-19 care centres||A total of 2,770 beds were available in government medical college hospital, government hospital, COVID-19 care centres and isolation centres in the district, said Collector M. Pallavi Baldev here on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, she said out of 1,297 positive cases reported so far, 439 were discharged from hospitals. The district had 847 patients in stage one and, according to doctors, they were stable. If any patient required more medical attention, they were shifted to Government Theni Medical College Hospital. Six COVID-19 care centres were functioning in Theni, Thekkampatti, Koduvilampatti, Bodinayakkanur, Vadapudupatti and Uthamapalayam. The district administration had identified 26 more COVID-19 care centres. There were 23 COVID-19 positive patients, who were categorised as differently abled persons or mentally challenged, to remain in home quarantine. After ensuring that the dwelling had a separate enclosure for the patient and no other resident in the home stepped out, home quarantine was permitted. Similarly, she said 30 pregnant women, who tested positive, were undergoing treatment at the government medical college hospital. Six persons under dialysis and 15 other patients in ICCU wards were given separate accommodation in the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-to-get-26-more-covid-19-care-centres/article32027154.ece
09 July 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Gaur gores elderly man||A gaur gored a man to death on Wednesday. The police said Shahul Hameed, 71, of Quaid-E-Millet Nagar near Puliyangudi, went to his farm close the Western Ghats on Wednesday. He sustained grievous injuries when a gaur, which had strayed into his ranch, attacked him. People in the vicinity shifted him to a hospital but he died on the way. Condemning the forest department for failing to check invasion of wild animals from the Western Ghats into farms and prevent damage to standing crops and loss of life , the public staged a road roko near the Government Hospital at Puliyangudi where the body was kept. They urged officials to erect solar fence along the foothills of the Western Ghats and dig trenches to check intrusion of wild animals. They demanded relief of Rs. 10 lakh to the family of the deceased and a government job to a family member of the old man. They gave up the agitation after the police pacified them with an assurance that they would take up the issue with the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gaur-gores-elderly-man/article32027131.ece
09 July 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Sanitary workers resort to strike||Daily wage labourers engaged for sanitary operations in Kumbakonam municipality struck work on Wednesday. A private contractor, who engaged 250 persons to collect and transport garbage from the streets to the compost yard at a daily wage of Rs. 385, failed to honour the commitment, sources said. After Municipal Commissioner Lakshmi said the issue would be sorted out soon, the labourers withdrew their agitation and resumed sanitary operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sanitary-workers-resort-to-strike/article32027180.ece
09 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Protest over ‘poor treatment’||A group of around 200 residents staged a road roko apart from damaging barricades and tin sheets erected in containment zones on Wednesday. When more than 200 samples were lifted from residents of Terespuram, 40 of them tested positive for COVID-19. They have been admitted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Accusing the hospital authorities of not providing adequate medical care and other facilities to positive patients from Terespuram, they damaged tin sheets erected to check entry of outsiders into containment zones, smashed barricades and threw them on the road. They also chased away corporation personnel and tried to attack them when they went there to collect more samples. The protesters said COVID-19 positive patients should not be taken to the TKMCH. Instead, they should be allowed to be in their homes while undergoing treatment. Utmost care should be provided to patients from Terespuram, they said. Even though tahsildar Selvakumar and Deputy Superintendent of Police Ganesh held talks with the protesters and assured them that proper care would be given to those undergoing treatment in TKMCH, they refused to give up their agitation. After prolonged talks with the protesters, the agitation was withdrawn. TKMCH authorities, commenting on the agitation, said every COVID-19 positive patient admitted in the hospital was being given due medical care and nutritious food while ensuring clean ambience. “Anyone can visit the TKMCH to check facilities in treatment wards with due protection and confirm the medical care we’re giving through the CCTV cameras in the wards,” they said. Meanwhile, a group of fishermen from Terespuram, who laid siege to the Office of the Joint Director of Fisheries, demanded repeal of the ban imposed on fishing by country boats in the wake of sudden surge in COVID-19 positive cases in the area. “Since the mechanised boats have been allowed by the fisheries department officials by lifting the ban, we should also be allowed,” said country boat fishermen. However, Deputy Director of Fisheries Chandra was firm in her stand that country boat fishermen would be allowed to go for fishing only after the number of COVID-19 positive cases in Terespuram came down. Since the officials were determined, the fishermen left the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-over-poor-treatment/article32027135.ece
09 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID arrests five more policemen||On a day the CBI registered FIRs in connection with the custodial deaths of trader P Jayaraj and his son J Benicks, the CB-CID arrested five more policemen including a Special Sub Inspector on Wednesday night. The CB-CID is investigating the case as an interim arrangement on the directions of the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench). Those arrested are Special Sub-Inspector Pauldurai and constables Chelladurai, Saamadurai, Veyilumuthu and Francis Thomas. With this, the number of policemen arrested in the case has gone up to 10. The SSI and constables were taken to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for mandatory health screening before being produced in front of the Judicial Magistrate. CB-CID sources said the five had held Jayaraj and Benicks while the other accused beat them up inside the Sattankulam police station last month. The CB-CID had on Tuesday night picked up 10 policemen and four members of ‘Friends of Police’ for interrogation. Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, K. Shankar, who is monitoring the ongoing investigation, came to the CB-CID Office near the District Police Office on Wednesday evening after grilling the policemen overnight along with Superintendents of Police Vijayakumar and Madasamy. The arrest of the five policemen was announced late in the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-arrests-five-more-policemen/article32027133.ece
09 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID arrests 5 more cops||On a day the CBI registered FIRs in connection with the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, the CB-CID arrested five more policemen, including a special sub-inspector, on Wednesday. The CB-CID is investigating the case as an interim arrangement on the directions of the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench). Those arrested were special sub-inspector Pauldurai and constables Chelladurai, Saamadurai, Veyilumuthu and Francis Thomas. With this, the number of policemen arrested in the case has gone up to 10. The SSI and the constables were taken to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for mandatory health screening before being produced in front of the judicial magistrate. CB-CID sources said the five had held Jayaraj and Benicks while the other accused beat them up inside the Sattankulam police station last month. The CB-CID had on Tuesday night picked up 10 policemen and four members of the Friends of Police for interrogation. Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, K. Shankar, who is monitoring the investigation, came to the CB-CID office, near the district police office, on Wednesday evening after grilling the policemen overnight along with Superintendents of Police Vijayakumar and Madasamy. The arrest was announced late in the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-more-policemen-held-by-cb-cid-in-custodial-deaths-case/article32026824.ece
09 July 2020||tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Four deaths and 146 new cases reported in central region||The central region on Wednesday recorded four COVID-19 deaths – one person each from Thanjavur, Pudukottai and two from Tiruchi. A 60-year-old woman from Pudukottai, who had pre-existing conditions of diabetes, was admitted to Pudukottai District Headquarters Hospital on July 4. She tested positive on July 5 and began undergoing treatment. She died on Tuesday after suffering sudden cardiorespiratory arrest and acute respiratory failure. A 55-year-old man from Tiruchi, who was undergoing treatment at Pudukottai District Headquarters Hospital after admission on July 6, died on Tuesday. He tested positive on July 7 and died the same day, hospital sources said. In Thanjavur, a 55-year-old man from Kumbakonam died of the viral infection on Wednesday. He travelled to and from Kumbakonam when he tested positive. He was admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on July 5 and died on Wednesday afternoon. A village health nurse from Valanadu in Marungapuri, who was admitted to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) on June 25 after testing positive, died on Wednesday. She suffered from comorbid conditions such as hypertension and diabetes, official sources at MGMGH said. Meanwhile, a total of 146 patients tested positive on Wednesday. Tiruvarur reported 38, Pudukottai 31, Tiruchi 21, Nagapattinam 19, Thanjavur 15, Ariyalur 12 and Karur 7 and Perambalur 3. Tiruchi In Tiruchi, 21 patients tested positive and 12 of them hailed from the city limits. Official sources at the corporation said all 12 were within existing containment zones. “These patients tested positive because we keep a regular check on people within these zones, check for fever and other symptoms on a daily basis,” a senior official said. The total number of cases in the district was 1,077 on Wednesday. Fifty-nine patients were discharged from MGMGH after recovery on Wednesday. Forty-nine others were also discharged from the COVID Care Centre at Khajamalai. Review meeting held Collector S. Sivarasu conducted a review meeting with 65 special teams deputed in all 65 wards of Tiruchi Corporation. The Collector instructed the special teams comprising police, health and revenue officials to trace, identify and test all returnees from other districts and States. Returnees from Chennai, or from other districts, with and without e-passes must be traced. Those travelling via rail, road or by air from within the State, outside or from abroad must be placed in home quarantine for 14 days. So far, 1,150 travellers had been traced and tested. Of them, 50 tested positive, Mr. Sivarasu said. Thanjavur, Tiruvarur In delta districts, 38 tested positive in Tiruvarur and 15 in Thanjavur. A correspondent and a teacher of a private school in Thanjavur, who tested positive, triggered apprehension among parents and students who visited the institution early this month to remit school fees. The Corporation approached the school authorities seeking the list of those who frequented the school premises during that time. After much persuasion, the authorities handed over the list of 140 names to civic officials. Out of 140 persons, 82 were subjected to COVID-19 test at the primary health centre at Kallukulam on July 5 and 6. Two parents and two children of the teaching staff tested positive. Efforts had been initiated by Corporation officials to test left-out persons, some of whom reportedly approached private hospitals to check whether they had contracted the infection, sources said. Pudukottai In Pudukottai, two boys, aged one and two, were among the 31 who tested positive. Barring a 41-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore and a 65-year-old woman undergoing treatment in Chennai, the remaining 28 patients were admitted to Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital. Nagapattinam In Nagapattinam, 10 of the 19 patients who tested positive, were returnees from Chennai, while five were local cases. The remaining returned from Dubai, Kuwait and Muscat. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 325. Perambalur Three patients from Perambalur tested positive and were admitted to Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital. Ariyalur, Karur Ariyalur saw an increase in the number of cases with 12 testing positive. Four had returned from Chennai, three were family members of those who returned from Chennai, one from Thanjavur, one was returnee from Ladakh and one from Bahrain. The remaining were locals from Ariyalur, who had been in contact with patients who tested positive. Seven patients tested positive in Karur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-deaths-and-146-new-cases-reported-in-central-region/article32027191.ece
09 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tenders floated for sound and light show at Teppakulam||Tiruchi Corporation has floated tenders for conducting a sound and light show at Teppakulam of Rockfort Thayumanaswamy Temple in the city. The initiative was among the proposals of the Smart City Mission. A sum of Rs. 8.80 crore has been earmarked for the project, which will be implemented under Design Build, Operate and Transfer (DBOT) basis. Operation and maintenance of the show for three years has also been included in the project estimate, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian toldThe Hindu. It will be on a par with the leading light and sound shows across the country. The tourist-friendly initiative will showcase the history of Tiruchi, its pre- and post-colonial past, rulers, their valour and courage and the history of Rockfort hillock and Thayumanaswamy Temple. Since the project is to be implemented under DBOT model, the bidders are expected to come out with novel ideas to make the show unique. They will be asked to present their concepts before an expert committee and the best proposal will be awarded the contract, Mr. Sivasubramanian said. The show will be screened from Teppakulam. The bidder will have to choose the show area, theme and timing. However, the Corporation will check the data and theme of the concept before finalising it. The timing and duration of the show will be decided while awarding contract.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tenders-floated-for-sound-and-light-show-at-teppakulam/article32027183.ece
09 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Focus on rural areas||The district administration has shifted its focus to rural areas of Tiruchi district, where there has been a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases over the last few days. Until recently, barring Tiruchi city, Manapparai and Marungapuri blocks, the pandemic situation was relatively under control in the rest of the district. But cases began to rise steadily after a person of Ponnusangampatti near Thuraiyur, who was employed in a leading utensils-cum-jewellery showroom in Tiruchi, tested positive on June 22. The employee was reportedly living in shared accommodation with others belonging to Thuraiyur, Uppilliyapuram, Kattuputhur and Musiri. Many of them were diagnosed with the virus one after another. Some of their primary and secondary contacts also tested positive. As on Tuesday, 1,059 persons were diagnosed with the virus in the district. Of them, 557 belonged to Tiruchi city and 493 to other areas. Close to 250 patients in the city belonged to Mannachanalur, Thuraiyur, Uppiliyapuram, Thathaiyargarpettai, Thottiam, Musiri, Lalgudi and Pullampadi unions. Mannachanallur and Musiri alone accounted for 122 cases. Many of the recent cases were linked to a Tiruchi-based utensil showroom. Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that it had been established that several primary and secondary contacts of the showroom employees were also diagnosed with the virus. Many of them belonged to interior villages. The revenue, town panchayats, panchayat unions and health departments had been sensitised on the need for contact tracing, testing and isolation of primary and secondary contacts of those who tested positive. “If five persons tested positive in a locality, street or village, it will be made into containment zone. It is important to put primary contacts in isolation or home quarantine until the results are out,” Mr. Sivarasu said. The Collector added that door-to-door survey to figure out fever cases would be carried out in clusters. Officials had been instructed to ensure that the affected areas were disinfected immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-rural-areas/article32027187.ece
09 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minor girl’s death: parents, relatives questioned||Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, Z. Annie Vijaya on Wednesday said special teams probing the death of a minor girl, whose partially charred body was found at Adhavathurpalayam recently, were conducting detailed inquiry with the victim’s parents, relatives, friends and villagers. Investigations were on to find out whether it was a suicide or homicide, she told reporters here. A few persons, who were close to the girl, were also being questioned to learn more details about the 14-year-old victim. The teams were also probing whether the girl was under stress or had any other issue. The post-mortem was done by a team of three doctors and arrangements were being made to get the full report as soon as possible. On Tuesday afternoon, a combing operation was carried out at the crime scene for clues. Stating that the investigation was being done in a transparent manner, Ms. Annie Vijaya said local residents were cooperating with the special teams. Ruling out any political influence or interference, she said the probe was being carried out in a professional way based on evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minor-girls-death-parents-relatives-questioned/article32027184.ece
09 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sexually assaulted girl found dead||A 17-year-old girl, who became pregnant after being sexually assaulted, allegedly ended her life in Tiruchi district on Wednesday. The minor was allegedly sexually assaulted by her relative Ramki of Rajalipatti in neighbouring Pudukottai district a few months ago and became pregnant. The girl lodged a complaint in late May with Manapparai All Women Police following which a case was booked against Ramki under the POCSO Act. Ramki, who was absconding, later obtained anticipatory bail. Meanwhile, the girl apparently consumed a poisonous substance on Wednesday and was rushed to e Manapparai Government Hospital. She died on the way. On receipt of information, Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, H.M. Jayaram, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range Z. Annie Vijaya and Superintendent of Police Ziaul Haque went to the Manapparai All Women Station and conducted inquiry. Post-mortem was conducted at Manapparai Government Hospital and the body was handed over to the girl's parents. The sources said Ramki was detained and a separate case was booked against him under IPC 305 (abetment of suicide of child) and Section 4 of Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act based on a complaint from the girl's mother. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sexually-assaulted-girl-found-dead/article32027193.ece
09 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cheating case against private firm owner||Cantonment Police have registered a case against Raja, owner of Elfin e-Com Private Ltd, and a few others on charges of assaulting, threatening and cheating a 30-year-old investor. The case was registered on Tuesday on a complaint preferred by N. Rajkumar of Tirumayam taluk in Pudukottai district. In the complaint, Rajkumar stated that he invested Rs. 45 lakh on various dates in the company functioning at Mannarpuram with assurance from Raja that the amount would be doubled and given to the former in 10 months. As the firm failed to return the amount, Rajkumar lodged a complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cheating-case-against-private-firm-owner/article32027192.ece
09 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Conducting last rites of poor victims||When ‘Kottur’ Peer Masthan, Tirunelveli district general secretary of the Social Democratic Party of India, received a phone call around 1.30 a.m. on last Tuesday from a stranger, all he could hear for the first couple of minutes was weeping of a man and a woman. After a while, the stranger started speaking. “My father, a COVID-19 positive patient, died in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital a few minutes ago. Please help us to bury him as we’re also in the TVMCH after being tested positive for the virus.” He contacted his colleagues and explained to them about the spicy situation in which the distressed family from Alangulam in Tenkasi district has landed. They got ready within next few minutes and rushed to the TVMCH along with an ambulance. Health Department officials too contacted Mr. Masthan for the same help. Even as the inconsolably wailing family was standing at a distance, the SDPI cadre received the body and buried it at Alangulam as per the protocol developed by the World Health Organisation for handling bodies of COVID-19 patients and after conducting prayers as per Christianity as the deceased was a Christian. A few days ago, SDPI cadre cremated another body, a Hindu, at Sindhupoondurai crematorium near Tirunelveli Junction, after the viral infection claimed his life and kept his family away from conducting last rites. “The SDPI’s team has so far conducted last rites of 13 victims - 6 Muslims, 6 Hindus and a Christian - from Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Tenkasi districts,” says SDPI’s Ghani. The SDPI has kept six teams, each having well-trained eight members, to perform last rites. It has adequate number of Personal Protection Equipment kits for handling victims. “We would require 40 metres of white cloth for each burial. Moreover, three bags of bleaching powder (each bag costs about Rs. 800) would be poured in the pit in layers. If the deceased is a Christian, we’ll have to spend Rs. 4,000 for the coffin also,” says Mr. Ghani. However, the SDPI takes only the fuel cost of the ambulance if the body had to be transported from the TVMCH to the native place of the deceased. After carrying a body, the ambulance is disinfected completely for which they have to spend Rs. 1,500 each time. After performing last rites, the team involved in the exercise is quarantined for a week when they are given nutritious food, fruits and vitamin tablets. In spite of all these expenses, the SDPI volunteers, without any hesitation, handle the body at any time with dedication. On the intervention of SDPI’s Indian Social Forum in Saudi Arabia, a Hindu family from Radhapuram recently managed to bring the body of R. Balakrishnan, 31, of Saamy Kovil Street in Koodankulam. As the mortal remains reached Thiruvananthapuram airport, the SDPI sent its ambulance to bring the body to Koodankulam. For ambulance services, Mr. Masthan may be contacted at 96886 44683, 96886 44688||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conducting-last-rites-of-poor-victims/article32027128.ece
09 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for murder||The police have arrested a youth for allegedly fatally knocking down another fruit seller. They said S. Muthupandi, 32, a guava seller from Vedapatti near Vilaaththikulam in Thoothukudi district, used to sell fruits from a roadside makeshift structure on Kovilpatti-Pasuvanthanai Road. In view of the lockdown, he had to return to his native place. When the lockdown was lifted, he returned a few weeks ago to the spot where he was selling guava only to find O. Pasupathi Pandi, 19, of Therkku Thittankulam near Kovilpatti selling fruits at the same place. As Muthupandi told Pasupathi Pandi to find a new area to sell fruits since he was selling guava from that particular spot for the past few years, it triggered altercation between the duo. Muthupandi filed a complaint and the police asked Pasupathi Pandi to look for a new place to sell fruits. Against this backdrop, Muthupandi was killed on Tuesday and the police registered a case of accidental death. But, Muthupandi’s wife Muthupetchi and her relatives filed a complaint with the police that her husband had been murdered by another fruit seller following prior enmity. The police found that Pasupathi Pandi had hired a cargo auto with which he fatally knocked down Muthupandi when he came to the orchard at Ayyanarooththu on Tuesday. As the grievously injured victim fell down from the bike, Pasupathi Pandi allegedly crushed Muthupandi again with the four-wheeler. Though Pasupathi Pandi wanted to show it as a case of hit-and-run, the badly damaged auto broke down on the spot forcing the culprit to flee from the spot after abandoning the vehicle. He was detained on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-murder/article32027136.ece
09 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tribal girl honoured for academic excellence||Officials from the Forest Department on Wednesday felicitated a student from the Muduvar tribal community in Udumalpet, Tiruppur district, for her performance in the Kerala Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination. C. Sreedevi, a resident of Poochukottamparai settlement, under the Anaimalai Tiger Reserve, is a student of the Model Residential School at Chalakudy in Thrissur district, Kerala. She had scored ‘A-plus’ grade in her SSLC examination. According to the State vice-president of Tamil Nadu Tribals’ Association P. Shanmugam, Sreedvi was the first among her tribal community to achieve this feat. She was felicitated by Deputy Field Director of ATR Arockiaraj Xavier. “The girl has asked for a laptop, which Mr. Xavier promised to gift her soon,” said ATR Assistant Conservator of Forests V. Selvan. The Forest Department will provide all the required assistance for Sreedevi’s higher studies, he said. The girl’s father M. Chellamuthu told The Hindu that he used to travel as much as 80 km on his two-wheeler from Poochukottamparai to drop his daughter at the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border, from where she boarded a special bus arranged by the Kerala government to take her to the examination centre. Ms. Sreedevi said she wanted to select Science group in Class XI. “I want to become a doctor,” she said. The event was held as per the directions of Debasis Jana, Field Director of ATR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-girl-honoured-for-academic-excellence/article32026872.ece
09 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Special train operated for migrant workers||Nearly after a month’s gap, Salem Division of Southern Railway operated a Shramik Special Train from Tiruppur Junction for migrant workers on Wednesday. The train was bound for Howrah, West Bengal and left the junction at around 3 p.m., said railway officials. Migrant workers from 15 districts including Salem, Erode and Krishnagiri in the western region and Dindigul, Tirunelveli and Madurai from the southern region arrived at Tiruppur Railway Station to board the train. The respective administrations of 15 districts arranged buses for the workers to reach the Tiruppur Junction, a Revenue Department official said. Based on the consent given to return to their respective hometowns, the workers were chosen for the Shramik train on Wednesday. All the workers were provided with food packets, water bottles and soaps by the respective district administrations prior to boarding the train, the official noted. The passengers were screened for COVID-19 symptoms at the railway station. Railway officials said that nearly 1,150 passengers boarded the train at Tiruppur Junction. Out of this, 259 workers were from Tiruppur district. All these workers were from the States of Jharkhand and West Bengal. Around 300 workers also boarded the train at Chennai, according to the officials. This is the 34th Shramik special train operated from Tiruppur Junction. Around 52,000 migrant workers from Tiruppur district were sent in Shramik special trains from Tiruppur Junction which started on May 10. The 33rd special train was operated on June 11. The trains have ferried workers to their respective hometowns in six States namely Bihar (17), Odisha (7), Uttar Pradesh (3), West Bengal (3), Jharkhand (2) and Assam (2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-train-operated-for-migrant-workers/article32026882.ece
09 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Recovery rate is 68.22% in Tiruvarur’||Tiruvarur district has recorded a recovery rate of 68.22% among COVID-19 affected persons, according to Food Minister R. Kamaraj. Of the total 576 who tested positive in the district, only 163 were undergoing treatment at hospitals as on Wednesday, he told reporters here after chairing a review meeting at the District Collectorate. The State stopped the list of recoveries in the country due to quick tracking and treatment, he said. He also called upon people, particularly senior citizens and pregnant women, to make use of e-sanjeevini online facility to consult medical practitioners for advice or treatment for aliments, if any. The service would be available on the following numbers: 94999-33843; 94999-33844; 91541-53672 and 91541-53673. Earlier, the Minister received material sponsored by Indian Red Cross Society for containment exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recovery-rate-is-6822-in-tiruvarur/article32027181.ece
09 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||IG instructs police to treat public with respect||At a meeting he chaired in Coonoor on Monday, Inspector General of Police (West Zone) K. Periaiah asked police officials and personnel to treat members of the public with respect. The Nilgiris Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan, who took part in the meeting, told presspersons that the IG spoke to DSPs, ADSPs and Inspectors on how to deal with the general public. The IG’s instructions follow the custodial deaths of Jayaraj and his son Benicks in Sattankulam recently. “Instructions were given on how the police should behave with the public, on how they should treat complainants and also what kind of behavioural changes need to effected among police personnel,” said Mr. Sasi Mohan. “These instructions will be passed down to each police station, right from the DSP to every constable,” he said. On the opposition from the public and political parties to the transfer and posting of ADSP D. Kumar to the Nilgiris district, despite being under investigation for the Sattankulam custodial deaths, the SP said the objections had been passed on to the relevant officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ig-instructs-police-to-treat-public-with-respect/article32026864.ece
09 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks units to down shutters for 11 days||Fireworks manufacturers on Wednesday announced closure of over 1,000 units for 11 days from Thursday as a precautionary measure to prevent spread of infection. Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers’ Association (TANFAMA) and The Indian Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association (TIFMA) have announced that the units would remain closed till July 19. “The number of positive cases is on the rise in Sivakasi. It is highly impossible to find a positive person among our workforce,” said TANFAMA president Ganesan Panjurajan. Capital, however, was not a problem as banks were willing to give more loans to manufacturers, he added Stating that awareness among workers was still very low, he said the suspension of work would prevent spread of the infection. The district has reported 253 fresh positive cases on Tuesday. TIFMA general secretary T. Kannan said that they could not find out whether a worker had come from a containment zone or not. Besides, most of the licensed units had huge stock of finished products. “We do not have any more space to keep finished goods as marketing of fireworks was very difficult during this period,” he said. Small fireworks units affiliated to Meenampatti Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association has joined major players in the 11-day closure. Smaller players had been complaining that they might be forced to close down the operation as they could not clear their stocks. Over 1,000 fireworks units faced 43 days of lockdown in March, April and May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fireworks-units-to-down-shutters-for-11-days/article32027137.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore, Tiruppur record one COVID-19 death each||A 67-year-old man who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, died on Wednesday. Health Department officials said the deceased hailed from 24 Veerapandi Pirivu and he was admitted to the hospital on July 2. As per the COVID-19 bulletin of the department, the man was suffering from Type II diabetes for the last 18 years. His condition deteriorated late on Tuesday and he died around 3 a.m. With this, the number of COVID-19 deaths notified by the Health Department increased to six in the district. Meanwhile, 55 persons tested positive in the Coimbatore district on Thursday. Of these, eight were from Mudalipalayam near Annur, 13 from a poultry feed mill at Pollachi, 10 from an electrical shop at Marakadai in Coimbatore city, and four each from Palamalai road and Perur Chettipalayam. Two women from Othakalandapam and Podanur, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the ESI Hospital, gave birth to their babies on Wednesday. Tiruppur district reported its third COVID-19 death and 26 new cases, taking its overall cases tally beyond the 250-mark. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced on Twitter that a 68-year-old man from Kolathupalayam Town Panchayat in Dharapuram block, who was COVID-19 positive and was admitted at Dharapuram Government Hospital on Monday, passed away in the early hours of Wednesday. The first two deaths were reported on June 24 and July 5 respectively. The new positive cases included a six-year-old girl from Kangeyam block, Health Department sources said. Apart from her, six women and 19 men tested positive. From Tiruppur Corporation limits, the new cases included an 81-year-old man from Lakshmi Nagar in Tiruppur Corporation limits, two men aged 55 years and 29 and three women aged 26, 27, and 55 from Velampalayam. Four men from Kuppandandampalayam in Avinashi, aged 22, 19, 21, and 33, also tested positive, sources said. A total of 792 swab samples were lifted on Wednesday as part of the contact tracing process. Tasmac outlet no. 1994 in Tiruppur Corporation limits was closed after one of its employees tested positive. Prior to this, instances of the highest single-day increase of 35 cases was on April 12 and 28 cases on April 18. The reported number of cases was on the upswing for the past few days, with 17 cases on Tuesday and 16 on Monday. Sources said the results of pending samples were released on Wednesday, which caused the number to go up by around 10 cases. With over 60 containment zones set up across Tiruppur district, stricter measures were being ensured by the district administration. Salem reported 68 new cases on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally so far to 1,409. Officials said 64 of the new cases were indigenous. Currently, 827 persons were undergoing treatment at various hospitals and, so far, six deaths were reported. In Namakkal, 12 persons test positive taking the district’s tally to 130. Nine of the new cases were indigenous. Currently, 38 persons are undergoing treatment. Ten new cases were reported in Erode. Officials said that eight cases were reported in corporation limits while Gobichettipalayam and Kavindapadi, reported one case each. Currently, 206 persons were undergoing treatment while the district had, so far reported 296 cases. Ten persons tested positive in the Nilgiris. With the latest infections, the total number of cases stands at 160. Two of the 10 who tested positive are contacts of a person associated with an infected cluster in Yellanalli, while the others are believed to have contracted the infection from other districts they travelled to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-tiruppur-record-one-covid-19-death-each/article32026884.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Retail vegetable sale allowed at market||Retail sales at the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market that was halted for two weeks, resumed on Wednesday as traders were allowed to sell produce from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. everyday. Shifted After the outbreak of COVID-19 in the city, the vegetable market on RKV Road was shifted to bus stand premises from March 28. While wholesalers were allowed to sell vegetables from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., retail sales were carried out from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. Since, the public throng the retail market in large numbers, retail sales was halted on June 26 on the premises. Currently, all the 800 shops were shifted to the VOC Park Ground and are functioning there from July 4. Since retail traders requested the corporation to allow them to carry out business, corporation officials permitted them two hours to sell vegetables and fruits everyday from Wednesday. Wholesalers were asked to wind up their business by 6 a.m. after which retail sales for the public will be done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retail-vegetable-sale-allowed-at-market/article32026879.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Steam loco will soon be back on the Nilgiri track||A fully overhauled oil-fired steam locomotive of Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) is all set to roll out of Golden Rock Railway Workshop next week. This will be the first refurbished steam loco to be dispatched from the workshop during the current fiscal. Trial run of the metre gauge steam loco belonging to ‘X’ class is expected to be conducted on the workshop premises on Friday. It will then be given a fresh coat of polyurethane paint before being dispatched for resumption of operation. The steam loco arrived at the workshop for overhaul last year and was scheduled for dispatch in March. But things did not go as per plan due to closure of the workshop and delay in movement of material due to lockdown. Work on the Rs. 4 crore-project resumed in June. A 50-member technical team was involved in the complete overhaul of the steam loco, which has been fitted with a new boiler. The key component was manufactured by a Tiruchi-based private firm based on basic drawings given by the workshop, a senior official said. The oil-firing works, which were outsourced, have also been completed paving the way for the trial. The loco has been provided with a new generator set and modified LED fittings in the cabin for better illumination. It has also been fitted with a new cogwheel assembly with cylinder reclamation works done at the workshop. The loco has two fuel tanks, a 2,250-litre furnace oil tank and a 725-litre high speed diesel tank. “The overhauled steam loco is proposed to be dispatched to Mettupalayam by road on July 15. Transportation arrangements to move the steam loco on board a low-bed trailer lorry has been arranged,” said Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram on Wednesday. A technical team from the workshop will be sent to Mettupalayam, where the trial run of the overhauled loco will be done on NMR hilly section with empty passenger coaches. Once the oil-fired loco is dispatched, the workshop will take up overhauling of a coal-fired steam loco of NMR and expects to complete it by November. The workshop, whose core activities are overhauling of broad gauge passenger coaches and diesel locomotives, has been entrusted with the task of manufacturing two new steam locomotives for NMR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steam-loco-will-soon-be-back-on-nilgiri-track/article32026889.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Warnings ignored||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/warnings-ignored/article32026812.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tough time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tough-time/article32026868.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||28, including two scribes, test positive in Dharmapuri||A total of 28 persons tested positive in Dharmapuri adding two journalists to the count. This has taken the total number of cases in the district to 164. Among the infected include two police personnel, a pregnant woman, and a seven-year-old girl. In Krishnagiri, 12 persons tested positive. Hosur reported 10 cases on a single day.  52 in institutional quarantine The district has 52 people in quarantine in the government facilities here as of Wednesday. According to the administration, a total of 895 people were placed in quarantine in the 19 facilities set up here in the district as part of the COVID containment measures. Of the quarantined people, 843 had completed seven days or 14 days institutional quarantine as the case may be. A total of 663 people had returned from outside the country, since the start of the lockdown. In its wake, a total of 521 persons had completed 28 days of home quarantine; 22 are currently in home quarantine; 84 had returned abroad; and 36 are untraceable, according to the administration. Further, a total of 5,733 persons had returned from outside the State over the past three months. Of those returnees, 4,980 had completed 28 days self-quarantine in their homes. A total of 4,619 persons had returned from outside districts within the State. Of those, 3,897 had completed 29 days of quarantine; and 722 are currently in home quarantine. Collector S. Prabhakar has urged the public to lend full cooperation for COVID containment measures in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28-including-two-scribes-test-positive-in-dharmapuri/article32026880.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest||Condemning the move to lay pipelines through farmlands under the Irugur (Coimbatore) – Devangonthi (Karnataka) Petroleum and Petroleum Product Pipeline project during the pandemic, and urging that pipelines to be laid along the road, farmers affected by the project hoisted black flag atop their houses and staged protest at Chennimalai Union here on Tuesday. Farmers gathered at Pasuvapatti village and staged a protest at a farmland located near Noyal River and raised slogans against the project. They condemned the move to lay pipelines and also asking farmers to appear for inquiries during the pandemic. They wanted the project to be modified so that pipelines are laid along the roads and not through farmlands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-protest/article32026878.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Minister tests positive for COVID-19||On Wednesday, the Minister skipped a meeting between the CM and Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Power R.K. Singh at the Secretariat. On Monday, he had taken part in a meeting at the AIADMK’s headquarters, which was also attended by Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Rajya Sabha MPs K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam, and former Minister Natham R. Viswanathan. AIADMK MLAs Amman K. Arjunan (Coimbatore South), K. Palani (Sriperumbudur), N. Sathan Prabhakar (Paramakudi) and R. Kumaraguru (Ulundurpet) recently tested positive for the virus. Former Minister and chairperson of the Tamil Nadu Textbook and Educational Services Corporation B. Valarmathi tested positive earlier this week. Among DMK MLAs, R.T. Arasu (Cheyyur), K. Karthikeyan (Rishivandhiyam) and K.S. Masthan (Gingee) have tested positive for the infection. J. Anbazhagan (Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni) died of COVID-19 last month. Stalin’s gesture DMK leader M.K. Stalin on Wednesday inquired about the health of Mr. Thangamani. “I spoke to him over the phone and wished him a speedy recovery. Those who are in public life should take extra care,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32026836.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Coimbatore  Due to monthly maintenance works at Kalapatty sub-station, there will be no power supply on July 9 between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. in the following areas: Kalapatty, Veeriyampalayam, Cheranma Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Sitra, Kaikolapalayam, Valliampalayam, Balaji Nagar, K.R. Palayam, Vilankurichi, Thanneerpandal, Lakshmi Nagar, Murugan Nagar, Peelamedu Industrial Estate, Sharp Nagar and Maheswari Nagar.  Peedampalli sub-station: July 9 between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m.: Kalangal, Peedampalli, Pattanam, Pappampatty, Akkanaickenpalayam, Pattanampudur, Pappampattypirivu, Kannampalayam, Nadupalayam (one part), Chinna Kuili, Naikenpalayam and Pallapalayam.  Erode  Due to maintenance work, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 10 at Mettukadai sub-station limits at the following areas: Mettukadai, Nanjanapuram, Veppampalayam, Vallipurathanpalayam, E.B. Nagar, Athappampalayam, Alagapuram, Guru Nagar, T.R. Garden, Ram Nagar, Vidhya Nagar, Kuttaikadu, Moolakarai, Moolakarai Pirivu, Nathakattupalayam, Pungambadi, Ella Goundan Palayam, Kathirampatti, Aravilaku Mettupalayam, Vannankattuvalasu, Rasampalayam, Salapalayam Medu, Appadurai Nagar, Thangam Nagar, Thindal, Sakthi Nagar, Sivan Nagar, Selvam Nagar, Sengodampalayam, Palayapalayam West, Perundurai Road, Kamaraj Nagar, K.S. Nagar, R.K. Garden, Pudu Colony, Karaparai, Maruthi Nagar, Ruby Garden, Jai Krishna Garden, New Golden City, Veerapampalayam, Ishwarya Garden, Keerthi Garden, Subramaniam Nagar, Bharathiar Nagar, Kaikatti Valasu, Adukuparai, Eagle Garden, Ondikaranpalayam, Thottipalayam, Nasiyanur, Pallathur, Pallipalayam, Vasantham City, Pudu Valasu, Vettuvapalayam, Semmampalayam, Karamadai, Sanarpalayam, Villarasampatti, Vellakal, Turmeric Godown premises, Karavaikal Kandampalayam, Perundurai to Chithode Water Board area,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32026869.ece
09 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Court, Tahsildar office sealed||The magistrate court in Ramdurg and the Tahsildar’s office in Gokak were sealed after some employees in those places tested positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi district on Wednesday. The police and Health Department officials sealed the court and put up barricades around the building in Ramdurg. Doctors collected throat swab samples of around 40 staff of the court. Results are expected in two days. Officials said that a grade D employee tested positive on Wednesday. He had been sent to the isolation ward in the district designated hospital. Judges and advocates who were his primary and secondary contacts have been asked to remain in home quarantine. In Gokak, the Tahsildar’s office was sealed after an employee tested positive for the pandemic. Health officials sealed the office and collected throat swabs of some staff members. Several employees, including the Deputy Tahsildar, have been advised home quarantine. As many as 16 police personnel of Kakati Police Station were asked to be in home quarantine as they had come in contact with a murder accused who tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/court-tahsildar-office-sealed/article32026958.ece
09 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bridge submerged||The water level in Doodh Ganga river in Belagavi district rose steadily on Wednesday with increasing inflow from Maharashtra. There was a minor increase in the water level in river Krishna too, officials said. The bridge over Doodh Ganga in Manjari village was submerged. However, the connecting areas were not cut off as commuters used an alternative route. Heavy rain continued in parts of the district, increasing the inflow at various reservoirs. The water level at Hidkal dam was 11.85 tmcft, with an inflow at the rate of 11,398 cusecs and an outflow of 102 cusecs. The gross storage is 13.87 tmcft. The storage in Malaprabha was 11.27 tmcft, as against the gross storage of 37.73 tmcft. Inflow and outflow was equal, at 1,464 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bridge-submerged/article32026787.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||How Bengaluru fell short in tracing source of infections||In the first week of June when most restrictions of the lockdown were lifted, the total number of active COVID-19 cases recorded every day was between 9 and 28. However, by June 19, the number rose to 138, and by the end of the month, as many as 700 people were identified with the virus. By July 4, the cases touched 1,235. What went wrong in a city that until a few weeks ago, was being lauded for its ability to restrain the spread of a virus unlike other metros such as Mumbai, Chennai and New Delhi? An overstretched BBMP stumbled when it came to tracing the source of infection while dealing with influx of people from other States, contact tracing, and ensuring that social distancing were being followed. In early June, even though the number of cases was still low, the number of patients whose source of infection could not be identified was rising. For instance, on June 6, Bengaluru Urban district recorded only 18 cases, but the percentage of daily cases that were not traced was as high as 83% that day, as per data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare. The increase in cases is the impact of Unlock 1.0, senior BBMP officials explained, adding that opening up of economic activity had led to an increase in mobility and interactions. “It was following the transition phase (between June 1 and 14) that the spike in cases actually started,” a civic official said. By the end of June, the source of transmission from travel history (domestic and international) had come down to 0.29%, while it was 2.13% from primary and secondary contacts, and 7.49% from ILI (Influenza like Illness) and SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection). The BBMP War Room report states ‘Report Awaited’ for the remainder of the cases. Focus on 4Ts A further analysis of the daily bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare also throws up similar results. The bulletin claims there is in place a robust surveillance system with elaborate contingency plans to check the spread and that the State has relied on 4Ts – testing, tracing, tracking and treatment. From June 1 to 22, the source of transmission (for Bengaluru Urban district, which includes BBMP) was not determined in approximately 62.76% cases. In this period, the health bulletin puts the total of cases reported at 1,050, of which source of transmission was not ascertained in 659 cases. The percentage of untraced sources of transmission has been increasing since then. Between June 23 and July 7, the health bulletin shows a total of 9,964 cases were reported. The transmission remains untraced in as many as 9,867 cases (99.02%). A marginal percentage of 9,867 include those tested with ILI and SARI symptoms, as per date from the health department. Acknowledging this, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar told The Hindu that ascertaining the source of transmission and contact tracing were massive exercises. He admitted that there is a lag in the data that the BBMP and the war room have. Underlying infections With regard to ascertaining the source of transmission, he said this was proving difficult as there were underlying infections in various parts of the city. He also acknowledged some amount of community spread in the city, albeit sporadic. “In some cases where the patients themselves are not able to recollect where they have been or whom they have been in contact with, we list it as a source not identified. The transmission can happen any time in a 14-day period,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/how-bengaluru-fell-short-in-tracing-the-source-of-infections/article32026770.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private hospitals to allot 3,000 beds for COVID-19 patients||Agreeing to set aside 3,000 beds for COVID-19 patients in their facilities, the Heads of private hospital on Wednesday insisted that the State government immediately put in place a centralised allotment system and triage all patients through the system. “Once the centralised allotment system is ready, no patient can walk directly into a private hospital seeking admission. Irrespective of being a paying patient or a government referred patient, all of them should be allotted beds through the system,” R. Ravindra, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), told The Hindu after the meeting. Stating that the government wanted 50% of the earmarked beds for government-referred patients, Dr. Ravindra said: “We have clearly told them that the maximum we can set aside for COVID-19 patients is 3,000 beds. Let the government take the responsibility of allotting beds to patients. We do not want to be blamed for not admitting patients. We will not admit anyone directly,” he said. He said the hospitals also have to set aside 20% of beds for healthcare workers and the remaining 30% for non-COVID-19 patients. Altogether, over 150 healthcare workers, including doctors and nurses, have been infected in the city so far and another 250 are in home isolation and other quarantine facilities, he pointed out. He said the hospitals had readied 2,000 beds as agreed during the meeting held on June 29. As many as 1,554 of these are occupied by COVID-19 patients as on Wednesday, he claimed. However, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said private hospitals had so far given only 147 beds for COVID-19 admissions. “Following Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s directions, we held another meeting with the hospitals and they have agreed to set aside 3,000 beds in hospitals and another 3,500 beds in private COVID care centres,” the Minister said. He said the hospitals will partner with hotels and set up private care centres for asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms. “If a patient does not need hospitalisation, he/she has the option of choosing a private or government COVID care centre for isolation,” the Minister said. Asserting that patients will be admitted through a centralised allotment system, Mr. Sudhakar said: “Real-time availability of beds in all categories will be set up.” He said the State had begun the process of procuring 500 ambulances from a private company. “The company has agreed to hand over the fleet in 24 hours,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-hospitals-to-allot-3000-beds-for-covid-19-patients/article32026783.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Online classes make learning curve steeper for children with disabilities||As the debate over the merits and demerits of online education continues, the struggle for inclusive education has become harder for many children with disabilities as virtual classes are presenting new challenges related to access. Those who have access to a computer and internet want a blended approach while children from socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds and rural areas stand to lose. G.N. Nagaraj, president of Karnataka State Disabled and Caregivers Federation, said the digital divide was an important aspect as there are a large number of children with disabilities in rural areas without access to technology or the internet. “There are children, whose parents are construction workers and agricultural labourers, who were already struggling to go to school. They are dealing with prejudice in the house too. The biggest motivation of education is to go to school and mingle with other children. Moreover, online education is only rote learning. With the COVID-19 restrictions, we should at least try and overcome the digital divide,” he said. Different requirements The other major challenge with online learning for this particular section is the wide spectrum of disabilities, with a specific disability requiring specific necessities. “One needs speaking computers for the blind, sign language for the hearing impaired. But such modifications are a very big effort,” added Mr. Nagaraj. Not without benefits There are parents who have found online learning beneficial. Salma, the parent of a child with different learning needs, said her son finds it difficult to process information in a group, but with a headphone on, he is able to prioritise better. The fact that all disabilities are clubbed as one is a huge issue, she said. “For example, each dyslexic child is different from the other. The law needs to acknowledge the differences and make education more self paced and inclusive. Online education, if done properly, is an opportunity to provide such inclusive education,” she said. But she pointed out that the message is not being changed according to the medium. “Many schools are replicating face-to-face interactions in the online space, which results in sitting in front of the screen through the day. We need to work with the advantages of the online space,” she added. High quality content is already available even for children with different learning needs online. “This changes the role of the teacher from being a content creator to a guide, mentor and coach. The teacher, as a subject expert, can organise this information based on the school curriculum, share it 20-minute pre-recorded videos or audio. This will allow children to access content at their own pace without necessarily always being in front of the screen,” she said, adding that online live classes can be minimised and teachers can be free enough to be available for one-on-one consultations Long-term solutions Arman Ali, executive director, National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP), said in this phase of e-education, the challenge of making learning mainstream for differently-abled students involves the lack of accessible learning materials, skilled educators, and other resources. “There is a sheer lack of sensitivity to the special needs of students where the majority are left out due to ineffective planning by the government and other stakeholders. Access to fundamental rights, like education, has always remained a challenge for children with disabilities in India – 75% were already out of school. This gap has widened more in the last four months due to factors like the digital divide, urban and rural divide, lack of sensitivity towards the needs of children with disabilities, and resources,” he said. Long-term sustainable solutions is the answer. “Educational institutions must be sensitised about the needs of students with disabilities that could enable them to be a part of the mainstream education system. There are 21 disabilities. Each has specific needs. It is imperative that they are provided with all the requisite facilities,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-classes-make-learning-curve-steeper-for-children-with-disabilities/article32026758.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fear prompts absenteeism among pourakarmikas||Many pourakarmikas and supervisors are now fearing contracting the COVID-19, especially after 23 pourakarmikas tested positive recently. This has resulted in absenteeism to some extent. Over the past month, the BBMP has received as many as 1,900 complaints related to garbage and solid waste management. From waste not being picked up to continued dumping at black spots, most of the complaints were received on the Sahaaya 2.0 platform. “There are over 17,000 pourakarmikas on the rolls. On an average, there are just around 13,000 pourakarmikas on the field,” said a BBMP official. The official also said that the average number of pourakarmikas on the field was less since the lockdown was imposed. “Most of the pourakarmikas are from the neighbouring States of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Many of them had returned home and are yet to come back,” the official said. The fears of the pourakarmikas are not unfounded, pointed out Maithreyi Krishnan from the BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha. She said that pourakarmikas were given protective gear at the beginning of the lockdown. “Many were given disposable masks that they continue to use after washing. The BBMP has not taken steps to assuage the fears of these workers,” she said and added that used masks and gloves in the waste cleared by the pourakarmikas had also sparked fear of infection. “The vehicles and push carts of the pourakarmikas are not being sanitised,” she added. Concurring, waste management expert N.S. Ramakanth said that the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on waste collection and disposal from containment zones and houses, where some member has been placed under quarantine, had not trickled down to the workers. The Sangha has now taken up a survey among pourakarmikas on protective gear, knowledge of SOPs and insurance coverage. BBMP officials said though the civic body is focussing largely on checking the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the city, it is ensuring waste gets picked up for disposal either at the processing plants or the quarry pit every day. They added that the redressal rate was above 90%. “Since clearing the waste is a priority, we ensure that all complaints are addressed within 24 hours,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fear-prompts-absenteeism-among-pourakarmikas/article32026755.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM to visit COVID-19 care centres today||With the daily increase in the number of the COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday reviewed the facilities provided at care centers in the city and told officials to strictly implement the guidelines recommended by officials from the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry, including strict enforcement of rules in containment zones. Mr. Yediyurappa would visit COVID-19 care centres in the city and Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) on the Bengaluru-Tumakuru Road on Thursday to assess the ground situation. Chairing a meeting with Bengaluru in-charge officials and Ministers at his official residence ‘Cauvery’, he directed the BBMP to add 100 additional ambulances to its existing fleet of 400. On the decisions taken at the meeting, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said the CM had directed officials to add additional ambulances to transport positive patients to care centres or hospitals on a real-time basis. Mr Yediyurappa will personally visit the Covid care centre facility at BIEC. More than 10,000 beds have been established at BIEC and over 1000 doctors and para-medical staff would be deployed for providing treatment at the facility, he said. Besides beds at BIEC, more than 2,000 beds have been established at Covid care centres in the city. Daily, about 300 patients get admitted to these centres and the same number of people get discharged, Mr Sudharkar said. Asymptomatic patients too have been demanding that they have to be transported in ambulances to care centres. “Ambulances are needed only for those with severe symptoms, pregnant women and other seriously ill patients. Asymptomatic patients can be shifted in regular vans to care centres,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-visit-covid-19-care-centres-today/article32026772.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. assures support to ASHAs||Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs), who are on the frontline of the battle against COVID-19 across Karnataka, on Wednesday called on State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar and sought the party’s support for their agitation to be launched from Friday. The ASHAs have decided to boycott work as the State government had failed to meet their demands, including hike in salary. They have been demanding a monthly salary of Rs. 12,000, including the honorarium they currently receive and incentives. They have also been seeking protective gear to tackle COVID-19. Mr. Shivakumar, who held discussions with ASHAs at his residence, assured support of the party. The Congress has been criticising the government for poor handling of the pandemic. Recently, the Centre had appreciated the services of 40,000-odd ASHAs in the State, who surveyed households, collected data from containment zones, and families having disease symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-assures-support-to-ashas/article32026779.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||17 BBMP personnel infected||As many as 17 personnel of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) have tested positive for COVID-19 so far. Mayor M. Goutham Kumar and his family are under quarantine after his personal assistant tested positive a couple of days ago. Recently, the personal assistant of Special Commissioner (Health and Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep and driver of Chief Health Officer (Clinical) Nirmala Buggi also tested positive. With many cases being reported, the BBMP has now restricted entry of the public in its head office. An order in this regard was issued by BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar recently. The Commissioner has stated that the civic body had taken all steps for the safety of its personnel. However, with the number of cases increasing, many BBMP officials remain anxious. Shivajinagar hospital Meanwhile, the BBMP building on Broadway Road, Shivajinagar, which is being developed as a full-fledged COVID-19 hospital, will be functional in another 10 days, said Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. Inspecting the facilities here on Wednesday, he said Infosys Foundation is providing necessary infrastructure for the hospital at a cost of Rs. 30 crore. According to a release, initially, the hospital will have 180 beds with high flow oxygen lines. These beds can be converted into ventilator facilities if need be, and 30 ventilators will be provided. The hospital will have neuro-surgery OT, Cardio OT, and CT scan facilities, the Minister added. Dr. Sudhakar also visited Bowring and Lady Curzon hospital and inspected the treatment facilities. He later interacted with the patients through video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/17-bbmp-personnel-infected/article32026766.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ward-level teams for contact tracing||To tackle the humongous task of tracing contacts of people who have tested positive for COVID-19, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has formed 20-member teams that will operate at the ward level. The new system had been put in place to deal with the backlog in contact tracing following the spike in cases in the city, said a senior civic official. The teams include the ward level revenue inspector, assessor, tax inspector, junior / senior health inspectors, 10 teachers (residents of the same ward) and 10 volunteers. They will be monitored by block resource coordinators and cluster resource coordinators, who will then report to the zonal joint commissioners. Immense pressure The official added that before the spike in cases, the system could handle up to 300 cases. There was immense pressure on the system after the spike, which led to delay in contact tracing.“There is now an office in all wards, where the data entry can be done. The phone numbers of the teachers and volunteers have been listed and they can use the mobile application to input data,” said the official, who added that in a couple of days, monitoring will happen real-time. To monitor the task at the Assembly constituency level, the civic body had roped in 26 probationary tahsildars. At the zonal level, a team has been constituted, including the zonal joint commissioner, Deputy Commissioner (Revenue), chief engineer, probationary Assistant Commissioner, health officer, epidemiologist and one official from the Education Department. Latest figures The BBMP war room report (June 7) stated that a total 3,100 primary contacts and 6,350 secondary contacts had been identified by the civic body so far. Of the 3,100 primary contacts, 165 are under active quarantine. A total 1,273 secondary contacts of 6,350 were under active quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ward-level-teams-for-contact-tracing/article32026767.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Robots in care centre for patient monitoring||The State government will soon introduce robots in COVID care centre at Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre for remote patient monitoring by specialists. “Doctors can interact with patients, and treat and monitor their progress from a distance. The robots will do daily rounds just as doctors do in wards. This will help provide quality care while ensuring safety of healthcare workers and patients,” C.N. Manjunath said, adding that robots will be added in the ICU of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/robots-in-care-centre-for-patient-monitoring/article32026785.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JJM Medical College told to pay pending stipend||The government issued a notice to the management of JJM Medical College in Davangere to pay pending stipend to postgraduate medicos admitted there through government quota. The PG doctors have not been paid for the last 16 months. “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has taken serious note and has said the college should immediately release the stipend to PG doctors,” said Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jjm-medical-college-told-to-pay-pending-stipend/article32026784.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shops in bus stands to close||Business owners running shops and hotels inside bus stands in the city have decided to shut down their establishments from Thursday. P.C. Rao, president, Bruhat Bengaluru Hotels Association, said that due to lack of passengers, business has taken a severe hit leading to mounting losses. “It makes no sense to keep these hotels and shops open. We incur more loss by keeping them open than by closing them for now,” said a senior hotelier. Notices for rent M.V. Raghavendra of Kadamba Hotel said the transport authorities had begun issuing notices for commercial establishments seeking 50% of the rent for July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shops-in-bus-stands-to-close/article32026765.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||507 contract doctors withdraw stir||The 507 contract doctors, who decided to stop work from Wednesday in support of their pending demand for regularisation, have withdrawn their stir and have decided to work for another month. This follows an assurance from Health Minister B. Sriramulu that the demand will be placed at Thursday’s Cabinet meeting for approval and the rules will be modified for their regularisation. The doctors had come to Bengaluru on Wednesday to submit their resignations en masse. The Health Minister met them and assured them that he had discussed the issue with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. “CM is in favour of your regularisation. We will place the file in the Cabinet for approval. The rules will be modified to clear legal hurdles for regularisation. The process will be completed within a month,” he told the doctors. “We trust the Health Minister. We will continue work for another month and hope to be regularised by then,” said K.S. Sagar from K.R. Pet PHC, on behalf of the doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/507-contract-doctors-withdraw-stir/article32026776.ece
09 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Head constable dies in hospital||A head constable, who had been hospitalised for renal issues, died of a heart attack. The deceased, Ramesh L., 53, was attached to Sanjay Nagar Police Station. “While in hospital, his condition deteriorated. We are waiting for test results to see if he had been infected by COVID-19,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/head-constable-dies-in-hospital/article32026756.ece
09 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||HDUDA begins action against illegal layouts||A day after Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) launched a drive against illegal layouts in the twin cities, some real estate developers and a Congress leader have raised their voice against it and demanded that a permanent solution be found to check illegal layouts from coming up and to help the poor who have purchased sites in them. As announced earlier, the Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) has initiated the drive against illegal layouts in the twin cities and on Tuesday, in one of the unauthorised layouts, the staff removed structures put up to mark plots and other basic infrastructure. However, the move has not gone down well with the real estate developers and also a Congress leader from Dharwad who have sought steps to help the poor. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad on Wednesday, realtor Imran Kallimani sought a permanent solution to providing residential sites to the poor rather than demolishing illegal layouts. He said that in most of the cases it was the poor who would be affected as they would have already purchased plots. “Especially in this time of a crisis, HDUDA should simplify the norms for regularising layouts and help the poor,” he said. Mr. Kallimani referred to previous instances of Akrama Sakrama scheme of the State government for regularising such layouts. After launching the drive on Tuesday, HDUDA Chairman Nagesh Kalburgi had said that as real estate developers had failed to respond to notices served on them, they had no option left but to remove structures put up in illegal layouts. In an initial survey, HDUDA identified 57 such unauthorised layouts. Mr. Kalburgi had said that the developers were cheating the poor by selling sites in illegal layouts and the drive would continue for another week. Meanwhile, Congress leader Deepak Chinchore opposed the drive stating that it would only affect the poor. In a press release, he said that the State government itself had made provisions for regularisation of houses built in unauthorised layouts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hduda-begins-action-against-illegal-layouts/article32026950.ece
09 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Ravi Deshpande for Rotary Parliament||The former Governor of Rotary International Dist. 3170 Ravi Deshpande has been selected for Rotary International’s Parliament (Council on Legislation) for a period of three years from July 2020. He is one among the 530 Rotary Parliament members in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ravi-deshpande-for-rotary-parliament/article32026952.ece
09 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Railway Business Development Unit set up||In a bid to increase the share of the Railways in transportation needs of various sectors, the Hubballi Division of South Western Railway has set up a Business Development Unit. The unit set up at the divisional level will work with primary focus towards bringing the Railways closer to industry and trade apart from increasing the Railways’ share in the transportation needs, including non-bulk goods traffic. After setting up the unit, Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi Division Arvind Malkhede has appointed Senior Divisional Operations Manager Krishna Chaitanya (Ph: 9731668900) as the convener of the unit. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Syed Imtiyaz Ahmed, Senior Divisional Finance Manager S. Chandra Sekhar, Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer (C&W) H. Anjaneyulu and Senior Divisional Engineer (Co-ordination) P. Mahender are the members of the unit. In a release, Mr. Malkhede has said that the committee would have frequent interactions with trade and industry to understand the existing pattern of goods transportation and explore the possibility of attracting additional freight traffic for the Railways. The unit will also serve as a nodal point for speedy operationalisation of any new traffic proposals, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railway-business-development-unit-set-up/article32026951.ece
09 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Marriage events banned to curb COVID-19 spread||Following directions from Deputy Chief Minister and Kalaburagi district in-charge Govind M. Karjol, Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate B. Sharat has, as a step to prevent the spread of COVID-19, banned all marriage functions in houses, wedding halls, temples and other places in the district to avoid mass gatherings. He, however, clarified that marriages would only be allowed at the Sub Registrar office where couples could tie the knot in the presence of five witnesses and register their marriages. The Deputy Commissioner has, however, not issued any order specifying the legal provisions under which he has banned marriage functions, but released a press note intimating the ban. “COVID-19 has spread throughout the district infecting 1,699 persons. And, 1,310 infected-persons have been treated at designated COVID-19 hospitals till date. Besides, 27 people have died of the pandemic. It was found that youth who participated in private mass gatherings contracted the infection and spread it to their family members. To avoid such situations and keeping larger public interest in view, marriage functions, baby showers and events that attract public gatherings are banned and marriages are allowed to be performed only at the Sub Registrar office till further order,” the note said. The decision, however, attracted criticism from a section of the legal community. “Marriages cannot be banned. You can ban congregations at such events. As per Section 5 of the Hindu Marriage Act, a couple can get married even without any witnesses. Marriages cannot be instantly performed at the Sub Registrar office either. Under the Special Marriages Act, a couple have to complete a 30-day notice period before getting married, with registration. What if you want to marry under the Hindu Marriage Act? Can it be done at the Sub Registrar office? You can register a marriage, which is already performed elsewhere with or without witnesses, at the Sub Register office with witnesses under the Hindu Marriage Act. We need to ban mass gatherings to contain COVID-19, but not marriages themselves. But the order appears to ban marriages themselves stating that marriages are allowed only at the Sub Registrar office,” P. Vilas Kumar, a senior advocate from the city, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/marriage-events-banned-to-curb-covid-19-spread/article32026945.ece
09 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bande Nawaz Urs low-key||The fortnight-long annual Urs of Dargah-e-Shareef of the 14th Century Sufi saint Hazrat Khwaja Bande Nawaz Gesudiraz is being held in Kalaburagi on a low-key this year. Sajjada Nasheen of the dargah Syed Shah Khusro Hussaini said that the sandal procession was cancelled considering the procession as high risk during a pandemic. Syed Hussaini said that the dargah committee decided to scale down the usually elaborate celebrations and stick to performing the traditional rites and rituals associated with the Urs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bande-nawaz-urs-low-key/article32026944.ece
09 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Minister visits isolation ward, interacts with patients||Forest Minister and Ballari district in-charge B.S. Anand Singh on Wednesday wore a personal protection equipment (PPE) and visited an isolation ward established at the Government Dental College and Research Institute here on Wednesday and heard grievances of COVID-19 patients. Mr. Singh interacting with the patients enquired about the facilities available in the isolation centre and treatment given by the doctors. The patients expressed satisfaction over medical treatment being given. Mr. Singh lauded the efforts of the doctors for working arduously, being in the forefront of the battle against COVID-19. Due to the dedication of the doctors and medical staff, most COVID-19 patients admitted here have been treated successfully, he added. Every support would be provided to health workers in the fight against coronavirus, he said. He also directed the district administration to book suo motu cases against those visiting public places in violation of home quarantine norms. Director of Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences Devanand, Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul and doctors were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-visits-isolation-ward-interacts-with-patients/article32026940.ece
09 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Cancellation of exams sought||Students Federation of India has demanded that the government cancel examinations of degree, post-graduate and diploma courses in the State, in view of the pandemic. The district unit of the SFI staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Wednesday in support of its demand. The federation also demanded fee waiver for six months for diploma, degree and post-graduate courses due to the economic upheaval caused by COVID-19. Distribution of 10 kg free foodgrains for students for the next six months and Rs. 7,500 financial assistance to each student to overcome the adverse impact of the lockdown are among the demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cancellation-of-exams-sought/article32026942.ece
09 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Work to put up metal fence on the guard walls of twin Netravathi bridges begins||The serene view of the Netravathi and also the beautiful sunrise and sunset from the twin bridges on National Highway 66 south of Mangaluru will soon be a thing of the past as the Mangalore Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has commenced work to put up a metal fence on the guard walls of the bridges. The twin bridges on the four-lane NH 66 crossing the Netravathi attained notoriety as a suicide spot ever since the incident involving business tycoon V.G. Siddartha was reported on July 29 last. An average of two such incidents were being reported every month since then forcing the administration to take preventive steps. The then district in-charge Minister U.T. Khader had spoken about putting up transparent fibre glass walls above the guard walls so as not to affect the view of the river and its surroundings. The proposal, however, did not materialise during the coalition government rule. MUDA Chairman Ravishankar Mijar told The Hindu that the work was expected to be completed in about a month. Erection of the metal fence was in progress, he said and added that a barged wire mesh with internal inclining would be fastened above the fence. Thus, the cumulative height of the fence would come to about 5 ft above the existing guard walls thereby thwarting people from jumping into the river, he said. Besides putting up the fence, MUDA would install sufficient numbers of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras along the twin bridges, each with a 850 m span. Kankanady Town Police would monitor movement on the bridge through the CCTV cameras, he said. The total cost was expected to be around Rs. 55 lakh. While MUDA would construct the fences, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) would have to undertake regular maintenance by providing fresh coats of paint and other works at regular intervals, Mr. Mijar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-to-put-up-metal-fence-on-the-guard-walls-of-twin-netravathi-bridges-begins/article32026954.ece
09 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two die, 183 test positive in Dakshina Kannada||As many as 183 persons tested positive in Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday taking the total number of active cases in the district to 819. According to a bulletin from the district administration, 63 cases related to primary contacts of those who tested positive, while 25 related to influenza like illness. There were 22 who tested positive during random sampling in Ullal, five pre-surgery samples and four related to severe acute respiratory illness. As many as five cases related to international travel to Saudi Arabia and Muscat, two had had history of a visit to Mumbai and one related to a visit to Bengaluru. Contact tracing in 54 cases is on, the bulletin said. While 12 persons were discharged from Wenlock and private hospitals, three persons were admitted in intensive care unit of Wenlock Hospital. Two COVID-19 positive women died taking the total deaths due to the pandemic to 24 in the district. A 57-year-old woman from Mangaluru, who suffered from high blood pressure, diabetes and cardiac problem, was being treated in the intensive care unit of Wenlock Hospital. She died on Tuesday night. A 32-year-old woman from Puttur, who suffered from diabetes and renal problem, was admitted to the intensive care unit of Wenlock Hospital on July 6. She died on Wednesday afternoon.  In Udupi As many as 31 positive cases were reported from Udupi district taking the number of active cases to 229. While 20 persons were discharged, 142 persons are undergoing treatment in the isolation ward in Udupi, according to a bulletin from the Udupi district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-die-183-test-positive-in-dakshina-kannada/article32026959.ece
09 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four men arrested on murder charge||The Malpe Police on Wednesday arrested four persons said to be involved in the murder of Yogish Poojary (26). The police gave the names of the accused as Sujith Pinto (37), his brother Rohit Pinto (43), Pradeesh alias Annu (40) and Vinaya (36). Yatish Poojary was stabbed to death near his house in Lakshminagar of Tenkanidiyur village on July 6. Three police teams had been formed to arrested the accused. The police said that Sujith Pinto is an accused in several criminal cases. The murder of Yogish Poojary was a result of enmity. The police have recovered a sharp weapon and a car used by the accused for the commission of the crime. They have been charged under Sections 302, 143, 147, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-men-arrested-on-murder-charge/article32026956.ece
09 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corporation council meeting on July 16||The general meeting of the Mangaluru City Corporation Council will be held at 3 p.m. on July 16 at the Mangala Hall on the corporation premises here, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corporation-council-meeting-on-july-16/article32026962.ece
09 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Revenue offices closed in Mangaluru sub division||The entry of general public into revenue offices of Mangaluru sub division has been banned till July 10 as the administration is taking up sanitisation work. A release from Mangaluru Assistant Commissioner C. Madan Mohan here said that sanitisation would be taken up at the offices of the assistant commissioner and tahsildar in Mangaluru and taluk offices at Bantwal, Moodbidri and Mulki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revenue-offices-closed-in-mangaluru-sub-division/article32026961.ece
09 July 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Will not go back on demand for probe into expenses’||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday made it clear that he would not retreat from his demand for a probe into the government expenditure in management of COVID-19. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who had recently alleged corruption in the purchase of medical supplies by the government “at double the actual market cost”, told reporters in Mysuru that the issue would be taken to its logical end. “The government has to give an account of the expenditure. Or else, we will not leave them,” he said. Referring to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s invitation to him to come and check the documents in the Vidhana Soudha, he said he would check the files if they are sent to him. If the government was shying from making public the documents, it amounts to admitting to corruption, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-not-go-back-on-demand-for-probe-into-expenses/article32026777.ece
09 July 2020||Mysuru/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Test for Mysuru’s pourakarmikas||All pourakarmikas in Mysuru City Corporation falling in high-risk groups will undergo testing. A quarantine facility has been identified to house them until they get their results. The decision to test pourakarmikas above the age of 50 was taken as they are at risk of contracting the infection with some of them working in containment zones, visiting households for collecting solid waste, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/test-for-mysurus-pourakarmikas/article32026762.ece
09 July 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Three teachers suspended||Deputy Director of Public Instruction B.H. Gonal has placed three government teachers from Sindhanur taluk under suspension on the charge of dereliction of duty, according to a press release here on Wednesday. Shivakumar, co-teacher of government high school of Kanihal village, M. Eranna, co-teacher of government upgraded high school in Kurkunda village and Sunitha Jingade, co-teacher of government high school in Hanchinal camp of Sindhanur taluk, were the teachers suspended. “The charge of irresponsibility and dereliction of duty was levelled against these three teachers because they distributed CCERR-B series of Mathematics question papers to students instead CCERF-A during the SSLC examination conducted on June 27. And, it was also confirmed that the question papers were changed,” the release said. Action was taken under 10(1)(D) of Karnataka Civil Services Rules 1957, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-teachers-suspended/article32026947.ece
09 July 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||17 new cases in Raichur||As many as 17 fresh cases of COVID-19 were registered in Raichur on Wednesday. With this, the total number of positive cases has gone up to 615. Of these, 442 patients have already been discharged, while 173 are getting treatment in the designated hospital, Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/17-new-cases-in-raichur/article32026946.ece
09 July 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Stress on need to wear masks||Raichur Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy has stressed the need for the general public to wear face masks, to use sanitisers often and maintain social distancing to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He was addressing a gathering after planting a sapling at Ashapur village in Raichur taluk on Wednesday. The programme was organised by the Police and Education departments and the Basava Brigade. Dr. Vedamurthy said that the general public should join hands with the government to stop the spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stress-on-need-to-wear-masks/article32026948.ece
09 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Election to ZP president post on July 10||A special meeting will be convened to hold the election to the post of president of Yadgir Zilla Panchayat on July 10, Chief Executive Officer of Zilla Panchayat Shilpa Sharma said in a release here on Wednesday. At present, panchayat vice-president Girijamma Sadashivappa Rotnadagi is holding charge as acting panchayat president, after the resignation of the then president Rajshekhargowda Patil Vajjal was accepted by his party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/election-to-zp-president-post-on-july-10/article32026949.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nearly 50% of auto and taxi drivers yet to receive Rs. 5,000 compensation||More than one lakh auto and taxi drivers in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka are yet to get the compensation of Rs. 5,000 that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had announced during the lockdown as the Transport Department is yet to receive the second instalment of funds from the State government. After the compensation was announced in May, around 2.41 lakh drivers submitted applications on the ‘Seva Sindhu’ portal, but to date only around 1.05 lakh have received the amount. The process of depositing the money into the accounts of another 15,000 drivers is under way, said officials. Transport Commissioner N. Shivakumar told The Hindu that money will be deposited into the accounts of the remaining drivers after the department receives funds from the State government. “The State government had released Rs. 60 crore towards payment of compensation, which has been deposited in the accounts of drivers,” he said. Some of the drivers claim to have been waiting for over a month for the money. Though lockdown restrictions have eased, most citizens are steering clear of hailing taxis and autorickshaws, preferring to use their own vehicles or hiring cars. With the number of COVID-19 cases going up by the day, many areas have voluntarily imposed a lockdown. “I had applied on May 26 and received a message stating that my application had been accepted. I do not know why there is a delay in payment. We are suffering without any income. The relaxation of lockdown rules has not helped us. I have attached my taxi with an aggregator. I hardly get any bookings. If the State government gives me Rs. 5,000, it will help,” said a taxi driver. A driver, who had applied for compensation in the last week of May, said he has no money to pay his house rent. “It has been pending for close to three months. Increase in fuel prices has made the problem worse,” he said. While making the announcement about the compensation, the State government had estimated that close to 7.50 lakh drivers would apply, but the number of applications received so far has been much lower. As per the data of the department, over five lakh autos and 2.48 lakh taxis are registered in the State. Transport Department officials claimed that by the first week of June, 2.12 lakh drivers had applied. Over the last few weeks, it has received around 29,000 new applications. Officials claim they don’t know why the response has been so poor. However, drivers’ unions allege that there are too many caveats or riders in the process, which in the end resulted in “depriving a large number of drivers” of benefits. For instance, maxi cabs drivers are not eligible for the compensation. In cities like Bengaluru, two drivers drive a single auto or a taxi in shifts, but as per the compensation rules, only one driver is eligible for the compensation. On Tuesday, the Transport Department said that the deadline to accept applications has been extended till July 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nearly-50-of-auto-and-taxi-drivers-yet-to-receive-rs-5000-compensation/article32026764.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. to use rapid antigen testing kits from next week||Grappling with a sharp spike in COVID-19 cases, the State government is all set to start rapid antigen tests from next week. The government had placed orders for one lakh test kits and the consignment will arrive by Friday, said C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force. Addressing presspersons along with Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Wednesday, Dr. Manjunath said health authorities will use the kits in mobile ambulances, fever clinics and door-to-door surveys to identify positive patients immediately. “The test is recommended for all symptomatic COVID-19 suspects and asymptomatic high-risk contacts with co-morbidities. As the results will be available within 10 minutes, it will accelerate the process of identifying positive cases. We are placing orders for two lakh more kits as the plan is to ramp up testing to nearly 30,000 samples a day in the next 10 days,” he said. As of now, the State is testing an average of 18,000 samples a day and has a backlog of over 15,000 samples. Appealing to all private hospitals to start conducting antigen tests, Dr. Manjunath said this will avoid patients running from one hospital to another for want of a COVID-19 test. “As it costs just Rs. 450, the hospitals can test every patient with the rapid antigen kits and start treatment depending on the results,” he said.  2,062 cases, 54 deaths Meanwhile, Karnataka on Wednesday reported 2,062 new cases and 54 deaths, the highest so far on a single day. With this, the total number of positive cases touched 28,877 and the death toll rose to 470. This is apart from four non-COVID-19 deaths. Benagluru Urban continued to witness rise in cases with 1,148 new cases. With 778 patients discharged, the total recoveries touched 11,876. Of the 16,527 active cases, 452 patients are being monitored in the ICU, while the condition of remaining is stable. While Bengaluru Urban reported 24 deaths, Dharwad reported seven and Ballari four, Hassan and Raichur reported three each. Two deaths each have been reported from Chickballapur, Tumakuru, Mysuru, and Vijayapura, while Kalaburagi, Bidar, Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, and Chikkamagalur reported one each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-use-rapid-antigen-testing-kits-from-next-week/article32026781.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BDA extends bidding for corner sites till July 10||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has extended the date of bidding for e-auction of corner sites for the second consecutive day. It will now close on July 10 in some categories. The BDA had issued a notification on June 17 to auction over 200 corner cites in various layouts in the city, with July 7 being the last day. However, on Tuesday, the e-procurement portal facilitating the bidding process developed technical snags, following which the development authority extended the deadline to July 8. It has now extended the deadline till 6 p.m. on July 10 in three phases. For auction numbers from 4,739 to 4,801, the bidding ended on July 8. For numbers 4,802 to 4,869, bidding has been extended to 6 p.m. July 9. Bidding for numbers 4,870 to 4,946 will close at 6 p.m. on July 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-extends-bidding-for-corner-sites-till-july-10/article32026761.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Five women rescued from lodge||Sleuths from the Women and Narcotics Wing of Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Wednesday raided a lodge in Yeshwantpur and rescued five women. They arrested Raja, allegedly a pimp, and Satish, a customer. Senior CCB officials said this was the second big prostitution ring they have busted over the last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-women-rescued-from-lodge/article32026759.ece
09 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||18 more cases in Alappuzha, three hospitals taken over||There is no let-up in COVID-19 cases in the district with 18 more people testing positive on Wednesday. While 10 people had come from other States, five travelled from abroad. Three people contracted the disease through contact. Of the cases, six are personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) unit at Nooranad who came from other States. So far, 14 ITBP personnel at Nooranad unit are found to have contracted the disease. From other States Three persons—a 48-year-old native of Cheriyanad, and a 55-year-old man and a young man both hailing from Alappuzha—had come from Maharashtra on June 18, June 19 and June 22 respectively. A 63-year-old woman from Champakulam came from Gujarat on July 3. Among the cases from foreign countries, three had returned from the UAE. A 60-year-old man hailing from Alappuzha and two young men from Haripad and Arattupuzha reached the district on June 18, June 21 and June 24 respectively. Another two young men from Alappuzha and Chengannur came from Kuwait on June 20 and June 26 respectively. Contact cases Of the three who contracted the disease through contact, two are relatives of a fish vendor from Kuruthikkad who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 last week. The third person is his friend. Meanwhile, 16 people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district now is 221. A meeting chaired by District Collector A. Alexander has decided to strengthen COVID-19 prevention measures at Nooranad. The administration has taken over the Government Higher Secondary School, Kudassanad, and 16 rooms in MR Lodge at Thamarakulam, which will be converted into COVID-19 care centres. The facilities will be used to quarantine the ITBP personnel, says an official. With COVID-19 cases on an upward trajectory in the district, the administration has taken over three more private hospitals in Mavelikara and Karthikappally taluks. The medical facilities will be converted into COVID-19 first-line treatment centres. Ward 12 in Pathiyoor grama panchayat was declared as a containment zone.  Six of the patients are personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police unit at Nooranad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/18-more-cases-in-alappuzha-three-hospitals-taken-over/article32027175.ece
09 July 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Idukki witnesses a spurt with 20 new cases||After remaining in the lower strata of COVID-19 cases for long, Idukki witnessed a spurt in numbers with 20 people, including a health worker, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. District Medical Officer N. Priya said those tested positive included 12 people who returned from other States and six persons who came back from the Gulf. One was a primary contact and the other a secondary contact. All those who came from outside the State were either in home quarantine or at COVID care centres. The health worker was the secondary contact of two patients at Kattappana. Among those tested positive included two migrant workers from West Bengal who reached the district on June 30. She said there was only one case with no known sources of infection so far. The person had tested positive before a surgery and health officials were pursuing the case. This was the second time the district was witnessing such a spurt in cases. Earlier, 11 positive cases were reported on June 20. First case The first COVID-19 case was reported in the district on March 15. The hilly topography and low density of population had helped in checking the spread of the disease in the district. In addition, the number of NoRKS from the district was also comparatively low. A health official said closure of inter-State roads and monitoring of border routes also helped in containing the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-witnesses-a-spurt-with-20-new-cases/article32027168.ece
09 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Healthcare facilities will be augmented in Wayanad: Minister||The district will augment its healthcare facilities further to manage the COVID-19 threat, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran has said. Speaking to mediapersons here on Wednesday after attending a review meeting to assess the situation related to the pandemic in the district, Mr. Saseendran said that there was a rise in the number of containment zones in the district owing to the increasing positive cases. As there were chances of a further spread of the disease in the near future, the government would adopt steps to augment the healthcare facilities on a warfooting in the district to manage such a situation effectively, Mr.Saseendran said. Steps had been taken to check all passengers who cross inter-district borders and checking would be intensified further at inter-State borders, the Minister said. More relief camps would be set up in the district to address the issues related to monsoon calamities, Mr. Saseendran said. “As the members of relief camps have to keep social distancing norms, more camps should be set up,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/healthcare-facilities-will-be-augmented-in-wayanad-minister/article32027049.ece
09 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||UDF retains Kannur Corpn.||The United Democratic Front (UDF) retained power in the Kannur Corporation by winning the Mayor election on Wednesday. UDF candidate C. Zeenath of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) defeated Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate E.P. Lata by a vote. The election was held following the resignation of Suma Balakrishnan as per a pact between the IUML and the Congress. In the 55-member council, Ms. Zeenath received 28 votes against the 27 received by the LDF candidate, making her the first woman Mayor from the IUML. The UDF and the LDF have 27 councillors each in the council. However, the UDF managed to retain the power with the support of Independent councillor P.K. Ragesh, who is the Deputy Mayor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-retains-kannur-corpn/article32027081.ece
09 July 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CUK bags India-Japan project||The Central University of Kerala (CUK) has been awarded an India-Japan bilateral collaborative project, jointly approved by the Department of Science and Technology and the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science. The project has been awarded for the area of “Natural systems: life sciences and bioengineering sciences” and the approval of the research project proposal was based on the scientific strength, technical aspects, project objectives, and national priorities of both countries. The planned study will focus on the origin, diversity and massive invasion of bopyrids, the haematophagous crustacean ectoparasites of penaeid shrimps and the host immune response. For the project, Sudha Kappalli, Professor in the Department of Zoology, CUK, will be the principal investigator from India, and Gyo Itani, Laboratory of Marine Symbiotic Biology, Faculty of Education, Kochi University in Japan, will be the principal investigator from Japan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cuk-bags-india-japan-project/article32027044.ece
09 July 2020||Kasaragod,KERALA||Dead man’s swab tests positive in Kasaragod||The test result of a 48-year-old man who was brought dead to the hospital turned positive for SARS-CoV-2  in Kasaragod district on Wednesday. B.M. Abdur Rahman, a native of Kottakkunnu in Mogral Puthur panchayat, who was living in Hubli in Karnataka, was brought to the Kasaragod General Hospital after his health condition deteriorated on Tuesday early morning. However, doctors declared him brought dead, said District Surveillance Officer A.T. Manoj. According to his relatives, the patient had a history of cardiac problems. But his swab test confirmed the presence of SARS-CoV-2. Two people who accompanied him had been sent into quarantine, Mr. Manoj added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dead-mans-swab-tests-positive-in-kasaragod/article32027051.ece
09 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Nine more infections in district through local contact||Of the 16 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday, nine acquired the infection through contact, while seven patients had arrived from outside the State. Three close contacts of a 64-year-old Chellanam resident who was confirmed positive last week, also tested positive. Nine primary contacts of the Chellanam resident have tested positive totally in the past few days. As many as 64 persons from Chellanam have been tested so far. A 43-year-old Maradu resident and two of his family members have also tested positive. He had been on the primary contact list of a staff member at the Naval Base who had tested positive earlier. A family member of a 45-year-old from Mulavukad who was employed at a shop on T.D. Road has also tested positive. Cases in Aluva A 59-year-old vendor and a 64-year-old tea stall owner in Aluva who tested positive are residents of nearby Edathala and Kadungalloor panchayats respectively. The tea stall owner’s son had reportedly returned from abroad last month. As many as 114 swabs were collected from the Aluva market area on Wednesday after a headload worker tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 earlier. The cardiac ward at the Ernakulam General Hospital (GH) was shut on Wednesday and 58 staff members quarantined after a patient in his 40s tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. The patient who was admitted to the ward with a cardiac problem for four days, was discharged and ready to go home on Tuesday when a call from the COVID control room informed the hospital authorities that he had been a primary contact of a 45-year-old employee at the T.D. Road shop who had tested positive on Monday. He was immediately tested and found to be positive. Twenty-two patients admitted to the same ward and 17 patients in the ICU will remain in quarantine there, while the ward remains closed to new patients. The general ward had been closed last week and eight patients and 76 staff members quarantined after a Chellanam resident who had been admitted to the ward tested positive. Since most patients had raised concerns about not having other places to keep themselves quarantined, they will remain in the closed ward till they can be tested for the infection and discharged. The number of patients seeking care at GH had increased exponentially, particularly for emergency care, after the Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery was turned into a COVID-care centre, sources said. It was in this critical situation that 134 staff members, including doctors and nurses, have had to go into quarantine and two wards closed. to protocol, patients admitted to the hospital are not tested for COVID-19 unless they are going in for a surgery, sources said, but a system of testing all patients admitted to the hospital might be necessary. Unknown source District Collector S. Suhas said a team would be placed in charge of tracing the source of infection in seven cases where it remains unknown. Around 1,200 samples are being sent for testing daily, besides nearly 2,000 antibody tests and 70 antigen tests conducted at the Cochin Internationl Airport (CIAL). Antigen testing will soon be done in containment zones, and has begun at 12 hospitals in the district, he said. When the number of patients at Adlux convention centre reaches 200, the first-line treatment centre at the CIAL convention centre, which is ready, will begin functioning. There are 130 patients at Adlux at present.  A team will be placed in charge of tracing the source of infection in seven cases where it remains unknown S. Suhas District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nine-more-infections-in-district-through-local-contact/article32027060.ece
09 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Chellanam and 13 wards in Aluva in for total shutdown||Chellanam panchayat and 13 of the 26 wards in Aluva municipality were classified as containment zones on Wednesday, as the district fights the spread of COVID-19. More zones Besides wards 9 to 20 and 23 of Aluva municipality, ward 4 of Maradu municipality, the entire Chellanam panchayat, ward 1 of Edathala panchayat and ward 7 of Kadungallur panchayat have been classified as containment zones. The Chambakkara and Varapuzha fish markets have also been closed and declared as containment zones from Wednesday midnight. Meanwhile, ward 2 of Amballur panchayat and ward 8 of Parakkadavu panchayat were removed from the list of containment zones. Minister for Agriculture V. S. Sunilkumar said the situation was turning grim, and that if the disease spread was not brought under control, all wards in Aluva would be declared containment zones. Ward 4 of Maradu Municipality too was declared a containment zone on Wednesday, he added. The wholesale vegetable market at Maradu will operate under strict vigil. Speaking to The Hindu earlier in the day, the Minister said Kochi as a whole might not need triple lockdown but pointed out that the situation in Aluva and Vennala areas was quite serious. Chellanam panchayat is being shut down in the wake of the rise in the number of cases due to possible social spread. The steps being adopted by the district administration include closure of the Champakkara market for a week. The market had reopened after two days on Tuesday. The Varapuzha wholesale fish market too has been closed. The Minister also said that the Ernakulam market would not be reopened immediately. One person linked to the market tested positive for the disease on Wednesday, said a communication from the Public Relations Department. According to the Minister, there is no case for closure of the district.  There has been no community spread so far in district, Mr. Sunil Kumar said. The source of infection of all positive cases, except seven cases, have been identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chellanam-and-13-wards-in-aluva-in-for-total-shutdown/article32027061.ece
09 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A migrant student’s prolonged wait for power for online study||Khushbu, a Standard 10 student at Pulikkamali in Mulanthuruthy panchayat, has been staring at a brand-new television set all wrapped up and kept in a corner of her rented dwelling for some days now. Donated by the panchayat to facilitate her online education, the television, though has been of little use to the 15-year-old from a migrant family, as her house has no power connection. So, she continues to study on her own by reading textbooks during the day and under the candlelight in the night. “We were unaware that the house had no electricity connection when we donated the television. We came to know of it only later, and since then, we have asked the house owner, a contractor who had arranged the family’s accommodation, to do the needful. One way or the other, we will make sure that the house gets power connection,” said Renji Kurian, president, Mulanthuruthy panchayat. He added that the panchayat could have funded power connectivity had the house not been on private property, and no electrical post was required. Khushbu’s father Sudheer Kumar Sahu, a daily wage migrant from Odisha who has settled here for the last more than 15 years, has been running from pillar to post over the past few days to get power connection, so that his daughter is not left behind her more privileged friends. After doing the rounds of the panchayat and KSEB offices, he is now hopeful that a post for drawing electric line will be erected shortly, though he still has no clue where to mobilise around Rs. 14, 000 for the purpose. “The counsellor has been very helpful and hopefully more help will be forthcoming, so that I could raise the rest of the amount somehow,” said Sahu. Khushbu also remains hopeful that online classes will be beamed into her home sooner than later.  We were unaware that the house had no electricity connection when we donated the television. Since then, we have asked the house owner to do the needful Renji Kurian President, Mulanthuruthy panchayat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-migrant-students-prolonged-wait-for-power-for-online-study/article32027063.ece
09 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks more efforts for migrants’ welfare||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has suggested that the State government and other authorities take steps to gather full details of migrants still remaining in the State and those returning to the State post pandemic or following any relaxations in the current lockdown. The Bench observed on Wednesday that the State government was duty-bound to ensure that the details of the migrant labourers were collected to enable the authorities to understand their difficulties in employment and to identify them easily in the event of any eventualities. Against quick fixes The High Court, while disposing of a public interest litigation relating to migrant labourers, observed that it was also open to the State government having any appropriate legislation or framing rules under any laws with regard to their stay and management within the State, instead of issuing fragmented notifications/circulars/orders to satisfy the requirements of particular issues that crop up. District Collectors and nodal officers appointed for the guidance and welfare of migrants and employers who were utilising their services shall also be saddled with the responsibility of collecting information, the court said. Speedy action needed The court observed that if any information was received by the State government and its officials in respect of any ill-treatment of the migrant labourers from any responsible corners, quick action should be taken. The Bench made it clear that if any of the migrant labourers expressed his/her intention to go back to his/her native State, adequate steps should be taken by the State government through its offices to ensure return of such migrant workers subject to lockdown restrictions and consequential protocols issued by the respective governments.  Government can bring in legislation with regard to their stay and management in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-seeks-more-efforts-for-migrants-welfare/article32027067.ece
09 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||For district’s weavers, another crisis looming||Around 600 families of weavers in Chendamangalam and Paravur face an uncertain future with severe shortage of raw materials and unpaid wages. There was shortage of raw materials with the spread of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown shutting down businesses across the country. “Unpaid wages for the work they have done makes matters more difficult,” said P.A. Sojan, a veteran of the handloom industry. The workers had not received wages for the school uniforms they had supplied last November, he said. Ajit Kumar Gothuruth of Chendamangalam Karimpadam Society said the weavers also faced a shortage of opportunities to sell their products. With economic activities coming to a standstill in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, there was little money left with people to buy handloom products, he said. The government’s school uniform programme too had fallen on hard times and wages were yet to be paid for more than six months, he said. By a rough estimate, the handloom weavers in Paravur and Chendamangalam should have produced about 96,000 metres of cloth for the free uniform project, with 480 weavers working over a period of 200 days a year. The progress of the work was halted with a serious shortage of raw materials as factories closed down in different parts of the country. Both Mr. Sojan and Mr. Kumar expressed their fears about an uncertain future even as the State government recently launched a rebate sale of handloom products. Registered weavers received Rs. 2,000 in two instalments as support for the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-districts-weavers-another-crisis-looming/article32027056.ece
09 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man tries to flee from ambulance, caught||Dramatic scenes were played out at Pulinjodu near Aluva when a person allegedly with COVID-19-like symptoms tried to flee from the ambulance in which he was being shifted from the airport on Wednesday around 7.30 p.m. According to the police, the incident occurred when the ambulance slowed down in the traffic. He was reportedly being taken to Government Medical College, Kalamassery. The driver of the ambulance along with his counterpart from another ambulance got hold of him, said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-tries-to-flee-from-ambulance-caught/article32027057.ece
09 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt: chargesheet against Vellappally in 2 weeks||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday extended by two weeks the time granted to the Crime Branch to file a chargesheet in a criminal case registered against Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan for the alleged misappropriation of funds collected for the golden jubilee celebrations of the Kollam SN College during 1997-98. Justice Sunil Thomas passed the order while closing a contempt of court petition filed against the investigation officer for not filing the chargesheet within the time stipulated by the court. When the petition came up for hearing, senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy submitted that the chargesheet would be filed in the case in two weeks. The investigation in the case was over and the Director, Crime Branch, had already approved the chargesheet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-chargesheet-against-vellappally-in-2-weeks/article32027078.ece
09 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||WCC expresses shock at Vidhu’s charges||The Women in Cinema Collective (WCC) has expressed shock at the allegations levelled against it by director Vidhu Vincent in her letter severing her ties with the forum. In a statement on Wednesday, the WCC said while it respected Ms. Vincent’ s decision to resign and welcomed the criticism, the ‘slander’ was unfortunate. “We are shocked at the organisational allegations, which were never raised by her until this sudden resignation,” the statement said. “The WCC does not in any way facilitate the making or promotion of any films or regulate who its members work with. As a collective, we have discussed the professional and personal conflicts that arise for each of us in working alongside our detractors in a small industry, without compromising the WCC,” it said. “This matter was also discussed in the context of Vidhu’s film in the managing committee meeting on September 15 last year. The discussion included the individual work associations of other members too. Since some members, including Vidhu, were absent, the matter was set aside for more inputs and further deliberations. The minutes were shared with all members,” the statement said. Lack of response It said while many of its members had personally reached out to Ms. Vincent several times over the last year over her disengagement with the collective, none of these were positively reciprocated. “At no point was any explanation demanded from Vidhu as the WCC had only hoped to re-engage with one of its once most-active colleagues,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wcc-expresses-shock-at-vidhus-charges/article32027068.ece
09 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC moved for CBI probe||A petition was filed on Wednesday before the Kerala High Court seeking a probe by Central agencies into the gold smuggling done through diplomatic channel as well as the Sprinklr issue. The petition was filed by Michael Varghese of Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-moved-for-cbi-probe/article32027079.ece
09 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Eight new cases, 23 recoveries in Kollam||Eight persons, all of them Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs), tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. While seven persons are from abroad, the last one came from Mumbai. The patients include four persons from Saudi Arabia, two from Kuwait, and one from Qatar. The positive cases were reported from Chitara, Ayalamon, Karunagappally, Sakthikulangara, Chadayamangalm and Poruvazhi. The district also reported 23 recoveries on Wednesday. The 39-year-old Chitara resident came from Saudi Arabia on June 25, while the 29-year-old Poruvazhi resident reached Kollam on July 4. The 32-year-old Chadayamangalam resident travelled from Kuwait and 27-year-old Ayalamon resident travelled from Mumbai, reaching Kollam on June 22. Another Ayalamon resident travelled from Qatar on June 22, and the Karunagappally resident and Sakthikulangara resident arrived on June 25 and July 4 respectively. To detect contact cases early and prevent spread, the Health Department started antigen testing here. “In the first phase, samples from high-risk categories will be taken and the results will be made available in 15 minutes,” said District Medical Officer R. Sreelatha. Residents of containment zones, health workers, police, local body officials, salespersons, those working in harbours and primary contacts will be given priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-new-cases-23-recoveries-in-kollam/article32027176.ece
09 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Man tested negative dies||A 65-year-old COVID-19 patient from Kayamkulam who was undergoing treatment at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Parippally, died on Wednesday. He was admitted to the MCH on June 28 from a private hospital after testing positive. His swab test on July 6 came out negative, and he was being treated for cardiac, stroke and renal problems. He was put on ventilator support at the respiratory ICU, and was given plasma therapy and administered emergency medicine Tocilizumab. Sixteen of his family members tested positive while 55 staff members of the private hospital were asked to go under quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-tested-negative-dies/article32027177.ece
09 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Fall in revenue for SWTD as boats run near-empty||Desolate roads, empty buses and deserted taxi stands, the impact of COVID-19 on the State’s transport sector is quite visible. The picture becomes clearer when you add to it the scenes of ferry boats making near-empty trips across Vembanad Lake. As the pandemic continues to expand its footprints across the State, the ferry boats operated by the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) are experiencing a steep fall in operational revenue despite a recent hike in fares. As per estimates, the average income recorded by the department currently stands around 60% of the figures during the pre-lockdown days. For instance, the daily collection of the Vaikom-Thavanakkadavu ferry, one of the busiest water routes in the State, currently stands around Rs. 15,000 as against the Rs. 35,000 in March this year. The ridership too has recorded a corresponding decline from 6,000 passengers a day to 2,000. Lukewarm response “The response has been lukewarm even during office hours as passengers are turning to private vehicles and even travelling some extra distance by road to avoid contact,” said an official of the SWTD. Following the fall in number of passengers, the department is now making slight adjustments in its daily schedules and planning to conduct full-scale operations only during peak hours. The lack of demand has also led to uncertainty over the resumption of several long-haul services. Schedules reduced “Of the 746 daily trips of 59 schedules, we are operating only 43 schedules. Besides some of the long-haul services, the tourist operations too remain grounded. The demand, however, is increasing gradually with the easing of travel restrictions and is likely to be back to normal with the opening of educational institutions and other offices,” said Shaji V. Nair, Director, SWTD. Earlier in May, the SWTD made an upward revision of its ticket fares, fixing the minimum charge at Rs. 8. The 33% fare hike was implemented to cover the prospective fall in overall revenue.  SWTD is now making slight adjustments in its daily schedules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fall-in-revenue-for-swtd-as-boats-run-near-empty/article32027069.ece
09 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam on alert as 17 fresh cases emerge||The district here on Wednesday reported the second highest number of COVID -19 cases on a single day with 17 persons testing positive. Four persons contracted the virus through local contact while eight persons were from abroad. The remaining five persons came from other States. With this, the total number of active cases in the district rose to 128. Of the remaining patients, two had been diagnosed with the disease before returning from overseas. While one of them returned home after treatment and testing negative, the second was not tested after treatment. Meanwhile, a woman, who had worked at a COVID treatment centre in Mumbai, was also among those infected. Those who contracted virus through local contact included two health workers, a 44-year-old Manarcad native and a 43-year-old Vakathanam native who were on duty at the Corona care ward of the Kottayam General Hospital, and two women who were the wives of patients from Thrikkodithanam and Kurichy. Patients from abroad The remaining patients were; a 44-year-old Madappally native who came from Madurai, a 28-year-old Madappally native who came from Abu Dhabi, a 25-year-old Vazhoor resident who came from Muscat on June 24; a 43-year-old Kumarakom native who came from Kuwait; 27-year-old Ettumanoor resident who returned from Chennai; 28-year-old resident of Kanjirapally, who arrived from Dubai on June 26; 28-year-old resident of Ettumanoor, who arrived from Qatar on June 27; 51-year-old Thalayolaparambu native who had landed from Saudi Arabia; a 38-year-old female nurse who arrived from Mumbai; a 53-year-old Nedumkunnam resident who arrived from Sharjah on June 25; an 18-year-old Thrikkodiathanam native, a 23-year-old Vaikom native who came from Chennai and 40-year-old resident of Mariyapally, who arrived from Theni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-on-alert-as-17-fresh-cases-emerge/article32027170.ece
09 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Man stabbed to death||A 32-year-old man was stabbed to death on a public road near Mundakkayam on Tuesday night. The incident took place at Karinilam when Adarsh from Mundakkayam had an altercation with a gang. Though he was taken to a hospital, his life could not be saved. The accused fled the scene before the police reached the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-stabbed-to-death/article32027169.ece
09 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Health staff sore at new norms||The State government had on July 2 added more features to the Kerala Epidemic Disease Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) Regulations, 2020 by imposing harsher penalties for protocol violation. A majority of the Health Department staff, however, are sore at the move to entrust its enforcement with the police. Two years in jail or a fine of Rs. 10,000 are among the punishment proposed to people who do not follow physical-distancing norms, wear face masks, and those who spit in public places. K. Remjith, general secretary, Kerala State Health Inspectors’ Federation, said the government order did not specify who were authorised to check its compliance. “Going by the original Ordinance and the latest additional regulations, the police are entrusted with the enforcement job. Public health staff will not be authorised to collect fines,” he said. Mr. Remjith said that delegation of more powers to the ground-level staff could have made more impact as it was the health inspectors and health supervisors who spent more time in areas prone to community spread. They keep a watch on social events such as weddings and funerals. “We are also the ones who prepare the contact list of infected persons. But lack of power to impose fines on violators reduces our job just to awareness sessions,” he said. Mr. Remjith said that each panchayat had a health inspector and three or four junior health inspectors. Above them there were health supervisors and technical assistants at the district level. “The Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003 authorises health inspectors and those above them to impose spot fines on violators. This helped curb the sale of tobacco in public places, especially near schools, and its advertisements to a great extent. A similar approach could be applied in enforcing COVID protocol too,” Mr. Remjith said. Meanwhile, police personnel are also finding practical hurdles in enforcing the regulations. A senior police officer told The Hindu that fine could be imposed only after a first information report was filed. There are still many, especially from economically weaker sections, who are unaware of the new directives, and a section of officials are averse to booking charges against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-staff-sore-at-new-norms/article32027066.ece
09 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Air India to resume flights to Delhi from Kozhikode||After public outcry, Air India will begin operation of its suspended flight service from the Calicut international airport to Delhi on Friday. Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao said here on Wednesday that the flight would operate three days a week, on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday, till August 23. This is a temporary measure till Air India changes the schedule. At present, Air India is operating its flight only up to the Kannur airport after domestic air services resumed in the country on May 25. Now the flight will depart at 2 p.m. from Delhi and reach Kannur at 6.05 p.m. It will arrive in Kozhikode at 6.35 p.m. and will depart for Delhi at 8 p.m. to touch down the national capital at 11 p.m, Mr. Rao, who had taken up the issue with Air India authorities, said. Travel plans hit The cancellation of the Delhi-Kozhikode flight had hit air passengers travelling to Kozhikode and Malappuram districts for the last two months. Many had to travel by road from Mattannur municipality, 28 km from Kannur, the location of the airport to reach other destinations in north Kerala. Previously Air India carried out its services successfully on round-robin basis from the Calicut airport. Then passengers were able to fly non-stop from Delhi to Kozhikode on Wednesdays and Saturdays, and from Kozhikode to Delhi on Tuesdays, Fridays and Sundays. However on Tuesdays, Fridays and Sundays, the flights arrived at Kozhikode via Kannur. Several organisations such as the Malabar Development Forum and the Malabar Development Council had taken up the issue with Air India and the Ministry of Civil Aviation. They also urged the Ministry to resume international flights to the Gulf Cooperation Council nations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/air-india-to-resume-flights-to-delhi-from-kozhikode/article32027045.ece
09 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||36 schools in Kozhikode to get water testing labs||As many as 36 government higher secondary schools in Kozhikode district will soon have a water testing laboratory on their premises. The laboratories are being constructed as part of a project of the Haritha Keralam Mission to make water testing affordable and within reach for every one. The plan is to set up such laboratories in every local body. Schools were short-listed based on the available infrastructure including a live chemistry lab. The cost for setting up the lab in one school is around Rs. 1.70 lakh. The project is being implemented with the help of Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation and funded mainly by the State through MLAs’ local development fund and through local bodies. “At present, water testing facility is available only in very few places in the district such as in some Kerala Water Authority labs and the Centre for Water Resources Development and Management. With the setting up of labs in local bodies, testing will be available at much cheaper rates,” said P. Prakashan, district coordinator of Haritha Keralam Mission. The labs will be managed by chemistry teachers in each school and students, who will be trained in the process. Each school will be provided a handbook as well as enough chemicals to carry out 1,000 water tests. “This will also be beneficial to students who will get some hands-on experience. They will do only basic tests. If tests show some serious problems, the public can approach a bigger laboratory,” Mr. Prakashan added. “Though only 36 schools have been short-listed in the first phase, the facility will soon be made available in all the local bodies in the district,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/36-schools-in-kozhikode-to-get-water-testing-labs/article32027052.ece
09 July 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Active cases mount to 389 in Malappuram||Malappuram district saw 46 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. While seven of them were infected through contact, 33 had returned from abroad and six from other States. As many as 389 infected persons were currently under treatment in the district, said District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan. As many as 11 persons recovered from the disease on Wednesday. The seven persons who contracted the disease through local transmission were a 47-year-old COVID care centre volunteer from Parappanangadi, a 52-year-old man from Kalikavu, a 46-year-old woman from Kavalakkallu, a 60-year-old vagabond woman at Parappanagadi, a 36-year-old cable operator at Kadavanad, a 47-year-old cable operator from Vellari and a 30-year-old woman from Panampad. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena asked those who had come into contact with the infected persons to go into home quarantine. They should also alert health officials, she said. In Palakkad Twenty-five persons, including two infants, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Wednesday. Among them were 14 migrant workers from West Bengal. Two of the new cases had returned from Karnataka, two from Tamil Nadu, one from Delhi, 14 from West Bengal, three from Saudi Arabia, two from the UAE, and one from Qatar. The 14 men from West Bengal who contracted the virus were in the age group of 18 and 39. Six of them were 20 years old and three 21 years old. They were part of a 41-member team currently under observation at a camp at Vandithavalam. The results of 21 others in the camp are awaited. The total number of infected persons currently under treatment in the district rose to 193 on Wednesday. Besides them, eight persons from Palakkad were being treated elsewhere in the State. In Thrissur Thrissur district reported 25 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Among the positive cases, there were six BSF personnel and three others who were in contact with them. With this, the total number of positive cases reported so far in the district has risen to 530. There are now 180 active cases in the district. In all, 17,165 people are under observation. Divisions 49 and 51 of the Thrissur Corporation and wards 11 and 12 of the Sreenarayanapuram panchayat have been excluded from the list of containment zones. As there is a spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases in the district, restrictions will be strictly implemented at Kottappuram Market. A meeting convened by Kodungallur Municipal Chairman K.R. Jaithran took the decision. Meanwhile, the Nattika Cotton Mill building, owned by NRI businessman M.A. Yusuff Ali, will be made a COVID care centre, according to Minister A.C. Moideen. In Kannur Kannur district reported 22 more COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said that three patients had returned from abroad while others had come from other States. In Wayanad The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Wayanad as 14 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. Four among them had returned from abroad and the others had come from Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu. Meanwhile, three persons, who had been undergoing treatment at the District Hospital for the disease, were discharged after being tested negative. Of the 132 cases reported in the district so far, 78 have been cured. In Kozhikode Kozhikode district reported 15 fresh COVID-19 cases for the third consecutive day on Wednesday, which included a 62-year-old man and his 48-year-old wife from Kallai and their relatives, a 37-year-old woman and her children aged 15 and six respectively. They had been in contact with a pregnant woman from the area who had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on June 30.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Wayanad, Thrissur, Kannur, and Kozhikode bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-cases-mount-to-389-in-malappuram/article32027054.ece
09 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Jalanidhi to address Munniyoor’s water woes||Laying of pipelines for the Jalanidhi drinking water project for Munniyoor grama panchayat has begun. The work of a tank at Chelari is nearing completion and another one at Parekkavil near Munniyoor is half way through. The work of a purification plant at Parekkavil is in progress. The Jalanidhi project being implemented with Japanese aid is expected to address the drinking water problem of over 5,400 families in Munniyoor panchayat. The tank at Parekkavil can store seven lakh litres of water and the one at Chelari 4.5 lakh litre.  The project is expected to supply 70 litres of water a day per person when it is completed in a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jalanidhi-to-address-munniyoors-water-woes/article32027048.ece
09 July 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Youth saves woman’s life||A middle-aged woman who jumped into the Bharathapuzha at Yakkara near here was rescued from drowning by a youngster on Wednesday. The police said the woman jumped into the river after a quarrel with her husband. Vinu, 24, from Kakkayoor saved her from drowning. Both were rushed to the District Hospital here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-saves-womans-life/article32027055.ece
09 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta municipality is containment zone||Unknown sources of infection in a few patients has forced the district administration to declare more areas as containment zones. The State Disaster Management Authority declared all 33 wards of Pathanamthitta municipality as containment zones on Wednesday evening. Health surveillance teams have identified a large number of primary contacts of a 22-year-old student leader who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 two days ago in almost all municipal wards. The student leader is from Kulashekharapathi ward. With a vegetable truck driver from Tamil Nadu testing positive two days ago, the municipal wards of Kavumbhagom and Ramapuram market area (Thiruvalla municipality) have been declared containment zones. The 22-year-old driver had been regularly bringing vegetables from Cumbom-Theni to markets in Thiruvalla. Besides, ward 13 of Kulanada grama panchayat has also been declared a containment zone with a Venmony native of Alappuzha visiting the place. Public meetings Meanwhile, District Collector P.B. Noohu issued an order prohibiting public meetings, processions, and dharna in the municipal limits of Pathanamthitta and Thiruvalla, invoking the Kerala Disaster Management Act. District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja said the situation in the district was grave against the backdrop of the infection spreading from unknown sources. District Police Chief K.G. Simon said personnel across the district had been directed to take stern action against violations of restrictions in the wake of the rise in COVID-19 cases with unknown sources of infection. The police arrested 21 people for violating of lockdown norms in the district on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-municipality-is-containment-zone/article32027172.ece
09 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Count up by seven, total cases now 400||Seven more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday, taking the overall tally of COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta to 400, a press release here said. The number of active cases here is 182, with 218 recoveries. One person has succumbed to the disease in the district. Patients A 32-year-old man who came to Pandalam from Oman on June 19, a 28-year-old woman (Pandalam, Oman, June 19), a 38-year-old man (Thadiyur, Saudi Arabia, July 1), a 52-year-old man (Kadapra, Bahrain, June 24), a 60-year-old man (Kumbazha, Gujarat, June 22), a 42-year-old man (Kulashekharapathi, Pathanamthitta), and another 48-year-old man (Kulashekharapathi) are the people who tested positive in the district on Wednesday. The Health Department has deployed surveillance teams to identify the source of infection of the two patients hailing from Kulashekharapathi. A total of three persons recovered from the infection on Wednesday. The press release also said that 200 people, including patients and those with symptoms, were in isolation wards of hospitals in the district.  In quarantine A total of 5,751 people were in quarantine as on Wednesday evening. They included 2,754 people from other States, 2,548 expatriates, and 449 contacts of infected persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/count-up-by-seven-total-cases-now-400/article32027174.ece
09 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM writes to PM for probe||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an “effective and coordinated” investigation by “all Central agencies concerned” into the seizure of gold by Customs officials at the international airport here on July 5. Mr. Vijayan’s open letter to Mr. Modi was seen as a political counter to attempts by the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to link his office to the economic offence. Mr. Vijayan termed the crime as “extremely serious” and one with “ implications” for the nation. He said the attempt to smuggle gold (concealed in diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate here) had “more than one angle warranting a thorough investigation”. The “scope of the probe should cover all aspects from the source to the end utilisation. Every link should be unravelled. The State government would provide all necessary assistance,” he said. Chennithala’s demand Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala demanded Mr. Vijayan’s resignation. He said the “controversial woman” suspect in the case had free run of the Chief Minister’s Office. She had gained employment in an IT Department subsidiary through a global consultancy favoured by Mr. Vijayan to offer advice on mega power and mobility projects. The woman had organised the “Space Conclave” at the behest of the IT Department under Mr. Vijayan. Videos and photographs of the suspect socialising with ruling front politicians testified to her outsize influence in the government. He said the CBI inquiry should investigate the role of Mr. Vijayan’s office in the scam. BJP charge In New Delhi, Union Minister of State External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said the Centre had taken the crime seriously. Mr. Vijayan could not disassociate himself from the case. His office had given the woman involved in the offence a plum posting in the IT Department despite cautionary reports from the State Police Intelligence and the Crime Branch. The Congress and the BJP also used photographs and videos of official and private events to link Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan to the gold smuggling case suspect. The Speaker has denied any link with the woman and said he had encountered her only at public functions. The Indian Union Muslim League has also demanded an thorough inquiry covering the CMO. Kerala Congress (M) factional leader Jose. K. Mani demurred from making any statement critical of Mr. Vijayan’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-writes-to-pm-for-probe/article32027082.ece
09 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital district on edge as caseload goes up by 64||The COVID-19 situation in the district continues to remain alarming with the caseload going up on Wednesday by 64 new cases, of which 54 were reported from Poonthura alone. This is also the highest single-day spike in the district and the day's highest in the State. An alarming factor is that a majority of the patients — 60 out of 64 — were infected through contact. This has prompted the administration to tighten lockdown measures at Poonthura which had been declared a containment zone on July 2. New patients from this coastal ward of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation included several children, including a four-month-old baby. A medical shop owner, a pharmacist, an AYUSH hospital volunteer, two fish vendors, and two auto drivers are also on the list. Beemapally, which borders Poonthura, reported one case, a 35-year-old male who contracted the disease through contact. In Aryanad The district administration has declared the whole of Aryanad grama panchayat a containment zone, even as two more persons from the region tested positive. The patients included a 54-year-old teacher and a 22-year-old male. On Tuesday, six persons including a medical officer, two ASHA workers and a KSRTC station master had tested positive here, prompting the administration to step up vigil. Kakkavila, Puthusheri and Puthiya Uchakada wards in the Karode grama panchayat are the other new containment zones in the districts. Among the patients who tested positive were two men and a woman hailing from Tamil Nadu who had arrived in Thiruvananthapuram from Kuwait. Muttathara, Kidavilakom, Vattapara and Manacaud also reported one case each. Surveillance Meanwhile, 741 persons were newly placed under disease surveillance in the district, even as 694 others completed the observation period without developing symptoms. As many as 21,201 people are currently under surveillance in the district. Tightening security measures, the city police registered cases against 251 people for breaching lockdown stipulations under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. Cases were also registered against 208 others for failing to wear face masks properly, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-district-on-edge-as-caseload-goes-up-by-64/article32027121.ece
09 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poonthura turns a major cluster||Poonthura, located in the thickly populated coastal region of Thiruvananthapuram, is fast emerging as a major cluster with 54 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday and more than a 100 cases over one week. From the reporting of the first positive case, of a fish vendor, here on July 1, things escalated quickly to what came to be classified as a ‘super spreader,’ to signify several people contacting the virus from one person. The jump in cases was somewhat expected due to the aggressive testing over the past few days, with more than 600 samples taken. The situation prompted Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to convene a meeting with the Chief Secretary, Health Secretary, State Police Chief and the District Collector, to assess the situation. Entry points sealed All the three wards within the Poonthura region have been completely locked down, with the Coastal Police keeping an eye on those entering through the sea. All the 16 entry points to Poonthura have been sealed. In the evening, police commandos held route marches in the area, warning the people against venturing out. Those who disobey instructions will be forcibly sent to institutional quarantine. The District Administration, which declared the area as a containment zone on July 2, has now decided to provide free ration to each family in three wards. The swab collection is being done across three centres - the community health centres in Poonthura and Valiyathura, as well as Ayush centre in Poonthura. The city Corporation had earlier this week set up a control room here to co-ordinate the containment efforts here. A team of close to 30 workers have been working tirelessly to disinfect and create awareness on social distancing norms. “Initially, the control room got calls regarding crowding at a shop or a fish vending zone. We responded immediately and warned people against repeating it. Now, people have begun co-operating, as they have understood the gravity of the situation. A disinfection team of 10 have disinfected houses of the people who have tested positive. We have also been carrying out mike announcements in all areas, telling people on how they can stay safe from the virus,” says Sony, Poonthura Health Inspector who heads the control room. The authorities of the St.Thomas Church Poonthura have played a key role in awareness campaigns too over the past few days. Volunteers “A team of 40-50 youngsters from the area was set up as soon as the lockdown began. They have been carrying our awareness campaigns at the community level. A group from among them are also delivering essentials to the doorstep for people in need, to prevent them from stepping out. We used to have food parcels too for 100 days till July 3, but it had to be stopped considering the situation now. Another team is helping at the testing facilities,” Father Bevinson, Vicar of the Poonthura Church. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said that the number of tests in Poonthura will be further increased. More ambulances will also be deployed, he said after a meeting with political and religious leaders from the area on Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poonthura-turns-a-major-cluster/article32027118.ece
09 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||243 get learner’s licence online||The Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) issued learner’s driving licence to 243 persons after conducting an online test on Tuesday night. A total of 266 persons from across the State took the 30-minute online test conducted from 7 p.m. on computers and mobile phones. Twenty-three of them failed to qualify. “We expect more persons to attend the test to be conducted on all days, including weekends. There is no limit to the number of candidates who can appear on a day,” Joint Transport Commissioner Rajeev Puthalath said. The MVD has fixed the time from 7 p.m. to prevent misuse of the facility by driving schools. The password provided to the candidate is valid till 12 midnight on the allotted day. As the candidate will have to correctly answer 30 of the 50 questions tossed to him in 30 minutes from the MVD’s question bank, chances of candidates seeking external help were limited, the official said.  After the test, the result will be flashed instantly on the screen. The candidate can take a printout of the learner’s licence. Those who fail can reappear by paying Rs. 50. Those who fail to complete the test due to network connectivity issues or other reasons on the allotted day can select another date and appear for the test, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/243-get-learners-licence-online/article32027076.ece
09 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||White Board reaches out to special children||Ridhu N.K., a resource teacher at the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala South urban resource centre in Fort here, folds a piece of paper to make a boat. She then outlines the folds on the paper using a marker to form triangles and rectangles. She also uses sandpaper, scrubbers, earbuds, and threads to make shapes so that visually impaired students can touch and understand them as part of White Board, a project of the Samagra Shiksha to prepare study material for differently abled students. The aim of White Board is to make the online classes more inclusive as not all different abled students are able to follow the classes telecast on the Victers channel. Lessons are adapted to suit six categories of students - hearing impaired, visually impaired, intellectually disabled, those on the autistic spectrum, having specific learning disability, and cerebral palsy. There are 12,000 differently abled students studying in government and aided schools in the district. All 12 block resource centres under the Samagra Shiksha in the district are doing the content adaptation for the six categories of students for specific subjects - Class IV Mathematics, Classes VII and X Hindi, and Class VIII Chemistry. The remaining 156 BRCs in the State too are adapting various subject content for Classes I to X. The classes are taken by special resource teachers with support of BRC trainers and coordinators and shot on mobile phone. Prior to the shoot though, the scripts are discussed by a group of expert teachers. The videos from the BRCs are uploaded via Telegram app for final editing by a team. An SCERT expert committee also verifies it and suggests corrections. The videos are then uploaded on the White Board YouTube channel. Over Youtube Resmi T.L., district programme manager (Inclusive Education), Samagra Shiksha, says the YouTube links of the videos are sent by the resource teachers to parents over WhatsApp groups for children to view them. The resource teachers then provide the children further support. Parents are given instructions in the videos on how to help the children with assignments using materials available at home. The preparation of videos in the second spell has been taken up entirely by the BRCs, with animation and other graphics thrown in, she says. A video of Ms. Ridhu giving Mathematics lessons to visually impaired students and that of Sheeja Jasmine, resource teacher at the Parassala block resource centre (BRC), teaching Mathematics to hearing impaired students have won praise from officials associated with White Board, says Ms. Resmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/white-board-reaches-out-to-special-children/article32027114.ece
09 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rain: yellow alert for southern districts||Northern districts can expect widespread rainfall this week with the southwest monsoon remaining active over Kerala. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued yellow alerts for Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod on Thursday and Friday, signalling the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall (6.4 cm to 11.5 cm in 24 hours). Parts Most of the northern districts can expect steady rainfall till Sunday, according to the IMD. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely in parts of some of the central and southern districts on Thursday. Yellow alerts have been issued for Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki and Thrissur for Thursday. Fishermen have been advised to stay away from the sea off the north Kerala coast, given the possibility of squally weather with wind speeds reaching 40-50 km/h.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-yellow-alert-for-southern-districts/article32027119.ece
09 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Software to provide academic support launched||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has developed Thenkoodu, a software to provide academic support to intellectually challenged students studying in special schools, including Buds schools, that run on grants from the Union and the State governments. Thenkoodu has been launched against the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic for the differently abled students who are home-bound at present.  Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath inaugurated Thenkoodu through video conferencing on Wednesday, a pressnote issued here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/software-to-provide-academic-support-launched/article32027115.ece
09 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cyberdome to organise Hackathon||The Kerala Police Cyberdome is organising Hac'KP 2020, an online hackathon themed on new technologies that can help improve policing in the cyberworld. The contests will focus on developing applications in a limted time frame and testing them. The first prize carries Rs. 5 lakh, second prize Rs. 2.5 lakh and the third prize, Rs. 1 lakh. For details, visit hackp.kerala.gov.in/ The event provides an opportunity for developers in the engineering and technology fields to display their talents. The logo of the contest was released by SPC Loknath Behera and ADGP Manoj Abraham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cyberdome-to-organise-hackathon/article32027125.ece
09 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM to launch Rs. 65-cr. project for schools||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate a Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB)-funded Rs. 65-crore project for infrastructure development in 56 government schools in the coastal areas of the State. The government has sanctioned Rs. 65 crore in the first phase for making the 56 schools centres of excellence. The schools will have classrooms, laboratories and libraries, staff rooms, and toilets on the basis of student ratio. Construction will be undertaken through the Kerala State Coastal Area Development Corporation, which is the special purpose vehicle for the project. In capital An amount of Rs. 3.72 crore has been sanctioned for development of three schools in Thiruvananthapuram district. The maximum number of schools to be developed is in Kannur district – 11, for which Rs. 13 crore has been sanctioned. The online inauguration will be presided over by Minister for Fisheries J. Mercykutty Amma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-launch-rs-65-cr-project-for-schools/article32027116.ece
09 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Open community kitchens, says CMP||The government should take urgent steps to open community kitchens across Thiruvananthapuram city as people are facing food shortage due to the triple lockdown, CMP district secretary M. R. Manoj said on Wednesday. Steps should also be taken to issue food free of cost to patients and their bystanders in hospitals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/open-community-kitchens-says-cmp/article32027123.ece
09 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DPDO pensioners||Due to the triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, DPDO pensioners have been requested to direct all enquiries and identification processes through SMS to the mobile number 9447388736 and forward life certificates to the official email ID dpdo tvm@ gmail.com. Applicants should mention the pension book number and Army number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dpdo-pensioners/article32027124.ece
09 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Weddings to resume at Guruvayur from July 10||Wedding ceremonies will be resumed at Sreekrishna Temple, Guruvayur, on July 10 by adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. Pre-booking is mandatory for the wedding ceremonies. Booking will start at the counter at West Nada and online through Google Form from July 9. Weddings will be held from 5 a.m. 12.30 p.m. at Kalyana Mandapam at East Nada. Each wedding can have only a maximum of 12 members, including the bride, bridegroom and camera persons. Applications, along with photo identity card of the participants, should be submitted at the counter 24 hours before the function or 48 hours ahead in the case of online bookings. 40 a day Only 40 weddings will be allowed a day. Each party should report only 20 minutes before the scheduled time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weddings-to-resume-at-guruvayur-from-july-10/article32027070.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fishing activities banned in district||With the rise in COVID-19 infections through contact in the district, especially Poonthura, District Collector Navjot Khosa issued orders on Wednesday banning fishing activities along the coastal areas. The ban will be in place until further orders are issued, the Collector said. The decision was taken in view of the fact that unauthorised fishing and auctions were being held along the coastal areas which resulted in large gatherings. Orders have been issued to prevent fishermen travelling between Thiruvananthapuram and Kanyakumari district of Tamil Nadu, given the pandemic situation. According to the district administration, unauthorised fishing and auctions were being held mainly at Muthalappozhi, Perumathura, and Maryanad coming under the Anchuithengu and Kadinamkulam police station limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishing-activities-banned-in-district/article32027122.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Season’s flavour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seasons-flavour/article32027047.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||SIB registers 11.5% rise in net profit||The South Indian Bank has announced the first quarter (Q1) results with a net profit of Rs. 81.65 crore as against Rs. 73.26 crore during the corresponding period of the previous year with a year-on-year growth of 11.45%. The operating profit for the first quarter has grown from Rs. 317.63 crore to Rs. 403.68 crore. The net interest margin improved from 2.53% to 2.62% and other income registered a growth of 57%. V.G. Mathew, MD & CEO, while announcing the results, mentioned that there had been good growth in the retail, agriculture and MSME portfolios.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sib-registers-115-rise-in-net-profit/article32027050.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Correction||The report ‘As gold smuggling case evolves, Sivasankar loses key posts’ which appeared in these columns on July 8 erroneously reported that K. Mohammed Y. Safirulla had replaced M. Sivasankar as both Secretary to the Chief Minister and Principal Secretary, Information Technology. Mr. Safirulla, who is now undergoing training under the DFFT Scheme, is posted as Additional Secretary, Electronics and Information Technology, with full additional charge of Secretary, Electronics and Information Technology. Mir Muhammad Ali, Executive Director, Suchitwa Mission, has been given additional charge of Secretary to the Chief Minister. The error is regretted. Besides, Sanjay M. Kaul, Secretary, Ports, will hold full additional charge of Secretary, Electronics and Information Technology, until Mr. Safirulla rejoins the Government of Kerala on completion of his training. He will report to Rajesh Kumar Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/correction/article32027083.ece
09 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB sleuths raid DMHO office in Anantapur||The team of Anti-Corruption Bureau, Tirupati led by ACB Deputy Superintendent of Police Alla Baksh raided the office of District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) here on Wednesday and checked the files till late in the night. ‘Lapses in appointment’ Refusing to divulge the details, the DSP said that many complaints of misappropriation of funds and irregularities in the appointment of doctors and paramedical staff were received in the past few months. “We are probing into the allegations. All the files related to the complaints are being checked,” said Mr. Alla Baksh. The raid was conducted following the directive of the ACB Director General. The ACB officials reach Anantapur and the checking of the records at the DMHO’s office began at around 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-sleuths-raid-dmho-office-in-anantapur/article32027021.ece
09 July 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four held in drug racket in Bhimavaram||Police arrested four persons, who were allegedly in contact with the suspected international drug peddler of Bhimavaram town, arrested by the Customs sleuths a few days ago, said West Godavari Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik. Customs officials of Chennai Airport arrested an engineering dropout last month, for allegedly peddling drugs from Harleem City, the Netherlands, through online on fake address. During raids, Customs and the police officials seized 400 banned Methylenedioxy-Methamphetamine (MDMA) pills, weighing about 470 gm, worth Rs. 12 lakh from the accused. The Bhimavaram One Town police found that 15 persons were allegedly involved in the racket. They arrested four persons on Wednesday. The arrested include, Chinta Prasad, Goli Rajiv Kumar, S. Satya Prithvi Raj and D. Koushik Kumar, all natives of Bhimavaram, Mr. Naik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-held-in-drug-racket-in-bhimavaram/article32027213.ece
09 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP inspects traffic surveillance works in Guntur||At a time when traffic woes are back to haunt the citizens after the end of the lockdown, the Guntur Urban Police have set themselves to the task of finding a solution by using modern surveillance system. Superintendent of Police R.N. Ammireddy reviewed the traffic surveillance project, which uses high-resolution cameras, executed by Chaitanya Media Solutions in partnership with Guntur Municipal Corporation. Under the project, the cameras would be installed at 35 traffic junctions which would be synced with artificial intelligence-based computer vision solutions offered by a USA-based firm. The data and images would be shared with the control room set up at Guntur Urban Police office.  What it does The security-enabled AI helps locate high-risk threats such as criminals, pick-pockets and violent offenders, and identify missing children. Besides, the AI-enabled transportation network helps detect and report wrong-side driving, parking violations, helmet-less driving, triple driving etc. The signalling system also helps in notification of emergency vehicles, extraction of number plates, violation of red signals and notify accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-inspects-traffic-surveillance-works-in-guntur/article32026710.ece
09 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top priority given to farm sector: Sucharita||Minister for Home and Disaster Management Mekathoti Sucharita has said that the YSRCP government has been giving the highest priority to farm sector for the last one year. The Minister was addressing a meeting after launching a Rythu Bharosa Kendra(RBK) in Prathipadu on Wednesday, commemorating the 71st birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S Rajasekhara Reddy. Stating that Guntur district has 852 RBKs, out of which 13 RBKs are in Prathipadu, the Home Minister said that each RBK is equipped with facilities to conduct soil testing, distribution of inputs like fertilisers and pesticides and farm mechanisation tools for allied departments like Agriculture, Sericulture, Fisheries. The State government has given a free bore well to every farmer owning more than five acres and has allotted Rs. 1,400 crore for digging bore wells. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, reiterating that farmers’ welfare was among the top priorities of the State government, said that it has been giving Rs. 7 lakh as compensation to farmers who have committed suicides and that it has waived off interests for farmers under the Zero Percent Interest Subvention Scheme. Joint Director, Agriculture, Vijaya Bharathi and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/top-priority-given-to-farm-sector-sucharita/article32026712.ece
09 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR knew the pulse of people: Sajjala||Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Advisor, Public Affairs, said that Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has inherited a rich legacy from his father and former CM Y.S Rajasekhara Reddy. Mr. Reddy was speaking on the occasion of the birth anniversary of YSR. Mr. Reddy, along with several other party leaders, paid tributes at YSR’s portrait at the party central office in Tadepalli on Wednesday. “Dr. YSR has earned himself a place in every one’s heart. The former CM knew the pulse of people and introduced several welfare schemes, like Aarogyasri, fee reimbursement, Indiramma Housing,” said Mr. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-knew-the-pulse-of-people-sajjala/article32026713.ece
09 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR’s heart always beat for the poor and farmers, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday termed his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy as a politician par excellence, whose heart beat for the poor and the farmers. Farmers’ Day Speaking after paying tributes at his ‘samadhi’ at the YSR Estates at Idupulapaya here on the occasion of his 71st birth anniversary, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government would observe the day as ‘Farmer’s Day’ every year. Earlier, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy offered a garland at the ‘samadhi’ and sat in silence along with his mother Vijayamma, wife Bharathi, sister Sharmila, among others. The family members laid a wreath and participated in the special prayers before Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy left for RGUKT campus.  In view of the COVID-19 situation, the entire vicinity was thoroughly sanitised and every visitor was made to undergo thermal checking. The security personnel ensured everyone was present with face mask and all the MLAs and MLCs were given hand sanitiser at the entry point. District in-charge Minister A. Suresh, MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy, government whips K. Srinivasulu and Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy, TTD chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, legislators P. Ravindranatha Reddy, Meda Mallikarjuna Reddy, S. Raghurami Reddy, and M. Sudheer Reddy, MLCs Kathi Narasimha Reddy, D.C. Govinda Reddy and V. Gopal Reddy participated in the programme. Later, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy bid farewell to the family members and party leaders, and left for Kadapa airport by a helicopter, from where he left for Gannavaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrs-heart-always-beat-for-the-poor-and-farmers-says-jagan/article32027218.ece
09 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT gets development facilities worth Rs. 190 crore||Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT), based in RK Valley Idupulapaya, got a booster dose in the form of development projects, which were inaugurated and launched by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday. Prominent among the facilities was a new academic complex built at an estimated outlay of Rs. 139.83 crore, meant to be used for taking technical education to the rural youth. Executed by NBCC (India) Limited in two phases, the first phase of the mammoth project will have seven buildings for ECE, CSE, MME, EEE, chemical, mechanical and civil engineering streams and four buildings to house a library, a student activity centre, canteen and laundry. The second phase will include external services like roads, a 475 KLD sewerage treatment plant, an 11 kv substation, a 75 KW solar plant, water treatment plant, and a firefighting system, besides horticultural activities and landscaping. Mr. Jagan also laid the foundation stone for a computer centre to be developed at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. The facility, executed by AP Police Housing Corporation in a plinth area of 22,150 sq ft, will have seating capacity for 616 persons. He also laid the foundation stone for the Rs. 40 crore Dr. YSR Auditorium which will accommodate 1,700 persons. A 3 MW solar plant that was inaugurated on the occasion was developed by NREDCAP under the net metering concept, which will save the university Rs. 1.51 crore a year in the form of reduced electricity bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgukt-gets-development-facilities-worth-rs-190-crore/article32027207.ece
09 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book on YSR shows him in new perspective, says CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday released a book titled, ‘Naalo... Naatho YSR’, authored by his mother Vijayamma, as part of the 71st birth anniversary celebrations of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. In the book, Ms. Vijayamma recalled how YSR had filled her entire life, and narrated the sequence of events that followed immediately after his demise. The book also presented the political journey of the late leader from the perspective of his wife. Ms. Vijayamma, in the preface, stated that she had even mentioned certain incidents that the outside world had not known about YSR. “By virtue of her close association with him, the author has presented YSR in a refreshingly new perspective as a beloved husband, loving father and a revered leader,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said after releasing the book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-on-ysr-shows-him-in-new-perspective-says-cm/article32027223.ece
09 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. owns YSR, dubs Jagan ‘backstabber’||Even as the State observed the 71st birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, the Congress party reiterated its stand that the late leader belonged very much to it. Party’s working president N. Thulasi Reddy made the claim on Wednesday, even as YSR’s son and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy paid tributes at the ‘samadhi’ of his father at Idupulapaya. M. Thulasi Reddy also accused Mr. Jagan of backstabbing the Congress and walking out with the YSR’s legacy to establish his own outfit. Calling YSR a “real Congressman,” he said, “YSR was working with the sole aim of making Rahul Gandhi the Prime Minister.” Mr. Thulasi Reddy pointed out that party president Sonia Gandhi had enormous regard for YSR. It was Ms. Sonia Gandi who had named Kadapa as ‘YSR district’, he added. Mr. Thulasi Reddy also recalled that the late leader had remained totally against the ideology of the BJP. “Today, his son is trying to get closer to the BJP-led government at the Centre,” he said. People would never forget how Mr. Jagan had “ditched” the party for his political survival, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-owns-ysr-dubs-jagan-backstabber/article32027219.ece
09 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh slams CM for ‘moving without mask’||TDP general secretary and MLC N. Lokesh took a dig at Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for “not wearing a mask” during his two-day visit to Kadapa district ending Wednesday. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Lokesh said the Chief Minister was following a “different set of rules.” “While the State government is indulging in fake SMS COVID testing racket, @YSJagan is flouting rules and moving without a mask. Is this the precedent he wants to set for his party leaders who are playing the role of ‘Super Spreaders’ with enthusiasm? One rule for the common man, another for CM?” he tweeted. The tweet came at a time when Kadapa district was already in the news for witnessing a spike and when there were allegations against Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha allegedly for being callous in curtailing the spread of virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-slams-cm-for-moving-without-mask/article32027221.ece
09 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||E.G. farmers told to register with Rythu Bharosa Kendras||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Wednesday appealed to farmers to register with their local Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK) across the district. In an interaction with the farmers at Telagunta village in Tuni mandal, Mr. Muralidhar said: “Every farmer needs to register with the RBK to get access to available benefits, technology, and other services being offered by the government at the ground level. Failing to do so will be a loss for farmers.” In the case of Telagunta RBK, barely 120 farmers of the 1,200 farmers living there have registered themselves. The Collector has directed officials of the agriculture and horticulture departments to help the farmers understand the benefits of registering with the Rythu Bharosa Kendras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eg-farmers-told-to-register-with-rythu-bharosa-kendras/article32027195.ece
09 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||147 test positive in E. Godavari||A total of 147 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 across East Godavari district since Tuesday morning. As many as 67 of them belong to Kakinada Urban and 14 from Rajamahendravaram Urban area. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 2,424 as of Wednesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/147-test-positive-in-e-godavari/article32027196.ece
09 July 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus continues to hold sway in Nellore, Prakasam districts||Novel Coronavirus continued to hold sway over south coastal Andhra Pradesh with 33 more persons — 31 in SPSR Nellore district and to in Prakasam district — testing positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. The health authorities had a solace as 138 patients — 87 in Prakasam and 51 in SPSR Nellore district — were cured of the dreaded disease and discharged from hospitals during the period. They had a tough time as the disease spread to more areas in the district and outside the containment zones in both the districts. The total number of positive cases rose to 1,201 in SPSR Nellore district and 1,035 in Prakasam district, health officials said. In Ongole, a 43-year-old man and a 37-year-old woman from Sujatha Nagar contracted the virus, taking the number of cumulative confirmed cases to 229 cases. Integrated containment action plan was strictly enforced in the district headquarters as also in urban clusters of Markapur and Chirala with 136 and 125 positive cases respectively. As many 111 persons were quarantined by the authorities who have identified over 1,000 primary contacts of the infected persons. So far, 92,281 persons were subjected to testing in Prakasam district. Nellore city continued to reel under the impact of the virus accounting for 22 of the 31 fresh cases. Netaji Nagar reported a maximum of 11 cases. Three new cases were registered in Kavali, two cases in Kovur and one case each in Tada, Buchireddipalem and Muthukur in SPSR Nellore district. A person from Prakasam district also tested positive for the virus, a report compiled by the health officials in Nellore said on Wednesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-continues-to-hold-sway-in-nellore-prakasam-districts/article32027201.ece
09 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weavers hit by lockdown demand financial support||Weavers from the handloom cluster in and around Chirala on Wednesday staged a demonstration urging the Union Government to extend the benefit of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan to the crisis-ridden handlooms and handicrafts sector. Weavers in Kotha Pandilapalli, near Chirala, who have been badly affected by the nationwide lockdown, raised slogans seeking financial assistance of Rs. 3,000 per month for a period of six months in addition to the ongoing supply of ration. “Our sector has been affected the most by the COVID lockdown, as we have been getting no work from master weavers and cooperative societies ever since the lockdown was imposed in March,” they lamented. National Federation of Handlooms and Handicrafts president Macherla Mohan Rao said that yarn and silk was unavailable due to closure of spinning mills and silk reeling units during the lockdown. The government should take immediate steps to establish production and procurement centres in the handloom clusters with Rs. 300 crore as seed capital, and procure accumulated handloom products with cooperative societies and master weavers, besides clearing the dues to National Handlooms Development Corportion and Andhra Pradesh State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society, the weavers said. “It is high time that the government provided soft loans under the MUDRA scheme through commercial and Grameena banks,” said Rashtra Chenetha Jana Samaikya president Devana Veera Nageswara Rao. The Centre should consider announcing a three-year moratorium on collection of GST, they said, appealing to authorities to ensure transportation of cotton and silk yarn from production centres such as Coimbatore and Salem in Tamil Nadu and Bengaluru in Karnataka so that idling looms could resume full-scale production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/weavers-hit-by-lockdown-demand-financial-support/article32027199.ece
09 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Markfed to intervene in more auction platforms||Tobacco farmers in the traditional tobacco growing areas in Prakasam district on Wednesday thanked senior YSR Congress Party leader Y.V. Subba Reddy for using his good offices with Markfed to extend market intervention operations to Vellampalli and Tangutur auction platforms. A delegation of farmer representatives led by former Tobacco Board member Ch. Ranga Rao impressed upon Mr. Subba Reddy, former MP from Ongole and now TTD Chairman, that Markfed’s presence was needed in all the auction platforms in the Southern Light Soil (SLS) and Southern Black Soil (SBS) regions for the farmers to make the best use of the market intervention activity at a time when the prices for various grades of FCV tobacco were declining. At Mr. Subba Reddy’s behest, Markfed Commissioner P.S. Pradyumna assured them that the marketing federation would enter the market in the uncovered SBS and SLS auction platforms from Thursday, said farmer leaders Abhuri Seshagiri Rao and K.V. Ramana Reddy. Markfed intervened in the market in Ongole II and Kandukur in the first phase last week and extended it to Ongole I and Podili auction platforms subsequently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/markfed-to-intervene-in-more-auction-platforms/article32027202.ece
09 July 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Press Academy chief visits Polavaram sites||Andhra Pradesh Press Academy chairman Devireddy Srinath has appreciated the Polavaram project officials and the Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) representatives for taking up the works on a war footing amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Srinath visited the project site on Wednesday and praised project Chief Engineer Sudhakar Babu and Superintending Engineer Nagireddy for resuming the works in a very less time, which were stopped due to the panic situation recently. Mr.Srinath, along with the project officials, inspected the spillway, cofferdam and the earth-cum-rock fill dam works on the site and interacted with the workers.  Speaking to media, Mr. Srinath said workers from nine States were brought back and the spillway works were taken up on priority basis . He asked the officers to disseminate information on the Polavaram project works to the media, so that right information would be passed on to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/press-academy-chief-visits-polavaram-sites/article32027242.ece
09 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Don’t create hurdles for Ambedkar statue’||Former State SC/ST Commission Chairman Karem Shivaji on Wednesday lamented that former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had reneged on his promise of erecting a statue of B.R. Ambedkar on the banks of the Krishna at Amaravati. While Mr. Naidu had allocated Rs. 100 crore for the proposed Ambedkar Smrithi Vanam, the project did not kick-start during his tenure. Speaking at a press conference here, Mr. Shivaji said: “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s initiative to erect the 125-feet Dr. Ambedkar statue at Swarajya Maidan in Vijayawada is laudable. The TDP will witness a backlash if any attempt is made to stop the ambitious initiative.” “If the TDP decides to create any legal hurdles for the Ambedkar statue project, a Statewide protest will be launched jointly by the Dalit groups, tribals, and Backward Castes,” said Mr.Shivaji. “I want to remind Mr. Naidu that I had personally brought soil from Nagpur for the ‘bhumi puja’ of the Ambedkar Smriti Vanam at Amaravati but the project was ignored by Mr. Naidu,” he said. “The letter by former MP Vadde Sobhanadeeswara Rao against the Ambedkar statue initiative is a mindgame being played by the TDP to stall the project. The letter has been purportedly prepared by the TDP high command,” Mr. Shivaji alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-create-hurdles-for-ambedkar-statue/article32027197.ece
09 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spike in Tirupati cases sets alarm bells ringing||As many as 97 new COVID-19 cases were reported in and around Tirupati in a single day, triggering a wave of panic among the denizens and leaving the health officials disillusioned. Akin to a jigsaw puzzle, many areas were marked as red zones and barricades erected to prevent free flow of traffic, while a relaxation was announced in areas that were declared red zones earlier, letting the denizens in the vicinity heave a sigh of relief. In Chittoor district, 255 persons tested positive in the last 24 hours, marking one of the biggest single-day spikes. Also, one more patient succumbed to the virus, taking the total death toll in the district to 16. Meanwhile, Deputy Inspector-General of Police Kanthi Rana Tata inspected measures taken in some containment zones. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy, the DIG visited some areas under Tirupati East and Tirupati West police limits. Harsh measures With 40 of the 50 divisions being declared red zones by officials, Mr. Tata spoke of harsh measures to be taken by the police against violators of COVID-19 protocols, while working in tandem with the municipal health department. Mr. Tata found that commercial and retail outlets in the red zones remained closed. Mr. Ramesh Reddy outlined the measures that would be taken to trace the primary and secondary contacts of the affected persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spike-in-tirupati-cases-sets-alarm-bells-ringing/article32027205.ece
09 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhumana launches trust in YSR’s name||The walkathon by former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, which catapulted him to power in 2004, has also inspired the formation of a trust that promises to work towards eradicating poverty. Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy formally launched the ‘Dr. YSR Praja Prasthanam Seva Trust’ after paying tributes to the former Chief Minister by garlanding his statue at TUDA Circle here on Wednesday. Mr. Karunakar Reddy recalled his association with his ‘mentor’ and the services rendered by YSR to the cause of a united A.P. Kasturba Gandhi Kendra Trust (KGKT) Chairman P.C. Rayulu called it a ‘great opportunity’ to reach out to people in YSR’s name. Mr. Karunkar Reddy hailed sanitation workers for braving the pandemic to discharge their duties, and distributed essential commodities to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhumana-launches-trust-in-ysrs-name/article32027209.ece
09 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP objects to YV taking part in prayers at Idupulapaya||The Jana Sena Party (JSP) took objection to TTD Trust Board chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and his wife allegedly participating in the prayers of a particular faith, organised in connection with the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, at Idupulapaya in Kadapa district on Wednesday. Addressing the media here, JSP Tirupati constituency in-charge K. Kiran Rayal said Mr. Subba Reddy and his wife chanted verses from a holy book of that faith on the occasion. “Such instances will not only hurt the sentiments of the devout Hindus but also embolden the mischievous elements,” he said, and demanded that he be replaced immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-objects-to-yv-taking-part-in-prayers-at-idupulapaya/article32027220.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 more virus deaths take the toll to 264 in State||Continuing to witness over 1,000 fresh COVID-19 cases for the third consecutive day, the State reported 1,062 fresh infections taking the tally to 22,259 during the past 24 hours. Also, 12 new deaths were reported by various districts and the death toll mounted to 264. For the first time after 20 days, the number of recoveries overtook the number of active cases with the discharge of 1,356 patients in the past day. Also, for the first time ever, the number of discharges in a day was more than the number of new cases. The total number of active cases is at 10,894 and the total number of recovered cases is at 11,101 putting the recovery rate at 50%. Three new deaths occurred in Kurnool, where the toll went up to 88. Further, Anantapur, Krishna and West Godavari witnessed two deaths each and Chittoor, Guntur and Visakhapatnam saw one death each. The overall mortality rate is at 1.19%. Chittoor reported 255 fresh cases while Guntur reported 173 cases, East Godavari reported 125 cases. Other districts that reported fresh cases are Anantapur (87), Kadapa (71), Krishna (70), Nellore (63), Kurnool (51), West Godavari (47), Visakhapatnam (38), Vizianagaram (38), Srikakulam (31) and Prakasam (2). Anantapur tally of local cases crossed the 2,500-mark an East Godavari crossed the 2,000-mark. Meanwhile, the tests per million ratio has crossed the 20,000-mark and reached 20,182. So far 10.77 lakh samples were tested and 27, 643 samples were tested in the past day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/12-more-virus-deaths-take-the-toll-to-264-in-state/article32027216.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown blues still haunt construction workers||The apparent lull in the construction industry has dashed the hopes of construction workers that lifting of lockdown would open up opportunities. The daily wagers have been adversely impacted due to unemployment, lack of savings and no access to social security measures to sustain after lockdown. The daily wage earners lament that they are hardly finding any work. “For more than a week I have been returning empty handed. There is no work,” says Ganesh, a migrant labourer from Visakhapatnam. The workers assemble at Benz Circle in the city at dawn every day. Not less than 200 people compete if there is a work for 10 people. Not all who wait at this adda are fortunate to find a job every day, he says. “There were days when we used to go to work on Sunday too. But now with a great difficulty, I get work for just one or two days a week,” says Anil, who migrated to the city from Ongole four years ago. Wages reduced Suryanarayana, another worker, says that the wages had also come down after lockdown. Earlier, Rs. 650 per day used to be paid to a coolie. Now, not even Rs. 500 per day is paid. A maestri ( head) used to earn Rs. 900 and now hardly Rs. 700 is paid, he says. Ganesh recalls that he was a maestri before lockdown. “Now, though, I am ready to work as a coolie. Believe it or not, there is no rice for tomorrow. I have to feed two children and my wife,” he says. “The poor job market has raised a question mark over our livelihood. As several residential projects have been halted, our livelihood has been hit hard,” says Raju, another mason. The construction workers say it is time the government looked at the burning problems of construction workers and supplied ration at their doorstep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-blues-still-haunt-construction-workers/article32026715.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Don’t mention grades in SSC marks memo cards’||Leaders of various student organisations on Wednesday urged the officials of the School Education Department not to mention marks or grades in the SSC (10th class) marks memo cards of students. In a joint memorandum presented to Commissioner, School Education, Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, leaders of the Student Federation of India (SFI), All India Student Federation (AISF) and Progressive Democratic Students’ Union (PDSU), said it was imperative to do away with marks and grades in the 10th class certificates to clip the wings of the private and corporate school managements who were resorting to ‘business’ of marks. They alleged that since internal marks had been cancelled from this year, many of the private and corporate school managements were fudging grades and were indiscriminately entering 10/10 GPA for their students in the Commissionerate of School Education (CSE) website. They said while government schools had been doing a fair job of allocating marks to students based on their year-long performance, some of their private counterparts had even been demanding money from parents “if they wanted a 10 GPA for their children in the marks memo.”  Telangana example The student leaders cited the example of Telangana, where, of the total 1,41,382 cent per cent (10/10) GPAs, only 21,000 were of government school students. They said this way, the government school students would lose out in terms of grades and thus the government should do away with either marks or even grades in the memos. State assistant secretary of SFI Prasanna Kumar, district president Rajesh, AISF State president M. Subbarao, and PDSU State president A. Ravichandra were among those who met the Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-mention-grades-in-ssc-marks-memo-cards/article32026718.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic deals a fresh blow to the loss-hit RTC||The outbreak of COVID-19 and the lockdown declared thereafter has compounded the financial woes of the cash-strapped AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC). “The RTC has debts to the tune of Rs. 7,000 crore and even a 10-fold increase in fares will not help us steer clear of the losses,” said the Corporation’s Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Madireddy Pratap, at a press conference here on Wednesday. He said despite incurring a loss of Rs. 4,200 crore due to the lockdown, the RTC had been paying salaries to its employees in time. Due to the coronavirus effect, the transport organisation was able to cater to the transport needs of only 2 lakh people. Mr. Pratap said three RTC employees had succumbed to coronavirus and 80 others were undergoing treatment. He said a series of measures had been taken to curb the spread of virus. Repurposing resources Mr. Madireddy said to overcome its financial problems, the corporation had been looking for innovative ways and as part of it, it was putting to use old buses that would now serve different purposes. Pointing to a mobile testing lab, ‘Sanjeevini’, he said 21 such labs were ready and, 30 more would be deployed across the state. Following a request by the Medical and Health department, the RTC had re-designed 52 of its old ‘Indra’ buses into COVID-19 testing labs and each of the district will get four such labs. These mobile labs can facilitate virus testing for 10 persons at a time. Mr. Pratap said in view of the spurt in cases in Chennai, the operations between the two States could not be resumed. Talks with the Telangana RTC were postponed as some of the staff in the TSRTC office had tested positive, he said. Forty nine vehicles had been converted into cargo vehicles which would now cater to the needs of organisations such as Markfed, he said. Two hundred other buses had been converted into Janata Bazaars, catering to the needs of the residents in containment and red zones. He said the corporation had plans to start a driving school in each of the parliamentary constituency across the State. The move would serve the dual purpose of overcoming the shortage of drivers and also create employment opportunities for youth, he added.  The RTC has debts to the tune of Rs. 7,000 crore, and despite incurring a loss of Rs. 4,200 crore due to the lockdown, we have been paying salaries to employees in time. Madireddy Pratap Vice-Chairman and Managing Director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-deals-a-fresh-blow-to-the-loss-hit-rtc/article32027226.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC: admit Atchan in private hospital||The High Court issued an interim order on Wednesday for providing treatment to TDP MLA K. Atchannaidu at Ramesh Hospitals in Guntur forthwith at his own cost. The court directed that a bulletin on Mr. Naidu’s health be submitted to it twice a week. A single judge Bench, comprising Justice K. Lalitha Kumari, conceded Mr. Naidu’s plea that he be referred to any corporate hospital so that he can take medicines for recovering from a surgery which he had undergone in Srikakulam and get treated for various complications he developed during his travel by road to Vijayawada. Mr. Naidu, who is accused of committing irregularities in the procurement of medical supplies and equipment needed by ESI hospitals when he was Minister for Labour, was arrested by the ACB on June 12. The MLA is currently in judicial custody in Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-admit-atchan-in-private-hospital/article32027229.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kesineni meets Kollu’s family||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader and Vijayawada MP Kesineni Srinivas (Nani) met the family members of former minister and TDP leader Kollu Ravindra, who was arrested in a case relating to murder, and consoled them. He visited the former Minister’s residence at Machilipatnam on Wednesday. Later speaking to reporters, he alleged that the former Minister was implicated in a fabricated case. The power was not permanent. Hitler could not decimate the Jews despite trying hard. Chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should remember that it was not possible to suppress a party or a community in an illegal way. The Backward Classes (BCs) have always been with the TDP. The YSR Congress Party was trying to suppress them for supporting the TDP. Entire TDP would stand by them, he said. The people were observing that Ministers Perni Venkatramaiah (Nani) and Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) were illegally transporting sand to Hyderabad daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kesineni-meets-kollus-family/article32026717.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP has no right to observe farmers’ day’||Telugu Desam Party national president and former Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday said that the State government had no moral right to celebrate ‘Rythu Dinotsavam’, but it should instead observe ‘Farmers' Betrayal Day’ for its utter negligence of agriculture and irrigation. Addressing a video conference with party leaders on Wednesday, Mr. Naidu said that the Rythu Bharosa was not a new programme but just a duplicate for the TDP’s Annadata Sukheebhava. By changing the programme, the ruling party had caused a loss of Rs. 80,000 to each farmer over five years. The government was giving just Rs. 37,500 for each farmer in five years, while the TDP would have given Rs. 1.20 lakh. Even Rythu Bharosa was denied to over 10 lakh farmers. Only Rs. 100 crore was spent on Sunnavaddi programme contrary to a budget allocation of Rs. 1,100 crore for it. False claims were being made on repayment of Rs. 1,050 crore old arrears under Sunnavaddi, he said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was dividing the farmers along community lines in order to mislead them. In the name of caste, over 13 lakh tenant farmers were not given Rythu Bharosa, he alleged. The ruling party was celebrating Rythu Dinotsavam obviously because it has become responsible for suicides of many farmers for sacrificing their lands for Amaravati Capital, Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-has-no-right-to-observe-farmers-day/article32027224.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC refers pleas on select panel to Full Bench||A single-judge Bench of the High Court, comprising Justice B. Devanand, referred all the matters pertaining to the appointment of the select committee of the State Legislature, which was supposed to scrutinise the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Bills, to a Full Bench headed by Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari. Mr. Justice Devanand issued the order while hearing writ petitions, including the one filed by TDP MLC G. Deepak Reddy, who alleged violation of the Council’s direction. Council Chairman Shariff Mohammed had announced his decision to refer the Bills to the select committee on January 22. Raising objections to it, the Assembly passed a resolution for abolition of the Council a few days later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-refers-pleas-on-select-panel-to-full-bench/article32027230.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP deceiving people with its contradictory stands on capital: CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) took strong objection to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s A.P. affairs in-charge Sunil Deodhar’s comments on the capital issue. The BJP is deceiving the people on the issue with contradictory stands by its State and national leaders, they said. The CPI’s response came as Mr. Deodhar’s had said that there was no change in the stand of the party that Amaravati should be continued as the capital of the State. But in the same breath, Mr. Deodhar said the Centre would not interfere in the location of the State capital. In a statement on Wednesday, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said Mr. Deodhar’s statement was deceptive and wicked. “It is unfortunate that Mr. Deodhar said that the Centre would not interfere in the issue. How can he say that there was no question of the Centre participating in the decision-making regarding the capital,” the CPI leader asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-deceiving-people-with-its-contradictory-stands-on-capital-cpi/article32026716.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held on charge of ‘duping’ jobless youth||The sleuths of the Central Crime Station (CCS) on Wednesday arrested V. Ravi Kumar and V. Brahma Rao, who allegedly collected money from unemployed youth promising them jobs in Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC). An RTC bus driver, Ravi Kumar, and the other accused allegedly lured the youth from Krishna, West and East Godavari districts, promising supervisor and junior assistant posts in the corporation and reportedly collected money from them, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. “They created fake appointment orders and ID cards. Acting on a complaint, the police registered a case, which was transferred to the CCS, the Commissioner said. The accused have allegedly collected Rs. 57.75 lakh from 16 persons since 2017. Police recovered Rs. 15.50 lakh from the accused, the ACP said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-on-charge-of-duping-jobless-youth/article32027243.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A.P., TS not taking steps to accept power employees’||The Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board Assistant Executive Engineers’ Association has written a letter to Justice D.M. Dharmadhikari, requesting him to approach the Supreme Court over the implementation of his concluding report. One-man panel Justice Dharmadhikari was appointed as the one-man committee by the apex court to resolve the disputed allocation of power sector employees between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The association sought the appointment of employees to the power utilities in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana as per the modified lists. Association general secretary N. Lakshmana Rao, in the letter, said that the employees were facing troubles even after Justice Dharmadhikari completed his task, as the power utilities of both the States were not taking steps for accepting the employees. He expressed regret that the sub-committees of A.P. and Telangana had refused to entertain any plea, claiming that their jurisdiction had ended with the publication of the concluding report of Justice Dharmadhikari and that the matters raised by the employees were to be sorted out by CMDs of the respective utilities. No repsonse “The employees have submitted their relieving orders, service records and other documents. But, most of them have not received any response yet. Some have received e-mails from the TS-Genco which questioned as to under which regulations they were seeking appointment,” pointed out Mr. Lakshmana Rao. The association appealed to Justice Dharmadhikari to report the non-implementation of his concluding report to the apex court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-ts-not-taking-steps-to-accept-power-staff/article32027024.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 25 cr. for lawyers’ welfare||The government on Wednesday sanctioned Rs. 25 crore of the total budgetary allocation of Rs. 100 crore to the ‘Trust for Welfare of Lawyers’. “The funds will be utilised for giving financial assistance to advocates in need, who will be selected by a panel headed by the Advocate- General. The panel comprises four members of Bar Council of Andhra Pradesh,” said G.O. 185 issued by Secretary (Legal & Legislative Affairs and Justice) G. Manohara Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-25-cr-for-lawyers-welfare/article32027235.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||141 tonnes of sand seized||The Kanchikacherla police arrested five persons for allegedly smuggling sand from Ghaniatkur village and seized 141 tonnes of sand and two lorries from their possession. The accused were illegally transporting sand using old bills and were shifting sand to different places in Vijayawada, the Special Enforcement Bureausaid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/141-tonnes-of-sand-seized/article32027212.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cleanliness drive from July 24||To mark completion of one month of the ‘Manam, Mana Parisubhrata’ programme in 1,320 gram panchayats under 660 mandals, a 15-day cleanliness programme (Parisubhratha Pakshotsavalu) will be held from July 24. The programme was launched on June 1. Under the drive, members of the village and mandal-level task force will visit villages to identify problems related to cleanliness, drinking water and prepare an action plan to solve them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cleanliness-drive-from-july-24/article32027227.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited for admission to KGBVs||The Samagra Shiksha wing of the School Education Department has invited applications for admission to sixth class in the 352 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs) for the 2020-21 academic year. State Project Director of the Samagra Shiksha wing, Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu said girls seeking admission could apply online betwen July 10 to 23. Only girls who were economically poor, orphan or dropouts are eligible to apply. The application forms are available on websitehttps://apkgbv.apcfss.in/. The selected girls would be intimated through phone and the list would be displayed at (https://ssa.ap.gov.in/SSA/. For details, people can dial 9494383617 or 9441270099.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited-for-admission-to-kgbvs/article32027234.ece
09 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Provisions distributed||Officials of the Women Development and Child Welfare Department, in association with NGOs, Child Fund India and Sri Hanumantaraya Educational and Charitable Trust, distributed provisions like rice, dal, wheat flour, etc., and sanitisers and masks to about 100 families in Vambay Colony in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/provisions-distributed/article32026721.ece
09 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||140 new cases take tally to 1,663||With the rapid increase in COVID -19 cases with each passing day, the district registered the biggest single-day spike of 140 cases on Wednesday. The death toll also increased to 13 with two more persons succumbing to the virus. Meanwhile, 108 persons who were undergoing treatment have been discharged after testing negative, on Wednesday. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stands at 883, while the number of persons discharged is 767. Among the new deaths, a 50-year old person from Odisha who died recently due to health issues in a private hospital had tested positive. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V Sudhakar, Rambili, Makavarapalem, Yelamanchali, Cheedikada, Atchutapuram, Bheemili, Kummaraveedhi, Vullipayalavariveedhi, DBK Quarters, Golugonda, Chodavaram, Simhagiri Colony, Narasimha Nagar, Mahatma Gandhi Nagar, Murali Nagar and a few other areas are new clusters. There are 114 very active clusters, 151 active clusters and 68 dormant clusters in the district till date. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said. At a time the COVID-19 tally witnesses a steep increase, the good sign is that a large number of people who were infected with the virus are also recovering quickly. Statistics from the Health Department say that 245 persons have recovered from the virus, including 108 on Wednesday, and got discharged after testing negative. According to the officials, the district administration wants to ensure that the death rate should be low. In this regard, tests are being conducted to all high-risk persons apart from appealing to public to come forward and reach them in case of any symptoms immediately. “As of now, the death rate is less than one per cent in the district. Even this should be brought down,” said Dr. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/140-new-cases-take-tally-to-1663/article32027256.ece
09 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR strove for farmers’ welfare, says Vijayasai||Rich tributes paid to former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy on the occasion of his birth anniversary here on Wednesday. YSRC party MP V. Vijayasai Reddy along with Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao and a few other leaders garlanded the statue of Rajasekhara Reddy at Park Hotel Junction. Mr.Vijayasai Reddy said that YSR had worked hard for the welfare of farmers and it was an honour to the leader to declare his birth anniversary as Farmers’ Day in the State. Farmers’ Day was observed at the ‘Rythu Bharosa’ centres. Mr. Srinivasa Rao visited a Rythu Bharosa centre in Anandapuram mandal and distributed seeds and fertilizers to the farmers. In the evening, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy interacted with local farmers through video-conference .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-strove-for-farmers-welfare-says-vijayasai/article32027253.ece
09 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||There was total breakdown in emergency plans: HPC report||The High Power Committee (HPC) constituted to probe the styrene monomer vapour leak from M6 storage tank at the LG Polymers India Limited plant on May 7 that led to the death of 12 persons and hospitalisation of over 585 others from the neighbourhood, has pointed out in its report that there was total breakdown in on-site and off-site emergency plans. The committee primarily stated that the factory had failed to provide and ensure the information, instruction, training and supervision to ensure health and safety of all workers during start-up operations, especially after the lockdown. Standard procedures such the presence of the entire technical team, including safety officer and factory medical officer were not followed during the process. The technical committee, that supported the HPC in its report, has pointed out that despite styrene being classified as hazardous chemical, LG Polymers had no on-site emergency plan to handle emergencies for toxic chemical release and runaway reactions in tanks/ reactors/ pipelines. The on-site emergency plan was prepared only for fire occurrences and other accident scenarios. This has led to lack of clarity in emergency response at the time of the accident. The gas detector was calibrated at 2,200 ppm instead of 100 ppm, the permissible exposure value. The HPC mentioned this as serious lacuna in safety management. The committee mentioned that there are five emergency sirens installed at different locations and 36 manual call points (MCP) distributed across the plant for siren activation. However, none were activated. ‘No alert was sounded’ As per the statement of the production in-charge; by the time he came to the factory around 3.30 a.m., he found people from neighbouring areas making a dash for safety, and felt that emergency had already been declared and the authorities concerned alerted. He did not think of switching on the emergency siren assuming that it was unnecessary. “This statement reflects a very casual attitude towards safety protocol,” said the HPC in its report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/there-was-total-breakdown-in-emergency-plans-hpc-report/article32026630.ece
09 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bandaru: 60% of housing scheme beneficiaries ineligible||Senior leader of the Telugu Desam Party(TDP) and former Minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy has said that the TDP is only opposing the irregularities in the house site patta distribution to the poor and not the scheme itself. Speaking to the media here on Wednesday, he alleged that a number of scams had occurred during the tenure of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. It was revealed during the tenure of former Chief Minister K. Rosaiah that 6.2 lakh of the 18 lakh houses, claimed to had been constructed during the tenure of YSR, were not built. Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao had stated on the floor of the Assembly that several irregularities had occurred in the housing schemes in combined Andhra Pradesh, the TDP leader said. Mr. Murthy alleged that 60% of the beneficiaries selected by YSR CP government now are ineligible and said he was ready to prove it or face any punishment, if he fails to do so. He alleged that 5.80 lakh houses, taken up by the TDP government and though 95% of the work was done, they were not completed by the present government deliberately to prevent the TDP from getting the credit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bandaru-60-of-housing-scheme-beneficiaries-ineligible/article32027245.ece
09 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to plant 3.31 crore saplings in Vizag district||The Social Forestry Division of the Forest Department, in association with various government departments, has prepared a plan for planting 3.31 crore saplings in the district this year. The programme will be implemented in tune with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s vision to develop greenery in the State as part of the ‘Green Andhra’ campaign 2020 and ‘Jagananna patcha thoranam.’ A meeting was held with officials of various departments under the auspices of Joint Collector R. Govinda Rao, on the directions of the District Collector on Tuesday. As part of the plan, the Forest Department, Visakhapatnam, will plant 136.76 lakh saplings while other government departments will raise 194.76 lakh saplings in the district this year. Forest Officer (Social Forestry) G. Lakshman said that 1.36 lakh saplings were available at nurseries in the district for distribution. These saplings would be distributed free to small and marginal farmers and students and at rates prescribed by the District Collector to government departments and other organisations. The saplings will be planted at government offices, schools and the housing layouts, developed by the government, and at other open places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-plant-331-crore-saplings-in-vizag-district/article32027246.ece
09 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||LG Polymers officials sent to 14 days remand||All the 12 officials of LG Polymers, who were arrested on Tuesday night, have been booked for negligence under relevant IPC Sections, including 304 part II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder). Speaking to The Hindu , Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena, who led the investigation and was also part of the High Power Committee, said the accused had been arrested as it was found that the accident occurred due to their negligence. All the arrested were sent to the Central Jail for 14 days remand after being produced before a judge through video-conference. The arrested were Sunkey Jeong, MD; D.S. Kim, Technical Director; P.P. Chandra Mohan Rao, Additional Director (operations); K. Srinivas Kiran Kumar, HoD SMH; Raju Satyanarayana, team leader; engineers Ch. Chandra Sekhar, K. Gowri Sankara Nagendra Ramu and K. Chakrapani; M. Rajesh, operator; P. Balaji, night duty officer; S. Atchyut, in-charge GPPS; and K.V.N. Ramesh Patnaik, safety officer. Two officials of the APPCB – P. Prasada Rao, Regional Officer, and R. Lakshminarayana, previous Regional Officer – were suspended. Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories K.B.S. Prasad was also suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lg-polymers-officials-sent-to-14-days-remand/article32027231.ece
09 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DCIL issues warning against fake job offers||The Dredging Corporation of India Limited (DCIL) has warned the general public to be cautious about fake job offers. In a statement on Wednesday, the DCIL said it had come to its noticed that unscrupulous elements were issuing fraudulent or bogus interview call letters and demanding money from job aspirants. “Such frauds tend to occur through individuals, groups , online services including bogus websites or unsolicited emails. The fraudsters mislead the job aspirants and make them believe that they would ensure a job in the DCIL and DCIL fleet. They lure gullible candidates with fake call letters or job offers with an aim for monetary gain or stealing personal information,” said the statement, The DCIL said the recruitment process is transparent and designed to pick up the best qualified individuals on merit basis. The DCIL does not charge money in lieu of offering a job except by way of application fees as may be prescribed. ‘Visit official website’ The DCIL advised the aspirants to believe in only the vacancies notified by it or that posted on its website:www.dredge-india.com. “The selection process is carried out by the recruitment wing of the DCIL directly,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dcil-issues-warning-against-fake-job-offers/article32027238.ece
09 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One held for ‘rape attempt’||New Port police on Tuesday night arrested a 20-year old youth for allegedly attempting to a rape a 15-year-old girl at Siddeswaram area in the city. According to reports, the police nabbed the accused based on the complaint filed by the victim and her family members a few days ago. The accused has been sent to remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-held-for-rape-attempt/article32027248.ece
09 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to strive for better Swachh Survekshan rank||Keeping in the view of Swachh Survekshan 2021, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana conducted a review meet with the Zonal Commissioners, Public Health Department and a few others, here on Wednesday. The GVMC staff were briefed about the programme and given instructions for achieving a better rank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-to-strive-for-better-swachh-survekshan-rank/article32027257.ece
09 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||28-year-old man ‘ends life’||A 28-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in his residence at Chengalraopeta here on Wednesday. According to reports, G. Appa Rao, a salesman in a footwear store, reportedly went into depression after breakup with a girl. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100. Case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/28-year-old-man-ends-life/article32027258.ece
09 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bullayya college’s distinction||Dr. Lankapalli Bullayya College has been ranked one in the State and 22nd in all-India in the ‘Non-Autonomous private College’ category offering programmes in commerce, arts and sciences, by Education World India, New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bullayya-colleges-distinction/article32027249.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SIT probe hints at collusion between officials, land grabbers||The Special Investigation Team (SIT), constituted by the State government in October last year to probe into the alleged land scam in Visakhapatnam, has so far investigated about 350 cases from the 1,380 complaints received. Some of the cases it probed suggest the alleged connivance of some senior bureaucrats and officials with potential land grabbers, sources said. One among them is the case of a piece of land in Maddilapalem area. According to sources in the SIT, about two decades ago, after a law and order incident in the area resulted in the death of a person, the then Collector visited the place. Seeing that the body was placed on a land measuring 1,500 sq yards, the Collector declared that the land be converted into a burial ground. The so-called land owner approached the administration with a relinquishment deed and he was promised a land of the same measurement in Madhurawada area. A new piece of land was given to the claimant, but the SIT observed that the land relinquished was a government land. The SIT had pointed this out in its report and stated that the person had fraudulently obtained papers and secured another piece of land in exchange. And all of this was done in 15 days, which suggests the connivance of officials with land grabbers, sources said. In another case, 65 acres was given to a private party for setting up an educational institution about 30 years ago, but the land has not been transferred yet. Some part of it was used, some not used and some misused, the SIT report said. But the questions that the team raised were — why it was not transferred, and how did the GVMC sanction the plan for the buildings, when the land was not transferred and technically it still belongs to the government. Of the 1,380 complaints received and after inquiry, the SIT prepared a report for 350 cases, and submitted an interim report to the government in February this year. For about 400 cases, the SIT sent the report for review by revenue officials, and so far the officials have not re-submitted the reports with their remarks. And the remaining has been held up due to the lockdown. Bureaucrats named Sources in the SIT say that there are over 100 such cases where the government land was grabbed with alleged connivance of officials. Sources said that the SIT, in its interim report, has named 15 bureaucrats, of whom at least six of them are Principal and Chief Secretaries. About three politicians have also been named in the report. A SIT was also formed by then TDP government in 2017. The earlier SIT and the present SIT have named some bureaucrats and politicians, and some of the names figure in both the reports, sources said. But so far, no action has been initiated against anyone considering both the reports, apart from a few low ranking officers being taken to task. Without a team Apart from the SIT members, a 12-member team was assigned, including four Deputy Collector or RDO rank officers. But with lockdown and the COVID emergency, all have been withdrawn, and the SIT has been left without a team for the last four months. As per sources in SIT, the promised budget has not been sanctioned and the honorarium to the members not been paid since its inception.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sit-probe-hints-at-collusion-between-officials-land-grabbers/article32027237.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stay safe, police personnel told||With COVID-19 spreading fast and a few policemen testing positive in the last two months, officials have cautioned the staff in police stations and in the field. They have been asked to take safety and precautionary measures. Instructions have been given to the police personnel to wear gloves and masks, and if necessary, Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and face shields while speaking to the visitors, public and in questioning the suspects in police stations. “We asked the Station House Officers (SHOs) not to bring suspects to police stations, who are suffering from fever, cold and cough. Staff in the police stations have been directed to maintain hygienic conditions in the stations and stay safe,” said a police officer. Special jails The Prisons Department has designated 13 sub-jails in the State as ‘special jails’ in the wake of the pandemic. Jail superintendents have been instructed to keep the new admissions of male prisoners in the designated special jails. The Srikakulam district jail, special/sub-jails located in Vizianagaram, Anakapalle, Kakinada, Bhimavaram, Machilipatnam, Narsaraopet, Proddatur, Dhone, Gooty, Piler, Kavali and Markapur have been designated as 'special jails' in the State, according to an official of the Prisons Department. “Prisoners brought to the designated ‘special jails’ will undergo medical tests and follow the COVID-19 protocol. If the undertrials are tested negative, they will be shifted to their respective jails. We also stopped ‘Mulakats’ for the last three months in the wake of the pandemic,” said a jail superintendent. The officers, jail wardens and deputy wardens will be provided with sanitisers, masks, gloves and other material as per the instructions of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. “Security will be stepped up at the special jails and during transportation of the undertrial prisoners from one jail to the other. If the prisoner is tested positive, he will be shifted to the designated COVID Hospital with enough security after alerting the officials concerned,” the superintendent said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stay-safe-police-personnel-told/article32027240.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Legal notice served on TDP leader||The Health Department has served a legal notice on TDP spokesperson K. Pattabhiram, seeking an unconditional apology for making false allegations on the ‘108’ and ‘104’ services. The department, in a statement, said that legal notices had been served on Mr. Pattabhiram and two vernacular dailies. Explaining the process of the selection of service provider and reverse tendering process, the government said that it would proceed with civil and criminal action, if the parties concerned failed to tender an apology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/legal-notice-served-on-tdp-leader/article32027232.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Monsoon magic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/monsoon-magic/article32027211.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CMR donates pulse oximeters||CMR MD Mavuri Venkata Ramana donated 200 pulse oximeters to District Collector V. Vinay Chand in the presence of Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, on Wednesday. The pulse oximeters would be used to test COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cmr-donates-pulse-oximeters/article32027251.ece
09 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||BRF||A rainbow-like dark circle formed around the Sun offering a visual treat to denizens of Bhadrachalam town on Wednesday. The rare spectacle occurred around 11 a.m. and lasted for about half an hour, sources said. It was a dark ring forming around the Sun with clouds hovering above the skies of the temple town amid relatively sunny weather. Several employees of Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple joined a host of enthusiastic sky-gazers, including devotees to catch a glimpse of the spectacle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32027015.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NIMS flooded with volunteering requests for Covaxin trials||The news about clinical trials for Covaxin, a vaccine candidate from India for COVID-19, at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) here, has sparked hope among scores of people who have sent e-mails to or called up officials at the healthcare facility expressing interest to participate in the trials. And not only people from Telangana, people from other States also want to volunteer for the trials. NIMS is among the 12 institutions involved in India’s indigenous COVID-19 vaccine trials, as listed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “People from other States have also expressed interest. The ground work is under way,” sources at the hospital said. NIMS director K. Manohar said that screening of participants is on. The inactivated vaccine candidate by Bharat Biotech is developed in collaboration with ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. The potential vaccine is derived from a strain of SARS-COV-2 isolated by the NIV. Drug Controller General of India gave nod to the Phase 1 and Phase 2 human clinical trials. ICMR and Bharat Biotech are jointly working for the preclinical as well as the clinical development of the vaccine (BBV152). On July 2, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava sent a letter to heads of the 12 institutes stating that their institute was chosen as a clinical trial site for the vaccine. They were strictly advised to ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated no later than July 7. “We are still screening the subjects (volunteers). Once we are done, we will seek approval from ICMR. Injections will be administered thereafter,” Dr Manohar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nims-flooded-with-volunteering-requests-for-covaxin-trials/article32026979.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minimum road width for layouts in HMDA to be 100 ft||The government has revised the minimum required width of the approach road for approval of layouts in HMDA area to 100 feet, from the earlier 30 feet, which will be applicable to several layout applications already pending with the development authority for approval. Through an order recently, the government has also imposed a road impact fee payable in case the approach road is short of 100 feet. The developers will also have the alternative option of forming the required approach road of 100 feet up to their site. In case, they are unable to fulfil this obligation, they will have to part with a portion of their land to enable widening of the road, and also pay the prescribed road impact fee. The fee will be calculated at 50% of development charges in case the existing road width is between 80 feet and less than 100 feet, 66% if the road width is between 60 feet and less than 80 feet and 100% of the development charges if the width is below 60 feet, subject to a minimum width of 30 feet, the orders say. In case of non-high-rise residential apartment complexes less than 18 metres in height and having more than 100 flats, the fee has been restricted to 50% of the development charges. Master Plan In cases where the layout has an approved Master Plan road of 100 feet width or more, but on the ground it is less than 100 feet, the road impact fee will be restricted to 50% of the prescribed fee in the corresponding category. These charges are not applicable to layouts for which draft plans have already been approved, pending final approvals. The road impact fee thus collected will be kept in special escrow account, meant for road development for such layouts, the orders said, attributing the revision to fast-paced development of the city and the manifold increase in traffic flow. Observing that during the last four years, 63% approvals had been for layouts on sites more than five acres in area, and that even in smaller layouts and complexes, the number of dwelling units has increased, the order said this will lead to explosion in number of personal vehicles on the roads. Consultation with traffic experts and urban planners has evoked unanimous recommendation for a minimum road width of 100 feet, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minimum-road-width-for-layouts-in-hmda-to-be-100-ft/article32026992.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Debris could run into lakhs of tonnes||The ongoing demolition of the State Secretariat buildings is set to generate construction waste in gargantuan proportions, to process which exclusively, the existing facilities will need at least two years’ time. Experts say that the debris, which could amount to about 2.2 lakh metric tonnes, will need a dumping ground of around seven acres area. Sources informed that, though the government wished to employ implosion technique for demolition by use of explosives, seismologists have warned that it could result in water seepage from Hussainsagar and render the whole site unusable for construction. Hence, earth movers and other machinery are being used to dismantle it, which could cost close to Rs. 15 crore. The Telangana Secretariat was earlier operating from the built up office space of 3.81 lakh square feet in four blocks, while five blocks constituting around 5.31 lakh square feet had been allocated to Andhra Pradesh. Inclusive of the Heritage block which had long fallen into disuse, two religious places of worship inside the Secretariat complex, and the structure used for canteen, the total built up space in the premises would exceed 10 lakh square feet. Calculated with the estimated height of 11 feet per floor, total volume of the built up space would amount to 1.1 crore cubic feet, or 3.11 lakh cubic metres. Of this, total volume of the brick masonry, RCC, flooring, and random rubble masonry and miscellaneous items comprising demolition waste would be 1.03 lakh cubic metres. Converted as per standard norms, the total weight of the debris would be in the vicinity of 2.1 lakh to 2.2 lakh tonnes, with scope for a little deviation, said a Civil Engineering expert in government requesting anonymity. “Considering the fact that debris occupies 40% additional space, the dump of construction waste from Secretariat, when piled up to a height of five to six metres, could need over 30,000 square metres of land,” he said. The demolition, together with truck transportation for a lead of 30 kilometres from the site, could cost around Rs. 18 crore to Rs. 20 crore at the minimum, he said. GHMC has set up a recycling plant for construction and demolition (C&D) waste in Jeedimetla to process the daily waste generated within the city. Another plant at Fathullaguda near Nagole is yet to be officially launched. With the capacity of up to 500 metric tonnes per day, the existing plant would need close to 450 working days to exclusively process the entire Secretariat rubble. Engineer in Chief, R&B, I. Ganapathi Reddy, when sought his version, replied that an abandoned quarry close to the city was being identified for dumping the debris. Enquiries about the time required to shift the debris and the location drew a blank from him. As of now, no effort is seen on the ground to shift the waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/debris-could-run-into-lakhs-of-tonnes/article32027010.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘SCR led Indian Railways chug ahead’||Indian Railways expects to electrify all tracks by 2024 making it the first network in the world to achieve 100% electrification. Pace of electrification is about 6,000 km per year, with 60% of network electrified so far. And, all electric locomotives will be adopting ‘regenerative braking’ to feed power back to the system in about five years. The government has plans to spend $70 billion to upgrade railway network into an electric and digitised platform even while opening up for private companies to operate passenger trains, manufacturing coaches and locomotives, and redeveloping railway stations. Yet, the roots of this transformation began in 2017 in South Central Railway (SCR) under the leadership of the then General Manager V.K. Yadav (now Railway Board chairman), observed Philip Zerrillo, a practice professor of marketing strategy, deputy dean-corporate and international relations, and deputy dean-Mohali campus at the Indian School of Business (ISB), Hyderabad. In a feature story in Singapore Management University’s ‘Asian Management Insight’ magazine titled ‘Indian Railways: On track for transformation’, the professor said many of the initiatives taken up by SCR without the employees’ support was not possible. This was achieved through a programme of intensive training of about one lakh staff assessing their needs and organising training sessions. Divisional managers were empowered to take decisions relating to operation, maintenance, safety and revenue plus ensure employees are provided with a pleasant work environment. Workmen’s clothing, footwear, and tools were improved, as some items were heavy and weighed the staff down, especially during winter. It was mandated they are provided with a proper resting place after every five to six kilometres of track maintenance. For the first time, they were provided with bottled water, clean restrooms and facilities to warm their food, all of which went a long way to motivate and encourage them. “These inexpensive facilities and basic human welfare improvements have resulted in improved asset reliability and safety. Women employees were provided with separate changing rooms and rest rooms at their workplace,” he noted. An e-office platform was initiated simultaneously improving transparency and sustainability through reduction in paper use. “Thus, human resource management lies at the core of the transformation plan to ensure its employees are well taken care of,” said Prof. Zerrillo. Programmes like ‘Passport Mela’ where passport officers came to railway premises and issued passports to railway employees (many wanted to visit their relatives in the Gulf), holding a job fair for children of employees where about 10,000 jobs were offered and monitoring employee performance in a systematic manner were an important part of the transformation. The professor said independent surveys have shown an ‘outstanding’ improvement in cleanliness at railway stations over the last two to three years even as suggestions were taken from employees on improving processes and empowering 68 divisions and 17 zonal railways — most of it beginning with SCR. SCR led focus on employees welfare and policy changes in processes, structure and culture has propelled a change in organisational behaviour galvanising over a million employees nationwide to perform better putting the “entire Indian Railways network on an ‘amazing’ journey of transformation which the country has rarely witnessed,” said Prof Zerrillo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-led-indian-railways-chug-ahead/article32027017.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan suggests 1,000-bed makeshift COVID hospital||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Wednesday urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to consider building a 1,000-bed makeshift hospital to handle COVID-19 patients akin to what was done in Delhi a few days ago. “The government should completely focus on containing the coronavirus spread as the situation is worrisome across Telangana, especially in the twin cities, and take up other activities later,” the Minister advised during a Facebook chat. Mr. Reddy, who is also the Secunderabad MP, expressed concern over the rising positive cases and fatality rate in Telangana and assured the Central government of complete support in battling the virus spread. The State government should substantially increase the testing rate and keep the containment areas under strict supervision. Public health facilities should be improved and exorbitant billing by private hospitals must be looked into to protect the poor, he exhorted. In a separate statement, senior BJP leader N. Indrasena Reddy also appealed to the Chief Minister to concentrate on public health considering that people of Telangana are currently under great stress and fearful about the virus spread. In this digital age, it was not at all necessary to build mammoth administrative buildings any more and the funds being used to demolish Secretariat buildings could be used to build hospitals in districts, minor irrigation projects and other works, he observed. Party chief spokesperson K. Krishna Saagar Rao demanded that the government “immediately take decisive punitive action on corporate hospitals brazenly fleecing COVID patients in the guise of treatment”. There is an increasing number of complaints from people across socio-economic strata in Hyderabad, that they are being exploited heavily by corporate private hospitals which are overcharging them in the name of COVID treatment, he said. Mr. Rao said patients are being billed lakhs of rupees for just a few days of hospitalisation and are being forced to pay huge amounts without any explanation of break-up of the bills. Especially, for a viral disease which doesn’t even have an approved treatment, strict enforcement of the prescribed fee structure is the need of the hour, the spokesperson added.  The government should completely focus on containing the virus spread and take up other activities later. G. Kishan Reddy, Union Minister of State for Home||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishan-suggests-1000-bed-makeshift-covid-hospital/article32026987.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vayupuri receives coveted ISO certificate||Air Force Officers’ Cooperative Housing Society popularly known as Vayupuri in Secunderabad has added another feather to its cap by receiving the coveted ISO 14001:2015 Certificate from the International Standards Organisation (ISO). This certification recognises organisations which manage their environmental responsibilities in a systematic and sustainable manner. Situated 12 km from Secunderabad railway station and close to the bustling defence establishments, Vayupuri adjoining the more famous Sainikpuri and Defence Colony was the first residential Colony in Telangana to receive ISO 9001:2015 certification. The latest certification is another big achievement for the colony, according to its President Wing Commander T.J. Reddy (retired). “The ISO certification validates that the society manages its activities through established processes, while supporting working staff in practical ways, hence enhancing the natural environment in the long term,” he said. The former Indian Air Force officer noted that the certification procedure was conducted by QA Certification Services Pvt Ltd, New Delhi, which is accredited by QACS Ltd Canada to carry out the certification. D. Srinivasa Rao, Lead Auditor ISO from Hyderabad-based Academy for Skills Development & Consultation (ASDAC), handed the ISO certificate to the Wing Commander Reddy and the Vice President, Wing Commander S. Balakrishnan (retired). Mr Srinivasa Rao said their organisation audits and certifies institutions based on conformance to standards, competencies of their work force, and adherence to quality and process. ISO 14001:2015 certification establishes an Environment Management System (EMS), based on sound environment management principles with a strong focus on measuring and reducing impact, based on the process approach and continuous improvement. Mr Srinivasa Rao added that the current certification by ISO provides the society a customised framework with which to monitor and minimise the environmental impact of all its activities and services. Wing Commander Reddy said Vayupuri had other achievements to as it received the Swachh Colony award as first among the best colonies in GHMC North Zone (now Secunderabad Zone), the Water Conservation Award for promotion of rainwater conservation/ rainwater harvesting structures from Jalamandali, and a National Certificate of Excellence Award in recognition of services towards the Swachh Bharat initiative from the Government of India. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vayupuri-receives-coveted-iso-certificate/article32026985.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC proposes new four-lane road||Mayor B. Rammohan and Labour Minister Ch. Malla Reddy on Tuesday inspected the proposed 7.5-km long 150 feet four-lane road from Nagole metro station via the sewerage treatment plant along the ‘Musi Nala’ to Ali Cafe in Amberpet. The road, including a box drain, will benefit commuters from Uppal and Nagole going toward Amberpet, Mussarambagh and Dilsuknagar side. Road widening in the area has been cleared and the engineering wing was advised to submit a detailed project plan, they said. Earlier, the duo, accompanied by local Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Subash Reddy, inaugurated junction beautification works at Uppal crossroads at the Ambedkar statue that were taken up at a total cost of Rs. 28 lakh. The Mayor said it was part of the 15 junction improvement works being taken up by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) of which 10 were completed. Similar works were proposed to be taken up at the Secunderabad railway station, Bhoiguda, Mallapur, KBR Park, and Aramghar crossroads road also, he added.  176 calls received GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar informed later in a press release that the call centre had received 176 calls, of which 24 calls were pertaining to suspected coronavirus cases, 56 calls for ambulance facility and 96 calls for food from families in ‘home isolation’. About 32 ambulances were kept at different locations to attend to requests, he said. While 4,530 food packets were delivered by Annapurna vehicles, free meals were provided to 57,420 persons through 165 regular and temporary Annapurna meals centres, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-proposes-new-four-lane-road/article32026991.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Marginal drop in crime in city in January-June||Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on Wednesday said that there had been a drop in the number of cases registered in the first half (January to June) of this year as compared to the figures of corresponding period last year. Speaking to the media, Mr Anjani Kumar said the first half of last year recorded a total of 12,374 cases as compared to 12,273 cases recorded this year, a drop of 101 cases. The Commissioner also touched upon the opening of rowdy sheets and their closure, based on individuals record. The south zone recorded the largest number of new rowdy sheets – 50. This was followed by north zone with 39, central zone with 25 and, west zone with 20 and east zone with 11. The largest number of rowdy sheets which were closed was recorded in the south zone with 18 being closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/marginal-drop-in-crime-in-city-in-january-june/article32026999.ece
09 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tributes paid to YSR||Rich tributes were paid to the late Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy on his 71st birth anniversary in the city with senior Congress leaders participating in various programmes and recalling his contributions to the combined State. Senior Congress leaders including TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, former MP KVP Ramchander Rao, city Congress president Anjan Kumar Yadav, paid floral tributes to his statue in Panjagutta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tributes-paid-to-ysr/article32027023.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rapid antigen tests begin||The Health department started conducting rapid antigen tests for COVID-19 on a pilot basis on Wednesday. It would be started on a large scale from Thursday. However, it remained unclear whether the tests are being used to confirm coronavirus positive cases or to know the prevalence of the virus. Like RT-PCR tests, swab samples will be collected for the rapid antigen tests too. Sources said around 10% of patients who visit Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC) will be tested. “A large number of people will be tested as part of it in the coming days. Results can be known in less than an hour. But those who test negative cannot be concluded as negative for coronavirus. Their health condition has to be observed,” sources in the Health department said. Lab technicians In a few districts, a majority of the lab technicians are involved in collecting swab samples for RT-PCR tests. “Currently, all of them are involved in the RT-PCR test process. It might take some time to involve them for the antigen tests,” sources said. This is the second step taken by the State government to know the prevalence of COVID-19 after ramping up tests. Most cases are being detected in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, Rangareddy and Medchal limits. People, doctors working at government hospitals and social workers have been saying that the actual number of cases are much more than those being detected. They also said that more cases would come to light if people suspected of COVID or those who die are tested too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rapid-antigen-tests-begin/article32026982.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Five of dacoit-gang arrested||The east zone Task Force and Afzalgunj police on Wednesday apprehended five members of a dacoit-gang and seized from their possession Rs. 2.6 lakh, two two-wheelers and six cellphones, among other things. The accused were identified as Syed Farooq Pasha (26), who worked at a pharmacy, Syed Fayaz Imran (25), Amer Khan (24), Mohd Waseem (24) and Syed Abdul Khader Hussain (21). A sixth accused, identified as Sameer, was absconding, police said. Police said that Pasha’s earning were meagre and he was in want of money. He observed that a person was transporting money in a cash bag everyday. He then hatched a plan to rob the person and shared his plan with the other accused, promising them handsome share of the loot, police said. On July 4, the accused intercepted the victim near Putli Bowli, attacked him with a screwdriver and fled the spot with Rs. 3.3 lakh which was in his possession, police said. They were nabbed based on a tip-off. They were taken taken into custody by Afzalgunj police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-of-dacoit-gang-arrested/article32026996.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farmers opt for maize, defy govt.||The diktat of government not to cultivate maize to access investment support for agriculture did not work with a large number of farmers in Telangana as they have already raised the crop over 68,000 acres. But, the government had something to cheer as the acreage of maize was far short of 3.69 lakh acres as on date last year, according to the weekly bulletin released by the Agriculture Department on Wednesday. Sources said the bank accounts of maize farmers were credited with the investment support of Rs. 5,000 an acre despite a strong warning to them. With at least 15 rainy days so far in Telangana since the monsoon struck the State on June 10, the agricultural operations have picked up so much that they were double the area covered by this time last year. A minimum of 2.5 mm rain in a day is considered rainy day in Agriculture Department parlance. The area covered by all crops so far was 63.18 lakh acres against 37.36 lakh acres as on date last year. Agriculture Secretary and Commissioner B. Janardhan Reddy said rain was consistent, uniform and staggered. Except Nirmal district which received less than average rainfall, there were 25 districts that had excess rainfall, and six districts normal. The area of coverage has also doubled for almost all the principal crops, including paddy, cotton and red gram. Paddy was in transplantation stage for 3.85 lakh acres against 1.26 lakh acres by this time last year. The red gram was 6.87 lakh acres against 3.35 lakh acres and cotton 45.02 lakh acres against 24.22 lakh acres last year. The doubling had eluded soyabean as it was sown over 3.63 lakh acres against 2.10 lakh acres last year. Meanwhile, the Agriculture Department officers huddled into a virtual conference on Tuesday to discuss promotion of seed cultivation in villages. Called ‘seed village’ concept, the programme envisages supplying foundation seed of paddy and red gram for mass cultivation. The department will monitor the cultivation and arrange buyback of seed by seed development corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-opt-for-maize-defy-govt/article32027005.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wadapally deposition sounds ‘parrot-like’: HC||The statements of five youngsters, who were allegedly awarded punishment of moving barricades at Wadapally check-post, recorded by Nalgonda police, are “parrot-like” and “carbon copies”. Making this observation, the Telangana High Court on Wednesday said the statements presented by the Nalgonda police in response to a PIL plea over ‘Police awarding punishment to five youngsters’, appeared to be unrealistic.  The Hindu carried a news report recently stating that the police and not the judges awarded punishment to five young men who were accused of involvement in a clash in Miryalguda rural police station area. They were made to move barricades at Wadapally check-post from morning to evening under hot sun, the report said. A student of Osmania University College of Law, Akash, wrote a letter, citing The Hindu report, to the High Court Chief Justice seeking a departmental inquiry and compensation to the five youngsters, describing the police action as violation of human rights. The High Court took up the letter as PIL petition and served notices to Nalgonda police to file a counter affidavit. During the previous hearing, the police filed a report stating that the newspaper’s report was baseless. In that case, the bench directed the police to file a detailed counter affidavit on the matter. Perusing the statements of the five youngsters on Wednesday, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said said it appeared that a police constable sitting in a police station recorded the deposition of the persons. The bench even sought to know if their signatures are genuine. Advocate General B.S. Prasad appealed to the bench to close the plea stating that the police officer connected to the incident was already censured. But the Chief Justice observed that censure is a minor punishment in a case of violation of rights of citizens. At least postponement of two increments with cumulative effect ought to have been imposed on that delinquent officer, the bench said. Meanwhile, the petitioner, Akash, requested for a judicial inquiry. The plea was posted to July 29 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wadapally-deposition-sounds-parrot-like-hc/article32027000.ece
09 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR should clarify on KCR’s health: Congress||The Congress expressed concern over unconfirmed reports of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s health and said the government should give some clarity on it as people were anxious. At a press conference here, TPCC Treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy said KCR was missing in action for the last 10 days and the last meeting he held at Pragathi Bhavan was on June 29. At least his son and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao should clarify as it was a democratic right of people, he said, praying for the good health of the Chief Minister. ‘Mind your language’ Meanwhile, AICC secretary and former MLA A. Sampath Kumar has warned the Telangana Ministers on the language being used against Congress leaders, including TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy for questioning the government on its ‘failures’. Mr. Sampath said the Ministers were blindly justifying the Secretariat demolition to support the Chief Minister’s Vastu beliefs. Section 8 of AP Reorganisation Act, 2014 is a part of Telangana’s creation and they were asking it to be implemented only because it is in the law, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-should-clarify-on-kcrs-health-congress/article32027007.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Emulate Delhi model of live dashboards at hospitals: High Court||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday said that the State government can emulate the model of Delhi government with regard to installation of live dashboards at all COVID-19 designated hospitals in the State. These boards will have precise details of beds available, number of patients being treated, availability of ventilators etc. A lawyer, Shiva Ganesh Karnati, filed a PIL petition in the HC seeking a direction to State government to install such boards at hospitals treating COVID patients. Such boards providing information on real time basis would be of immense help to people, the petitioner said. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing contentions of the petitioner, sought to know the government’s stand on the matter. Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed that the government was already developing a software to support such live dashboards. The CJ told the AG that Delhi government had already installed such dashboards at hospitals and the State government can adopt similar technology on sharing basis. The plea was posted to July 14 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/emulate-delhi-model-of-live-dashboards-at-hospitals-high-court/article32026983.ece
09 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Folk artiste Nissar dies of suspected COVID||Telangana folk artiste, singer and writer Mohammad Nissar who penned songs to spread awareness on coronavirus died due to suspected symptoms of the virus in the wee hours of Wednesday, sources said. He was also an office-bearer of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation employees’ union. Raji Reddy, union general secretary, said Nissar developed breathing related issues on Tuesday night and his family tried to shift him to private hospitals where he was allegedly denied admission. He was admitted to Gandhi Hospital where he died. Gandhi Hospital superintendent Raja Rao refuted reports that Nissar died due to non-availability of ventilator during critical hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/folk-artiste-nissar-dies-of-suspected-covid/article32026989.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Human trafficking racket busted||The Rachakonda police busted an inter-state human trafficking racket and arrested four persons, including two customers. Police identified the accused as Rajanish Ranjan (24), who hails from Bihar and lives in Yapral, and Sukesh Ravan Kamble (32), who belongs to Karnataka and lives in Chintal. P Saikiran (29), a resident of Amberpet, and Md Siraj (27), a resident of Balanagar, were said to be the customers. Mithilesh Sharma, the prime accused and main organiser, was absconding, police said. Based on a tip-off, the Malkajgiri Special Operations Team and Jawaharnagar police raided an independent house in Registration Colony. After the raid, police apprehended the accused and seized condoms, cellphones, and two-wheelers, among other things. Efforts to trace Sharma were on. A case under the Indian Penal Code was booked. The Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act was invoked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/human-trafficking-racket-busted/article32026998.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSDDCF to go solar; around Rs. 71 lakh to be saved a year||The Telangana State Dairy Development Cooperative Federation (TSDDCF) has decided to go solar to save the huge expenditure incurred on account of conventional power bills. The TSDDCF, one of the largest seller of dairy products under the brand name, Vijaya Telangana, has decided to set up solar power units at its main office as well as eight dairies and 11 chilling centres in different districts. The federation signed a memorandum of understanding with Telangana State Renewable Energy Development Corporation (TSREDCO) in this direction on Wednesday. According to federation managing director G. Srinivas Rao, the TSDDCF is hopeful of saving Rs. 36.75 lakh power bills every year at its head office, and the savings were expected to be of the order of Rs. 34.18 lakh in the district offices and chilling centres. The TSREDCO would implement the project under RESCO model, a zero investment model in which consumer would pay only for the electricity generated while the plant would be owned by the developer. The TSREDCO would also take the responsibility of maintenance and repairs of the plants for 25 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsddcf-to-go-solar-around-rs-71-lakh-to-be-saved-a-year/article32027002.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Osmania superintendent tests positive||Superintendent of Osmania General Hospital (OGH), B. Nagender tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to Gandhi Hospital on Wednesday as his condition needed medical attention. OGH is one of the health facilities where people suspected of COVID-19 and in critical condition, such as experiencing shortness of breath, are admitted. From the past one month, over 60 suspects a day are being admitted there. Apart from being superintendent of OGH, Dr. Nagender is also the nodal officer of the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) at Gachibowli. He was part of the team of officials which visited TIMS on June 24 along with Health Minister Eatala Rajender. Dr Nagender tested positive for the virus on July 4, said sources. Besides him, around 40 house surgeons and over 100 post graduate students and faculty members from Osmania Medical College have tested positive till date. They had attended COVID-19 patients and suspects at OGH and other government hospitals attached to it. Meanwhile, with a sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 suspects being admitted at OGH, officials are mulling increasing the wards for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/osmania-superintendent-tests-positive/article32026980.ece
09 July 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Greyhounds constable ends life||A 42-year-old head constable committed suicide on the Greyhounds campus in Narsingi on Wednesday, police said. Chand Pasha, who was posted with the Greyhounds, used a service weapon of a colleague to take his own life near the armoury, police said. “The incident took place around 9 am. He was having some personal problems which he used to discuss with colleagues. He was from Suryapet and is survived by wife and two sons,” Narsingi inspector Gangadhar said. (Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000 or 66661117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/greyhounds-constable-ends-life/article32026997.ece
09 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||93% parents want schools reopened||About 93% of respondents of a survey conducted by the Telangana State United Teachers Federation (TSUTF) recently in 144 villages and towns across 21 mandals in the district favoured immediate reopening of schools in strict compliance with COVID-19 preventive measures to avoid loss of academic year. The survey was conducted by the TSUTF to elicit the views of parents on whether or not the schools should be reopened and other matters related to school education, including the prospects of online teaching and the issues of school management in the wake of the coronavirus-induced crisis. Teachers owing allegiance to the TSUTF voluntarily participated in the survey held from June 22 to 27 in a total of 144 villages and towns. They had collected the views of as many as 2,345 parents of students of both government and private schools besides 4,860 students as part of the six-day survey. An overwhelming majority of 93% of parents who participated in the survey wanted the reopening of schools in strict adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocol and resumption of offline teaching, TSUTF sources said. They opined that the online teaching mode was not a substitute for direct instruction. Most of the respondents wanted the government to immediately reopen the schools in areas less affected by the pandemic and sought online teaching in most affected areas as a temporary measure by providing gadgets to students of State-run schools. Meanwhile, a delegation comprising the TSUTF State vice-president Durga Bhavani and district president Nagamalleswara Rao submitted a report containing the findings to the district authorities here on Wednesday seeking appropriate measures in the matter. The report contained suggestions such as supply of nutritious mid-day meal directly to houses of students of State-run schools till the reopening of schools and thereafter, handing over maintenance of sanitation in schools to local bodies and introduction of COVID-19 testing facility in all Primary Health Centres. Sangareddy Special Correspondent writes: Majority of parents want schools to reopen and academic year to commence at the earliest. This was revealed by a survey conducted by the Telangana State United Teachers’ Federation, in which 112 teachers participate and collected opinion from 2,551 families in 26 mandals of the district. The report was released by DEO N. Rajesh. TSUTF secretary T. Lakshma Reddy, district president K. Ashok and secretary B. Sailu said that 91% parents wanted schools to reopen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/93-parents-want-schools-reopened/article32026994.ece
09 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Lawyer tries hand in farming, reaps riches||A lawyer by profession, K. Nageswara Rao of Ramakrishnapuram at Chintakani mandal, is proving his mettle in both the legal profession and in farming with remarkable ease driven by sheer passion. The 41-year-old practising lawyer forayed into agriculture a couple of years ago by growing vegetables like coccinia in his agricultural land at Ramakrishnapuram near here. While excelling in his legal profession, he has diversified into horticulture by taking up custard apple plantation on his 1.05 acre farmland in the village two years ago. He raised papaya as an inter-crop on the same land in November last year. The use of drip irrigation and precision farming methods helped him reap a rich harvest of papaya. I have sowed NMK-1 (Golden) variety of custard apple seeds brought from Solapur in Maharashtra two years ago due to their high yielding potential, delicious flavour and long shelf life, says Mr. Rao. The custard apple crop is expected in another one year, he adds, saying that the papaya venture spread on his three-acre land yielded a bumper harvest now. “I have made arrangements to sell papaya at my horticulture garden directly to buyers as the coronavirus-induced lockdown curtailed the opportunity to market the fruits in other states,” the lawyer said. The inter-cropping methods and cultivation of crops having demand in the market holds the key to make farming a productive venture, he suggests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lawyer-tries-hand-in-farming-reaps-riches/article32027027.ece
09 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Low-hung power cables a threat||The residents of ST Colony in Raghunadhapalem mandal are living under constant fear with danger lurking in the form of “high-voltage” power lines running over the roofs of several houses in their locality. The aggrieved residents of the colony, who are facing the potential electrical hazards due to the overhead power lines lying within hand’s reach, are a worried lot. Located about 15 km from here, the colony is predominantly inhabited by tribal people and other weaker sections. The colony residents have long been demanding shifting of the power lines. “We are facing constant risk of getting electrocuted due to high tension power lines adjacent to our houses and live overhead electricity cables,” rued Kishan, a resident of the colony. The problem has become a major hindrance for construction of houses in the remaining open plots in the colony, he deplored. The aggrieved residents of the colony made representations to the authorities on several occasions in the past, but to no avail, said Lambadi Hakkula Porata Samithi (LHPS) State vice-president Banoth Bhadru Naik. Despite an assurance given by the authorities to fix the problem during a meeting held in connection with Palle Pragathi programme last month, no action has been taken to fix the problem, he charged. It is high time the TSNPDCL authorities ensured shifting of the high-voltage power lines to a safe place without further delay, Mr Naik demanded, underlining the urgent need for warding off potential electrical hazards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/low-hung-power-cables-a-threat/article32027014.ece
09 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Sangareddy police tracker dog dies||Marshal, a tracker dog from the police department died of ill health on Wednesday. The services of Marshal were used to crack murders and thefts. It was in service for nine years and was instrumental in breaking 30 cases and nabbing the culprits. Police officials paid warm tributes to Marshal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sangareddy-police-tracker-dog-dies/article32027012.ece
09 July 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Mittapally SHGs an example: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that self-help groups of Mittapally mandal headquarters proved their calibre by selling pulses with a brand name. Addressing a limited gathering after formally launching a stall for selling pulses packed by the women of Mittapally at Siddipet model Rythu Bazaar on Wednesday, Mr. Harish Rao said the government would extend more assistance for women groups in the near future. “The women have been purchasing pulses from farmers for minimum support price (MSP), making fine variety out of it and selling to the public at a reasonable price. Six kilograms of red gram is being sold for Rs. 500. This initiative is not only offering quality pulses for public at less price, but also creating employment for them. We have allotted a special shop for the women to encourage them,” said Mr. Harish Rao. He was accompanied by Zilla Parishad chairperson Roja Sharma, Municipal Chairman K. Rajanarsu, Agriculture Market Committee (AMC) chairman Pala Sairam and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mittapally-shgs-an-example-harish/article32027019.ece
09 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,TELANGANA||Toymakers in trouble||Hit hard by the lockdown imposed in the wake of COVID-19, artistes from Etikoppaka, a small village famous for toy making, are looking to the government for support. Most of the artisans have not received any orders since the outbreak of the dreaded virus. About 250 to 300 families from the village, located near the banks of the Varaha river, about 80 km from Visakhapatnam, have been dependent on the profession for over decades. The Etikoppaka toys, made by these artistes, had a huge demand and they had enough work on hand, but the pandemic pushed them into a deep financial crisis. “This profession depends on the orders and the income is like daily wages. Since lockdown we have no orders. The merchants say that the stock at them is still unsold due to closure of shops and restrictions in the wake of COVID-19. If we receive any order, then we can start working,” says S. Chinnayacharai, an artiste from the village. P. Yesu, a 41-year-old artisan from the village, says that before the lockdown, a number of people from various places used to visit Etikoppaka and buy products. Shopkeepers from surrounding villages used to purchase toys from them and sell them in other places. But now, the pandemic has affected the business. “Most of the villagers are surviving by taking loans from some known people, voluntary organisationsand ration by the government,” he says. With online shopping gaining ground, the artistes from Etikoppaka seek the help of the government in training them to sell their goods through e-commerce platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/toymakers-in-trouble/article32027025.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Another woman doctor accuses corporate hospital of fleecing||Even as the video of a lady doctor accusing a private hospital of fleecing is fresh in memory, a new video cof another lady doctor has surfaced in which she accuses a corporate hospital of fleecing and levying exorbitant charges. Forcibly discharged The emotional video that went viral accused the AIG hospital of billing for the services not extended and when questioned she and her father were forcibly discharged. The three-minute video of the lady doctor says her father was admitted for some health issues and tests including COVID tests were conducted on both of them. According to her, both were informed that they had tested positive and the treatment was started. However, she said the medicines and facilities like oxygen support mentioned in the bill were never extended to them. Similarly, several charges were included despite never being extended during their 14-day stay. “When I started questioning the fradulent bills, hospital authorities hurriedly wanted to discharge us,” she said in the video. She made an emotional appeal to Health Minister, Eatala Rajender to help her out as she was unable to get out of the mess and how the hospital had overcharged through fradulent means. AIG clarifies However, the hospital in a press note denied the charges and said it was nothing but demoralising the medical staff who were extending services risking their lives. The hospital said her 71-year-old father with chronic conditions was admitted and as per the process COVID test was done and both tested positive. ‘Advised home isolation’ The statement said the lady preferred to stay in the hospital though she was advised home quarantine due to mild symptoms. In the hospitalisation process several drugs and consumables are ordered by the nursing staff as a precautionary measure but the final bill is based on actual usage of drugs and it was the same in this case as well. The final bill was Rs. 2.06 lakh for 21 bed days (13 for father and 8 for the daughter). After finding both of them clinically stable, they were advised for discharge, the hospital said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/another-woman-doctor-accuses-corporate-hospital-of-fleecing/article32026988.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Safety comes first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/safety-comes-first/article32027029.ece
09 July 2020||Mumbai,||Week after joining NCP, 5 councillors return to Shiv Sena||Five Shiv Sena councillors of Parner municipal council in Ahmednagar district, who had switched sides to ally with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), leading to discontent between the two parties and evoking a strong reaction from the Chief Minister office, returned to their original party on Wednesday. The move comes two days after NCP chief Sharad Pawar held a meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, and a late Tuesday night meeting between Deputy CM Ajit Pawar and Sena  ministers. The five councillors, who on Wednesday morning met Mr. Ajit Pawar, later visited the CM’s residence Matoshri to again join the Sena. They conveyed to Mr. Thackeray that their decision to defect was resulted from the local Sena leadership’s failure. The episode, however, had created an atmosphere of distrust between the allies in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Last week, the five Sena councillors joined the NCP, in the presence of local NCP MLA Nilesh Lanke. Mr. Lanke, who was originally with the Sena, had switched his allegiance to the NCP before the 2019 Assembly polls, due to his differences with the then sitting Sena MLA Vijay Auti. According to sources within the NCP, the five councillors from Mr. Lanke’s camp were to join the NCP along with him. “But the decision was then kept on hold. They later thought that joining the party of the local MLA would be beneficial to them, and therefore they chose the NCP,” an NCP leader said. In the meeting with the NCP chief, Mr. Thackeray made clear his displeasure over poaching councillors of allies. “It was conveyed to those five that being an alliance government, all their grievances would be resolved, and hence, they decided to join the Sena again,” the leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/week-after-joining-ncp-5-councillors-return-to-shiv-sena/article32027104.ece
09 July 2020||Mumbai,||All healthcare workers given life insurance cover: HC told||Life insurance cover has been provided to all healthcare workers in private and government hospitals, Mumbai’s Commissioner of Health Services informed the Bombay High Court on Wednesday. This cover includes ASHA workers, anganwadi sevikas and other healthcare providers working at Central, State or autonomous hospitals. The information was stated by Dr. Sadhana M. Tayde, director, office of Commissioner of Health Services, Mumbai, in an affidavit filed in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) by former journalist Ketan Tirodkar. The PIL had sought that medical fraternity members succumbing to COVID-19 in the line of duty be pronounced martyrs, and awarded a worthy compensation package. It also sought to waive off the post-graduate examination in Medicine and Surgery for M.D. and M.S. degrees. The affidavit filed by Dr. Tayde stated that the issue of exams does not come within the ambit of the Public Health Department. It said the M.D. and M.S. degrees are awarded as per provision in Medical Postgraduate Regulation 2000 of the Medical Council of India, so the Council should be added as a respondent to the plea. With respect to declaring medical practitioners as martyrs, it said the issue does not come under the purview of the State Government. The affidavit also said, “Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package Insurance Scheme for Health Workers fighting COVID-19, was launched on March 30 for a period of 90 days by the Central government through the department of Health and Family Welfare.” Dr. Tayde said the Centre had informed that the scheme would be extended for another 90 days, in a letter dated June 26 marked to all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, and secretaries from the health department of every State and Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/all-healthcare-workers-given-life-insurance-cover-hc-told/article32027111.ece
09 July 2020||Mumbai,||Council LoP’s car in minor accident||Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Council Pravin Darekar’s car met with an accident at a highway near Jalgaon on Wednesday night. A police car in Mr. Darekar’s convoy collided with his own. However, no one was injured in the accident. Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis was also travelling in the same convoy in a different car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/council-lops-car-in-minor-accident/article32027101.ece
09 July 2020||Mumbai,||3 new cases in Dharavi||Three new cases of COVID-19 were recorded in Dharavi, taking the tally to 2,338 on Wednesday. On Tuesday, just one COVID-19 patient was found in Dharavi. Once a hotspot, the slum area has seen a dramatic improvement in terms of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/3-new-cases-in-dharavi/article32027112.ece
09 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Month after the cyclone, 36,000 houses remain unlit||A month after Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Raigad district, almost 36,000 households are still living in the dark, with electricity restoration work slowing down due to the pandemic and heavy rainfall. The restoration work is still under way at 39 of the 80 villages in Shrivardhan Taluka and 53 of the 101 villages in Mhasla Taluka.Of 32,000 power consumers in Shrivardhan, 7,500 have had electricity supply resumed. In Mhasla, power supply has resumed for 9,198 of 20,635 consumers. “The delay in the restoration is due to the fear of COVID-19. While some of the villages have been declared containment zones, in other cases, workers have to come from the containment zones. The heavy rainfall that began on July 3 has made it more difficult to do the restoration work,” Raigad District Magistrate and Collector Nidhi Choudhary said. She also said some of the teams that had come there to work, could not cope with the harsh weather and the hilly terrains. A total of 1,976 villages were affected by the cyclone. “We are now trying to source more manpower from within the district to carry out the restoration work,” Ms. Choudhari said. Of the Rs. 373 crore relief provided by the State government, Rs. 20 lakh has been disbursed to the fishing community while Rs. 167 crore has been disbursed for repair of damaged houses. A total of Rs. 242 crore is meant for housing damage relief. “Almost 90% of the people whose homes were damaged have received the relief fund till now. This is the priority area for disbursing funds,” Ms. Choudhary said. A total of 1.83 lakh houses, 16,060 hectare crops — largely comprising coconuts, mango, supari and cashew, 15,000 government schools and 186 private schools also have faced damages. The relief amount for agriculture is Rs. 50,000 per hectare of land, which is expected to be revised. “We are expecting a revision in the agriculture loss relief amount. As of now, we are making payment as per the current provision and once the new government resolution comes in, we will pay the additional amount,” Ms. Choudhary said.  We are trying to source manpower from within the district to carry out the work Nidhi Choudhary Raigad Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/month-after-the-cyclone-36000-houses-remain-unlit/article32027106.ece
09 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Nigerian national held with drugs worth Rs. 2 cr.||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has arrested a Nigerian national for allegedly possessing drugs worth Rs. 2 crore. The accused, who identified himself as Sunny Ocha Iyke (41), was nabbed between Nilaje and Taloja stations in Navi Mumbai on Tuesday, when he alighted from the New Delhi-Ernakulam Mangala Lakshadweep Express after pulling the alarm chain. A statement issued by the Central Railway’s chief PRO Shivaji Sutar on Wednesday said that after Mr. Iyke was apprehended by RPF head constable K. N. Shelar, and Shivaji Pawar of the Maharashtra Security Force, he was brought to the RPF station in Diva. From the passport that was in his possession, he was found to be a native of Nigeria. The statement also said he was travelling on an AC-3 tier ticket from New Delhi to Panvel. “He seemed to have pulled the chain as he was afraid of getting nabbed at Panvel railway station. Usually, the alarm chain pulling happens in case of emergency and RPF staff in the coach go to check on the person who has pulled the chain. When Mr. Shelar and Mr. Pawar saw that the man was attempting to flee, they nabbed him,” Mr. Sutar said. At the RPF station, his bag was checked and a suspicious substance was found. “On Wednesday, the drug detection squad examined and confirmed that the substance was a narcotic drug called amphetamine. The drugs weighed 2.3 kg, with an approximate value of Rs. 2 crore,” Mr. Sutar said. The accused and the seized drugs were handed over to the Narcotics Control Bureau, Mumbai, after following the procedures under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nigerian-national-held-with-drugs-worth-rs-2-cr/article32027103.ece
09 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Nine rivers approaching warning level: flood report||Nine rivers in the State are close to reaching the warning level and could affect sixteen places that they pass, according to the Maharashtra government's flood report released on Wednesday.  The three rivers passing by Marathwada division — the Godavari, the Shindphana, and the Purna — could flood seven places. The Godavari is around 10 metre away from the warning level of 440.41 metre at Paithan in Aurangabad, 396.47 metre at Dhalegao and 374.55 metre at Ganga khed in Parbhani, and 351 metre at old bridge in Nanded. Similarly, the Shindphana, whose warning level is at 411 metre at Majalgao city and 410 metre at Majalgao-Talegaon road in Beed, is around eight metre away from reaching the level. The Purna is 12 metre away from the warning level of 371.61 metre at Purna bridge in Parbhani, the report said. In Nagpur division, the Bagh river, flowing from Rajegao Kati in Gondiya, has the warning level at 280 metre, while the Wainganga river, flowing from Kardhapul in Bhandara, has the warning level at 244 metre. Both the rivers are four metres away from reaching the level. In Pune division, the Bheema, Krishna and Panchganga rivers are approaching the warning level, which if crossed, could flood Daud in Pune, Krishna Bridge in Karad, Irwin and Ankali bridge in Sangli, and Narsinghwadi and Rajaram Bandhara in Kolhapur. The Bheema, which has the warning level at 504 metre at Daud has reached 498 metre. The Krishna, which has the level at 464 meter, has reached 553 meter at Krishna bridge. The same river, which has the warning level at 539 meter at Sangli and Kolhapur, is 10 metre away from flooding Irwin, Ankali bridge, and Narsinghwadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nine-rivers-approaching-warning-level-flood-report/article32027102.ece
09 July 2020||Press Trust of India Mumbai,||Actor Jagdeep passes away||Veteran actor-comedian Jagdeep, best known for his role as Soorma Bhopali in Sholay , died on Wednesday at his residence. The actor, 81, whose real name was Syed Ishtiaq Ahmed Jafri, is survived by his sons, Javed and Naved. “He passed away at 8.30 p.m. at his residence in Bandra. He was not keeping well due to age-related issues,” said Mehmood Ali, a close family friend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/actor-jagdeep-passes-away/article32027100.ece
09 July 2020||Pune,||Maharshtra’s COVID-19 tally nears 2.25 lakh, with 6,603 more cases||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 6,603 new COVID-19 cases, the second highest increase in cases within a day, taking its total cases in the pandemic to 2,23,723. A bundred and ninety-eight more deaths were recorded, taking the death toll in the State to 9,448. Delete However, from next line. and use State health department officials said that 91,065 of the 2.23 lakh cases are currently active. The number of recovered cases in the State rose to 1,23,192 as 4,634 patients were discharged on Wednesday.  62 deaths in Mumbai Mumbai’s case tally rose to 87,856 with 1,347 new cases being reported, of which 23,543 are active. The city recorded 62 more deaths on Wednesday, pushing its total fatalities to 5,064. Pune district reported 36 deaths, while 10 fatalities were reported from Jalgaon in north Maharashtra. Aurangabad in Marathwada reported eight deaths, as did Kalyan-Dombivli in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). As per State Health Department data, Pune’s total death toll has now surged to 962. Jalgaon’s total death count has risen to 312, while Aurangabad’s stands at 314 and that of Kalyan-Dombivli has risen to 161. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said that the State’s recovery rate had risen to 55.06% while its fatality rate stands at 4.22%. After Mumbai, Pune reported the highest case surge in the State, with 1,016 cases as its total tally reached 31,704, of which 15,932 are active as per the State Health Department. Along with Mumbai and Pune, massive surges continued unabated across the MMR. Thane reported 746 new cases, taking its tally to 20,077, while Kalyan-Dombivli reported 512 new cases, pushing their total cases to 11,755. Navi Mumbai added 212 fresh cases taking its total case tally to 9,638. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar recorded a sharp increase in infections as well, reporting 157 and 207 new cases, respectively, to take their total case tallies to 5,152 and 6,681. Nashik piled on 201 fresh cases, taking its total case tally to 6,017 of whom 2,414 were active. Aurangabad district, a virus hotspot in Marathwada, saw a rise of 195 new cases as its case tally touched 7,197, of which 3,598 are active cases. “Till date, of a total 11,91,549 laboratory samples, 2,23,724 (18.77%) have tested positive with more than 30,000 samples being tested across the State today,” Dr. Awate said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharshtras-covid-19-tally-nears-225-lakh-with-6603-more-cases/article32027110.ece
09 July 2020||Pune,||COVID-19: Pune rural region braces itself to combat surge||The Pune district administration has embarked on a multi-pronged strategy to tackle the spread of novel coronavirus in the city, Pimpri-Chinchwad and in the rural areas of the district, have been witnessing an increase of an average 100 COVID-19 cases daily since the beginning of the month. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Pune Zilla Parishad, told The Hindu that the ZP was going to hire an additional 1,385 medical and paramedical personnel to strengthen the 600 staff already engaged by them. “This new hiring is to prepare ourselves for the next wave of spikes. For the better part of the last four months, the spread of the disease in rural areas was kept in check, until the last three weeks. One must bear in mind that this surge is also because more people in the rural areas are getting themselves tested in private facilities,” Mr. Prasad said. He said in the third week of May, when the total case tally in the rural areas of the district had touched 100, a directive had been issued to map villages and their primary health centres (PHCs) with COVID-19 care centres (CCCs), dedicated COVID health centres (DCHC) and COVID-19 hospitals throughout the district. “Patients from the gram panchayats are supposed to go to CCCs, as a first point of admission. Depending on severity of symptoms, patients would be admitted there or sent to the mapped DCHC or the identified COVID hospital in the district. This has been working well, except in some cases where patients have got themselves tested at a private lab and then attempted to get admitted to a hospital even if they were ‘asymptomatic’. We have now begun to take steps to make the system better,” Mr. Prasad said. He said that in 36 identified gram panchayats with a high case load, the administration will station one ambulance per gram panchayat for the movement of patients. Presently, the ZP has five ambulances per taluka which are mostly stationed at the CCCs. “The district collector will be issuing strict guidelines to private labs to share their test data with local authorities. Also, separate nodal officers at the village level would henceforth be appointed for contact tracing. This task was hitherto being performed only by PHC medical officers, supported by gram panchayats,” said Mr. Prasad. 1,000 new cases Meanwhile, Pune district reported a staggering surge of more than 1,000 new cases till Wednesday evening with 1,016 cases, taking the total case tally to 31,994. Of these, 11,751 are active cases, of whom 450 are critical. As many as 19,319 persons have been discharged so far, said Pune Divisional Commissioner Dr. Deepak Mhaisekar. With five new fatalities, Pune’s total death toll has shot to 924. In Pimpri-Chinchwad, 27 police personnel were among those who tested positive, said sources. Meanwhile, the death toll in Solapur district — the worst affected after Pune in the division — has climbed to 309 with five new fatalities reported on Wednesday. The death toll in Pune division — which includes Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts — has now reached 1,321. Satara reported a further five deaths to take its toll to 60, while with 46 new cases its total tally rose to 1,418, with 499 active cases. Solapur reported 68 new cases on Wednesday, taking its tally to 3,439, of whom 1,259 are active. Dr. Mhaisekar said that Pune division’s tally had reached 38,411, of whom 14,002 are active cases while 23,088 people have been discharged till date. Sangli reported 12 new cases to take its tally to 532, with 242 active cases, while with a sharp spike of 45 new cases, Kolhapur’s tally stands at 1,028 of whom 251 are active. While Sangli has reported 13 fatalities thus far, Kolhapur has reported 15 deaths till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-pune-rural-region-braces-itself-to-combat-surge/article32027108.ece
09 July 2020||COLOMBO,||Indian trawlers are back, say Sri Lanka’s fishermen||Sri Lanka’s northern fishermen have reported a “sudden increase” in the number of Indian trawlers being spotted in the island’s territorial waters, flagging an old problem that seriously impaired their post-war recovery. Fishermen along the northern coast of Jaffna Peninsula, especially Point Pedro, have complained to northern Fisheries authorities about their nets being found damaged in the sea, after being caught under the large Indian trawlers that were reportedly in Sri Lanka's territorial waters. Familiar with the brutal impact that Indian trawlers had on their fish production and the marine habitat in the post-war decade — scooping out marine organisms, including fishes and prawns — the northern Tamil fishermen fear that their livelihoods, now under strain due to the coronavirus pandemic that has impaired exports, would be further hit by the trawlers. The Indo-Lanka fisheries conflict became a strain on the countries’ bilateral ties, with talks at the highest levels and among fisher leaders on both sides proving futile for years. ‘It’s shock’ After some respite in the last couple of years, since Sri Lanka introduced tougher laws banning bottom-trawling, and heavy fines for trespassing foreign vessels, the reappearance of Indian vessels along their shores has come as a shock, fisher leader said. While the Sri Lankan Navy arrested over 450 Indian fishermen in 2017, they arrested only 156 in 2018 on charges of poaching. A total of 210 arrests were made in 2019, while 34 have been made so far in 2020. “But now, they [Indian trawlers] are back again and many fishermen in our area have lost their nets worth lakhs of rupees,” said Vythipillai Arulthas, a fisherman based in Point Pedro, who was part of many bilateral fisher leaders’ talks. Fisheries authorities have received at least 10 complaints of damaged nets in the last few days, according to Jayarajasingham Sudaharan, Assistant Director at the Fisheries Department in Jaffna. “There is an increase in the number of such complaints,” the official said. Fisher leader K. Rajachandran, based in Jaffna’s Karai Nagar, said fishermen in his area usually left the shores around 2.30 p.m. and ventured into the sea. “We spread out nets, then have our meals and take a little nap in our boats. Then we pull back the nets with the catch and head back to the shore around 4 a.m. But in the past few days, our fishermen are rushing back before 2 a.m., after sighting Indian trawlers in the vicinity,” he said. ‘Visible’ from the shores Pointing to more Indian trawlers — known to originate from Tamil nadu — “visible” from their shores, fishermen in the Tamil-majority Northern Province wonder if the Sri Lankan Navy is reluctant to arrest the trespassing fishermen from Tamil Nadu now, due to the COVID-19 prevalence in India. “We don’t know, but many of us feel the Navy might hesitate to arrest the Tamil Nadu fishermen fearing they might be carriers of the coronavirus that is raging in India,” Mr. Arulthas told The Hindu . Navy personnel make up for the largest cluster in the total 2,081 COVID-19 cases so far reported in Sri Lanka. As many as 892 patients within the Navy have recovered so far, while 13 are undergoing treatment in hospitals, according to Navy Spokesman Lt. Commander Isuru Sooriyabandara. “We continue to be very vigilant along our borders not just to monitor illegal fishing, but also to take action on any illicit activity such as narcotics trade. Coronavirus is not specific to India alone, it could enter our borders from anywhere, so there is no connection to that,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indian-trawlers-are-back-say-sri-lankas-fishermen/article32026613.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Harvard, MIT sue U.S. govt. over directive on student visas||Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) said on Wednesday that they had filed a lawsuit against the Donald Trump administration over a directive that would strip foreign students of their visas if their coursework was entirely online. The White House measure, announced on Monday, was seen as an effort to pressure universities into reopening and abandoning the cautious approaches that many have announced they would adopt to reduce transmission of the virus. “The order came down without notice — its cruelty surpassed only by its recklessness,” Harvard’s president Lawrence S. Bacow said in a message to the university community. “It appears that it was designed purposefully to place pressure on colleges and universities to open their on-campus classrooms for in-person instruction this fall, without regard to concerns for the health and safety of students, instructors, and others.” Less number of students The directive’s effect may be to dramatically reduce the number of international students enrolling in the fall. Together with delays in processing visas as a result of the pandemic, immigrant advocates say the new rules, which must still be finalised this month, might discourage many overseas students from attending U.S. universities, where they often pay full tuition. Such changes could put foreign students’ visas, known as F-1 visas, at risk under the new rules. International students whose universities are not planning in-person classes — which is currently the case at schools including Harvard and the University of Southern California — would be required to return to their home countries if they are already in the United States. Those overseas would not be granted permission to enter the country to take online coursework here. Ken Cuccinelli, the acting Deputy Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, said in an interview to CNN that the administration was providing more flexibility for international students than in the past, when they could take only one online course to qualify for visas. Now they can take more, as long as at least some of their instruction is in person.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/harvard-mit-sue-us-govt-over-directive-on-student-visas/article32026621.ece
09 July 2020||BEIJING,||China defends WHO, lashes out at U.S. move to withdraw||China on Wednesday defended the World Health Organization (WHO) and lashed out at the U.S. decision to withdraw from the UN body. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said the move was “another demonstration of the U.S. pursuing unilateralism, withdrawing from groups and breaking contracts”. WHO is “the most authoritative and professional international institution in the field of global public health security,” Mr. Zhao said at a daily briefing. The U.S. departure from the organisation “undermines the international anti-epidemic efforts, and in particular has a serious negative impact on developing countries in urgent need of international support,” Mr. Zhao said. The Trump administration formally notified the UN on Monday of its withdrawal from WHO, although the pull-out won’t take effect until next year. That means it could be reversed by a new administration or if circumstances change. U.S. President’s criticism President Donald Trump has harshly criticised WHO over its response to the pandemic and accused it of bowing to Chinese influence. Mr. Trump said in a White House announcement that Chinese officials “ignored” their reporting obligations to WHO and pressured the organisation to mislead the public about an outbreak that has now killed more than 1,30,000 Americans. The move was immediately assailed by health officials and critics of the administration, including numerous Democrats who said it would cost the U.S. influence in the global arena while undermining an important institution that is leading vaccine development efforts and drug trials to address the pandemic. The withdrawal notice was sent to UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Monday and will take effect in a year, on July 6, 2021. The U.S. is WHO’s largest donor and provides it with more than $450 million per year, but owes about $200 million in current and past dues. Those financial obligations must be met before a U.S. withdrawal can be finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-defends-who-lashes-out-at-us-move-to-withdraw/article32026607.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump is a child in an adult’s body: niece||U.S. President Donald Trump’s niece describes him in a much-awaited tell-all book as a child in an adult’s body, someone psychologically brutalised and damaged by his “sociopath” father and who developed defences of anger and distrust to mask his own chronic insecurities.  Too Much and Never Enough: How My Family Created the World’s Most Dangerous Man , by Mary L. Trump, presents a portrait of the President familiar to readers of other books as a transactional narcissist and accidental commander in chief. But Mary Trump, a clinical psychologist, offers a particularly dark picture of Donald Trump’s father and her grandfather, Fred Trump Sr. “From the beginning, Fred’s self-interest skewed his priorities,” Mary Trump writes. “His care of his children, such as it was, reflected his own needs, not theirs. Love meant nothing to him, and he could not empathize with their plight, one of the defining characteristics of a sociopath; he expected obedience, that was all.” Fred Trump Sr. wanted his eldest son, Fred Jr. — Mary’s father — to be a “killer,” a high form of praise that the President himself has often used to describe people he respects. Fred Trump Sr. helped establish a competition between his elder son and the future President that went on for decades, Mary Trump writes, until Donald Trump ultimately prevailed and her father died an alcoholic at age 42. The book was scheduled for release next Tuesday by its publisher, Simon & Schuster, after a New York State judge ruled that it was not bound by a confidentiality agreement that Mary Trump signed as part of a settlement over a legal battle over a grandfather’s estate. The President’s brother, Robert Trump, had gone to court in an attempt to block publication of the book on the grounds that his niece had violated terms of the agreement in writing it. A hearing is scheduled for Friday. Among the new disclosures in the book is Mary Trump’s claim that Donald Trump paid someone to take his college entrance examination.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-is-a-child-in-an-adults-body-niece/article32026619.ece
09 July 2020||Hong Kong,||Beijing opens Hong Kong office||China opened a new office on Wednesday for its intelligence agents to operate openly in Hong Kong for the first time under a tough new security law, in a public display of its tightening control over the finance hub. The new base is located in a rapidly converted hotel overlooking the city’s Victoria Park, a location that has hosted pro-democracy protests for years, including an annual vigil marking Beijing’s deadly Tiananmen crackdown. A plaque bearing the security agency’s name was unveiled early on Wednesday in front of Hong Kong government and mainland officials — including Beijing’s top envoy to the city and the commander of the Chinese army barracks in Hong Kong. Police blocked roads around the former Metropark Hotel and surrounded it with water-filled barriers. A Chinese flag was unfurled on a pole erected outside the building while a plaque with the national emblem went up overnight. City leader Carrie Lam hailed the opening as “a historic moment” and said China’s intelligence apparatus would be an “important partner” in helping to safeguard national security. Luo Huining, Beijing’s top envoy to Hong Kong, said the city had “bade farewell to the days when it was defenceless in national security”. Beijing imposed the new law on Hong Kong last week targeting acts of subversion, secession, terrorism and foreign collusion, in response to protests that erupted last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-opens-hong-kong-office/article32026606.ece
09 July 2020||Ouagadougou,||‘Burkina Faso killings were extrajudicial’||The bodies of at least 180 men found in northern Burkina Faso suggest they were extrajudicially executed by the army, Human Rights Watch said in a report. The authorities have previously faced accusations of extrajudicial killings in the war against a jihadist insurgency that they have been waging since 2015. The dead, who were men mostly from the Fulani and Peul ethnic groups — communities targeted by the insurgents for recruitment — were buried by residents of the northern town of Djibo between April and May. HRW’s Sahel director Corinne Dufka called for an urgent investigation into the deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/burkina-faso-killings-were-extrajudicial/article32026605.ece
09 July 2020||Melbourne,||Returnee from India tests positive||A 32-year-old man, who recently returned from India and tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, will be charged with absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland to go to a supermarket, according to media reports. The man escaped through a fenced area from an isolation facility about 6.50 p.m. on Tuesday, theNew Zealand Heraldreported. He has been sent to a quarantine facility after he was confirmed to have the SARS-CoV-2 virus on Wednesday. The man, whose identity was not immediately known, came from New Delhi on July 3, it added.  He will be charged and now face up to a six-month jail sentence or a $4,000 fine, the report added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/returnee-from-india-tests-positive/article32026614.ece
09 July 2020||Paris,||Paris, July 8, 2020 (AFP) -||The French government said on Wednesday it was girding for a possible surge in COVID-19 cases in coming months but would not respond to any new outbreak with another nationwide lockdown. “My aim is to prepare France for a possible second wave while preserving our daily life, our economic and social life,” said new Prime Minister Jean Castex in an interview.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/paris-july-8-2020-afp/article32026611.ece
09 July 2020||London,||London, July 8, 2020 (AFP) -||The U.K. government on Wednesday unveiled a package worth £30 billion ($37 billion) to save jobs, help the young into work and kickstart the British economyravaged by the COVID-19 pandemiced measures including bonuses to companies retaining staff, investment in ‘green’ jobs and even allowing the whole country to enjoy discounted meals in restaurants.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-july-8-2020-afp/article32026617.ece
09 July 2020||Moscow,||Moscow, July 8, 2020 (AFP) -||Moscow has told the U.S. Embassy to “mind your own business” after Washington’s diplomatic mission raised concern about curbs on media freedom in Russia. Rebecca Ross, the spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy, on Tuesday expressed concern about a clampdown on journalists in Russia.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-july-8-2020-afp/article32026615.ece
09 July 2020||Colombo,||Colombo, July 8, 2020 (AFP) -||Measles and rubella have been eradicated from Sri Lanka and the Maldives after decades of immunisation programmes, the World Health Organization said on Wednesday. “[T]his success is encouraging and demonstrates the importance of joint efforts,”said regional director Khetrapal Singh.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/colombo-july-8-2020-afp/article32026616.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The social contract needs to be rewritten||The novel coronavirus pandemic has affected the lives of many and its catastrophic impact goes far beyond the disease itself. Governments across the world have dealt with the problem in different ways. We do not intend to criticise the lockdown or any governmental actions or inactions in this piece. Posterity will judge how good or how bad any government performed in 2020 on this count. Finding cause The world does not seem to have answers to many of the problems thrown up by the epidemic, especially those faced by the poorest of the poor. No doubt, some small countries have claimed victory in containing the impact of the disease, but their claim appears to be hollow and even myopic; the fact is that these countries are affluent, and have sealed their boundaries. So, is the pandemic’s impact the result of the failure of individual governments? Or is it due to the failure of the bipolar ruler-and-ruled dynamic of governance structures across the world? There is a view that mankind’s ancestors, in the course of evolution, formed the concept of social groups and resultant rules they would abide by. This is the most rudimentary form of what is known as the ‘social contract theory’. When monarchies and empires prevailed, it was easy to understand a social contract — to obey an identifiable sovereign, who in turn was deemed to be god’s representative on earth. But democratically elected governments have found it more difficult to derive the same legitimacy. With the growth of fundamental freedoms, such as those of speech and expression, unquestioning obedience to governmental authority began to fade. Unquestioned obedience is the holy grail of every autocrat. Some governments yearn for it. Modern society and modern governments also use the social contract theory to claim legitimacy for their actions, but rely more on the theory as expounded by Hobbes and Rousseau. While Hobbes believed that man, in Nature, was “solitary, nasty and brutish”, for Rousseau, man, in Nature was “born free”. However, both agreed that the social contract comprises two distinct agreements; first, people agreed to establish society by collectively and reciprocally renouncing the rights they had against one another in unbridled nature and second, they agreed to confer upon one (or more) among them, the authority and power to enforce the initial contract. Thus, the social contract comprises people agreeing to live as one under common laws and in enforcing those common laws justly. Modern day governments take this further. Their fundamental credo is that society is best-served if a government or other type of institution takes on executive or sovereign power, with the consent of the people. Consolidating power We have seen governments go still further and use the power democratically invested in them to decide what is in the best interest of the people. Thus, there is a bending of individual free will towards the collective will. Ironically most such leaders constantly invoke “the will of the people” when consolidating executive power. So, the social contract is being used by modern governments to justify greater aggrandisement of power in the hands of the sovereign, under the garb of “public good”. In fact, if the world events that occurred in 2018-19 were to be examined later by future historians, they would be excused for having an image that people across the world had voluntarily surrendered their individual rights to their governments, who exercised these powers with discipline and benevolence. The case of two Indias The novel coronavirus pandemic has laid bare the falsity of this image. For example, access to information about this pandemic has not been equal. The access to resources to avoid the disease has not been equal. And, of course, access to treatment has not been equal. There are two Indias. The first is an India that observes social distancing, buys its groceries and provisions by observing all precautions and largely obeys governmental directives about COVID-19 prevention. The second is an India that crowds railway terminals to travel long distances, sometimes for days, to get back to native towns, and when that fails, decides to resort to the drastic step of even walking those hundreds of kilometres, defying all governmental directives. It is for the second India that the impact of COVID-19 has hit hardest and the impact has nearly nothing to do with the disease. “Social distancing” was a stirring phrase and call that those of us who are privileged responded to with gusto. We wore our face masks and went about our actions, taking the changed world in our stride. But there were the others: lakhs of Indians less privileged and living cheek by jowl in hovels and slums, for whom the mandated distance of separation of “6 feet” was and still is an impossibility; an abstract concept. It is often said that “we are all in this together”. But hardly so. We are not sharing the brunt of the pandemic with the poorest of India, the voiceless millions. Professor H.L.A. Hart once said, “freedom (the absence of coercion) can be valueless to those victims of unrestricted competition too poor to make use of it; so it will be pedantic to point out to them that though starving they are free”. The pandemic-caused crisis has shone a light on how governmental methods to deal with a crisis largely come to the aid of only those with a voice. All societies have some measure of inequality. However, in deeply unequal societies (where the Gini Coefficient exceeds 0.4, for instance) different strata of society will have very different needs to deal with a crisis of this nature. We have seen societies with lower Gini Coefficients deal with the crisis far better, because a uniform approach works perfectly when society is perfectly equal. For those in governance In moments of crisis, people look to the state for guidance and taking them to safety. This has led to some sections of society seeking a strong response from a strong leader. Unfortunately, when the source of power in an unequal society is centralised, the response to the crisis will result in unequal relief to different strata of society. The more unequal the society, the more decentralised the response should be. The social contract which imbues a centralised sovereign with overreaching powers has clearly failed on this occasion, and will continue to fail every time a similar challenge is posed. The centralised sovereign will work well against a mighty external aggressor, but not against a microscopic pathogen. What is required is not just a decentralised approach but also a state which is sensitive and responds not only to the needs of those who cry out for help but also meets the requirements of those who are voiceless. Thomas Hobbes described the mighty state as a “Leviathan” which would rule by the will of the majority. He argued that once a ruler is chosen, citizens lose all rights except those the ruler may find it expedient to grant. While no elected government would publicly espouse such a position, it is the unwritten premise underlying every rule and diktat which is issued. As seen above, a Leviathan has its uses, as for example, in times of war or in a fight against terrorism. The novel coronavirus cannot be defeated by a Leviathan. COVID-19 can only be defeated by an empowered populace. The social contract requires to be rewritten. It does not require anything drastic such as a revolution or anarchy. Rather, it only needs fundamental introspection and rethinking by the governing classes including bureaucrats. Srinath Sridevan and Aadil Currimbhoy are advocates practising at the Madras High Court, and work with HSB Partners||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-social-contract-needs-to-be-rewritten/article32026592.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Joblessness and opportunity in Tamil Nadu||The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted economies across the world and presented policymakers with the unenviable task of sustaining employment amidst lockdowns. However, the academic and political debates in India on unemployment, which is widely attributed to jobless growth amidst stagnation in the agricultural and manufacturing sectors, predate the pandemic. It will be useful to locate the disruption caused by the pandemic on a larger canvas so as to enable a comparative assessment vis-à-vis other recent economic shocks such as demonetisation and the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). It would also be instructive to compare Tamil Nadu, one of India’s most industrialised States and also one of the worst pandemic-hit States, with other States that have a large manufacturing sector and are net recipients of migrants. In the absence of government data on employment for recent years, we rely on the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) even though its employment data series is relatively new. Further, the reach of CMIE’s surveys was restricted by the lockdown, which affects comparison of the data for the recent months with the pre-COVID-19 period. Trends in Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu’s unemployment rate, which is computed as the number of unemployed persons “who are willing to work and are actively looking for a job expressed as a percent of the labour force”, increased sharply during the strict lockdown in late March and April 2020 but registered a large turnaround in May when the lockdown was eased to some extent. However, the labour participation rate (LPR) continued to decline, even though at a slower rate in May. While the easing of lockdown restrictions has allowed workers to return to work, they are either still hesitant due to the fear of disease or are unable to return due to transport and communications bottlenecks and lack of information. The CMIE data do not reveal any clear trend vis-à-vis caste and religion. However, the drop in unemployment rate in May was faster in urban areas and among males. Likewise, the decline in LPR was less in urban areas, among males and among those with higher education. Persons with intermediate levels of schooling were affected more than college graduates as their LPR continued to drop in May. If the level of education can be treated as a proxy for skill, the data seem to suggest that the lockdown has affected the semi-skilled workforce more than the skilled and unskilled workforce. The CMIE data also suggest that at least since January 2016 there has been a steady decline in Tamil Nadu’s LPR, where the labour force used as the base to calculate employment indicators includes persons aged 15 years and above and falling into either of the two categories: (a) employed and (b) unemployed and willing to work and actively looking for a job. Demonetisation did not significantly impact either the rural or the urban LPR. On the other hand, GST had a significant negative effect on urban LPR. The immediate effect of COVID-19 and the lockdown is visible through a significant decline in LPR in both the rural and urban sector. Comparing industrialised States Tamil Nadu differs from other south Indian and industrialised States with regard to the trend of LPR. Urban Tamil Nadu compares with urban Gujarat and Maharashtra insofar as its LPR continued to fall in May. Not coincidentally, like Gujarat and Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu boasts of a large manufacturing sector and these States are among the top four COVID-19-affected States. It is noteworthy, though, that while the urban unemployment rate dropped sharply in May in Tamil Nadu, it continued to rise in Gujarat and Maharashtra. It bears emphasising that the States with low unemployment rates are not necessarily better off if their LPR has dropped sharply. Software/new economy hubs such as Karnataka and Telangana have not seen a very sharp decline in LPR; in fact, Karnataka has seen an increase. In most States, rural labour participation picked up probably due to harvest-related activities, the lower incidence of COVID-19 and the return of urban migrants. However, rural Tamil Nadu saw a decline in labour participation in both April and May. Challenges facing TN industries The longer-term decline in LPR in Tamil Nadu could be attributed to general economic shocks such as demonetisation and the introduction of GST, on the one hand, and a combination of industry-specific issues such as changing tastes, a tightening regulatory environment, and growing international competition, on the other. The firecracker industry in Sivakasi exemplifies the multidimensional character of challenges, which transcend sporadic shocks. The town that accounts for 90% of the fireworks production in the country faces at least three challenges. First, it has been hit by campaigns calling for the boycott of polluting industries and products. Second, it faces major challenges due to the change in the regulatory environment such as a ban on barium nitrate in the manufacture of firecrackers. Third, the fireworks industry also faces competition from illegal import of cheaper fireworks from China. Other industrial clusters in the Tiruppur, Erode and Karur belt as well as the Ranipet and Vellore belts face similar challenges. The answer to environmental challenges is not a complete shutdown of MSMEs, which is counterproductive. The governments and courts ought to keep unpleasant but unavoidable trade-offs and inter-linkages in mind. The closure of tanneries in Dindigul is a case in point. The impact of the ban on the local economy and environment is illustrative of one-sided solutions: a double whammy of lost employment and unresolved environmental damage. The government could have explored possible mitigation strategies, much before the point of no return, to save both. While the overall economic scenario is bleak, the present crisis perhaps has a silver lining. The pandemic has exposed India’s unsustainable dependence on other countries for a variety of goods and nudged the government to help build supply chains for critical products that are less dependent on foreign countries. Further, the unfortunate border clash in Ladakh has hardened the popular resolve to boycott Chinese goods. These developments may as well offer the much-needed breathing space to domestic industries battered by a series of economic shocks. States that can adapt quickly to shifting economic currents will recover faster. P.G. Babu is Director, Madras Institute of Development Studies; Vikas Kumar is Assistant Professor, Azim Premji University; and Poonam Singh is Assistant Professor, National Institute of Industrial Engineering||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/joblessness-and-opportunity-in-tamil-nadu/article32026603.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The pandemic is about eyes shut||The novel, Blindness , by Portuguese Nobel Laureate José Saramago, is strikingly prescient about a sweeping illness. The plot revolves around a mysterious epidemic because of which people suddenly turn blind. The thread It starts with a person driving his car who turns blind while waiting at a traffic signal. He pleads to be taken home and a man, on the pretext of helping, takes him home but soon after runs away with his car. The contagion spreads rapidly and all those affected by the epidemic are quarantined in an asylum. The novel follows seven people, who do not have names but only descriptions: the doctor, the doctor’s wife, the girl with the dark glasses, etc. Lack of equitable delivery of food, inhospitable and unhygienic living conditions, police brutality and apathy of power structures lead to panic among the blind. They are on the brink of starvation. Seven characters escape the asylum and enter the city where they came from only to find that everybody in the city has become blind. Lacking any support, the country plunges into utter despair before resurrection happens quite magically. Apart from the obvious connections with the pandemic, there are other, numerous and allegorical ways in which Saramago’s world resonates with contemporary India. Data and worker anonymity Consider for example, the case of blindness regarding the number of migrant workers. The government’s own data sources are inconsistent and are a massive underestimate. The office of the Chief Labour Commissioner stated that there are 26 lakh migrants while various estimates, including the Economic Survey, put this number above 8 crore people. The anonymity of the workers has been reinforced as governments have not kept records of who they are and where they are working. This lack of accountability has given a free rein to the complex web of contractors and sub-contractors to exert various forms of exploitation. The migrant workers, like the characters in Blindness , have been rendered nameless in this unequal power gambit. Then, there is the blindness about hunger and deaths. On June 30, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced free food grains for National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiaries till November. While it is a welcome move, it yet again excludes those without ration cards. As per estimates of Meghana Mungikar, Jean Drèze, and Reetika Khera, roughly 10 crore eligible beneficiaries continue to be excluded under the NFSA . This is because the central government is still using 2011 Census data and hence underestimates NFSA coverage. Moreover, migrants and many self-employed workers do not have ration cards. At a time when the warehouses of the Food Corporation of India have 2.5 times the buffer stock norms, not universalising rations is inexplicable. Two petitions concerning food and income support for migrants were summarily dismissed by the Supreme Court of India during lockdown. The Court finally took suo motu cognisance of the crisis after 20 senior lawyers wrote a letter to the Chief Justice of India to intervene. The Solicitor General, Tushar Mehta, representing the Union of India, has submitted that there has been no death in the Shramik trains because of lack of water and food, and all deaths took place due to “earlier illnesses”. On May 15, Union Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal at Bennett University said, “We have gone through the entire three months without a single person starving.” In reality, there have been at least 850 non-COVID deaths due to an unplanned lockdown. Indian Railway Protection Force Service data show that there have been 80 deaths in Shramik trains alone between May 9 and May 27; most of these are due to starvation and financial distress. Numerous ground reports indicated the extent of hunger. As in Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN) reports covering more than 34,000 workers, 50% had just one day of rations left and 64% had less than Rs. 100 when they reached out during the lockdown. In such light, the combination of falsehoods and measured silence by the governing institutions and the judiciary indicate that they have been afflicted by Saramago’s imaginary epidemic of blindness that refused to see the gravity of the crisis. Museum of misery As rising cases of COVID-19 suggest, the lockdown did not curb the spread of the virus. It was a unilateral decision taken, apparently, to buy time to create health-care facilities. However, the government’s hubris backfired. The resilience and the perseverance of the migrants exerting their fundamental right to return pushed the government to respond this time. The SWAN report says: ‘While a part of the government’s slow response is due to the lack of empathy towards workers, a part is also the result of inefficiencies resulting from unilateral decision-making. Consequently, the government has created an archive of distress and a museum of misery.’ The maze of obfuscating travel orders and the opacity surrounding train schedules was as if the migrants were made to play a cruel game of snakes and ladders. The lucky ones took the metaphorical ladder to the train only to find themselves hungry and fighting with fellow migrant travellers to get food. Even among them, most have had to pay for travel forms, pay bribes and face police brutality. The resemblances with the plight of those in Saramago’s novel are uncanny. The unlucky ones stayed back, some evicted from their rented spaces, waiting anxiously for their illusory chance to come. As a character says in the Saramago novel, “... you have to wait, give it time, it’s time that rules, time is our gambling partner on the other side of the table and it holds all the cards of the deck in its hand, we have to guess the winning cards of life, our lives.” Some advice Unlike Saramago’s fictional world, such systemic and structural blindness has no magical cure. After continued hostility that workers were forced to endure, it is difficult to pin down the precise analytical reasons for the diverse expressions from migrants. Some have been resolute about returning immediately while some are unable to return home without earnings. Surveys cannot do full justice to understanding these amalgam of expressions and would at best create reductive categories. We definitely do not need piecemeal platitudes coming from the central government. We need many corrections such as stronger adherence to constitutional values, transparency and accountability from the government and the judiciary. And, not just those in power but also those who elect them need to collectively treat the epidemic of blindness that has eroded our moral core where we do not feel uneasy in seeing the hardships of marginalised communities. Rajendran Narayanan teaches at Azim Premji University and has been a SWAN volunteer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-pandemic-is-about-eyes-shut/article32026595.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Green-lighting ecological decimation amidst a pandemic||Few countries are witnessing such severe direct and indirect devastation on account of the COVID-19 pandemic as India. Yet, there is little attention on the roots of our vulnerability. It would be a mistake to approach the pandemic as a bolt from the blue, or an aberration that will eventually pass for ‘normalcy’ to return. Our vulnerabilities lie not just in the absence of equitable access to food, healthcare and housing but go to the heart of global development models that sacrifice environmental resilience for limitless economic growth and wealth accumulation. The 21st century has seen multiple lethal epidemics. Two were serious enough for the World Health Organization to designate as pandemics. The accelerating destruction of wild habitats, forests and diversified food systems for urbanisation, mining, and industry means pathogens which were once largely confined to animals and plants in the wild are now better positioned to infect humans. The expansion of monoculture cropping and livestock farming systems, coupled with dense human settlements dependent on narrow diets of global commodity crops and meat, are eliminating the biodiversity and distance barriers that lent resilience to the human species and domesticated plants and animals. A virulent pathogen can then trigger an epidemic that much more easily. As long as we do not address this march to unsustainability, we will remain vulnerable to pandemic outbreaks. Drawing the wrong lesson It is troubling then that our governments are drawing the opposite lesson from the COVID-19 challenge. Through the lockdown, ‘expert’ bodies of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) have considered, and in many cases cleared, multiple industrial, mining and infrastructure proposals in critical wildlife habitats, and life and livelihood-sustaining forests. These include the Etalin Hydropower Project in the biodiversity-rich Dibang valley of Arunachal Pradesh; a coal mine in Assam’s Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve; diamond mining in the Panna forested belt; a coal mine to be operated by Adani Enterprises with a coal-fired power plant in Odisha’s Talabira forests; a limestone mine in the Gir National Park; and a geo-technical investigation in the Sharavathi Lion-Tailed Macaque Sanctuary in Karnataka. As the environment site Mongabay reported last month, authorities considered these projects via video-conferencing in contravention of environmental laws, and without all necessary documents or site inspections, in many cases spending just 10 minutes on a proposal. Draft Environment Impact Assessment No meaningful public consultation can take place amidst a pandemic and repeated lockdowns. Yet this did not stop the MoEFCC from pressing ahead with a June 30 deadline for feedback on its draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification. The Delhi High Court later extended the deadline to August 11. As per the draft, starting a project before obtaining environmental approvals will no longer be a violation, and it can be regularised post-facto. Public hearings are riddled with problems and their content routinely ignored while awarding clearances, but they remain the only opportunity of voice for project-affected peoples and environmental and social experts. Instead of strengthening them, the notification proposes to exempt a wider range of projects from hearings, including those which authorities can arbitrarily designate as ‘strategic’. The draft even allows for a class of projects to secure clearance without putting out any information in the public domain. Despite demands from environmentalists, the draft notification says virtually nothing on improving monitoring, and compliance with clearance conditions and safeguards. Safeguarding the environment and front-line communities seems nowhere on the government’s agenda. Rather, its priorities are “unleashing coal”, as tweeted by the Coal Minister, and green clearances for “seamless economic growth”, as tweeted by the Environment Ministry in the lockdown weeks. The sum effect of all the above moves will be further environmental degradation. It takes a steadfast commitment to ecological illiteracy to argue that wanton environmental destruction will deliver never-ending, seamless growth. These giant leaps backward will not make us atmanirbhar (self-reliant). Rather, they will further endanger habitats and lives, and intensify our vulnerability to infectious diseases and related socio-economic shocks. Chitrangada Choudhury is an independent journalist working on issues of the environment; Aniket Aga teaches Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/green-lighting-ecological-decimation-amidst-a-pandemic/article32026600.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 has no religion||India has the third highest number of COVID-19 cases in the world. Since the first reported case in Kerala on January 30, the virus has spread to every State in the country. While cities such as Mumbai and Chennai are continuing to bear the brunt of the cases, COVID-19 cases are also rapidly rising in Tier-II and Tier-III districts. Given this, no single person, event or community can be blamed for the spread of the virus. Though leaders such as the Chief Ministers of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra appealed to the people not to communalise the virus or blame any religion for it, in the initial days of its spread there was a sustained campaign against Muslims, especially on social media, following the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi in March. The Jamaat congregation emerged as India’s first largest hotspot. This is not to suggest that the Tablighi Jamaat and its organisers were not at fault. But failures at multiple levels, including at the level of the government and the police, were ignored and only the Markaz’s decision to hold the gathering, also a major failure, became the focus. Rising communal polarisation The intensity of that communal campaign, though deeply disturbing, was not entirely surprising, especially given the rise of the Hindu Right and its electoral dominance. It is a fact that many Muslim leaders and organisations unequivocally condemned the Jamaat episode. Many from the community, including well-known industrialists, donated money to the government to tackle the unprecedented health crisis caused by the pandemic. Sadly, while the good deeds of Muslims are seen as exceptions or are ignored, a mistake or fault of any Muslim invariably leads to a backlash against the entire community. Why is this the case? This is partly because of the rising communal polarisation in India since the late 1980s. Furthermore, the propaganda machinery of organisations of the Hindu Right has become more efficient and sophisticated in recent years. Prejudices against the community are so deeply ingrained that no amount of reasoning can help differentiate fact from myth. Just as Jews were the targets in Europe in the 1930s, Muslims are the favourite targets of bigots in India today. We saw how the Delhi riots of 2020 and the preceding anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests were handled by the state. We heard the statement, “Those indulging in arson can be identified by their clothes”. From the lynching of Muslims by ‘cow-protection’ vigilantes to the anti-CAA protests, a climate has been created which has caused a massive trust deficit between some sections of Muslims and the Indian state, particularly the police. This was seen, for instance, when some Tablighi Jamaat members wrongly refused to cooperate with the state after the congregation. Consequently, a completely well-intentioned request by the state that they should identify themselves so that they can be quarantined was understood as a hidden agenda. While the government came out with an advisory stating that the pandemic should not be linked to any religion, it would have been more useful if this advisory was more specific in its citation of Muslims and the Markaz. Muslims have been victims of the virus as much as people of other religions. A backward community Muslims comprise not only India’s largest religious minority but also one of the poorest in the modern world. They remain educationally backward. The Indian state, both in its secular and nationalist avatar, has played its part in perpetuating this backwardness. The community has produced some fine talent in different walks of life, whether in sports, music, art, cinema, or governance, from Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam to M.F. Husain, Bismillah Khan and Sania Mirza. Those who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat event are also part of the community, but they are not the only representatives of Islam. Today, as cases continue to rise in India, it is crucial to be objective and reasonable before we single out Muslims for the challenges we face. Shaikh Mujibur Rehman teaches at Jamia Millia Central University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/covid-19-has-no-religion/article32026601.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||On top||In the last 15 years, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has been on the winning side in all elections, barring one to the Lok Sabha in 2014. In 2005 and 2010 he led the NDA to power in the State. In 2014 he parted with the BJP, refusing to accept Narendra Modi as the candidate for Prime Minister. After his party, the Janata Dal (United), fared badly electorally, he vacated the CM’s post for Jitan Ram Manjhi, a Dalit leader, in political manoeuvering that went out of his control soon. He reclaimed the chair and went on to fight and win the 2015 Assembly election in alliance with the RJD, the Congress and other small parties on the social justice plank. He had bitterly fought RJD founder Lalu Prasad since his exit in 1993 from the Janata Dal mother ship in which they both had cohabited for long. On July 26, 2017, he snapped ties with the new partners and returned to the BJP’s embrace. Helped by an amoral agility and elastic ideological moorings, Mr. Kumar has outperformed expectations of political survival that his thin social base could yield in the normal course. Mr. Kumar’s claims of being a changemaker in governance were always exaggerated, though he did manage to pick up the shredded pieces of governance in the State in the initial years. Marginal improvements in education, health and local bodies allowed him some self-congratulatory indulgence, but the State’s halting response to the COVID-19 pandemic has exposed glaring failures of governance. Bihar singularly failed in managing the return of nearly 25 lakh migrants from other States in the wake of the outbreak and abrupt lockdown of the economy. Testing levels are very low in Bihar, and Mr. Kumar has remained aloof. But the crisis has only reinforced him politically as things stand now. The widespread mobilisation against the CAA forced the BJP to announce in January that he would continue to lead the NDA and the alliance remained intact. The fate of many regional partners of the BJP in the past — for instance, from leadership to secondary status as with the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, or even to extinction as it happened with Janata rumps in Gujarat — could have befallen the JD(U) too. A succession of one crisis after another, including the Chinese aggression now, has forced the BJP to abandon any plans it may have had to relegate Mr. Kumar to a subsidiary role in the State. With the BJP and the JD(U) clinging to each other, the social combination of large sections of the upper and middle castes and Dalits that propels them appears to be formidable. The opposition is in chaos. His father in jail, siblings playing spoilers and party seniors sulking, Tejashwi Yadav is struggling to steer the RJD. The Congress lacks vision, strategy and leadership. Mr. Kumar may not even need to use all his manipulative skills this time. Friends or foes, he is one step ahead of them all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/on-top/article32026585.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||A case for extension||The finding that 8.4 lakh poor households have completed at least 80 days of the 100-day limit for work under the MGNREGS and 1.4 lakh among those have completed the full quota, should come as no surprise. While these numbers are a fraction of the 4.6 crore households which have benefited from MGNREGS this year, the fact that many poor households have nearly completed their full quota of employment under the scheme in just the last two months (May-June 2020) is a reflection of the distress that has driven them to take recourse to it. With the economy reeling after extended lockdowns following the COVID-19 pandemic and migrant labourers losing jobs in urban areas and returning to their rural homes to avoid destitution, the scheme has come as a huge relief to poor families. The government’s decision to extend it into the monsoon season has also benefited households. Data from this year show that in nearly two-thirds of the States, demand for MGNREGS work has doubled or even tripled in a number of districts compared to the previous year. Only in States where kharif crop was sown, the demand was relatively lower. But with some States resorting to their own shutdowns to curtail the spread of COVID-19, the prospects of a robust economic recovery that would benefit those engaged in casual labour and daily wage-labour remain dim. The fairly good monsoon this season should help with providing for more agricultural jobs beyond the MGNREGS works as well, but the surging rate of demand for work under the scheme suggests that it is time the government thought about extending the limit, at least on a State-by-State basis. The swell in agrarian employment in the monsoon season notwithstanding, the excess supply of labour owing to reverse migration from the cities could depress wages. This makes an extension of the limit of work days under the MGNREGS even more imperative. Since its implementation over a decade ago, the scheme has acted as insurance for rural dwellers during crop failures and agrarian crises. But the Centre’s outlook towards it continues to limit it only as a “fall-back” option for the poor. Even before the COVID-19-induced crisis, a lack of demand and falling consumption among the poor were constraining the economy. The MGNREGS, if utilised as more than just an insurance scheme and as a vehicle for rural development, could potentially address that problem. The lessons from its successes and failures could be used for a more comprehensive job guarantee plan that covers urban India too. Besides alleviating distress, this could also boost consumption and aid economic recovery. An extension of the 100-day limit and comprehensive implementation of the scheme in rural areas can be the first step.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-case-for-extension/article32026586.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The Spa conference||If the German representation at the Spa Conference can be relied upon to be as good in their practices as in their present professions, there will be little need for undue and blind severity towards them on the part of the Allies. Unscrupulous as have been the German’s methods, we need not necessarily take it for granted that his readiness now to placate Allied feelings and win their good opinion does not proceed from the bottom of his heart. So badly have his methods been beaten, so widely are they execrated and so thorough his discomfiture that he must be a most stupid and super-Satanic personality indeed if, regardless of the risk, he still dares to gain undue advantage by wanton guile. It is to be wished therefore that the Allies will approach his statement with sympathy and a spirit of accommodating goodwill as well as that of caution and strict regard for the wanton atrocities perpetrated by him. So far, however, it does not appear the Allies have approached the question with that prudent sympathy which the situation demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-spa-conference/article32026596.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Doctors for the villages||While it is fortunate that medical education is popular and the number of doctors is steadily increasing, the Government is rather concerned over the concentration of qualified doctors in the towns, leaving the rural areas unserved. Thus it is estimated that, though by the end of the current Plan the number of doctors will rise to 1,38,000 so that there will be one doctor for every 4,300 persons (even this is much below the accepted norm), 80 per cent of the doctors will practise in the towns where only 20 per cent of the people live. Some 450 newly built Primary Health Centres in the rural areas are without doctors and many more have only one doctor instead of two. A two-day conference of vice-chancellors of universities, deans of medical colleges and representatives of the Indian Medical Council and the State Governments has just been held at New Delhi under the auspices of the Ministry of Health to consider this and related problems. Two suggestions made were that service in the villages should be made a condition of promotion for government doctors and that five per cent of the seats in medical colleges should be reserved for those who agree to serve in the villages after getting their degrees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/doctors-for-the-villages/article32026597.ece
09 July 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||Rain dampens cricket’s return||After a 116-day absence, international cricket returned in familiar fashion on Wednesday as rain delayed the first Test between England and West Indies before the host lost Dom Sibley for 0 and then reached 35 for one as bad light brought an early tea. Players from both teams “took a knee” for the Black Lives Matter (BLM) campaign before the match started, having observed a minute’s silence to mark the victims of the novel coronavirus and also former West Indies batsman Everton Weekes, who died last week. Stand-in England captain Ben Stokes opted to bat under overcast skies. Only three overs were possible before the rain returned, but that was enough for Shannon Gabriel to take the first wicket of the three-match series as Sibley was bowled by a ball he left but which cut back to clip the off-stump. After further rain delays, England eventually settled to its task. Burns was not out on 20 and Joe Denly on 14 when bad light brought them off half-an-hour before the scheduled tea break. Kemar Roach was the pick of the West Indies bowlers, giving up two runs from his six overs. No place for Broad England’s top end batting remains something of a work in progress but the strength in depth of its bowling options was illustrated by the decision to leave seamer Stuart Broad out of a home Test match for the first time since 2012. Pace duo Jofra Archer and Mark Wood will spearhead the attack. Variations This series will feature many variations from a regular Test due to the virus restrictions. There are home umpires, first time in England since 2002, and each team will have three referrals instead of two per innings. Players are not allowed to use saliva to polish the ball and umpires will not take jumpers and caps from bowlers.  The playing XIs: England: Ben Stokes (Capt.), Rory Burns, Dom Sibley, Joe Denly, Jos Buttler (wk), Zak Crawley, Ollie Pope, James Anderson, Jofra Archer, Mark Wood, and Dominic Bess.   West Indies: Jason Holder (Capt.), Kraigg Brathwaite, John Campbell, Shai Hope, Shamarh Brooks, Jermaine Blackwood, Shane Dowrich (wk), Roston Chase, Kemar Roach, Shannon Gabriel, and Alzarri Joseph .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rain-dampens-crickets-return/article32026742.ece
09 July 2020||Southampton,||Pace legend Holding delivers stirring message against racism||An emotional Michael Holding didn’t hold back as he delivered a powerful message against racism on Wednesday, asserting that the black race has been dehumanised and its accomplishments wiped off from a history “written by people who do the harm”. Holding, who will retire from commentary at the end of next year, talked about racism as cricket waited to restart after the pandemic-enforced break with the first England-West Indies Test. Dehumanisation It’s a match in which players from both the sides will sport ‘Black Lives Matter’ logos on their jerseys to make a statement against racism following global protests triggered by African-American George Floyd’s death at the hands of a white police officer. “...when I say education I mean going back in history. What people need to understand, these things stem from hundred years ago,” the pace great said on Sky Sports . “The dehumanisation of black race is where it started and people will tell you that’s a long time ago, get over it. No, you don’t get over things like that and the society has not gotten over something like that,” he said. The 66-year-old said over the years, people have been brainwashed by an education system that portrayed black race negatively and refused to acknowledge its contribution to humanity’s advancement. “History is written by the conqueror not by those who are conquered, history is written by people who do the harm not by those who get harmed... We are being brainwashed, not just black people, white people are being brainwashed in different ways,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pace-legend-holding-delivers-stirring-message-against-racism/article32026733.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anand to play in Legends of Chess||True to his stature, Viswanathan Anand will take his place in the Legends of Chess event on the million-dollar Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour this month. The five-time World champion, along with Vladimir Kramnik, will join the other elite players, headed by Carlsen, in the $150,000 online event from July 21 to August 5. Speaking to The Hindu , Anand said, “The invitation has been around for a couple of weeks and I finally convinced myself that it would be worth playing. I have played so little this year that I kind of felt it’s good to push myself back. It’s a very interesting field, multi-generational, and I hope I will play well.”  Asked about the added challenges in playing online with the new generation of players, Anand said, “Well, I’ll find out.” The event will be the fourth leg of the Chess Tour that culminates with the $300,000 Grand Final from August 9 to 20. So far, Carlsen has won two titles and in between, Russian youngster Daniil Dubov claimed the other. Besides Anand and Kramnik, four other players — Carlsen, Anish Giri, Ian Nepomniachtchi and Ding Liren — have qualified to be in the field by virtue of being the semifinalist of the Chessable Masters last weekend. Other names will be released shortly. Praising Carlsen for his part in bringing the Chess Tour, Anand said, “Of course, (Magnus) Carlsen should be congratulated for what he has managed with this Tour. “Also, the St. Louis Chess Club experimented with this new format of clutch chess. This will be useful because, perhaps, some of these formats will stay in the future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-to-play-in-legends-of-chess/article32026729.ece
09 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sowjanya hopes to make the break count||Reigning national women’s singles tennis champion, B. Sowjanya, is looking at the positive side of lockdown and focusing on explosive training to improve power and performance to be a much better player as and when the sport resumes. The 26-year-old Sowjanya, who is coached by her husband and former national men’s singles champion Suresh Krishna, said the long break has really helped her make a critical review of her performances in the preceding six months before the lockdown. Huge plus “Yes, Suresh being there with me is a huge plus and we are mostly engaged in strategy training which makes me feel to be there on the court. There is lot of visualisation, some sort of simulated sessions on the finer aspects of the sport, which are proving to be really helpful to me,” said Sowjanya, adding: “These sessions should ensure that I am mentally ready for any challenges.” Sowjanya is also working on her fitness with her trainer Harsha and the day begins for her with yoga, strength training and cardio exercises. “Apart from this, I do a lot of wall practice on the terrace at my place with Suresh doubling up as a sparring partner,” she said. “The major disadvantage is we cannot go to a full-fledged gym because of the restrictions now,” she added. “Well, I am missing the kind of energy and positivity we (the whole Indian team) showed during the Fed Cup which was my first appearance where India made history, making it to the playoffs for the first time. I wish to play many more Fed Cups,” she said. Hopeful of action Sowjanya is hopeful of some tennis action later this year and confident of realising her dream of playing in a Grand Slam next year, with consistent performances in the international circuit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sowjanya-hopes-to-make-the-break-count/article32026967.ece
09 July 2020||KOLKATA,||New normal at National weightlifting camp||The weightlifting National campers at NIS Patiala have gotten used to the new normal as they follow the guidelines issued by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) during their daily training. National coach Vijay Sharma said the training pattern was altered keeping in mind social distancing norms. “Earlier three lifters used to train on one platform. That used to help in loading (of weights) and providing support to fellow lifters. Now one lifter is using one platform. Since light training is going on without the heavy load, it is being managed easily,” Sharma told The Hindu . “We are doing weight training only once a day. A lifter must recover the muscle mass lost (due to the lack of proper training during the lockdown) so that his/her body gets prepared for intense training. Since there is no competition in sight, we need not hurry.” On the norms followed by the athletes, Sharma said, “They wear masks while moving from the hostel to the gym. They take off their shoes and keep them at the designated place and wash their hands before coming into the gym. Then they take off the masks before doing training.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-normal-at-national-weightlifting-camp/article32026892.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Holder is an underrated all-rounder: Tendulkar||Sachin Tendulkar thinks Windies skipper Jason Holder is probably the most underrated all-rounder currently in the world. “Jason Holder is the most underrated all-rounder, because on the field, maybe you will look at Kemar Roach or Shannon Gabriel, but Jason Holder only when you look at the scoreboard, you realise that he has come in and taken three wickets,” Tendulkar told Brian Lara during a chat on his app 100 MB . “He has scored those crucial 50-55 runs when it mattered. He contributes on a regular basis and is a terrific player to have in your team,” added Tendulkar. Holder is only the second West Indies player, after Sir Garfield Sobers, to hold the No. 1 ranking among Test all-rounders and has a career-best 473 points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/holder-is-an-underrated-all-rounder-tendulkar/article32026745.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||AICF factions trade charges over resignation||Within 24 hours of chief selector R.B. Ramesh resigning, the two rival factions in the All India Chess Federation (AICF) traded charges over the development. On Tuesday evening, the faction headed by Venketrama Raja released a statement, blaming Bharat Singh Chauhan, of the rival faction, for interfering in the selection process and causing Ramesh’s resignation. The statement claimed Chauhan insisted on the inclusion of a Delhi player (Tania Sachdev) and “when reminded by Ramesh that the player did not qualify on technical grounds, Mr. Chauhan forwarded the confidential mails directly to the player concerned. Protesting against this, the ex-British chess champion tendered his resignation immediately.” Within a few hours of this statement, Chauhan blamed the rival group for “creating confusion amongst the players and putting pressure on the selection committee”. “Ramesh, in fact, cleared the first team suggested by me and later changed it,” claimed Chauhan. “Player [Tania], who was contacted and included in the team, has the right to know the reasons for excluding her from the team.” Though attempts were made to persuade Ramesh to withdraw his resignation, he maintained a stoic silence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aicf-factions-trade-charges-over-resignation/article32026732.ece
09 July 2020||London,||Chelsea edges thriller against Palace||On a night of spectacular goals in the Premier League, it was a pair of tackles that had the most significant impact on the hard-fought race for Champions League qualification. Chelsea’s 3-2 win at Crystal Palace was only secured thanks to a remarkable last-ditch challenge by centre back Kurt Zouma, who somehow made up ground to divert the ball away as Christian Benteke was about to shoot late in stoppage time. Then, hours later at a rain-soaked Emirates Stadium, Arsenal was leading 1-0 against Leicester and on course for a win when substitute striker Eddie Nketiah was handed a straight red card in the 75th minute. Jamie Vardy equalised nine minutes later to seal a 1-1 draw, dealing a huge setback to Arsenal’s improbable hopes of climbing into the top five. The two results left Chelsea in third place and a point clear of Leicester, which finally dropped to fourth. Juventus missed the chance to take a big step towards a ninth successive Serie A title as it let a two-goal lead slip away in a surprising 4-2 loss at AC Milan. After second-place Lazio lost 2-1 at relegation-threatened Lecce earlier, Juventus could have extended its lead at the top of the table to 10 points with a win on Tuesday.  The results:   Premier League: Crystal Palace 2 (Zaha 34, Benteke 72) lost to Chelsea 3 (Giroud 6, Pulisic 27, Abraham 71); Watford 2 (Dawson 10, Welbeck 55) bt Norwich 1 (Buendia 4); Arsenal 1 (Aubameyang 21) drew with Leicester 1 (Vardy 84).   Serie A: Lecce 2 (Babacar 30, Lucioni 47) bt Lazio 1 (Caicedo 5); AC Milan 4 (Ibrahimovic 62-pen, Kessie 66, Leao 67, Rebic 80) bt Juventus 2 (Rabiot 47, Ronaldo 53).   LaLiga: Celta Vigo 1 (Beltran 49) drew with Atletico Madrid 1 (Morata 1); Valencia 2 (Gomez 30, Kang-In Lee 88) bt Real Valladolid 1 (Garcia 47).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chelsea-edges-a-thriller-against-palace/article32026731.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tennis player’s age certificate cancelled||The Haryana Health Department has cancelled the birth registration of a top-10 boys’ under-16 tennis player in the country, and the police has filed a case on four counts against the player and his parents. The player concerned was found to have used three different birth dates for different purposes, and the original date was three years and three months earlier than the one which allowed him to compete in the under-16 category. Another player’s age was reduced by more than four years, with the help of fabricated documents, as established by the Haryana Police. Proof of age fraud has been presented also in the case of a third player who is a top-5 national rank-holder in the under-18 section and has represented the country. Police investigation A set of parents, whose daughters had been allegedly harassed by trainees of the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) during tennis sessions and tournaments, had initiated the proceedings against five boys who were part of the Chandigarh Academy of Rural Tennis (CHART) and had resided at the Sector-10 Stadium hostel. The police investigation into the same led to the findings on age fraud. The players had been granted bail when the case was originally taken to the Juvenile Justice Board of Chandigarh. The parents were peeved that instead of reprimanding the boys for their misdemeanour, the CLTA had defended them, and furnished bonds through five CLTA officials to secure their bail. AITA response When contacted, the CEO of the All India Tennis Association (AITA), Akhouri Bishwadeep, stated that the matter was being studied by the federation and that a decision would be taken soon. Parents have expressed hope that stringent action would be taken against errant players, to discourage both bad behaviour and age fraud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tennis-players-age-certificate-cancelled/article32026891.ece
09 July 2020||Austria,||Alonso to return to F1||Two-time world champion Fernando Alonso will return to Formula One with Renault for the 2021 season, the team announced on Wednesday. “Renault DP World F1 Team is pleased to confirm Fernando Alonso alongside Esteban Ocon in its driver line-up for the 2021 season,” Renault said in a statement. Alonso, who has notched up 32 wins and 97 podiums in 314 Grand Prix starts, will replace Australian driver Daniel Ricciardo, who is McLaren-bound at the end of this season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alonso-to-return-to-f1/article32026735.ece
09 July 2020||MUMBAI,||CAG’s appeal to apex court||The Compotroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has filed an Interlocutory Application in the Supreme Court, requesting to not be included in the Apex Council of the BCCI and its affiliates as per the apex court-directed administrative reforms of the Board. In its application filed on July 3, CAG has requested the apex court to “modify” its earlier order considering “CAG’s specialisation is audit” and instead utilise CAG for auditing various cricket bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cags-appeal-to-apex-court/article32026736.ece
09 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Humpy, Harika advance||Koneru Humpy bounced back to form at the FIDE Chess.com Women’s Speed Chess on Wednesday. In the third Grand Prix leg, the World No. 2 scored a comfortable 7-3 win over compatriot R. Vaishali, whose campaign came to an end. This was the last leg for the Chennai girl (all 22 players get to play three). Humpy will play in one more leg. Dronavalli Harika, the other Indian in the fray, also moved into the quarterfinals with a crushing 11.5-2.5 victory over Tatev Abrahamyan of the US. World No. 1 Hou Yifan made up for her poor show in the last leg with a 11-3 win over Turmunkh Munkzhul of Mongolia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/humpy-harika-advance/article32026726.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Asia Cup cancelled, says Ganguly||The BCCI president Sourav Ganguly on Wednesday announced cancellation of the Asia Cup T20, scheduled to be held in September, because of the pandemic. “ Asia Cup cancel ho chuka hai, jo September me tha (Asia Cup, which was to be held in September, has been cancelled),” Ganguly told ‘Sports Tak’ in an Instagram live session. The Pakistan Cricket Board, which has the hosting rights, confirmed it has agreed to host the event in 2022 and Sri Lanka is now expected to hold it next year. No decision on IPL Taking about the IPL, Ganguly said: “I don’t know about it as getting a window is important. The T20 World Cup is there and the ICC is trying to make it happen as it generates a lot of revenue for them. Unless we get clear cut directions from the ICC, we can’t say anything about the IPL.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asia-cup-cancelled-says-ganguly/article32026727.ece
09 July 2020||KOCHI,||KBFC signs Goan goalkeeper Albino Gomes||Kerala Blasters FC has signed young Goan goalkeeper Albino Gomes for the Indian Super League. The 26-year-old will join the club from Odisha FC. He had made his ISL debut with Mumbai City FC in 2015 and then played for Aizwal FC on loan in the 2016-17 I-League. “The KBFC has a beautiful vision and I feel I’m at the right place,” said Gomes, who was part of the Indian team in the 2016 AFC under-23 qualifiers.     With the Asian Football Confederation announcing that the AFC under-16 boys championship in Bahrain will now be held from November 25 to December 12, the All India Football Federation plans to resume the national camp for the event in Goa on July 16.  The camp had to be stopped on March 16 after the outbreak of COVID-19. The AFC championship was earlier supposed to begin on September 16.      The Kerala Football Association (KFA) will be conducting the Kerala Academy League (KAL) this season as per the restructured guidelines of the All-India Football Federation (AIFF) The KAL will be held in under-13, under-15 and under-18 age group categories. However, it is mandatory for all academies and clubs in the State to participate in the KAL as only the winners in the respective age group will qualify for the AIFF Youth League for the 2020-21 season. The KFA has asked the academies and clubs in the State to register their players through Central Registration System (CRS) and complete the formalities well in advance to participate in the KAL. All the players should also undergo the Tanner Whitehouse 3 (TW3) test as per the AIFF guidelines. The cut off date for each category is as follows: For under-13: players born on or after January 1, 2008; for under-15: players born on or after January 1 2006 and for under-18: players born on or after January 1, 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kbfc-signs-goan-goalkeeper-albino-gomes/article32027031.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Pranesh becomes IM||Thirteen-year-old M. Pranesh, who hails from the Sekkalai Kottai village of Sivaganga district, became the country’s latest International Master. The IM title was conferred at the second council meet of FIDE on July 3. Pranesh got his final norm at the Aeroflot Open in Moscow in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranesh-becomes-im/article32026741.ece
09 July 2020||CHENNAI,||A forty-year-old puzzle about production of lithium in stars is solved||A forty-year-old puzzle regarding the production of lithium in stars has been solved by Indian researchers. Stars, as per known mechanisms of evolution, actually destroy lithium as they evolve into red giants. Planets were known to have more lithium than their stars — as is the case with the Earth-Sun pair. However, leading to a contradiction, some stars were found that were lithium-rich. The new work by Bharat Kumar, currently a post-doctoral fellow at the National Astronomical Observatories of China, Beijing, and an international team of co-workers shows that, in fact, when stars grow beyond their Red Giant stage into what is known as the Red Clump stage, they produce lithium in what is known as a helium flash and this is what enriches them with lithium. The study was published in the Nature Astronomy on July 7. The Sun, for instance, has about a factor of 100 lower amount of lithium than the Earth. About 40 years ago, a few large stars were spotted that were lithium-rich. This was followed by further discoveries of lithium-rich stars, and that posed a puzzle — if stars do not produce lithium, how do some stars develop to become lithium-rich? “The planet engulfment theory was quite popular. For example, Earth-like planets may increase the star’s lithium content when they plunge into [their] star’s atmosphere when the latter become Red Giants. I was not comfortable with this idea,” said Professor Eswar Reddy, Director of India Thirty Meter Telescope Centre, Indian Institute of Astrophysics, Bengaluru, who led the study. Prof. Reddy has been working on this puzzle for nearly 20 years now, and had, along with his students, devised a method of measuring lithium content using low-resolution spectra in a large number of stars, with facilities provided at the Indian Institute of Astrophysics. For the present study, the group studied over 200,000 stars using the Galactic Archaeology survey of the Anglo-Australian Telescope. This is the first study to demonstrate that lithium abundance enhancement among low mass giant stars is common. Until now, it was believed that only about 1% of giants are lithium rich. Secondly, the team has shown that as the star evolves beyond the Red Giant stage, and before it reaches the Red Clump stage, a helium flash produces an abundance of lithium. Lastly, they set a lower limit for helium abundance which will classify the star as “lithium-rich”. This value is about 250 times lower than the previous limit. The study challenges the present understanding of nucleosynthesis in stars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/a-forty-year-old-puzzle-about-production-of-lithium-in-stars-is-solved/article32026723.ece
09 July 2020||DUBAI,||Hopping his way to a record||A total of 101 hops over a stationery ruler within 30 seconds brought Dubai-based Indian teenager Soham Mukherjee a Guinness World Records title. Hailing from New Delhi, Soham managed to break the previous record of 96 hops in 30 seconds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/hopping-his-way-to-a-record/article32026725.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 11:53 IST,||Sudoku - July 9, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-9-2020/article32028433.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||A leap of FAITH||Over-the-top streaming platforms are without a doubt the flavour of the season, especially with theatres being shut during lockdown. As demand for original content remains high, more individuals and businesses are venturing into digital streaming verticals; chief among them are Tamil film producers who see the investment as an opportunity to gain a bigger cut of the profits, something that was not possible when theatres were still in the picture. The latest to make a ‘digital foray’ is CV Kumar of Thirukumaran Entertainment production banner whose pay-per-view (PPV) streaming service, Regal Talkies, is set to launch next week. Kumar claims that he had been toying with the idea for a while but had not acted on it due to “apprehensions” that the audience may not accept a new platform. “Since the lockdown period has shown there is support for subscription-based streaming services, I thought this was the best time to launch,” he says. Excerpts from an interview: Is there a need for a PPV service? There is no dearth for good stories here. However, we are only able to tell these stories within a measure because to produce a feature film is expensive. Publicity cost has increased drastically. The multiplex culture has given space for other language films to dominate screens. In rural areas, theatres don’t earn revenue unless it is a star’s film. And so without good publicity, it is hard to position a film with good content; that is, if at all the film manages to get a theatrical release. Good content films tend to pick up pace with word-of-mouth publicity. Some of your films are examples... like Pizza . Most small films don’t get a big opening like star films. By the time word-of-mouth and good reviews start to get around, the distributor share would have gone down from 50-50 to 40-60 and 30-70 [%] in the second week.    Pizza was running to packed houses in some of the biggest multiplex screens, sometimes making as much as Rs. 1 lakh per show. But do you know how much of it I received? Around Rs. 22,000. So, Regal Talkies is a platform for indie and small-budget features affected by the theatrical release system? Yes, because the main issue in a theatrical system is that producers don’t earn a fair share of the revenue. Most small budget productions, my films included, don’t release overseas. It releases on an OTT platform or a PPV service. The Tamil diaspora watches these films through such platforms. Is your target demography the diaspora audience? My audience will be those who want to watch good content films. Look, there was this film I previewed in 2016; it was made on a budget of nearly Rs. 1.5 crore. Forget making money at the box office, it was doubtful of getting a theatrical release. Now imagine such films releasing here and we set a nominal fee of 100. Let’s assume one lakh people watch it. The producer stands to make Rs. 1 crore. This is the best option for such films. Who sets the PPV fee? We consult the producer and set a fee that we deem is fair for the content the audience will watch. What is the launch line-up? We will be premiering with Miruna , a romcom directed by Rakav Mirdath, the writer of Baaram , and Thadayam starring Linga. On July 24, there will be Onbathu Kuzhi Sampath starring Nikhila Vimal. The idea is to release at least two or three fresh films every month. Launching Regal Talkies is a bold move. There is as much to go wrong here as it can go right since it is a cash guzzling venture... Yes, from the outside it may seem like the content business is easy going but the data expenses these platforms incur is huge. There is something called Content Delivery Network (CDN). I need a CDN service like Akamai or Wowza if I am to deliver my content to a worldwide audience; for that we have to commit to ‘X’ TB of data and pay in advance because if you spend 2GB data watching a film, I too am expending the same from my side to provide that content. I have taken this on with some belief and confidence. What about your film projects? You had started a slew of them before lockdown... All my five projects were shot for 10-15 days before lockdown was announced; this includes a horror flick with Ashwin Kakumanu and Kaali Venkat, and another with Shivada Nair and Ramya Pandian. There are two fully finished films — 4G with GV Prakash Kumar and Titanic Kadhalum Kavundhu Pogum with Kalaiyarasan — and Jango is in the post-production stage.  How to access? The PPV service is accessible via website (regaltalkies.com), and will soon be available to download as a mobile app on iOS via App Store and on Android via Play Store. After signing up via email, the app will present a list of shortfilms and movies available in its library. You can book a ‘show’ just like you would at the theatre. The fee for a show ranges from Rs. 20 to Rs. 50 and is priced according to the nature of content and its age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-leap-of-faith/article32026536.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Abandoned love||Theirs is a happy family of four: dad, mom and two brothers. The sprightly younger sibling is the innocent one; he loves playing a game of frisbee with his family at the beach every evening. When the lockdown happened, it put an end to his favourite pastime. His dad did not go to work, was often gloomy and even got into a fight with his neighbour over something. His brother was in tears all the time after this episode; this was in additon to his mom avoiding all contact with him. One day, his dad took him to the beach with a frisbee. The streets were empty but the joy on the little one’s face knew no bounds. Once there, dad threw the frisbee as high as he could; he ran and caught it and turned around, hoping to see a proud dad. But he could see no one. This is the story of Julie, “the street dog” depicted in the animated short Frisbee — An Untold Neighbourhood Story , one of the many cautionary tales about people abandoning pets during lockdown. The brain behind the shortfilm, which was uploaded to YouTube a few days ago, is Chennai-based digital marketer Lokesh Jey. The 34-year-old, a resident of West Mambalam, says that he was inspired to make the short from personal experience. “I cook rice and chicken for street dogs near my home and office, and feed them late at night. I also feed them biscuits early in the morning, and usually, at this time of the day, you can spot dogs randomly tied to lamp posts and auto sheds. These are mostly abandoned pets. I spotted one a few weeks ago. He was just six months old and was tied to a post,” says Lokesh. He brought the dog to his office building since most offices are shut, and decided to let him stick around, taking him out for walks. “I wanted to keep him for sometime just in case his owner came looking for him. I shared pictures of him on social media. He was hyper for a few days but eventually settled down near my office. A few days later, he went missing. I searched the locality but could not find him. He was my inspiration to pen this film,” Lokesh adds. The film plays out from the dog’s perspective with a child voice artiste doing the narration. Lokesh says he intended to make it play out the way it does — where the viewer is led to believe that it is a child narrating his story before the plot reveal. “I wanted people to look at this issue as someone abandoning their child due to financial issues. When the reveal is made, it strikes a strong chord,” he says, adding that the decision to not make a live action short was because he did not want to employ real dogs as there is “an element of abuse” involved in “training” a dog. “If at least two people do not abandon their pets after watching my film, I will be happy. I don’t know if it is a lack of bonding or the sense of fear that causes one to abandon their pets. People have concerns like what if the virus sticks to the dog’s feet when they take it out for a walk, but the fact is that pets cannot spread the virus. We are the ones that need to be careful, wear masks and maintain physical distance,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/abandoned-love/article32026580.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Locked out||Sprinter Dutee Chand entered 2020 with a dream — to bring home a medal from the Tokyo Olympics. With a support team of 10 members that includes a coach, assistant coaches, physiotherapists, and nutritionists, Dutee was training eight hours a day to qualify for the event. But all that came to a standstill when the Government announced a lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19. Then, Olympics 2020 was postponed to July 2021. “But the damage is already done. The last time I did not train for two months was when I was banned in 2014. It took me more than a year to gain back my momentum, so this lockdown is definitely going to impact my performance,” says the 24-year-old sprinter who clinched silver in the women’s 100-metres at the Jakarta Asian Games in 2018. For the past few months, it has been a world without sports — except for football, which started in May in a few European countries but without spectators. Deprived of their training facilities and adjusting to changed schedules, the country’s sportspersons are having a challenging time. While the Government has allowed stadiums to open with several restrictions, normalcy is a far cry. “It has been 15 days since I started coming to the stadium, a lot of time goes into temperature checks and sanitisation, but I won’t complain since that is the need of the hour. Currently, I have started only two hours of training as I do not want to strain my body. With time I am planning to increase the practice duration,” says Dutee who has been training at the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar. Maintain momentum The long break may have hampered her training as far as playing the sport is concerned, but world badminton champion PV Sindhu has ensured that she maintained the desired fitness levels. She has been following the fitness regimen of her trainer M Srikanth Verma and training at home under the supervision of her father and former volleyball international player PV Ramana. “I don’t see any reason to be worried on the fitness count. It is just a question of time before I am back to my peak with the racquet too once training resumes,” she says over phone from Hyderabad. It is no different for Indian women’s ODI cricket captain Mithali Raj. “Yes, in fact, the break helped me stay more focussed on my fitness, working on things which I would have otherwise ignored,” she says. “Luckily, I could even resume training at St. John’s Foundation in Hyderabad with a couple of boys bowling to me in the nets. It is always a great feeling to be back knocking the ball around,” Mithali adds, “Having played for so long (21 years of international cricket), we are aware of the challenges once we are back to playing the game at that level and have been consciously working on a programme to be ready for any task.” Former world number one shuttler Kidambi Srikanth and the world championship bronze medallist B Sai Praneeth too echo a similar opinion. Like all shuttlers of Gopi Academy (except Sindhu), this duo is also training online daily with the help of renowned fitness trainer Dinaz Vervatwala. Chief national coach P Gopichand is confident that it should not take more than three weeks for his players to find the kind of form with the racquet which makes them a formidable force. “Fortunately, every player is taking care of his or her fitness regimen. That is the key,” he says. For young shooter Esha Singh, named in the core group of Indian shooters preparing for the next Olympics, it is no different even as she has the huge advantage of her own ‘shooting range’ at home in Hyderabad. “I believe that staying focussed is the key during such long breaks and I am fortunate to keep training consistently. It should not be an issue when I am back in the circuit,” she says. Visakhapatnam-based skater Priyam Tated who represented India at the World Cup Figure Skating Championship in Spain in 2019 does not remember the last time he was away from the rink for this long. He started skating at the age of three and has participated in over seven international events. He keeps himself busy by hosting Zoom workout sessions for fellow skaters. These sessions also help him stay fit. “After the pandemic, protocols will no longer be the same. I am wondering how it will be to play a sport without having spectators to watch and cheer us on. Skating as a sport will undergo changes as they will have to keep sanitising the skates and rinks. But these are our speculations, only time will tell how much the lockdown will cost us,” says the 16-year-old recipient of the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, 2019.  (With inputs fromVV Subrahmanyam)   Deprived of their training facilities and adjusting to changed schedules, the country’s sportspersons are having a challenging time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/locked-out/article32026576.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||A cheesy embrace||The last thing I remember is March. Two weeks of glorious crowded malls, packed bars and lively offices. Everything has been a COVID-tainted, Zoom-fuelled, sourdough-scented blur since then. Unbelievably, we are already in July: halfway through 2020. Admittedly, time has seemed static for many of us, with days merging into each other, as we impatiently try to wait out the pandemic and punctuate its darkness by sharing home-cooked meals with friends via Dunzo. For the hospitality industry, however, every day has been a challenge as they have fought to stay afloat, pivoting endlessly to stay relevant to a clientèle that cannot leave home. Now that the initial wave of panic has passed, and you aren’t dousing every peanut that comes through your door with hand sanitiser, this is a good time to take a look at how the restaurant industry is working on making eating in almost as much fun as dining out. With so much on offer, navigating through the options is becoming a challenge. We are here to help. Every week, this column will explore the city’s rapidly-changing culinary landscape, givingyou ideas on what to order, cook and eat.    Cloud kitchens are having a moment — and this is great for customers. Without having to pay high rents and other restaurant overheads, entrepreneurs and chefs can create high quality meals at competitive prices. JK Pizzeria has a second advantage. Its founder, Narayan P, also runs JK Enterprises, which supplies many of the city’s hotels and restaurants with gourmet cheese, bacon and other luxury ingredients. (Here’s one more useful tip: they are available on Swiggy now, so you can order everything from smoked salmon to truffle oil to stock your probably-depleted lockdown larder.) The 11” pizza, which arrives in plastic-free packaging, is as satisfying as a hug. There’s a dash of polenta in the dough to give these thin crust pizzas a crusty edge. No skimping on the cheese here; and they use a variety. Mozzarella, of course, but also parmesan, pecorino, feta and cheddar. The menu is succinct but includes classics such as Margherita and pepperoni, as well as pop favourites like butter chicken and paneer tikka.Find them on Zomato and Swiggy. Or order via Dunzo.   “It’s crispy, tangy, spicy,” says Nikesh Lamba, of Pricol Gourmet, explaining why they decided to launch Mex Bowl. Mexican food, with its rice, beans and smoky chipotle peppers, has a reassuring familiarity. It is also flexible enough to adapt for a cloud kitchen format, which demands food that travels well, and is hence unfussy and robust, with bold, resilient flavours. Pricol Gourmet, best known for popular brands Double Roti, Soy Soi and Savya Rasa has been busy through lockdown strengthening their cloud kitchens, which include Bangkok Bae as well as Crust and Cheese. Mex Bowl offers what Nikesh calls “comfort Mexican” at a competitive price point. Their substantial Chipotle chicken bowl is a cheery burst of flavours, with sweet corn, scrambled eggs, black beans, tortilla crisps and creamy shredded chicken. The highlight however, are tacos loaded with meat and a slew of fixings, all blanketed in cheese sauce. Followed by quesadillas, also oozing cheese. Yes, cheese is a recurring theme. But in a world battered by wave after wave of bad news, it’s a comforting security blanket. Besides, from the looks of it we aren’t going to need our skinny jeans for a while.  This weekly column tracks the city’s shifting culinary landscape. Heard of a new food venture? Tell me: shonali.m@thehindu.co.in    After the first few adrenalin-fuelled months in the kitchen the charm of elaborate cooking and baking is beginning to fade. Sure, making cheesecake from scratch is gratifying. But, all that whipping, blending and baking ceases to be fun at the end of yet another busy day of balancing WFH and the Work At Home. Fortunately, the city has a growing number of home bakers offering a wide variety of cakes, puddings, cookies and more. Tanvi Bokaria aka The Stubborn Baker is weaving everything she has learnt about pastry, from some of the world’s best kitchens, into inventive, ambitious desserts, from caramel-dark chocolate cookies to orange-saffron madeleines. After six months at Cordon Bleu in London, she attended the Culinary Institute of America, in New York. She then worked with Le Bernardin and the Michelin 3-star 11 Madison Park. Building on her experience and strong pastry skills, Tanvi is experimenting with seasonal ingredients in her home kitchen. For now, there is a new cheesecake every week: strawberry balsamic, blueberry lemon, caramelised banana and mango-lime. Check out her Instagram page, @pastrycheftanvi for more information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-cheesy-embrace/article32026548.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||View from a Triplicane terrace||Her hair is splayed behind her as she rests on a pillow on the floor. A clothesline heaves with wet clothes in a terrace crowned by an overcast sky. She dries her hair by the table-fan, seated on the floor, sending tufts billowing behind like a cape. A mother and daughter lounge on a mat on the terrace one evening, as dried clothes sent astray by the wind float behind them. Wedding photographer Pon Prabakaran’s lockdown story from his Triplicane home is poetic by remaining austere. The 29-year-old found himself stuck indoors after a long time due to the pandemic. “I am usually travelling on shoots, and my mother Chandra, who is a babysitter, is working all day. My sister goes to college,” he says. Suddenly, all three of them were at home together. The photographer that he is, Prabakaran documented these out-of-the-ordinary days as photos. “I didn’t use my camera since I didn’t want my mother and sister to feel conscious,” he says. He used his mobile phone camera, and the results are fascinating. Prabakaran recently shared them on his Facebook account. Apart from being a photographer’s take on life under lockdown, the photos also document life in a typical Triplicane home. “Our house is on the busy Bells Road,” he says. But now, with visibly less-traffic, all he can hear is the occasional siren of the ambulance and morning and evening prayers from a nearby mosque. “For me, the lockdown has not been all that unbearable. We play cards and carrom at home, share everyday chores; in the evenings, we head to the terrace. We get a lot of sea breeze there; we sit down, chat, play another game of cards or Ludo…” It is all there in his photos. Prabakaran’s mother, however, was not all that happy with some of his photos. “She got me to take down some from Facebook,” he laughs. “My father was a photographer, and she is used to his style, in which we dressed up and posed for the camera.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/view-from-a-triplicane-terrace/article32026557.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The jam must go on||“ Swat Kats and Johnny Quest had the coolest cartoon tracks of their time. The Swat Kats track can exist on its own, it doesn’t even need the cartoon,” says Vikram Vivekanand, guitarist of Chennai band Indosoul. The band’s joyous fusions centred around Indian classical music are a far cry from the jet-set action movie vibe of Swat Kats, but that did not stop Vikram from adding his bit to Skrat frontman TT Sriram’s now-viral cover of the track. The cover — put up by Sriram on his Instagram page in June — was first picked up by city drummer Vinay Ramakrishnan, followed by Vikram, and then Conrad Simmons, each of whom added their own bit to both sound and video, to the delight of the ‘90s kids on their timelines. This was among the more popular impromptu collaborations to have taken place in Chennai’s music circles since the COVID-19 lockdown first took place in March. Virtual collaborations have been steadily underway for months, and have resulted in the release of numerous originals. But amid all that work, there has also been a smattering of good old, laidback fun. Cartoon covers, guitar challenges and more have continued to take place virtually, and though they are poor substitutes to the energy that is shared when musicians jam together, they are substitutes nonetheless. Says Vinay over a phone call, “In all honesty, I just stole the track from Sriram’s Instagram, downloaded it and played to it. I sent the video back to him and it just took off from there. The track is fun to play, because of the nostalgia.” It helps that the music circle is an interwoven one, he adds, “Vikram, Conrad and I have played together on different stages, with different groups and acts. Sriram has also been part of that same circuit, and along with many other Chennai musicians we have grown up performing together at various competitions and shows. So in terms of collaborations, everyone is up for it: it’s just whoever and whenever now.” In fact, Vinay also set up a “lockdown band” called Wascally Wabbit with Vikram Vivekanand on guitars and Aravind Murali on bass. “We have done a rearrangement of Nirvana’s ‘Smells Like Teen Spirit’. In a few days, Wascally Wabbit will be sharing another cover/rearrangement featuring Aum Janikiram (from the band Blues Conscience) on vocals,” he says. Another musician who has been keeping the fun going is Matt Bacon, part of the Western Classical Music faculty at KM Music Conservatory. Matt, along with Mumbai-based musician Lokesh Bakshi, put together a series of social media challenges on Instagram from March to June, organised by Procraft India, a brand of music instruments. On their toes Says Matt via email, after a long day of virtual music classes, “The challenges ended with a collaboration between Lokesh and myself, organised through Procraft, who is our sponsor. It was great to have them on board, because we had several challenges — from arranging Beatles and Bollywood songs to ‘Ace the Cover’ to keep students inspired to practice. Each contest had a prize guitar and/or amp up for grabs, and we’re proud to announce that, despite the lockdown, most prizes have been delivered. The track we produced [in the end] was well received and made it onto an editorial playlist on Spotify India.” Virtual collaborations are not new — Vinay’s #mottaijams have featured musicians from around the world since last year — but during lockdown, it seems to be helpful in keeping the creative juices flowing. Adds Matt, “Regardless of the lockdown situation, I’d still be doing these collaborations with Vinay and the Chennai crew because they are fun guys to play with! We released a Led Zeppelin cover with Orlando [Ambrose], who won the Nexa Music series, and it got tens of thousands of views, so we’ve got some ACDC and Guns N Roses coming next. Obviously, we’d prefer to be playing in person at Radio Room or Barracuda Brew, but in the downtime, this keeps us fresh on our set!”  Listen Up   Offstage has a rap battle challenge underway on its Instagram page, with enthusiasts free to either send in their entries or vote  Chennai-based Mr Kev’s Quarantino Album is set to feature a number of his fellow musicians. The first track, a collaboration with Anand Kashinath, was released in May. Rapper Blaae has had some fun with his art over the past few months, rapping out everything from kitchen recipes to portions of The Ramayana .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-jam-must-go-on/article32026566.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Is this for Reel?||If you were up last night scrolling through an updated version of Instagram, you may have noticed a new feature called Reels. Launched across the country at 7.30 pm on July 8, Reels is a short-form video feature, embedded in the Instagram camera, which comes with its own set of new creative tools. In a walkthrough of Reels via Zoom, Instagram’s head of product, Vishal Shah, explains, “One thing that we are hearing loud and clear from the people that use Instagram, is that the ability to watch short-form video is a really important part of the experience, but we haven’t really given them an easy way to create the short form.” With Reels, Instagram users can express themselves while entertaining others, whether by trying out a fun new dance or spreading the message on something they care about. People can record and edit 15-second multi-clip videos, with various creative tools on Reels; share them with their followers on Feed; and if they have a public account, make their Reels available to the wider Instagram community through a new space in Explore. Instagram wants to open this feature up to all their users equally; a point of contention for other areas on the platform; for example, some facilities for IGTV and Stories are different across users based on followers. Vishal explains there are no plans to monetise Reels right away. Ajit Mohan, vice-president and managing director at Facebook India adds, “We have the opportunity to spark light with a new generation of creators and hopefully be able to build global stars from India.” This may also allude to the massive content migration happening from TikTok to Instagram. Air of TikTok? Ultimately, Reels is a little TikTok-esque, and its unveiling is timely given the ban of TikTok (along with 58 other Chinese apps) in India, though Vishal says this feature has been in the works for about a year now. One concern for users may be the safety aspects of such a feature, as it was with TikTok over the recent years. Vishal explains Instagram’s investment in safety integrity has been a priority, particularly “all the work we are doing are from a human moderation perspective but also from a technology perspective to ensure the systems are state-of-the-art. We have built the most sophisticated content moderation system. For Reels, those systems get to be used from day one.” As Instagram continues to roll out more features users worry that the platform will fall under the same curse as Facebook. Vishal explains, “Part of my core responsibility is to keep Instagram as simple as we can; and as we add new things, that is inherently adding complexity and more weight to the atmosphere.” He continues, “As we’re rolling out something new, we think about how that one product or one feature not just evolves itself, but how it impacts the rest of Instagram — it has to be part of the ecosystem, so it takes us a few product development cycles to make sure.” But Vishal also comments that Instagram is not shy about unshipping and removing features if the company believes that it is the right thing to do.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/is-this-for-reel/article32026570.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The man by the window||Every day, for 15 years, after he got back home from work at the AG’s office, K Sivaramakrishnan headed straight to the window in one of the rooms of his family’s 35-year-old-home. From there, he sold crispy potato and plantain bajjis , fluffy vadais , and golden-brown bondas , to customers waiting outside on Ponnambala Vathiyar Street in Mylapore. The 58-year-old passed away recently. “It was only after he died that we found out he had COVID-19,” says his brother-in-law K Sargunanathan. The owner of the space, popularly known as ‘jannal kadai’, is K Chandrasekaran, Sivaramakrishnan’s older brother. “Sivaramakrishnan helped run it from his spot at the window,” remembers Sargunanathan, adding that he was the face behind the eatery. But behind the well-oiled machinery, are a host of family members who grind chutneys and batter, and refill the basins with hot food. They ensured everything ran like clockwork, and were at the ready by the time Sivaramakrishnan took his place. In a month’s time, the family-run business will resume. Sargunanathan says that he will be joining in full-time.    Jannal kadai is known for its legendary onion chutney. “It does not have any coconut in it,” explains Sargunanathan. For a lot of people, it was a ritual to stop by the blue window as the sun set, nod at Sivaramakrishnan as he handed them their order, dip the piping-hot bajji or bonda into the chutney and eat it, as bells from the nearby Kapaleeswarar temple rent the air. “Drop the waste into the dustbin,” Sivaramakrishnan would instruct curtly as you finished. And you always listened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-man-by-the-window/article32026582.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Tales of Tambaram: How independent filmmaker Viswesh S went local for his lockdown short||The best stories are usually the ones right outside your home. Or your neighbourhood. When 25-year-old Viswesh S stepped outside his house to visit the neighbourhood store for groceries, he was taken aback by what he saw. “I’ve lived in Tambaram for 20 years, and have never seen the area like this,” he says, referring to the lockdown, “Wherever I went, I saw people talking about how it’s very different from before. Everyone felt fear... about other people, about currency notes, about touching goods.” Viswesh sensed that everywhere he went — at the local vegetable vendor, and the bus stand. “The lockdown had changed people’s perspective, but we are looking ahead with hope.” The independent filmmaker-cinematographer decided to do something about it. And then, armed with a camera and accompanied by a small team, Viswesh went about the roads of his neighbourhood to get people and places on film. The result is Namma Tambaram , a six-minute short that tells the tale of this important Chennai neighbourhood and how much it has changed over the past three months. “Tambaram is the entrance to the city. It’s an emotion,” he says. Viswesh has tried to pack all that into his short. The heroes of Namma Tambaram are long-time residents and the local shopkeepers, most of whom have been affected due to the lockdown. There’s Mohammed Iqbal Firdhouse, who has been running a bookstore since 1962, and a few other vegetable vendors, who add that dash of colour to the usually-bustling neighbourhood. “I wanted it to play out like a real-time documentary, capturing the rawness of the visuals,” recalls Viswesh, who shot it in the month of May and subsequently edited and worked on the post production.The film, which released a few days back, has since triggered some major nostalgia among residents and former residents: it has clocked about 45k views on Instagram and more than 100 comments.  Namma Tambaram also captures in detail the biggest change that the neighbourhood has undergone in recent times: the railway station decked with mural art, an effort of illustrator Varshini Ramakrishnan in colloboration with Nissan and NalandaWay Foundation to pay tribute to COVID-19 warriors. “It looks lovely and is a special occasion for our place. But the irony is that it cannot be physically celebrated, in person, by most people due to the lockdown.”  Watch Namma Tambaram on YouTube||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tales-of-tambaram-how-independent-filmmaker-viswesh-s-went-local-for-his-lockdown-short/article32026539.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Nothing skin deep about it||The City is Honda’s most important model in India, and the new fifth-gen model, like its predecessor, boasts an evolutionary design. A lot has changed under the skin. The body shell packs in more tensile strength steel and a stiffer roof section resulting in a 20% increase in torsional rigidity. The petrol engine, while still a 1.5-litre, is a new DOHC unit. Honda’s signature front chrome bar is now thicker while the sharp-looking head and tail lights seem brilliant and offers the new City a contemporary look. At 4,549mm, the car has grown in length but with no corresponding increase in wheelbase. The shoulder line has been moved higher up and it runs the length of the car. Along with the sharp crease across the bottom of the doors, these changes give a nice tension to the body. Touch of class Inside you are greeted by a premium-looking, light brown and black interior. There is generous use of leather in the cabin; the dash and centre console trim are beautifully styled with neat stitching and the well-sculpted front and rear seats look very inviting.. What is nice is that all three rear passengers get three-point seat belts and head restraints, but headroom may be an issue for tall people. Honda has also packed quite a bit of equipment into the new City including a sunroof, a lane-watch camera, rear-view camera, tyre pressure monitor, six airbags, and auto climate control. The instrument panel is a 7.0-inch display with an analogue speedometer needle. The tachometer is all-digital; the screen can also be set-up to display a G-force meter or other trip-related information. The graphics are quite simple and the clarity is brilliant and not distracting like the Hyundai Verna.While the bright and sharp instrument cluster is easy to read, the same cannot be said of the 8.0-inch touchscreen. The use of an optical bonding application to reduce reflection has reduced the screen brightness. There is Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity alongside a new version of Honda’s connectivity tech with additions like remote engine start and pre-cooling. There is also Alexa voice assistant integration. Pulling power Coming to the engines, Honda’snew 1.5-litre DOHC petrol is a real delight. It is not punchy like a turbocharged unit but it is very strong, tractable, and works well at both ends of the rev range. It pulls cleanly from low rpms even in higher gears, and it revs freely until the 7,000rpm redline. This tractability allows you to drive right from 15kph all the way past 150kph in third gear! Compared to the older car, the gear ratios are a bit taller too, letting you hit higher speeds in each gear. The taller gearing, though, means in-gear acceleration is slower, but the CVT offers quicker in-gear times in kickdown. Talking of the CVT, the rubberband effect is very well managed. For regular driving, the rise in revs matches the rise in speed. Honda says it has calibrated the control unit’s software so that the CVT ‘box performs stepped upshifts during acceleration to try to match the vehicle speed with the engine speed and sound. Upon hard braking, the unit is said to shift to lower ratios thus providing engine braking. As for the diesel engine, Honda has improved its NVH levels and it is noticeably quieter. The unit is pretty tractable from low revs and turbo lag is minimal too. Power is muted below 1,500rpm but you don’t really struggle with a lack of response. The diesel posts a 0-100kph time of 12.9sec, compared to the petrol’s 10.20 sec. Ride quality has improved owing to a softer suspension set-up. The City soaks up potholes without crashing through them. The ride is flat and composed at highway speeds. Handling is benign and predictable, which makes the City an easy car to drive. The steering is nicely weighted and the grip from the low-rolling tyres is surprisingly good. Braking performance is good, however, an earlier bite point would have helped. All in all, this is a car that will reward most, except the keenest drivers. Honda has done a tremendous job with the new City; it looks set to leapfrog its rivals but a spoiler could be its price. For the first time in its history, Honda Car India will have two generations of the same car on sale. The current model, with a starting price of Rs. 9.91 lakh, is already pricier than its rivals. Honda may need to position and price the new model smartly to ensure it does not leap out of the segment and contention.  2020 Honda City specifications   LENGTH4549mm   WIDTH1748mm   HEIGHT1489mm   WHEELBASE2600mm   KERB WEIGHT1153 - 1217kg   TYRE SIZE185/55 R16   FUEL TANK CAPACITY40 litres   BOOT CAPACITY506 litres   ENGINE1498cc, 4 cyls, petrol | 1498cc, 4 cyls, turbo-diesel   POWER121hp at 6600rpm | 100hp at 3600rpm   TORQUE145Nm at 4300rpm | 200Nm at 1750rpm  GEARBOX6-speed MT/CVT | 6-speed MT||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/nothing-skin-deep-about-it/article32027090.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s for dinner?||The Praying Mantis ( Mantis religiosa inornata ) is named for its prominent front legs, which bend to assume a position of prayer. A large insect belonging to the family Mantidae or Mantids, this subspecies of the European Mantis, is about 6 cm to 7.5 cm in size and is found across the Indian subcontinent. Poised on a long ‘neck’ is a triangular head, with an ability to turn a complete 180 degrees. This helps the mantis scan its surroundings for prey and any imminent threat nearby. Both males and females have two pairs of wings, but due to the sheer size and weight of the female, its wings do not support flying, while the males are more active and can take short flights. Their hunting prowess and male-female interaction is highly reliant on their ability to see. Vision, being the cornerstone of their survival, is aided by two big bulging compound eyes to detect the slightest movement, and three smaller simple eyes between the two big eyes, to detect light. Another unique feature is the metathoracic ear that processes high and low frequency sounds, even in the ultrasound spectrum. A strategic ambush predatory instinct, exceptional camouflage, patience and lightning fast reflexes often escaping the naked eye, make it one of the most formidable hunters of the insect world. Its earthy tones of green or brown help it hide in plain sight, all the better to stalk its prey patiently. The front legs (also called raptorial legs) are armed with spikes to snare prey and restrain them to avoid a miss-hunt. Moths, grasshoppers, and other insects and invertebrates attract their attention. When threatened by a predator, it stands erect with its raptorial legs raised over its head, to look bigger than it is. Experiments conducted as early as 1904 by Di Cesnola, then a student at Oxford, and a pupil of WFR Weldon, a renowned biologist, showed that the green morph (appearance) were found in areas with green grass, and the brown morph preferred areas with flora that was brown. These experiments formed the basis of our understanding of its the camouflaging purpose of its colouration. In the experiment, cannibalism was also extensively seen, where even the nymphs (juveniles) feed on each other, if given a chance. Its mating behaviour is widely known: The bigger adult female devours the male after, or sometimes during, the mating process, for nutrition. This behaviour doesn’t seem to deter males from reproduction. It does make them wary of the female’s size and strength at times. So males use the ‘stop-and-go’ tactic, which helps them stalk females without being detected. Praying mantises mostly cannot see stationary objects so males generally freeze if they see females move or turn their heads. Though males try and escape as soon as the mating is complete for their own safety, a lot of them end up being eaten. Post mating, females lay hundreds of eggs in an egg-case. With the onset of the monsoon, look out for these stealthy ninjas on plants around you. You’ll see them until the beginning of winter. In Delhi-NCR we sometimes find other mantises like the Indian stick mantis that grows up to 13-15 cm. It walks vertically, unlike a stick insect that has a horizontal posture. There is also the flower mantis that stays on flowers the colour of its body, and the bark mantis that has the colour and texture of the tree bark. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/whats-for-dinner/article32026908.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Locked out||Sprinter Dutee Chand entered 2020 with a dream — to bring home a medal from the Tokyo Olympics. With a support team of 10 members that includes a coach, assistant coaches, physiotherapists, and nutritionists, Dutee was training eight hours a day to qualify for the event. All that came to a standstill when the Government announced a lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19. Then, the Olympics 2020 was postponed to July 2021. “But the damage is already done. The last time I did not train for two months was when I was banned in 2014. It took me more than a year to gain back my momentum, so this lockdown is definitely going to impact my performance,” says the 24-year-old sprinter who clinched silver in the women’s 100-metres at the 2018 Jakarta Asian Games. For the past few months, it has been a world without sports — except for football, which started in May in a few European countries, but without spectators. Deprived of their training facilities and adjusting to changed schedules, the country’s sportspeople are having a challenging time. While the Government has allowed stadiums to open with several restrictions, normalcy is a far cry. “It has been 15 days since I started coming to the stadium. A lot of time goes into temperature checks and sanitisation, but I won’t complain since that is the need of the hour. Currently, I have started only two hours of training as I do not want to strain my body. With time I am planning to increase the practice duration,” says Dutee who has been training at the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar. Maintaining momentum The long break may have hampered her training as far as playing the sport is concerned, but world badminton champion PV Sindhu has ensured that she has maintained her fitness levels. She has been following the fitness regimen of her trainer M Srikanth Verma and training at home under the supervision of her father and former volleyball international player PV Ramana. “I don’t see any reason to be worried on the fitness count. It is just a question of time before I am back to my peak with the racquet too, once training resumes,” she says, over the phone from Hyderabad. It is no different for Indian women’s ODI cricket captain Mithali Raj. “Yes, in fact, the break helped me stay more focussed on my fitness, working on things which I would have otherwise ignored,” she says. “Luckily, I could even resume training at St. John’s Foundation in Hyderabad with a couple of boys bowling to me in the nets. It is always a great feeling to be back knocking the ball around,” Mithali says. “Having played for so long (21 years of international cricket), we are aware of the challenges once we are back to playing the game at that level and have been consciously working on a programme to be ready for any task.” Former world number one, shuttler Kidambi Srikanth and the world championship bronze medallist B Sai Praneeth too echo a similar opinion. Like all shuttlers of the Gopi Academy (except Sindhu), this duo is also training online daily, with the help of fitness trainer Dinaz Vervatwala.  Getting future ready  Chief national coach P Gopichand is confident that it will not take more than three weeks for his players to find their form. “Fortunately, every player is taking care of his or her fitness regimen. That is the key. For young shooter Esha Singh, named in the core group of Indian shooters preparing for the next Olympic games, it is no different, even as she has the huge advantage of her own shooting range at home in Hyderabad. “I believe that staying focussed is the key during such long breaks and I am fortunate to keep training consistently. It should not be an issue when I am back in the circuit,” she says. Visakhapatnam-based skater Priyam Tated, who represented India at the World Cup Figure Skating Championship in Spain in 2019, does not remember the last time he was away from the rink for this long. He started skating at three and has participated in over seven international events. He keeps himself busy by hosting Zoom workout sessions for fellow skaters. These also help him stay fit. “After the pandemic, protocols will no longer be the same. I am wondering how it will be to play a sport without having spectators to watch and cheer us on. Skating as a sport will undergo changes as they will have to keep sanitising the skates and rinks. But these are our speculations. Only time will tell how much the lockdown will cost us,” says the 16-year-old recipient of the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, 2019.  (With inputs fromVV Subrahmanyam)   Deprived of their regular training facilities and adjusting to changed schedules, the country’s sportspersons are readjusting to a new normal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/locked-out/article32026902.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Abandoned love||Theirs is a happy family of four: dad, mom and two brothers. The sprightly younger sibling is the innocent one; he loves playing a game of frisbee with his family at the beach every evening. When the lockdown happened, it put an end to his favourite pastime. His dad did not go to work, was often gloomy and even got into a fight with his neighbour over something. His brother was in tears all the time after this episode; this was in additon to his mom avoiding all contact with him. One day, his dad took him to the beach with a frisbee. The streets were empty but the joy on the little one’s face knew no bounds. Once there, dad threw the frisbee as high as he could; he ran and caught it and turned around, hoping to see a proud dad. But he could see no one. This is the story of Julie, “the street dog” depicted in the animated short Frisbee — An Untold Neighbourhood Story , one of the many cautionary tales about people abandoning pets during lockdown. The brain behind the shortfilm, which was uploaded to YouTube a few days ago, is Chennai-based digital marketer Lokesh Jey. The 34-year-old, a resident of West Mambalam, says that he was inspired to make the short from personal experience. “I cook rice and chicken for street dogs near my home and office, and feed them late at night. I also feed them biscuits early in the morning, and usually, at this time of the day, you can spot dogs randomly tied to lamp posts and auto sheds. These are mostly abandoned pets. I spotted one a few weeks ago. He was just six months old and was tied to a post,” says Lokesh. He brought the dog to his office building since most offices are shut, and decided to let him stick around, taking him out for walks. “I wanted to keep him for sometime just in case his owner came looking for him. I shared pictures of him on social media. He was hyper for a few days but eventually settled down near my office. A few days later, he went missing. I searched the locality but could not find him. He was my inspiration to pen this film,” Lokesh adds. The film plays out from the dog’s perspective with a child voice artiste doing the narration. Lokesh says he intended to make it play out the way it does — where the viewer is led to believe that it is a child narrating his story before the plot reveal. “I wanted people to look at this issue as someone abandoning their child due to financial issues. When the reveal is made, it strikes a strong chord,” he says, adding that the decision to not make a live action short was because he did not want to employ real dogs as there is “an element of abuse” involved in “training” a dog. “If at least two people do not abandon their pets after watching my film, I will be happy. I don’t know if it is a lack of bonding or the sense of fear that causes one to abandon their pets. People have concerns like what if the virus sticks to the dog’s feet when they take it out for a walk, but the fact is that pets cannot spread the virus. We are the ones that need to be careful, wear masks and maintain physical distance,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/abandoned-love/article32026903.ece
09 July 2020||July 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Is this for Reel?||If you were up last night scrolling through an updated version of Instagram, you may have noticed a new feature called Reels. Launched across the country at 7.30 pm on July 8, this short-form video feature, embedded in the Instagram camera, comes with its own set of new creative tools. At the bottom of the Instagram camera, select Reels. You will see creative editing tools on the left side of your screen that you can use.  What is it?  In a walkthrough of Reels via Zoom, Instagram’s head of product, Vishal Shah, explains, “One thing that we are hearing loud and clear from the people that use Instagram, is that the ability to watch short-form video is a really important part of the experience, but we haven’t really given them an easy way to create the short form.” With Reels, Instagram users can express themselves while entertaining others, whether by trying out a fun new dance or spreading the message on something they care about. People can record and edit 15-second multi-clip videos, with various creative tools on Reels; share them with their followers on Feed; and if they have a public account, make their Reels available to the wider Instagram community through a new space in Explore. Instagram wants to open this feature up to all their users equally; a point of contention for other areas on the platform; for example, some facilities for IGTV and Stories are different across users based on followers. Vishal explains there are no plans to monetise Reels right away. Ajit Mohan, vice-president and managing director at Facebook India adds, “We have the opportunity to spark light with a new generation of creators and hopefully be able to build global stars from India.” This may also allude to the massive content migration happening from TikTok to Instagram. Air of TikTok? Ultimately, Reels is a little TikTok-esque, and its unveiling is timely given the ban of TikTok (along with 58 other Chinese apps) in India, though Vishal says this feature has been in the works for about a year now. One concern for users may be the safety aspects of such a feature, as it was with TikTok over the recent years. Vishal explains Instagram’s investment in safety integrity has been a priority, particularly “all the work we are doing are from a human moderation perspective but also from a technology perspective to ensure the systems are state-of-the-art. We have built the most sophisticated content moderation system. For Reels, those systems get to be used from day one.” As Instagram continues to roll out more features users worry that the platform will fall under the same curse as Facebook. Vishal explains, “As we’re rolling out something new, we think about how that one product or one feature not just evolves itself, but how it impacts the rest of Instagram — it has to be part of the ecosystem, so it takes us a few product development cycles to make sure.” But Vishal also comments that Instagram is not shy about unshipping and removing features if the company believes that it is the right thing to do.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/is-this-for-reel/article32026904.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Deferring online examination till after August 15, DU tells HC||Delhi University on Wednesday informed the High Court that the online Open Book Examinations (OBE) for final-year undergraduate students, which were scheduled to begin from July 10, have been deferred to the second half of August. The university submitted before Justice Prathiba M. Singh that it will now hold the exams sometime after August 15. “The sudden change of mind to postpone the exams till after August 15 without a certain date, as per the decision taken by [DU] high-powered committee on July 7, has been placed before the court today,” the High Court order read. ‘Contrary move’ Justice Singh expressed displeasure at the change in stance by DU and questioned the university over its earlier claims about being prepared to hold OBE.  “You are saying you are ready but the minutes of your meeting shows the contrary,” the court noted. DU had earlier postponed the exams from July 1 to July 10. Since the issue concerning OBE is already pending before another Bench of the High Court, Justice Singh placed the bunch of petitions filed on the issue before the Bench of the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court for transferring them to the appropriate Bench. The High Court was also informed by the Centre’s counsel that a fresh Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and office memorandum had been issued by the Ministry of Human Resource Development regarding university exams. As per the SOP, which has been forwarded to the University Grants Commission, universities have been granted time to conduct the exams by September 30. Universities have the option of conducting the exams either online or offline, depending on the nature of preparedness of students, their residential status, and other factors. During the hearing, DU’s counsel told the High Court that the decision to postpone the OBE was taken by a high-powered panel on July 7. One of the petitioners alleged that DU’s Academic Council had not been consulted in any of the decision-making processes. A submission made against the postponement of OBE by one of the final-year students stated that it would lead to inability to avail employment in public sector undertakings as the deadline for submission of mark sheets was July 31. A lawyer for one of the petitioners said he had received over 500 mails from students, many of whom are suffering from mental trauma due to the repeated postponement of exams. The petitioners also raised the issue of difficulty in pursuing postgraduate studies in foreign universities, including the U.S. and the U.K., as transcripts had to be submitted by end of July or early August. They also highlighted that several students were unable to access the portal of the OBE due to the crashing of the website during recent mock tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/deferring-online-examination-till-after-august-15-du-tells-hc/article32026895.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Initial results of survey show ‘high’ seroprevalence in Delhi: officials||After blood samples of over 22,000 people were randomly collected from the city to test for antibodies formed against COVID-19, the initial results of the serological survey showed at least 15% of them have developed antibodies against the virus, according to officials. The data from the survey is still being analysed and a report is yet to be released by the government. “Currently, the positivity rate [of COVID-19] in Delhi is about 9%-10%, but the initial results from the sero-survey is higher and is showing a seroprevalence of about 15%. Also, in one district [of the total 11], which was showing less positivity using other tests, the sero-survey is showing an initial trend of more than 25%,” an official source told The Hindu . Most of the 22,000 samples have been processed. Low risk The source said that a higher seroprevalence is a good sign as it means a larger part of the population has developed antibodies against the virus and chances of them again contracting the virus are very low. Thus, they can break the chain of transmission of the virus and reduce the spread of the disease. The positive results or seroprevalence of some districts are higher and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Delhi government is analysing the data, another official confirmed. “At least in four districts, the seroprevalence is more than 15%,” the official added. The serological survey was started on June 27 and 22,823 random blood samples were collected from people of different age groups and demographics. The blood samples were then tested in about 15 labs using antibody testing kits to understand whether the person was infected by the virus and developed antibodies against it. Virus resistant A positive result would mean that the person has developed antibodies against the virus. So, a seroprevalence of 15% means that 15 out of 100 people tested have developed antibodies against the deadly virus. The serological survey is part of a ‘Revised COVID Response Plan’ by the Delhi government based on the directions from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/initial-results-of-survey-show-high-seroprevalence-in-delhi-officials/article32026934.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police claim school owner played pivotal role in riots||In the chargesheet submitted against Rajdhani School owner Faisal Farooq in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, the police have claimed that he asked his school guards to allow Muslims to use the premises for carrying out violence. The police have charged Mr. Farooq and 17 other people with rioting, attempt to murder, and criminal conspiracy for violence at DRP Public School — located near Rajdhani School — during the riots in February. Alleging that Mr. Farooq played a pivotal role in organising people near his school, the police claimed that he told one Shahrukh Malik, who has also been arrested in the case, to be prepared for any kind of “sacrifice for the community”. The police alleged that Mr. Farooq gave Mr. Malik Rs. 5,000 and directed him to wipe-out “business interests of Hindus”. Responding to the allegations, Mr. Farooq’s advocate R.K. Kochar said: “The police took Shahrukh’s signature on a blank paper and wrote his statement.” The DRP School’s security guard and his wife, and Rajdhani School’s guard are among the witnesses in the case. While the police have stated that the DRP School guard told them that he had ‘heard and seen’ Mr. Farooq directing his own school’s guard to allow Muslims inside the school; the statement given by him to the magistrate on March 11 does not mention Mr. Farooq. The police have also claimed that Mr. Farooq was linked to the Popular Front of India (PFI), Jamia Coordination Committee, member of Pinjra Tod, local Muslim leaders and clerics. Mr. Kochar replied: “The man they have said is Mr. Farooq’s PFI link is his first cousin. One name mentioned as Pinjra Tod member is a journalist with a national daily.” The police have also detailed Mr. Farooq’s links with the Tablighi Jamaat and association with a man who is supposedly close to Nizamuddin centre chief Maulana Saad. In the document, police have stated that one Abdul Aleem is a close associate of Mr. Saad and “by virtue of holding an important position in Tablighi Jamaat, could have played a role in facilitating Mr. Farooq”. “The police have no evidence for any of their claims,” said Mr. Kochar. The police also mentioned Mr. Farooq’s properties as a further link to Tablighi Jamaat. “Maulana Saad rose to power in Tablighi Jamaat in 2014. It has been noticed that Faisal Farooq has also risen in terms of acquisition in real estate in North East District [sic],” the document stated, mentioning seven of Mr. Farooq’s properties. Responding to the allegation, Mr. Kochar said Mr. Farooq’s father has shown all documents to the police during questioning regarding their properties dating back decades ago. Mr. Farooq’s father was a Delhi Police sub-inspector from 1970-78 before he quit and became an LIC agent. Third mention of doctor This chargesheet also happens to be the third one to mention Al-Hind Hospital owner M.A. Anwar. His name comes up twice. The first time under the subhead ‘Maulanas and local Muslim leaders of the area’, referring to people Mr. Farooq was in touch with; and the second time in a flowchart on the same subject mentioning that he has “suspect role in Daryaganj riots too”. Dr. Anwar was unavailable for a comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-claim-school-owner-played-pivotal-role-in-riots/article32026898.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi/Gurugram/Ghaziabad,||Dubey’s surrender speculation keeps police on tenterhooks||Vikas Dubey, wanted for the murder of eight Uttar Pradesh policemen at Bikhru village in Kanpur on the intervening night of July 2-3, continued to give the slip on Wednesday amid arrests and killings of alleged aides. The police said the gangster surfaced in Faridabad on Tuesday, hiding at the house of his distant relatives, father-son duo Shravan Mishra and Ankur Mishra, but slipped away a few hours before the place was raided. Dubey also went to a hotel in Badkhal area to rent a room but left when hotel staff insisted on identity proof, said Faridabad police spokesperson Sube Singh. Speculation over his possible surrender at a court in the national capital led Delhi Police to beef up security on court premises on Wednesday. “Several teams of Delhi Police’s Special Cell and Crime Branch are working to trace local contacts of Vikas. They have put several mobile numbers on surveillance. We are also screening for any old associate of his lodged in Delhi jails,” said a senior police officer. The officer said police in Faridabad, U.P. and Delhi were sharing information related to Dubey and all police stations have been alerted. “We have deployed police personnel in and around courts to arrest Vikas. We have ordered extensive checking at U.P. and Haryana borders. Police have been ordered to check every car crossing the border. The network of informers has been alerted,” the officer said. Noida abuzz By evening, there were conflicting reports of his presence in Gautam Buddha Nagar after he fled from Faridabad, and Noida’s Film City was abuzz with speculation that the gangster has contacted a television news channel and might surrender during a live show. “We barricaded all entry points to Film City and an extensive search operation was conducted. We have deployed police personnel in plain clothes at the office of the media house to nab the gangster,” said a senior Noida police officer. However, Sankalp Sharma, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, denied there was any “specific input” in this regard. “We have increased security in Sector 16 A [where Film City is situated] but there is no information about his presence in Film City,” he said. Sriparna Goungulee, Additional Commissioner of Police, said the entire district was on alert, particularly the border areas. Security was also increased in the district court, she said. In police net While Dubey remained elusive, his alleged close aide Kartikeya alias Prabhat was arrested on Tuesday by the Faridabad police along with Shravan and Ankur. Prabhat purportedly told the police during interrogation that he was involved in the attack at Bikhru village and that he and Dubey fled the spot taking two pistols and cartridges of the injured policemen with them. On the run, the two stayed at the house of a friend in Shivali, U.P., for two days. Prabhat has been handed over to the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force by the Faridabad court on transit remand. The trio was arrested by three crime units of Faridabad Police at New Indira Nagar Complex, Hari Nagar in Nahar Par area after a brief encounter. The accused allegedly opened fire on the raiding team and tried to escape, but were overpowered.  (With inputs from Anuj Kumar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dubeys-surrender-speculation-keeps-police-on-tenterhooks/article32026936.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Bodies swapped: one fired, another suspended||An employee working at the AIIMS Trauma Centre was terminated on Wednesday and suspended another, after two dead bodies got allegedly swapped, according to officials. The hospital has also formed an inquiry committee to look into the issue. On Wednesday, The Hindu had reported that family members of a 35-year-old woman who died of complications related to COVID-19 were shocked on Tuesday when they saw someone else’s body at the graveyard. The family then lodged a complaint at Safdarjung Enclave police station, alleging negligence on the part of the hospital. A senior official at AIIMS on Wednesday said that an inquiry has been initiated into the incident and a project employee has been terminated and a medical lab staff has been put under suspension. An inquiry committee has also been constituted under Dr. T.S. Roy, Head of Department of anatomy. Other members of the committee include Dr. Sanjay Arya and Dr. Lokesh Kashyap. This is the second incident of bodies being swapped at a city hospital. In June first week, the body of a man named Moinuddin was allegedly swapped with that of a namesake at Lok Nayak Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bodies-swapped-one-fired-another-suspended/article32026921.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Now, food delivery agents, domestics to be screened||The Delhi government on Wednesday released a modified COVID response plan under which drivers, domestic workers, plumbers, electricians, carpenters, mechanics among others have been termed as Special Surveillance Groups (SSGs) and will be enlisted and screened. “Districts shall screen SSGs wherever possible. Major points of conglomerations of SSGs in the districts to be compulsorily covered. Identification of points of conglomeration of SSGs in the district and mass disinfection exercise to be carried on a regular basis at all such spots [sic],” the plan stated. Such people visiting Delhi government dispensaries/hospitals/maternity centers and other secondary and tertiary health facilities will be tested as per ICMR guidelines, followed by subsequent surveillance protocol. People delivering food, parcels or post are also part of this group. The revised plan came on a day when 2,033 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,04,864. Also, 48 more deaths have been reported in a single day, taking the toll to 3,213. Nearly 4,000 new cases were reported on June 23. On Wednesday, it was below 3,000 for the twelfth consecutive day. The revised plan also calls for enlistment and screening of High Risk Groups, people who are above 60 years of age and with co-morbid conditions. The revised plan also noted that “a significant number of cases are being reported as isolated cases” and developed a new SOP to deal with such cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-food-delivery-agents-domestics-to-be-screened/article32026925.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Contractual BSES staffer among two arrested for cheating customers||Two people, including a contractual employee of BSES were arrested for allegedly cheating people by extorting money from customers on the pretext of electricity theft, the police said on Wednesday. The accused Rajesh Sool, along with Siaj Khan and other gang members used to cheat people since 2017, the police said. The matter came to light after a complaint by a resident of South Delhi’s Sangam Vihar. He alleged that five people who claimed to be from the BSES had come to his house and taken away the meter saying that the seal of his meter was broken, according to the police. The complainant alleged he received a call from one of them who told him that the meter was checked in a lab which revealed electricity theft. He also threatened that a case will be filed and he will have to pay Rs. 1 lakh fine. The complainant visited the BSES office to enquire about the five persons. After no proper information could be ascertained, he approached the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/contractual-bses-staffer-among-two-arrested-for-cheating-customers/article32026896.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Court tells govt. to clear ambiguity on time taken for testing pregnant women||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Kejriwal government to clear the ambiguity on the exact time taken for COVID-19 testing for priority individuals such as pregnant women, noting that they cannot be made to wait five to ten days to get the test result. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan pointed out that the government’s guidelines was not clear on the actual time taken — when the request for testing is made by a pregnant woman, the samples are collected and the result declared. “For a pregnant woman, who has to go to the hospital to have a baby, she cannot wait for five, six or ten days for the test result,” the Bench remarked. The Delhi government’s counsel argued that the rapid antigen test (RAT) takes only one hour for the result to come. Reacting to the submission, the Bench said, “There is also the concern with rapid antigen test that a negative result may be a false negative result. Therefore, everyone has to go for RT PCR test anyway.” The court also highlighted that the government’s guidelines was also silent on the issue of giving priority testing to asymptomatic pregnant women. It asked the Delhi government’s counsel to seek instruction on the issue and posted the case for further hearing on July 9. The court was hearing a petition seeking that test results of pregnant women be given priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-tells-govt-to-clear-ambiguity-on-time-taken-for-testing-pregnant-women/article32026920.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Virus spread fast due to inaction of State, Centre’||Delhi Congress on Wednesday said that from just one COVID-19 case in Delhi on March 2 to becoming the city with most number of cases, the fast spread of the virus here was due to inaction and incompetence of the Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi and the BJP government at the Centre. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that had strong steps been taken from the outset, the pandemic would not have taken such a vicious hold on Delhi. “Kejriwal and Modi governments wasted precious time and resources in creating COVID-19 beds outside hospitals because had that money been spent on improving the infrastructure and facilities in government hospitals, Delhi would have been in a better position to negotiate the virus,” Mr. Kumar said. He reiterated the demand that Rs. 10,000 be given to those persons who were living in containment zones. The party also announced that it would be launching a fund-raising campaign to help the family of a journalist, who died on July 6, and demanded a time-bound probe to find out the reasons leading to his death. “Delhi government should create a fund to help journalists in distress who are frontline COVID-19 warriors,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/virus-spread-fast-due-to-inaction-of-state-centre/article32026927.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal seeks analysis of COVID-19 deaths in city||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday sought a detailed analysis of COVID-19 deaths in the Capital from Principal Health Secretary Vikram Dev Dutt. Mr. Dutt has been directed to submit a detailed analysis on the factors behind such deaths and further measures to reduce the death rate. The Delhi government will devise concrete steps to reduce deaths in the Capital after receiving this report. Delhi had recorded as many as 120 deaths in a single day in the first week of June which had, till Tuesday, gone down to 50, with the government claiming a sharp decline since the last month.  ‘Stringent measures’ “The detailed analytical report on COVID-19-related deaths in Delhi will aid the implementation of more stringent measures to reduce deaths. It will also help mitigate the other causes that have added to the casualties, such as co-morbidities, age and health condition. This will ascertain the cause of the deaths,” the statement also said. The measures taken by the Delhi government, the statement said, such as the increase in the number of ICU beds in hospitals, installation of more oxygen beds, a plasma bank, had reduced the death rate and the positivity ratio. To bring the death rate to zero, the statement said, the Delhi government will chalk out steps to be taken after obtaining a detailed analysis from the Health Secretary. The Principal Health Secretary assured Mr. Kejriwal that he would soon prepare and submit the analysis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-seeks-analysis-of-covid-19-deaths-in-city/article32026930.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||DU students, teachers condemn delay in exams||Students and teachers unanimously condemned Delhi University’s decision to once again postpone final-year exams. In a notification on its website, DU said the examinations that were to begin from Friday stand postponed and that revised dates would be issued in “due course of time”. Before the High Court, DU said the exams would be held after August 15. This is the second time the online open book exams have been postponed. DU had planned to start the exams by July 1, but on June 27 decided to delay them till July 10. DU Teachers’ Association president Rajib Ray said the repeated postponement proved that online OBE was untenable. “Cancel OBE has been and remains our demand. It is discriminatory, promotes unfair practices and penalises honest students,” he added. “The university, after having failed miserably in conducting mock tests, has resorted to dubious tactic of postponement, putting the mental health of thousands of students at stake,” students’ group AISA said, while retiterating its demand to scrap OBE. The Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad also condemned the decision and said the university was mentally harassing students. Teachers’ group Academics for Action and Development said the exams were an “academic absurdity” based on statutory violations and involved logistical challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-students-teachers-condemn-delay-in-exams/article32026899.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC concerned over ‘corona warriors’ not getting paid||The High Court on Wednesday asked the Delhi government to respond to North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s contention that it has not released entire funds for the first quarter of this financial year for paying salary to employees, including resident doctors. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan expressed concern over ‘corona warriors’ not getting their salary or remuneration on time. The North body stated that around Rs. 162 crore was due to the corporationin the first quarter of financial year 2020-21 and of that, only Rs. 27 crore has been sanctioned. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain, appearing for the Delhi government, disputed the contention saying that in its report filed on July 7, the amounts released to the corporation by various departments have been indicated. The ASG said all dues have been cleared by the Delhi government. The court also clarified that in this particular case, it was only dealing with the non-payment of salaries of the resident doctors of hospitals run by the North body and not all of its doctors and other employees. It had initiated the case on its own based on news reports that doctors of Kasturba Gandhi Hospital have threatened to resign as they have not been paid salaries since March this year. Mr. Jain told the High Court during the hearing that the Delhi government has released Rs. 8 crore to the corporation for payment of the April salary of resident doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-concerned-over-corona-warriors-not-getting-paid/article32026918.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Constable succumbs to deadly virus||A 40-year-old police constable, who was undergoing treatment for liver related complications at a hospital here, passed away 12 days after he was tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Wednesday. Constable Yogender Yadav, who was posted in Paschim Vihar West police station, was admitted in Park Hospital on June 12 due to liver-related ailment. He was then tested positive for COVID-19 on June 25 and passed away on Tuesday, a senior police officer said. He hailed from Balaha Kalan village, Narnaul in Haryana and lived with his family in police colony, Paschim Vihar, he said. He is survived by wife — Rekha (32) and two children —Lakshay Yadav (14) and daughter Akshu Yadav (3), the police said. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal took to Twitter and offered condolences to the family. At least 11 police personnel have died due to the virus so far, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/constable-succumbs-to-deadly-virus/article32026935.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Relevant topics dropped by CBSE: Sisodia||Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that he supported the CBSE’s decision to reduce the syllabus for the academic session 2020-21 in secondary and senior secondary grades. He, however, pointed out that the Board did not explain the process by which the course committee, curriculum committee or the governing body of the CBSE arrived at the decision to remove or include particular topics/chapters. “I would like to know why topics like Democratic Rights and Food Security in India has been removed. Chapters on democratic politics, federalism, and secularism have been completely removed,” Mr. Sisodia said, adding that text on ‘Understanding Partition’ had also been removed from the Class 12 syllabus. “The topics of social science that have been dropped are relevant in contemporary context... it is important that kids learn about it through authentic sources rather than WhatsApp University,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/relevant-topics-dropped-by-cbse-sisodia/article32026897.ece
09 July 2020||New Delhi,||Minister trying to confuse people over free ration: BJP||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Wednesday accused Food & Civil Supplies Minister Imran Hussain of deliberately trying to confuse the people of Delhi in regard to his statement regarding the distribution period of free ration under the Food Security Act being extended till November  “It is wrong to say that the [free ration] schemehas been extended because only the Government of India or Parliament can make changes in the scheme,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minister-trying-to-confuse-people-over-free-ration-bjp/article32026922.ece
09 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNUTA asks||The JNU Teachers’ Association on Wednesday said that it was concerned as COVID-19 infection was reported on the campus but the JNU administration has not come out with any official communication. It added that silence of the administration is “dangerous as well as damning” and demanded that a proper report or bulletin must be issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnuta-asks/article32026928.ece
