11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||No evidence of community transmission: Health Ministry||The Union Health Ministry on Friday denied evidence of community transmission (CT) of COVID-19 while reporting at least 700 new cases since Thursday evening. The nationwide death toll from the epidemic touched 206, and the Ministry confirmed 6,761 positive cases. The Ministry’s response follows an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) report on Thursday of nearly month long surveillance of 5,911 randomly chosen samples of patients who exhibited Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), whom 104 tested positive for COVID-19. All but two were tested between March 21-April 2 and 40 had no history of international travel or contact with someone with travel history but had picked up the infection, indicating community transmission, the ICMR said. Over the last few weeks, there have been reports from several States of people testing positive but who were unable to explain the possible source of the infection. However, the Health Ministry has consistently maintained that this was not evidence for CT. Health Ministry spokesperson Lav Agrawal said all of the cases of SARI were from districts where there were confirmed cases of the disease and that travel histories of those SARI patients were being investigated. “We’ll be the first ones to tell if you if such transmission has begun,” he said. The Health Ministry response comes even as States have announced an extension of the lockdown beyond April 14 citing CT; Chief Minister Amarinder Singh declared on Friday that CT had been observed in Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-evidence-of-community-transmission-health-ministry/article31313973.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||16 more test positive in Telangana||The number of persons testing positive to coronavirus was less than 20 for the second consecutive day on Friday giving breather to the State government which is confident that the number of cases would come down significantly in the coming days. The State registered 16 new cases on Friday, against 18 cases recorded on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases to 430. The number of people discharged stood at 45 and no new deaths were reported, thereby maintaining the total number of casualties at 12. The number of cases since the last two days is lower in comparison with over 30 cases registered daily till Wednesday. Hyderabad recorded eight more cases on Thursday taking the total to 179 cases. Nizamabad with 49 cases including two reported on Friday stood next to Hyderabad while the number of patients in Rangareddy (27), Warangal Urban (23) and Medchal (21) remained the same as on Thursday. There has been increase in the cases in Nirmal district which registered 15 cases and Jogulamba Gadwal district (19) while 10 cases each were reported from Mahbubnagar and Kamareddy dists. Public Health and Family Welfare director G. Srinivas Rao said there was no evidence of community transmission in the State till date and the government has identified 101 hotspots across the State. Containment activity has been taken up in all the districts where positive cases were reported. Meanwhile efforts to trace, track primary and secondary contacts of Delhi returnees continued on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-more-test-positive-in-telangana/article31314275.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Extend lockdown by 14 days: experts||On a day when a team of medical experts recommended that Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami extend the lockdown by 14 days beyond April 14, the State recorded a further 77 cases of COVID-19. Briefing reporters after a meeting with the Chief Minister, Dr. Prabhdeep Kaur of ICMR National Institute of Epidemiology said: “Despite all the efforts taken by the government, cases have been increasing... All the experts feel that it will be good if the lockdown is extended for 14 more days. This is the recommendation of the committee.” The Cabinet, which is meeting on Saturday, may take a call on the issue. On Friday, Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases surged to 911, with the addition of 77 cases. A woman, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment at Thoothukudi, died, taking the total number of deaths to nine. Till date, 44 persons who tested positive have been discharged. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam told reporters that five of the 77 patients had a history of travel, and the remaining were contacts of those with a travel history. All 77 were from areas that were already under containment. Of the fresh cases, 70 were connected to a “single source event” (Delhi conference), according to the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine’s bulletin. Coimbatore reported the highest number of cases with 26 persons — 21 women and five men — testing positive. Twelve persons, including nine women, from Chengalpattu, nine persons each in Chennai and Ranipet, eight from Dindigul, three each from the Nilgiris and Villupuram, two each from Erode and Tuticorin, and one each from Cuddalore, Kanniyakumari and Tiruvannamalai tested positive. “Our main aim is to control the spread of COVID-19. We are taking steps to ensure that new cases do not occur outside quarantine or containment zones,” he said. All family members of COVID-19-positive persons were being tested for the infection, and this exercise would be completed within two days. Their contacts would be isolated, checked for symptoms and further action would be taken as per protocols, he said, adding: “The Chief Minister has instructed that all family members should be tested again.” Persons hospitalised with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) are being monitored on a daily basis across Tamil Nadu. “This is to check if there is community spread of COVID-19. In the last 24 hours, a total of 71 persons were tested. Five results are pending, and none of the remaining persons has tested positive for COVID-19,” the official said. As per Thursday’s data, the source of infection for 23 persons, who tested positive for COVID-19, could not be established and confirmed. “However, we can tell indirectly. For instance, there are two or three patients who have visited Phoenix mall. There is a contact but we are unable to confirm it. Apart from the 23 persons, there is no case where we have not been able to zero in on the source,” he said. He said as per the statistics, the State was still in stage 2 of COVID-19 transmission. “We have not progressed to stage 3. In that, there will be numerous cases with unidentifiable sources of infection,” he explained. The rapid test kits should have reached the State on Thursday night, he said, adding: “The Centre has got a purchase order and has informed us it would supply a part of the order. We will get the kits in a day or two.” On availability of protective gear, he said, “As soon as the pandemic broke out in China in January, the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation started preparatory works to procure medical equipment. We are not dependent on the Centre for supply of personal protective equipment. We have roped in manufacturers in Tiruppur and are directly purchasing from them. This is the same for triple layer masks. We are directly procuring ventilators as well. We have asked the Centre too but we are taking efforts from our side. We have placed orders for testing kits too,” he explained. The official clarified that the State had received Rs. 314 crore from the National Health Mission for tackling COVID-19. He said that Rs. 234 crore would be utilised for procuring medical equipment, and a government order would be issued soon. Doctors — both in the private and government sectors — had been instructed to utilise protective equipment, including N95 masks and PPE, while screening patients with fever or symptoms of SARI. “A few doctors have tested positive for COVID-19 as they screened patients with symptoms and did not protect themselves,” Mr. Shanmugam said. A total of 8,410 samples have been tested till date, an increase of 1,143 from Thursday. Of this, 661 samples are under process. A total of 1,987 persons have been admitted to isolation wards. Chennai tops the list with 172 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 86. As on date, 47,056 persons are under active home quarantine, while 168 persons are in government quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/extend-lockdown-by-14-days-experts/article31314082.ece
11 April 2020||Mumbai,||Scarcity of drugs, devices imminent, govt. warned||A countrywide shortage of medicines and medical devices is likely in the coming weeks, the Department of Pharmaceuticals has warned the Home Ministry, urging it to take immediate steps to help drug makers resume production under the current lockdown. Drug and medical device makers are functioning “…on an average, at only 20%-30% capacity during the lockdown,” as per feedback from various industry formations, Department of Pharmaceuticals Secretary P.D. Vaghela pointed out in an April 9 communique to Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, which has been reviewed by The Hindu.  Export demand “If the production does not reach the pre-lockdown level soon, it could lead to shortages of medicines and medical devices in the coming weeks,” the letter said. Underlining that half of India’s output of pharmaceuticals is exported as global markets offer better prices, the Department of Pharmaceuticals stressed that this could lead to disproportionate shortages in the domestic market, calling for suitable measures to be taken “in the right earnest” to prevent this “avoidable” situation. Production units engaged in making essential commodities, including medicines, vaccines, masks and their ancillaries had been exempted from the restrictions imposed as per the three-week national lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24. Though several States had already imposed restrictions on mobility and production by then, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba and Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister had urged State governments to ensure such production work continues, at a review meeting on March 22. Since then, repeated missives from the Home Secretary to the State governments to ensure that the production and movement of essential goods is not hampered hasn’t changed things on the ground, prompting the Department of Pharmaceuticals to raise the issue afresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scarcity-of-drugs-devices-imminent-govt-warned/article31313980.ece
11 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Red army keeps virus at bay in northeast||A ‘red army’ of wise old men and women are helping villages across some hill States in the northeast keep the novel coronavirus away. Though a majority of those felled by the COVID-19 pandemic are aged 60 years or more, this hasn’t stopped the gaon buras (male villager elder) and gaon buris (female village elder) — usually referred to as GBs — from following their predecessors in forming a shield between the villages and the enemy — in this case, the virus. The village elders across the States are distinguished by their red coats provided by the government, which also pays them a stipend of Rs. 1,500 per month. “The villagers look up to us in times of crisis as well as happiness. It is our duty to ensure their safety and liaise with the government agencies for guidelines and in maintaining order,” said Tanom Mibang, one of the three GBs of Lileng village in Arunachal Pradesh’s Siang district. Mr. Mibang is 64, although the Assam Frontier (Administration of Justice) Regulation of 1945, under which GBs are appointed, prescribes the 35-60 age slab. A majority of Arunachal Pradesh’s estimated 9,500 GBs are 60 or more. A head gaon bura , who supervises five GBs, is usually older. Talom Tamut, who Mr. Mibang reports to, is 80 years old. Sharing tasks At just 43, Yachang Tacho of Salang village in Upper Subansiri district, is a rare exception. “The population of a village decides the number of GBs. During epidemics and disasters, we put our heads together to decide what is best for the villagers and share the responsibilities,” he told The Hindu . Imnakumba Longchar, 59, of Khensa village in Mokokchung district of Nagaland, plays a similar role. “Keeping everyone calm is a major challenge,” he said. Assisting the GBs in Nagaland are the dobashi , the custodians of Naga customary laws who also wear red coats. They have been salaried government employees since 1842 when the British appointed the first dobashis for interpreting Naga dialects into Assamese or Hindi. Arunachal Home Minister Bamang Felix said the importance of village veterans was evident from the inclusion of the powers of the GBs in the Constitution. “They are indispensable,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/red-army-keeps-virus-at-bay-in-northeast/article31313963.ece
11 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Easing of restrictions after talks with PM||The manner and rate at which the State will ease its COVID-19 lockdown restrictions, if at all, will hinge on the outcome of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s conference by video link with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterparts in other States on Saturday. Officials indicated the walk back from the curfew will be slow and in phases. The return to normalcy could be a stressful process that can take weeks. To restrict movement Kerala was in lockstep with the Centre and other States in combating the pandemic. Hence, it's latitude to operate singly was limited. The government will continue to restrict the active movement of people. The State anticipated an influx of non-resident Keralites, chiefly blue-collar workers, when the global ban on international air travel ended. They would require intense monitoring and quarantine and the government could not afford to drop guard any time soon. The regulations on the on-premise sale of food and beverages will remain. However, the government will allow takeaways to operate. It has asked Bevco to come up with a proposal for online liquor retail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/easing-of-restrictions-after-talks-with-pm/article31314342.ece
11 April 2020||Srinagar,||India pounds LoC terror launchpads, Pak. Army sites||The Army on Friday said it had inflicted heavy damage on the Pakistani army’s gun areas and terrorist launchpads after unprovoked ceasefire violation by the “enemy side” in two areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir. A defence spokesperson said the Army retaliated “effectively and strongly” to the ceasefire violation in Keran sector in Kupwara district in the afternoon. Police officials said Pakistan had violated the ceasefire in Uri area of Baramulla district as well. The heavy exchange of fire amid the ongoing lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic forced scores of villagers living along the LoC in Kupwara to shift their families to safer locations. Nazir Ahmad Khatana, a resident of Panzgam, said he had to shift his family to Kupwara town after artillery shells and bullets hit his village in the morning. “The whole world is battling the coronavirus. This is the time to allow people to be safe in their houses rather than sending them in hordes looking for shelters,” he said. Following the firing, Internet was suspended in Kupwara district. ‘Bid to disrupt peace’ Director General of Police (DGP), Kashmir, Dilbag Singh said it was condemnable that when the entire world was coming together to fight the pandemic, Pakistan and its sponsored terrorists were making attempts to disrupt peace. The shelling comes days after a gunfight between the Army and infiltrators resulted in the death of five elite paratroopers and an equal number of infiltrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-pounds-loc-terror-launchpads-pak-army-sites/article31313977.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Not one case from Dilshad Garden in 10 days’||‘Operation SHIELD’, announced by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday to counter the community spread of the novel coronavirus, has succeeded in its objective in north-east Delhi’s Dilshad Garden, the State government has claimed a day later. There have been no cases reported from the Dilshad Garden area in the last 10 days, the AAP government said in a statement, terming it the first instance of “successful implementation” of the initiative based on sealing, home quarantine, isolation and tracking, ensuring supply of essentials, local sanitisation and door-to-door checking. At least four pockets in Dilshad Garden were among the ‘containment zones’ announced by the government recently, which went up to 30 on Friday. First SHIELD spot “I feared a massive COVID-19 outbreak in the Dilshad Garden area after seven persons were found positive. It was transmitted from an infected woman who had returned from Saudi Arabia. Thereafter Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal issued instructions for the implementation of Operation SHIELD. Dilshad Garden was the first area where it was rolled out,” said Health Minister Satyendar Jain. “As many as 123 medical teams screened more than 15,000 people living in 4,032 houses. The hard work of the health officials and the successful implementation of Operation SHIELD made Dilshad Garden coronavirus-free,” he said. Sealing, contact tracing In a massive operation by the Delhi government jointly with Delhi Police, all the people who came in touch with the area’s ‘patient zero’ were traced and quarantined, and curfew was imposed in Dilshad Garden and Old Seemapuri after a Mohalla Clinic doctor who had come in contact with the patient tested positive. Out of the 11 points that lead to the sector of Dilshad Garden which reported most cases, nine were completely shut with police barricades. Neither vehicles nor pedestrians were allowed, including for essential services. Each of the 123 medical teams surveyed around 50 homes and asked a set of questions. Any person who met the patient zero’s family was quarantined or shifted to the GTB hospital for medical treatment and testing. “The Delhi government is still tracking the people of the area and if there is symptom, then they are being quarantined. We will also initiate random testing of the residents soon,” said District Administration Officer of Shahdara S.K. Nayak, who oversaw the entire operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-one-case-from-dilshad-garden-in-10-days/article31314208.ece
11 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Situation under control, normalcy soon: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday said the COVID-19 situation in the State was under control and expressed the confidence that normalcy would return in a few days. Addressing a videoconference attended by the Collectors and doctors and paramedical staff working in COVID-19 hospitals, Mr. Reddy said the positive cases had increased due to the Tablighi Jamaat returnees, who were all traced now and kept in isolation. He praised the doctors, paramedical staff and sanitation workers for their relentless service to contain the spread of coronavirus, which helped put the State in the forefront in the fight against the virus. Mr. Reddy said although A.P. did not have state-of-the-art hospitals like in Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai, it had expert and committed doctors and medical staff. Only 5% of the patients were under critical care while 14% were admitted to different hospitals and 81% were in home isolation. Four critical care hospitals were set up to provide the best medicare besides establishing isolation wards with 2,000 beds in every district. Mr. Reddy said the medical and sanitation staff were working with dedication, putting their own lives at risk, and thanked them for their spirited contribution to a noble cause. Crop damage In a separate review meeting with the officials of the Agriculture Department, he discussed the unseasonal rain that caused damage to the crops. He asked the officials to collect information on the extent of crop damage and chalk out an action plan to help the farmers. He told the officials to pay ex gratia to the families of those who died in a boat accident. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and DGP Gautam Sawang were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/situation-under-control-normalcy-soon-cm/article31313965.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 cases in State go up to 207||With 10 new cases detected on Friday, the number of positive COVID-19 cases in Karnataka crossed the 200 mark and touched 207. As many as five of the new cases are from Mysuru. But on a more positive note, the first person who tested positive, from a pharma company, in Mysuru has recovered, and was discharged on Friday. Of the other five positive cases, two are from BBMP limits, two from Bengaluru Rural, and one from Kalaburagi. Except for the Mysuru cases, the remaining five are contacts of either those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation or of those who have returned from New Delhi. The five cases from Mysuru are all contacts of those who had tested positive earlier. A total of 42 cases have been reported from Mysuru so far, including 31 from the pharma company. Bengaluru Urban has reported 71 cases, the highest in the State. Meanwhile, two more private labs from Karnataka have been approved for COVID-19 tests by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Friday. Apart from Neuberg Anand Diagnostic Laboratory, Cancyte Technologies Pvt. Ltd., and Sakra World Hospitals Laboratory, the ICMR has approved Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre and Apollo Hospitals Lab Services. With this, a total of 11 government labs and five private labs have been approved to conduct tests in the State. To strengthen screening and health services in urban areas, the Health Department has issued a circular to convert 50% of Urban Primary. Health Centres, under the National Urban Health Mission, into ‘fever clinics’ in the respective districts. In the context of converting district hospitals into dedicated COVID-19 treatment centres, the department and Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) — the nodal agency for the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka health scheme in the State — has issued a circular asking all districts to identify alternative hospitals in their respective districts for the treatment of non COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-state-touch-207/article31314023.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,||All roads to Bapujinagar, Padarayanapura sealed||All roads leading to Padarayanapura and Bapujinagar, off Mysuru Road, have been sealed and asbestos sheets have been used as barricades to prevent the entry into and the exit from neighbourhoods that fall under these wards. With five COVID-19 positive cases being reported in the two wards — both are some of the more densely populated areas in the city — the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is taking no chances. The lockdown at the micro-level is part of the city administration’s containment plan to check the spread of the virus. Both the wards have a combined population of close to 45,000 citizens. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar told The Hindu that while three positive cases have been reported in Padarayanapura, two have been reported in Bapujinagar. “We have identified the source of the virus in one case. The person had attended the religious gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi. We are trying to ascertain the source in the other four cases,” he said. He added that to begin with, the areas will be sealed completely for 14 days. “We will take a call on whether the containment plan needs to be extended, depending on the situation at the end of the 14 days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-roads-to-bapujinagar-padarayanapura-sealed/article31314028.ece
11 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||7 new cases, 2 linked to Nizamuddin||Seven more new cases of COVID-19 were reported in the State on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 364. Three of the cases were reported from Kasaragod, while two cases each were from Kannur and Malappuram. The two cases in Malappuram are linked to Nizamuddin, while the rest are all contacts of known imported cases of infection. On Friday, 27 persons who were under treatment tested negative Till date, 124 COVID-19 patients have tested negative and have been discharged in the State. These include eight foreign nationals who were touring the State and were subsequently admitted to Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospitals. The first case of COVID-19 in the country had been reported in Thrissur on January 30 in a Malayali medical student who had returned from Wuhan, China. Two more cases followed quickly in subsequent days, also medical students from Wuhan. The next lot of cases began to be reported from March 8 onwards. The number of cases reported till date is 364, out of which 238 are currently under treatment. The number of persons under surveillance dropped to 1,29,751.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-new-cases-2-linked-to-nizamuddin/article31314341.ece
11 April 2020||MANGALURU,||Elderly woman walks 17 km for medicine||A 65-year-old woman, afflicted with a neurological problem, walked 17 km to purchase medicines in a village in Dakshina Kannada. It was only after a gram panchayat team noticed her that she was dropped in an autorickshaw while returning home. The woman, Gangamma, walked all the way from her native village Gadikallu to Guthigar to purchase medicine from a pharmacy where she is a regular. Achyuta, president, Guthigar gram panchayat, told The Hindu that was sitting under the shade of a tree on her walk back home when members of a COVID-19 help team constituted by the gram panchayat noticed her and called up the panchayat president. Immediately, the woman was sent back to her village in an autorickshaw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/elderly-woman-walks-17-km-for-medicine/article31314250.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Two wards in Bengaluru sealed||All roads leading to two wards in Bengaluru — Padarayanapura and Bapujinagar — have been completely sealed and asbestos sheets used as barricades to prevent entry and exit into the neighbourhoods. The areas will be out of bounds for the next 14 days. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar told The Hindu that while three positive cases have been reported in Padarayanapura ward, two have been reported in Bapujinagar ward. “We have identified the source of the virus in one case. The person had attended the religious gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-wards-in-bengaluru-sealed/article31314247.ece
11 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||16 new cases take tally to 381||The addition of 16 new COVID-19 positive cases took the total number of persons hit by the virus to 381 in the State on Friday. Guntur reported seven new cases, East Godavari five, and two each from Kurnool and Prakasam districts. Ten persons affected by the virus had been discharged after recovery. While six succumbed, 365 persons were undergoing treatment. Red zones Meanwhile, 133 clusters were identified as red zones in the State. The highest were in Nellore district (30), followed by Kurnool (22), Krishna (16), Guntur, WG (12), Prakasam (11), East Godavari (8), Chittoor (7), Visakhapatnam (6) and Anantapur (3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-new-cases-take-tally-to-381/article31313967.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||70 health staff in Bhopal test positive||As many as 20 health workers, including two doctors, tested positive for COVID-19 in Bhopal on Friday, taking the number of the affected staff in all to 70 in the city, according to the district administration. On the day, the patients’ tally in Bhopal soared to 119 as 24 fresh cases were reported. Health workers make up 59% of the cases in the city.Page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/70-health-staff-in-bhopal-test-positive/article31313968.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Field day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/field-day/article31313975.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ready to fly stranded Indians: UAE||Responding to India’s concerns, the United Arab Emirates has offered to fly stranded Indian nationals who want to return home in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Ambassador Ahmed Al Banna told The Hindu on Friday that the government of UAE has decided to help all countries fly their citizens home after the completion of the necessary medical tests. “We have reached out to all foreign governments to repatriate their nationals including testing them before they leave and if found positive to treat them here. A note verbale to all embassies was sent seeking the help of all governments,” said Dr. Al Banna||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-to-fly-stranded-indians-uae/article31313978.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Special Cabinet meeting today||Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will chair a special State Cabinet meeting at Pragathi Bhavan here on Saturday. The Cabinet meeting at 3 p.m. will discuss at length the situation arising out of the spread of coronavirus. The State Cabinet may also discuss the need to extend the lockdown implemented to curtail the spread of the virus, State’s economic situation, future course of action, assistance given to the poor and migrant workers in the State, procurement of the agriculture produce, loss due to hailstorm and other issues, a press release informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-cabinet-meeting-today/article31314276.ece
11 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Move on SEC to strengthen system: Ambati||YSRCP MLA Ambati Rambabu on Friday took exception to criticism by the TDP on the government decision to reduce the term of the State Election Commissioner. Asserting that the issue was a policy decision, he wondered as to what objection would the TDP leaders have against it. He said democracy would collapse if the SEC behaved in a “partisan” way. The MLA said the decision was not aimed at targeting individuals, but was meant to cleanse a ‘system’. Informing that the Governor had approved the move, he asserted that the new SEC would have the right to call for elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/move-on-sec-to-strengthen-system-ambati/article31313966.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Have enough facilities, says Harsh Vardhan||India is unlikely to face an “unmanageable crisis” from COVID-19, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said at an online conference in New Delhi. Should matters deteriorate, India had enough infrastructure to tide over, he said. “We have 500 dedicated COVID hospitals, 2,00,000 beds across hospitals and 50,000 ICU beds.”page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/have-enough-facilities-says-harsh-vardhan/article31313969.ece
11 April 2020||Coimbatore,||32 coaches converted into isolation wards||With the number of COVID-19 cases rising in Coimbatore, as many as 32 coaches have been converted into isolation wards for patients at Coimbatore Junction. The Salem Division of Southern Railway has 40 isolation ward coaches in total, of which eight were converted in Erode Junction, a senior section engineer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/32-coaches-converted-into-isolation-wards/article31314141.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sonia concerned over low COVID-19 testing||Reviewing the Congress’s efforts to provide relief to people hit by the COVID-19 lockdown, party president Sonia Gandhi on Friday expressed concern over the low testing and shortage of testing facilities. She agreed on a Corona Action Strategy that will seek to utilise the network of party workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sonia-concerned-over-low-covid-19-testing/article31314204.ece
11 April 2020||Patna,||23 members of a family in Siwan test positive||As many as 23 members of a family in a village in Bihar’s Siwan district have tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of cases in the district to 29. The borders of Siwan, Begusarai and Nawada districts have been sealed by the State administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/23-members-of-a-family-in-siwan-test-positive/article31314205.ece
11 April 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal Chemicals gets COVID-19 drug boost||In an overnight decision, Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. was issued a licence to manufacture hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malarial drug that is being used in the treatment of COVID-19, on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-chemicals-gets-covid-19-drug-boost/article31314206.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Doreswamy celebrates 102nd birthday||Freedom fighter H.S. Doreswamy celebrated his 102nd birthday on Facebook Live from his residence on Friday. Several organisations had planned to celebrate his birthday on a grand scale, but the pandemic has confined celebrations to the Internet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doreswamy-celebrates-102nd-birthday/article31314025.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,||State’s finances may take further beating||The precarious financial position in Karnataka is expected to deteriorate further. While excise duty on liquor and tax on petroleum products have been lost for three weeks now, GST collections are also expected to take a massive hit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-finances-may-take-further-beating/article31314026.ece
11 April 2020||MYSURU,||Uncertainty haunts farmers despite rain||Parts of the State receiving light to moderate rain in the past five days has not brought any cheer to farmers, who are staring at an uncertain future because of the COVID-19 outbreak and the lockdown that is in force to curb its spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uncertainty-haunts-farmers-despite-rain/article31314027.ece
11 April 2020||UDUPI,||Case booked for violating ban orders||A case has been registered on the charge of conducting mass prayers at a church violating the prohibitory orders at Padukone village coming under the Gangolli Police limits in Udupi district on April 9. According to the police, based on a complaint, the Panchayat Development Officer (PDO) visited St. Anthony’s Church at Padukone and found that the priest of the church, Frederick Mascarenhas, and six other persons were participating in a mass prayer on April 9. This violated the prohibitory orders issued by the District Magistrate on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. Hence, a case has been registered at the Gangolli Police Station, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/case-booked-for-violating-ban-orders/article31314251.ece
11 April 2020||Hassan,||Lockdown is a welcome step, says seer||Jain Mutt of Shravanabelgola in Channaraypatna has contributed Rs. 10 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to counter the spread of COVID-19. In a press release here on Friday, the mutt said that Charukeerti Bhattaraka Swamy has sent the amount to the fund. He has also appreciated the efforts of the State government and the Union government in countering the spread of the infection. The lockdown imposed across the country to avoid the spread of the infection was a welcome step, the seer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-is-a-welcome-step-says-seer/article31314252.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu may face tax revenue shortfall||Irrespective of whether the Tamil Nadu Cabinet would recommend extension of the COVID-19 lockdown or not on Saturday, the State government appears to be reconciling itself to the scenario of getting only minimum revenue through State taxes in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-may-face-tax-revenue-shortfall/article31314083.ece
11 April 2020||Chennai,||Increase salaries of front line staff, urges HC||Observing that the monthly salary paid to government doctors, paramedical staff, sanitation workers and policemen was not commensurate with the services rendered by them, the Madras High Court has expressed hope that the government will appreciate their services by increasing their salaries appropriately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/increase-salaries-of-front-line-staff-urges-hc/article31314086.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||nearby||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearby/article31314085.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||New helpline to fight domestic violence||The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Friday launched a helpline number — 0721-7735372 — to enable those facing domestic violence to send a WhatsApp message to access help. “Many women don’t know how to send an e-mail, whereas WhatsApp is easy to use. That is why we decided to launch this initiative,” NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma told The Hindu. However, she added that that the helpline was only a temporary facility being made available for the period of the lockdown. In the first week after the lockdown, the NCW recorded more than a two-fold increase in complaints of domestic violence and sexual assault as well as as a three-fold rise in complaints of police apathy towards crimes against women. The move comes days after Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani held a web-conference with more than 1,000 participants from various institutions linked to her Ministry on the issue of women’s safety. The Minister sought to convey the message that the government was working for women in need of protection. Digital governance She urged her staff to take steps to encourage reporting of violence against women as well as use digital governance effectively to ensure their safety. Ms. Sharma explained that when a person sends a message on the number seeking help, the NCW’s complaints and legal cell will contact her and seek specific details about the intervention she requires. Following this, she will be linked with the local police team or a counsellor from a local NGO or a medical facility or relocated to a One Stop Centre temporarily. The messaging facility will also help those women who cannot make a call because they may be overheard by the perpetrators of abuse. The NCW has compiled a State-wise list of One Stop Centres as well as nodal police officers who can be contacted immediately. It is also working on building a network of counsellors and has sought UN Women’s help on this. When asked how the NCW plans to popularise the new helpline, Ms. Sharma said it would use social media, news media, radio and NGOs to spread the word. On why the NCW did not opt for an easier number to recall as a helpline, Ms. Sharma said, “To set up the facility in a short span, we are merely using a spare personal number we had with us, which will be discontinued after the lockdown. It is also difficult to get a new number because of the restrictions imposed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-helpline-to-fight-domestic-violence/article31313941.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||BSF told to suspend border passes||The Border Security Force (BSF) has been asked to suspend all passes given to farmers to tend to crops, especially along the densely populated Bangladesh border, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The border guarding force is in a fix as the West Bengal government is yet to issue guidelines restricting the movement of farmers as the harvest season is on. Following the directions issued by the Union Home Ministry to “not allow a single Bangladeshi” to enter India, the BSF on Friday wrote to the State government to address the issue as there was a lot of resistance among the local people. The Ministry has also asked the States to maintain “appropriate vigil on social media” against the circulation of objectionable content, the communication adds. Security review Home Minister Amit Shah reviewed the border security arrangements along Pakistan and Bangladesh borders through video conferencing on Thursday. He spoke to around 50 officials in the field. A senior government official said the BSF had been asked to suspend all kind of passes given to people dwelling along the border and who cross the border gates or zero line to attend to their fields. Cultivation is allowed in the open area beyond the fences and up to the zero line or international boundary. The topography in some areas along the border is such that the zero line passes through the houses of villagers, one part in India and the other in Bangladesh. There are around 60 villages in North, South 24 Parganas and Nadia districts of South Bengal located right up to the zero line. Only 42% of the area is fenced owing to the riverine and complex land boundary. “The district officials in West Bengal say they have not received any written communication from the State government, so they cannot issue any order. But to implement the Minstry’s directions, we have moved the personnel right up to the border and are also sensitising people to not let Bangladeshis enter their homes as they might be COVID carriers,” a senior BSF official told The Hindu . India had sealed all its land borders on March 23. India shares 4096.7 km border with Bangladesh and 3323 km border with Pakistan. In the meeting with BSF officials, Mr. Shah directed that vigil on the border may be intensified. In another communication, the Ministry directed the States and Union Territories to ensure strict compliance with lockdown measures and not to allow any social or religious gathering or procession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsf-told-to-suspend-border-passes/article31313930.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India well-equipped: Vardhan||India is unlikely to face an “unmanageable crisis” from COVID-19, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said at an online conference organised by the India Foundation. He was addressing international delegates, according to information on his official Twitter handle. Were matters to deteriorate, India had enough infrastructure to tide over the crisis, he said. “We have 500 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, 200,000 beds across hospitals and 50,000 ICU beds. We have ordered everything in plenty. In the last two months, we have ensured adequate testing facilities. We started with one lab and today we have over 200. Over 150 are public labs.” Multiple strategies As on Friday, the Ministry has reported 6,761 cases and 206 deaths. Dr. Vardhan said India had multiple strategies in place to contain the pandemic. For more than 15 cases in a district, we have a ‘large outbreak’ strategy and for less than 15, a cluster containment strategy, he said. According to guidelines released by the ICMR this week, both strategies involve active surveillance for cases and contacts in an identified geographic zone, expanding testing to all at risk in these places and improving hospital accommodation capacity. “In another way, COVID-19 has come as a blessing in disguise” he remarked. Until now, India had largely relied on importing Personal Protective Equipment for health care workers. However, with rising local demand and shortages, the government had, via the Ministry of Textiles, authorised 39 manufacturers to make such equipment locally. “From next week, 10 lakh PPEs are expected, as well as 48,000 additional ventilators,” he said. Hails health officials He also addressed a conference with health officials from various States and “congratulated them” for keeping the situation under control, according to a statement from the Press Information Bureau. He exhorted all States to establish at least one dedicated COVID-19 hospital in every district. States ought not to be neglecting the treatment/medical needs of pregnant women, dialysis patients and those suffering from thalassemia and must improve access to mobile blood donation. Everyone should download the Arogya app as it would help assess the risk of infection, the press statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-well-equipped-vardhan/article31313917.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Choked supply lines to be cleared||Stoppered supply lines with trucks waiting on highways, the ongoing harvest season and procurement of foodgrains in various parts of the country are some of the issues that will inform the kind of lockdown the country will continue to have post April 14. Government sources said that smoothing the supply lines that have still to be seamless and the harvest and procurement season have complicated the decision on the kind of lockdown to have. “Harvesting is very important, as is procurement as there are standing crops and they need to be taken care of. Mandis do not lend themselves to social distancing,” said a government source. Various micro plans are being considered for various States and an overall advisory on how to go about enforcing the behaviour required for the prevention of the spread of COVID-19 is likely to be sent out. On Friday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said each district with groups of farmers would be given specific dates for bringing their crops to the mandis for procurement and the number of mandis would be increased from 1,900 to over 3,000 to make the operations smaller, leading to fewer crowds. Such district specific plans are being sought from every State. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to announce his decision on the continuation of the lockdown after consulting the Chief Ministers through a video conference on Saturday, harvesting and movement of trucks will be likely exempt. At a meeting held by P.K. Mishra, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, with the empowered group of officials set up to tackle the COVID-19 crisis, on Friday, the issue of shelters being run for migrant workers and the homeless was also brought up. Mr. Mishra emphasised that “data sanctity” be maintained to ensure the transfer of benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana as well as close coordination with NGOs and other organisations for the same. “It was pointed out that there were many people who did not have a ration card to get the free grain distribution undertaken by the government and the instructions were to distribute grains to all,” said a government source. “In Jharkhand and at least two divisions of Bihar, there were reports of shortages of supplies and instructions were given to address these,” said the source. “If needed, Food Corporation of India stocks would be unlocked to make sure there was enough supply.” With most economic activity at a standstill due to the lockdown, it appears that harvesting and procurement at least, will be exempted from it, while big urban areas will continue to be under strict lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/choked-supply-lines-to-be-cleared/article31313890.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Any lockdown has to be humane’||Derek O’Brien , Trinamool Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, has said that though the party had raised the red flag about COVID-19 in early March, it was not taken seriously. Edited excerpts of an interview done over phone.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said most State governments favour lifting the lockdown in a phased manner. What is the Bengal government’s view of extending the lockdown? The Chief Minister of Bengal will announce this in the next few days. The interpretation of the lockdown is important. It’s not a lockdown where you shut everything down and you throw away the key. Mamata Banerjee is very clear: any closure has to be done in a humane manner. She is leading by example. Going to vegetable markets and drawing circles on the ground to communicate physical distancing. So Bengal will never have a blanket lockdown. From Day 1, vegetable markets have been open, essentials available and compliant with physical distancing. It is all about striking the right balance. Bengal has set up an Expert Committee with very distinguished names including Nobel Laureate Professor Abhijit Banerjee to formulate a response strategy. What exactly will this committee look at? Let me tell you what the structure is in Bengal. The Chief Minister, who also happens to hold the Health and Home portfolios, is hands on. She has two groups advising her. One is the Global Advisory Board (GAB), which is led by Nobel Laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee. This team of eight comprises international public health and policy experts with impeccable international credentials. They will have their meeting today. The second group is a team of health experts including doctors from Bengal who understand local conditions. Both these groups report directly to her. Then we have three Task Forces headed by the State’s senior-most bureaucrats, looking after implementation, economy and enforcement. You have commented on Bengal getting personal protection equipment (PPE) for its doctors and healthcare workers. But we have seen viral videos of doctors in north Bengal and Howrah wearing raincoats as protection. How do you explain that? This is a national health emergency. It is disappointing to see that the only people not self-quarantining themselves are members of the IT cell of the world’s largest political party and are spreading misinformation even in times of distress. I would appeal to them: take a break. Spread public service messages. You will have enough time to play your dirty tricks. Bengal, like a few other States, has to fend for itself. We were the first State to set up a Rs. 200-crore emergency fund. We were the first State to announce a 10 lakh insurance package which went beyond the ambit of health workers and included State or private employees of all essential services. We were the first State to announce a 6-month ration for 8 crore people. No one must go hungry. The focus is clear: Address the humanitarian issue, tackle the disease and protect the economy On the medical front, our policy is to separate COVID-19 patients from regular patients. How are we doing this? We have set up over 50 hospitals, two to three in each of the 22 districts. Three in Kolkata. Incidentally, at 2.5/1000, Bengal has the highest bed-to-people ratio in the entire country. In the last 10 years, the Mamata Banerjee government has taken the number of super-speciality hospitals from seven to forty-one. But how is Bengal reaching out and helping the migrants? Districts like Murshidabad send a large number of migrant workers across the country. Over two lakh migrant labourers and stranded people from 16 States are being housed in 711 camps across West Bengal. They are being directly taken care of by the government along with a few NGOs under its supervision. Two weeks ago, Mamata Banerjee had written to Chief Ministers of 18 States urging coordinated efforts to shelter and take care of migrant labourers. We must also thank Uddhav Thackeray, M.K. Stalin, Arvind Kejriwal and so many others from different State governments for their continued help in this time of crisis. You say the Bengal government will give free ration to 8 crore people for six months. Can the State manage this given its huge debt backlog? The Centre owes Bengal Rs. 61,000 crore, Rs. 36,000 crore of which is backlog. The Chief Minister has written to the Prime Minister for Rs. 25,000 crore. We have received nothing. To marshal resources, we have suggested to increase the withdrawal limits for States under the FRBM Act — from the current three to five per cent. While we are continuing to fund our operations from State reserves, the Centre must release funds to all States right now because this challenge has to be met at the State and local levels. The Rs. 1.7 lakh crore package or 2% of GDP won’t work. We need at least 5% of GDP or roughly Rs. 8 lakh crore. How badly has the State been hit in terms of revenue because of the lockdown and how do you plan to make good the losses? Our first priority now is taking a humane approach to this crisis. We must curb the spread of COVID-19 and ensure the safety of our people. Of course the economy is important too and we have adopted a nuanced calibrated lockdown. Let me explain how. Beedi workers in Murshidabad are working. Flower markets continue operations. Sweet shops are open for four hours a day as thousands of litres of milk were being wasted due to the lockdown. The Bengal government has also started a new programme, “Procheshta”, where Rs. 1,000 is given as a cash grant to those in the unorganised sector including daily labourers, wage earners. About six million people, including domestic and migrant workers, will benefit.  We have three Task Forces headed by the State’s senior bureaucrats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/any-lockdown-has-to-be-humane/article31313924.ece
11 April 2020||Patna,||Bihar official’s letter sets off alarm||Bihar’s Home Secretary Amir Subhani has forwarded to the Union Home Ministry a letter sent by the District Magistrate of West Champaran warning that nearly 200 Indian Muslims, believed to be infected with COVID-19, are likely to cross the Nepal border into India. “We have forwarded the letter to the Union Home Ministry and everything is under investigation,” Mr. Subhani told presspersons. The State’s Director-General of Police, Gupteshwar Pandey, said the letter was written based on verified information, but there was no evidence yet on the ground. “We are in touch with our district superintendents in border areas and keeping a strict vigil on movement of people,” he said. In the “confidential” letter (No: 1250, dated April 7, 2020), District Magistrate Kundan Kumar asked his subordinate officials to deal strictly with “any suspicious movement”. The letter refers to intelligence information received from the 47th Battalion of the Sahastra Seema Bal (SSB) that a person named Jalim Mukhia from Nepal has been planning to spread COVID-19 in India. Jalim Mukhia, The Hindu has learnt from sources, is a criminal involved in arms smuggling on the India-Nepal border. Several cases are pending against him in local police stations in the border districts. The District Magistrate, however, could not be contacted. Local journalists quoted him as saying “it was a routine thing.” On April 3, Commandant of the 47th battalion of SSB posted at Pantoka in Ramgarhwa on the Indo-Nepal border in West Champaran district had sent a letter (No 5039-40 U/2130) addressed to the District Magistrate and Superintendent of Police alerting them to the “movement of suspected Corona positive Indian Muslim nationals from Nepal to India.” “Input received from very reliable sources that one person, namely Jalim Mukhia, r/o Vill-Jagannathpur, Post—Janki Tola, P/S-Serwa, Distt-Parsa (Nepal), is planning to spread pandemic in India. He is also involved in smuggling of Arms & FICN [fake Indian currency notes] from Nepal to India. He has also taken responsibility to cross Indian Muslims working in different Muslim countries during lockdown,” said the one-page letter marked “Confidential / Urgent.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-officials-letter-sets-off-alarm/article31313886.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI asks officials not to free Wadhawans||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has asked the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police of Satara, Maharashtra, not to release Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan without its consent or a court order. Non-bailable arrest warrants are pending against the Wadhawans in the Yes Bank case registered by the CBI in March. “On April 9, we received information that the accused were located in Satara and were lodged at a government quarantine centre at Panchgani. Thereafter, an email was immediately sent to the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police for not releasing them without a no-objection [certificate] from the CBI or a court order,” a CBI official said. The local administration has also been told to ensure that the accused do not flee. According to the CBI, the Wadhawan brothers have been absconding since the investigation started. On March 7, the CBI registered the case against the Wadhawans, former Yes Bank managing director and chief executive officer Rana Kapoor and others in connection with the lending of Rs. 3,700 crore to DHFL allegedly in lieu of Rs. 600 crore in investments in an entity linked to Rana Kapoor’s family. Kapil Wadhawan was named as the promoter-director of DHFL and Dheeraj Wadhawan as the director of RKW Developers Private Limited. Two days later, the CBI conducted searches. “Both the accused were not found on their premises. Therefore, in order to secure their presence for the investigation, notices under Section 41-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure were served on them. But they did not turn up,” the official said. A Mumbai special court issued non-bailable arrest warrants against the Wadhawan brothers on March 17. But they did not appear before either the CBI or the court, said the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-asks-officials-not-to-free-wadhawans/article31313888.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,||BCAS extends validity of certifications||The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) has extended the validity of refresher training certifications that are mandatory for assigning flight/ground duties to pilots, crew, ground staff and others. After the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19 grounded all aircraft, aviation staff have remained housebound, complying with the prohibitory orders. The Aviation Security Training Centres and Institutes that offer the mandatory refresher courses for pilots, crew, flight engineers, ground handling staff, security personnel and others have also closed down. With the lockdown likely to be extended, the Ministry of Civil Aviation has decided to extend the validity of refresher course certifications expiring on or after March 20, up to June 20 or till revocation of the instructions issued in the circular dated April 6, 2020. “The validity of the certification is mandatory for assigning flight duties to pilots, crew, aircraft maintenance engineers, ground handling staff, etc. The refresher courses update them on the latest technology developments, amendments in International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) norms and latest guidelines issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation,” a BCAS official told The Hindu on Friday. The BCAS conducts at least eight types of refresher courses to personnel involved in flight operations at the national and regional Aviation Security Training Centres/institutes. The aviation industry has stringent regulations with regard to flying hours, training and refresher courses to ensure safety and security of passengers, the official said. The extension of the validity or eligibility period of the certificate holders would help in uninterrupted services in case the COVID-19 lockdown is lifted and flight operations are allowed, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bcas-extends-validity-of-certifications/article31313943.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India has enough stock of HCQ, says Centre||The Union government on Friday said India had “sufficient buffer” of the much-in-demand drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ). Export of the drug to several countries had begun, it said. Researchers believe there is a chance that the drug can treat coronavirus infection but it is yet to be clinically proven. “A lot of requests of HCQ are already there and taking into view the domestic stock and requirement and keeping sufficient buffer, a decision was taken by the Group of Ministers to release some of the surplus medicine for export purposes,” Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said. The government’s move won it many expressions of gratitude from countries that received clearances for their medical supplies, which had been held up for weeks after the Directorate General of Foreign Trade banned them for export. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the decision. “We have to jointly fight this pandemic. India is ready to do whatever is possible to help our friends,” Mr. Modi tweeted in reply to Mr. Netanyahu. “India is committed to contribute to humanity's fight against this pandemic,” he tweeted to Mr. Bolsonaro. Acting British High Commissioner also thanked Mr. Modi for releasing paracetamol stocks for his country. Exports of HCQ and paracetamol were banned last week but the government overturned the ban on April 6, allowing the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and the Department of Pharmaceuticals to assess requests from various countries. Twenty-four other drugs that were put on a restricted list in March have been cleared for export as well. Domestic estimate “In the next week, we will require one crore [10 million] HCQ tablets for domestic use. We have over 3.28 crore. [So] this will complete the entire month’s requirement,” Mr. Agarwal said, dismissing reports of domestic shortages of HCQ as a result of the decision. Another 2 crore were in production, he added. However, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor criticised the government for the move. He alleged that it was not putting “India first”. External Affairs Ministry officials said exports were being cleared for more than a dozen countries in three categories: humanitarian aid, aid to neighbouring SAARC countries, and commercial orders to countries such as the U.S. and Brazil, who have pushed the most for the release of HCQ orders for which their companies had made payments. “We are in the process of providing humanitarian aid in the form of pharmaceutical and other items, including HCQ & paracetamol, to SAARC countries and to Mauritius and Seychelles. We would also be providing these items to some countries in Africa and Latin America,” an MEA official told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-has-enough-stock-of-hcq-says-centre/article31313928.ece
11 April 2020||Patna,||23 members of a family in Bihar’s Siwan test positive||As many as 23 members of a family in a village in Bihar’s Siwan district have tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of cases in the district to 29. The borders of Siwan, Begusarai and Nawada districts have been sealed by the State administration to prevent the spread of the disease. In the village under Raghunathpur block of Siwan, a youth had returned from Oman on March 21 and had mingled freely with the residents, even playing cricket with friends. After his sample tested positive on April 4, 22 of the 28 members of his family, including several women and children, too were found infected. Six other people from different villages of the district too have tested positive. With 29 positive cases out of the total 60 in the State, Siwan has become the hotspot in Bihar. A sizeable population in the district belong to the minority community and nearly 60,000 work in Gulf countries. The village from where 23 members of a family tested positive has a population of over 5,000, with nearly 900 households. It is 31 km from the Siwan town and 5 km from Raghunathpur block. The Siwan district administration has sealed the village and drones are monitoring the movement of people. One company of Bihar Military Police and State Disaster Response Force personnel too have been deployed to sanitize the area. The Divisional Commissioner of Saran, along with top district officials, is monitoring the situation in the village. The villagers have appealed that all of them be tested as the youth had moved around quite freely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/23-members-of-a-family-in-bihars-siwan-test-positive/article31313915.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC asks govt. about steps taken to help the mentally ill||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday asked the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to address the concerns of the mentally ill on the streets during the lockdown to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. The NHRC took cognisance of a complaint about the alleged violation of the human rights of such people and asked the Ministry to inform it, within two weeks, of the arrangements made for them. “In the meantime, necessary directions may be issued by them [the Ministry] to all the States and Union Territories to ensure that persons suffering from any kind of mental ailment under their jurisdiction are provided with proper counselling towards necessary precautions for their personal care and protection from the virus and not deprived of basic amenities like food, shelter and medical care etc.,” a statement from the NHRC said. The NHRC said that while the Central and State governments were trying to provide food and health services during the crisis, some sections, like those suffering from mental illness, should be provided food, shelter and social security by the state. Dependent on charities It said the complaint highlighted the issue of mentally ill persons dependent for food and shelter on charities, temples and gurdwaras. “But the administration has not issued any specific guidelines for these people, and no arrangements for their survival during this period of crisis have been made,” the NHRC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-asks-govt-about-steps-taken-to-help-the-mentally-ill/article31313931.ece
11 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab extends lockdown till May 1||Punjab on Friday extended the lockdown till May 1 amid apprehension of community spread of COVID-19. On Thursday, Odisha extended the lockdown till April 30. A meeting of the State Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh, also decided to prevent overcrowding at bazaars during the wheat harvesting and procurement season. Capt. Amarinder will convey the decision to Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the latter’s video-conference with the Chief Ministers on Saturday, an official statement said. Grim projectins Citing grim projections of the impact of the pandemic, the Chief Minister said curfew-like restrictions were essential so that the medical infrastructure was not burdened. “There was general consensus in the medical community that the lockdown curbs would only delay the spread of the disease,” he said. Role of private hospitals At the meeting, the Cabinet approved the Punjab Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Ordinance to make private hospitals join the battle against COVID-19. The Chief Minister was authorised to approve the final draft of the Bill. The ordinance would provide for the registration and regulation of clinical establishments in a professional manner to ensure compliance of clinical standards and protocols and transparency in their functioning for fair and proper delivery of health services to the common man, said the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-extends-lockdown-till-may-1/article31313897.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||Priyanka urges Adityanath to emulate Rajasthan example||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has urged Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to increase testing for COVID-19 and cited the example of Rajasthan. In a letter to Mr. Adityanath, dated April 9 and released by the Congress on Friday, she said, “It is essential to increase the rate of testing in Uttar Pradesh. In a State like U.P. with massive population, increased testing can prove to be an effective way to contain the spread of the virus.” The letter, in Hindi, said, “South Korea, with a population of 6 crore, tested 6 out of every 1,000 persons and managed to prevent the spread of the infection by the virus. Rajasthan’s Bhilwara saw work on war-footing as 24 lakh people were screened in just 9 days, aggressive testing was done and the infected people were identified. The population in U.P. is nearly 23 crores but the sample sent for testing is 7,000.” Along with increased testing, all those categorised as ‘Mild to Moderate High Risk Cases’ should be immediately treated to prevent any pressure on intensive care units of hospitals, she noted. Ms. Vadra also asked for improvement the ‘isolation ward quarantine facilities’, keeping in mind human dignity, as reports of poor hygiene from some of the facilities had come in. With reports of community transmission coming in, the government should increase awareness among clusters, as people tended to hide their disease. “Please make sanitizers and masks available on a war-footing and inform the people as to how and where they will get them,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-urges-adityanath-to-emulate-rajasthan-example/article31313899.ece
11 April 2020||Bhopal,||20 more health workers test positive in Bhopal||Twenty more health workers tested positive for COVID-19 in Bhopal on Friday, taking the number to 70 in the city, the Bhopal district administration said. The number of cases in Bhopal soared to 119 as 24 fresh cases were reported. Health workers, including doctors and others engaged in combating the outbreak in Madhya Pradesh, make up 59% of the cases in the city. As the infected officials don’t have any travel or contact history, the Health Department is yet to locate the source of the disease, which has visited even the Principal Secretary, Public Health and Family Welfare, and the CEO of the State Ayushman Bharat Yojana. Two junior resident doctors from a government medical college here, who have been engaged in COVID-19 duties, also contracted the disease on Friday. This comes a week after the first case from the Health Department, of an IAS officer tasked with procuring drugs and equipment for public healthcare institutions, was reported. The office of the State Directorate of Health Services has been sanitised multiple times as most of the officials who had contracted the disease were not field workers, but those who devised strategies at the office. The virus has infected 13 police personnel and their families in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/20-more-health-workers-test-positive-in-bhopal/article31313913.ece
11 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat records 116 positive COVID-19 cases and 2 deaths||In the largest single day spike, 116 new cases of the novel coronavirus infection and two deaths were recorded in Gujarat on Friday. The total number of positive cases has increased to 378, and 19 persons have died so far. Two persons died in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar. Till Friday, Ahmedabad accounted for seven deaths and Surat four. So far, 33 infected persons have recovered and discharged from hospitals. On Thursday and Friday, the State recorded 195 cases and three deaths. 7,718 samples tested As per the details released by the Health Department, a total of 7,718 samples have been tested in the State and 378 of them have returned positive and 7,237 negative. The reports in respect of 103 samples are pending. Gujarat’s Health Secretary Jayanti Ravi said the State had increased the number of testing, so more cases were coming out. The infection has now covered 20 of the 33 districts. However, Ahmedabad remains the main hotspot, with 197 cases. Fifty-nine cases have been reported from Vadodara, 27 from Surat and 22 from Bhavnagar. “We are doing more tests and have identified clusters from where larger number of cases have emerged. Surveillance has been intensified in these clusters as part of the containment strategy,” a top official of the State government told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-records-116-positive-covid-19-cases-and-2-deaths/article31313919.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Some private labs offering free tests||Some private laboratories have said they were offering free testing for COVID-19 following a Supreme Court directive on Wednesday. However, some of them noted that it was unsustainable unless the government stepped in soon with guidelines on how they could be compensated. Every test costs the government Rs. 4,500 and 67 private laboratories authorised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) across the country were charging the same until the Supreme Court issue the order. The court had directed the government to issue guidelines. “We endorse the Supreme Court’s judgment, which aims at increasing the accessibility to COVID-19 testing and to make it affordable for the common man . However for private laboratories, there are numerous costs such as reagents, consumables, skilled manpower and infrastructure specifics. The pandemic also calls for immense infection control measures like personal protective equipment,viral-transport media and the need to keep sanitation and employee safety in mind at every step,” Arjun Dang, CEO, Dangs Labs, told The Hindu in an email. “Private laboratories are barely able to recover costs at the government-mandated cost of Rs. 4,500. Also, the routine work of laboratories owing to the lockdown has reduced drastically and keeping this in mind we hope the government comes up with modalities so that testing in private units remains sustainable. We are currently following the SC’s orders and doing the test free of cost while awaiting further clarity,” he said. Arokiaswamy Velumani, managing director of the Mumbai-headquartered Thyrocare Technologies, said his organisation had conducted some 20 free tests since Thursday. “The government ought to have immediately issued guidelines regarding reimbursement and compensation,” he told The Hindu . Of the 67 laboratories offering tests, at least 50 have licensed kits and diagnostics from international firms, which add to the costs. The test being offered is the real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction test (RT-PCR) that can detect the presence of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/some-private-labs-offering-free-tests/article31313922.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sonia concerned over low number of tests||Reviewing the Congress’s efforts to provide relief to people hit by the three-week COVID-19 lockdown, party president Sonia Gandhi on Friday expressed concern over the low testing and shortage of testing facilities. Ms. Gandhi agreed on a Corona Action Strategy that will seek to utilise the network of party workers nationwide. She also hoped that the Union government would come out with a plan to deal with the situation arising out of the prevailing lockdown. Addressing Pradesh Congress Commitee (PCC) chiefs from across the country via videoconferencing, Ms. Gandhi said the party was ready to play its role in the country’s fight against COVID-19. She urged party colleagues to take it up with their State governments the need to ramp up testing, provide PPEs for the corona warriors, financial package for them and economic relief for the vulnerable sections. “Due to the lockdown, the poor labourers left for their villages, and our workers got down to help them. Even today, all over the country, Congress workers from every district are engaged in this work,” she said. The Congress chief also mentioned that she and Rahul Gandhi had written to the government and made suggestions over the battle against the pandemic. “We hope that the government comes out with a plan to meet this challenge. The poor, farmers and labourers are suffering the most,” the Congress chief said. “The lockdown is going to put a lot of burden on our economy. The economy was already in crisis, and now it seems that difficulties will increase. We have to be ready for it,” she added. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in an open letter, hailed accredited social health activists, auxiliary nurse and midwives and Anganwadi workers for their role in the fight against the pandemic and said “they are true patriots” who toil to keep communities safe in the midst of this grave crisis.” In another development, the Congress urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to impress upon the United States not to terminate the H-1B visas of Indians living in the country. “The sword of H-1B visa job termination looms large on the heads of an estimated 75,000 Indians, with the United States giving them only a 60-day period to find a new job in case of a lay-off. There are 3,09,986 Indians working on H-1B visa,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said.  The economy was already in crisis, and now it seems that difficulties will increase Sonia Gandhi Congress president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-concerned-over-low-number-of-tests/article31313894.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Ministry move weakens scrutiny of genetic labs’||A women’s rights group has sent a memorandum to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asking the government to withdraw an order that could weaken the implementation of the law that bans pre-natal sex determination. “The suspension of these rules throughout the country would mean that clinics and genetic labs can carry on functioning without any scrutiny. This is the only scrutiny that these labs are subjected to, to assess their adherence to the basic rules and to ensure that sex selection is not being carried out by them,” the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) stated. It was referring to a gazette notification issued by the Health Ministry on April 4, which suspended Rule 8, Rule 9(8) and Rule 18A(6) of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, 1994. The clauses deal with the process for renewal of registration of genetic and ultrasound clinic, responsibilities of labs in maintaining and preserving records of all tests, techniques and procedures as well as the duties of district authorities in sharing a quarterly progress report. The Health Ministry has since issued a clarification through a press statement that its move was to only allow an extension of deadline for submitting these reports until June 30, but AIDWA has rejected this explanation. Application for re-registration should not be postponed as it can be done online, AIDWA pointed out, adding that relevant records must be maintained as per the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministry-move-weakens-scrutiny-of-genetic-labs/article31313944.ece
11 April 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal Chemicals gets COVID-19 drug boost||In an overnight decision, Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (BCPL) was issued a licence to manufacture hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malarial drug that is being used in the treatment of COVID-19, on Friday. The decision comes in the wake of reports that the profit-making unit, despite being the only government undertaking to manufacture anti-malarial drugs in the country, did not have a licence to manufacture hydroxychloroquine. The Hindu reported on April 9 that the company was idling, awaiting orders to start producing hydroxychloroquine. The BCPL is reputed as India’s first pharmaceutical company. Friday’s order from the Directorate of Drug Control, Government of West Bengal, allowed the BCPL to manufacture hydroxychloroquine tablets. The public sector undertaking has a facility to make tablets at Maniktala. “We got the licence only a few hours ago from the Drugs Controller. Now, we can manufacture it subject to the availability of raw material,” P.S. Chadraiah, Managing Director, BCPL, told The Hindu on Friday. The company was manufacturing chloroquine phosphate and the management had assured that it could rise to the occasion and make hydroxychloroquine, which was just another formulation, if it got the licence and orders. After reports emerged of the company not using its optimum capacity, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee raised the issue. “What is Bengal Chemicals doing?” she asked on Thursday. However, even with the licence, BCPL does not have adequate raw materials for production. Not enough raw stock “We do not have the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) which is available with a few companies in India or is imported from China. Since it is not possible to import from China we are asking both the State and the Centre to help us procure it,” Mr. Chandraiah said. BCPL officials said a few pharma companies, such as Cadila and Ipca, may have the API and the company was trying to source that. Mr. Chandraiah said with the API, the company could manufacture about 10 lakh tablets a day. BCPL’s trade unions have welcomed the initiative. Mrinal Roychowdhury, representing the CITU-affiliated Bengal Chemical Sramik Karmachari Union, welcomed the development. Bengal Chemicals was set up by chemist and entrepreneur Acharya Prafulla Chandra Roy in 1901. While there has been talk of a strategic sale of the company, the PSU, with 300 employees, has posted profits for the past few years. In 2018-19, it made a profit of Rs. 25 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-chemicals-gets-covid-19-drug-boost/article31313946.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||No proof of community transmission: Ministry||Reports from State Health Departments put the death toll at 252 with 6618 active cases. Maharashtra reported 197 fresh cases even as the death toll in the State climbed to 110 The ICMR had randomly tested samples from laboratories in 52 districts in 20 states. As of now, nearly 280 districts have reported confirmed cases. Independent epidemiologists said the ICMR still had too few surveillance sites to detect CT evidence and ought to be expanding it manifold. “Sentinel site surveillance of all SARI (or at-least all X-ray positive pneumonia) is essential for getting an idea about the spread of COVID-19. All cases reporting to these sites have to be tested. At least 10-20 sites in every district have to be selected and sample collection facilities have to be arranged there. Sites will have to be increased in a locality if community transmission occurs,” Dr. Iype Joseph, an epidemiologist at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in Thiruvananthapuram, told The Hindu . At the daily media briefing, Mr. Agrawal said India needed about 1 crore hydroxychloroquine tablets and had stocks nearly three times that. “Arrangements for additional two-three crore tablets have been made and through private sector two crore tablets had been sent to the field,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-proof-of-community-transmission-ministry/article31313896.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||UAE offers to fly in stranded Indians||The repatriation offer would be available only to those citizens unaffected by the viral outbreak, Dr. Al Banna said. The assurance comes on a day when Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to persuade the UAE to ensure that the large workforce of Keralites in that country was effectively insulated from the risk of exposure to COVID-19. In a letter to Mr. Modi, Mr. Vijayan said Keralites, who made up the bulk of blue collar workers in the Emirates, lived in crowded facilities in cities such as Dubai and ran a high risk of contracting the infection. Kerala was worried about the safety and well being of its diaspora in the Gulf, the Chief Minister said, seeking Central intervention. The Ministry of External Affairs has not yet responded to the UAE’s offer. New Delhi has said there are at least 25,000 Indian citizens consisting of travellers, students and stranded tourists in various parts of the globe who want to return home. It is believed that a substantial number of these citizens are in Dubai and Abu Dhabi as these are two prominent aviation hubs that serve India. The Ambassador said the UAE has introduced one of the “most comprehensive programs” to diagnose the novel coronavirus infection and has tested more than half a million samples in the country to contain spread of the virus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has so far held several rounds of telephone conversations with the regional heads of governments of the Gulf region since the COVID-19 pandemic. He spoke to Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi on March 26 during which the Crown Prince assured his government’s support to the large Indian community in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uae-offers-to-fly-in-stranded-indians/article31313900.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Scarcity of drugs, devices imminent, govt. told||Citing multiple factors responsible for the impasse at several pharma units in the country, the letter has identified the unavailability of labour, transport and courier services as the biggest problems, along with the closure of ancillary industries that are not being considered essential by local administrations and the police despite the Home Ministry’s directions. Constraints on labour Reverse migration of labour and local workers not reporting to work due to lack of public transport options and the fear of police action, combined with family and local community pressure, has made it difficult to operate factories even at lower than normal capacity, the department says. The letter urged the Home Ministry to allow the pharma industry to ‘ferry back their contractual workers from their native places’ and make courier services ‘fully functional’ in metro cities as well as Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities. Courier services are ‘crucial in ensuring movement of medicines and medical devices… is not adversely affected during the lockdown,” Mr. Vaghela noted. Truckers’ troubles State and district administrations need to be sensitised and nudged to be proactive to fulfil the need for pharma units to function fully, the Pharma Secretary said, mooting that drivers with commercial licences be allowed to move with or without a vehicle by treating it as a ‘pass’ during the lockdown. “Many drivers… have left their vehicles on highways or dhabas and returned to their native places. Unless they are allowed to reach their vehicles, those vehicles will be left stranded and thus would be out of circulation,” the letter pointed out. Even drivers who are not stranded in between trips are unwilling to take up work due to the “fear of ill treatment by the police, stoppage of vehicles on State, district and city borders, and lack of food and diesel on the route” the letter noted. “There is a dire need to not only address the apprehensions of these drivers but also to motivate/incentivise them (with insurance, etc.),” it said. The Department of Pharmaceuticals, entrusted with ensuring the seamless production and distribution of critical life-saving medicines in the wake of the lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, also reiterated its concerns about ancillary industries that it had raised in an earlier April 3 letter to the Home Ministry. “Ancillary suppliers of inputs, including packaging material, excipients (required for tablets and capsules manufacturing), utility consumables like briquettes/gases (required to run boilers) and spare parts are not able to operate/supply…” the letter had said. Apart from directives from the Home Ministry and the Pharma Department to State governments on the issue, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) had also written to all State Chief Secretaries on March 26 after it learnt of the problems facing pharma firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scarcity-of-drugs-devices-imminent-govt-told/article31313902.ece
11 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Bhilwara breaks virus transmission chain||The “ruthless containment” model adopted in Bhilwara, which emerged last month as the worst-affected district in Rajasthan, has succeeded in breaking the chain of novel Coronavirus transmission. Among the 27 COVID-19 positive cases found earlier in the textile city, 25 patients have been cured of the infection and 15 discharged from hospital. Bhilwara Collector Rajendra Bhatt said on Friday that the remaining 10 persons, who were under observation, would be discharged in a couple of days. The two elderly people who died after testing COVID-19 positive reportedly had co-morbidity and other medical complications, while one of them was also in a state of coma when he was tested. Since April 3, when an aggressive 11-day-long “all-down curfew” started with even essential services being curtailed, only two new cases have been reported in the city of 4 lakh people. Teams of health workers have screened a population of 24 lakh in the entire district and conducted contact tracing of COVID-19 patients on a war-footing. The only patient infected with Coronavirus and being treated in the district is a 47-year-old teacher, who was detected positive in the screening by a medical team on Thursday. He has claimed that he had no travel or contact history. Daulat Meena, a physician at the Mahatma Gandhi Government Hospital who treated some of the patients, told The Hindu that the regimen was decided after studying the contact and medical history of each of them. “The right combination of drugs and multiple testing at regular gaps ensured timely recovery of patients. Since most of them were staff members of a private hospital, they knew that the illness could be fatal if not managed properly.” The containment model involved some meticulous strategies adopted in several phases, including isolation of the district with its borders being sealed, screening in the city and in rural areas, and sending the people showing symptoms to home quarantine and the confirmed patients to isolation wards. This was followed by a rigorous monitoring in the villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhilwara-breaks-virus-transmission-chain/article31313910.ece
11 April 2020||PUNE,||Maharashtra cases mount to 1,574||Maharashtra recorded a surge of over 200 new COVID-19 positive cases for the second consecutive day on Friday as the cumulative tally shot to 1,574, while the death toll rose to 110 with 13 new deaths being reported from across the State. In a now-familiar pattern, Mumbai once again recorded the maximum deaths - 10 and the maximum cases -132, of the 210 fresh cases as the city’s tally itself exceeded 1000 cases on Friday, →standing at 1008. One death each was reported from Pune, Vasai-Virar and Panvel, said State health authorities. About 85% among the 13 new deaths had high-risk comorbidities like diabetes, asthma and hypertension, said officials while 188 persons have recovered and discharged so far. The tally of positive cases in Pune district continued to rise as well with more than 35 cases being recorded across the district, taking the figure to 245 while Pune city alone exceeded 200 cases. In fact, the number of cases in Pune city has nearly doubled over a four-day span, shooting from a 100-odd positive cases earlier this week to its current tally of 207. The district has reported 25 deaths so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-cases-mount-to-1574/article31313911.ece
11 April 2020||Mumbai,||IPS officer sent on leave for issuing travel permit||The State government sent Principal Secretary (Special) Amitabh Gupta, on compulsory leave following the controversy over allowing DHFL chairman Kapil Wadhawan and his 22 family members to travel from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar on April 8 despite the lockdown. Mr. Wadhawan and his brother Dheeraj are DHFL promoters, and co-accused in a case of cheating and money laundering registered against Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor. Late on Thursday night, both brothers, along with over 20 family members, were detained at Mahabaleshwar for violating prohibitory orders. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh also announced an inquiry into the matter by Additional Chief Secretary Manoj Saunik and asked him to submit a report within 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ips-officer-sent-on-leave-for-issuing-travel-permit/article31313892.ece
11 April 2020||Ahmedabad,||Join duty, govt. tells Kannan Gopinathan||The government has asked Kannan Gopinathan, who quit the Indian Administrative Service eight months ago “over denial of freedom to the people of Jammu and Kashmir”, to join duty in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. But he has refused. The government has asked him to join duty on the grounds that his resignation has not been accepted yet. Mr. Gopinathan said he was willing to volunteer during the COVID-19 crisis but not as an IAS officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/join-duty-govt-tells-kannan-gopinathan/article31313933.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||No ticket||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-ticket/article31313935.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Online tool for mental health offered free||Global mental health platform InnerHour will offer its online programmes and self-help tools pro bono to help people to better cope with stress and anxiety during the lockdown. InnerHour’s self-help app has benefited nearly six lakh people globally, its founders, Amit Malik and Neha Kirpal, said in a press statement. The organisation will offer a range of clinical tools and self-help activities and voice or video therapy sessions in seven languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/online-tool-for-mental-health-offered-free/article31313939.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ayushman listing for pvt. hospitals||The National Health Authority has launched express empanelment to bring a large number of private hospitals under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY) to ensure continued essential treatment for serious illnesses such as cancer and heart ailments. With the launch of this new mechanism, Hospital Empanelment Module (HEM) Lite, patients suffering from serious illnesses such as cancer, cardiac issues and diabetes that require continuous treatment will be able to continue getting inpatient services without the fear of contracting the infection. “The mechanism will also help in empanelling dedicated COVID-19 hospitals,” noted a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ayushman-listing-for-pvt-hospitals/article31313925.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mobile link must for PF withdrawal||Employees’ Provident Fund account-holders who do not have a mobile number linked to Aadhaar may not be able to withdraw money immediately under a government scheme to mitigate the economic impact of the novel coronavirus outbreak. The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation accepts only online claims. A key requisite is an Aadhaar-linked mobile number on which the EPFO sends a one-time password (OTP). But online update of mobile numbers is not allowed for security reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mobile-link-must-for-pf-withdrawal/article31313926.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||Lockdown alone won’t help: Yechury||As the Union government mulls an extension of the lockdown to further contain the spread of COVID-19, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Friday said that lockdown alone would not help unless it was backed by increased testing to identify and isolate hotspots. “Merely extending the lockdown and thereby increasing the economic misery and chances of people losing their livelihood, can’t be allowed to happen in order to contain the spread,” he said at a press conference. Mr. Yechury said that there had to be a staggered withdrawal of the lockdown by opening up clusters free of COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-alone-wont-help-yechury/article31313891.ece
11 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Pannun, SFJ booked for sedition||The Punjab police on Friday booked Gurpatwant Singh Pannun and his banned group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) for seditious automated calls aimed at instigating people against the State during the lockdown. Cases have been registered under Section 124 A of IPC, and Sections 10 (a) and 13 (1) of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, said Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta. “Since the spread of the COVID-19, Pannun and his associates were found to be disseminating seditious content on social media to frustrate the already distressed masses of Punjab,” a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pannun-sfj-booked-for-sedition/article31313901.ece
11 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Tablighi members infected||The novel coronavirus infection is spreading to more districts in Gujarat. On Friday, seven cases were reported in Bharuch in the first occurrence of COVID-19 in the district. They are all members of Tablighi Jamaat from Tamil Nadu and Haryana, who had arrived here for preaching in villages of Bharuch. “Seven cases have been reported from a village in Bharuch. They are all Jamaat members, five from Tamil Nadu and two from Haryana,” a top official from Bharuch told The Hindu . He said they stayed in a mosque and were asked to undergo a test. DGP Shivanand Jha said a total of 130 people had been identified in the State who had attended Tabligh Jamaat’s congregation in Delhi in March. Of them, 13 tested positive, including one who died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tablighi-members-infected/article31313908.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Dharavi reports 11 new cases||Eleven more residents of Dharavi tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, taking the number to 28. Among the new cases are five persons whose samples were collected during a medical camp at Mukund Nagar on Thursday and a 26-year-old man who lives in Rajiv Gandhi chawl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharavi-reports-11-new-cases/article31313905.ece
11 April 2020||Guwahati,||Assam records first COVID-19 death from Hailakandi district||The local authorities on Friday declared a mosque in Guwahati a ‘containment zone’, hours after Assam recorded the first COVID-19 death from Hailakandi district. Officials said about 100 people, including eight who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, had attended a congregation at the Athgaon Kabarstan Mosque on March 12. Two of the returnees had tested positive, as did another person who attended the congregation with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-records-first-covid-19-death-from-hailakandi-district/article31313907.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jallianwala Bagh memorial to remain closed till June 15||The Union Ministry of Culture said on Friday that the Jallianwala Bagh memorial in Amritsar would remain closed to the public till June 15, as planned renovation works had been affected by the coronavirus pandemic. The memorial has been closed since February 15 and was supposed to open on April 13, ending the year-long commemoration of the centenary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. On April 13, 1919, British forces opened fire on unarmed Indians at Jallianwala Bagh, killing hundreds of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jallianwala-bagh-memorial-to-remain-closed-till-june-15/article31313904.ece
11 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||18 quarantined allowed to go home without medical check-up in U.P.||A village pradhan was booked and a panchayat secretary and lekhpal were suspended in Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur district on Friday after 18 persons quarantined in a primary school building were allowed to leave without a medical inspection for COVID-19. The incident is the latest in a series of lapses reported from quarantine centres in rural areas of the State, where people, especially migrants who recently returned from other States, have escaped from quarantine before time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/18-quarantined-allowed-to-go-home-without-medical-check-up-in-up/article31313920.ece
11 April 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Man in isolation ward ends life in GH||A 60-year-old man belonging to Kadambur near Vikkiramangalam in the district, who was admitted to the COVID-19 isolation ward in the Ariyalur Government Hospital, allegedly ended his life on Friday evening. According to sources, the victim, a construction worker, was admitted to the hospital on April 6 with complaints of cold, fever and breathing difficulty. His swab samples was lifted and sent for laboratory test to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi and the results were awaited, officials said At around 7 p.m. on Friday evening, he was found hanging in the isolation ward. A para medic, who went to observe the patients admitted to the isolation wards, found him dead. On information, the police rushed to the hospital and conducted enquiries. The body was later sent for post mortem. The victim, who was working in Kerala, had returned to his native in the last week of March, reportedly by foot in the absence of inter-State transport due to curfew. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-in-isolation-ward-ends-life-in-gh/article31314437.ece
11 April 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Man in isolation ward ends life||A 60-year-old man belonging to Kadambur near Vikkiramangalam in the district, who was admitted to the COVID-19 isolation ward in Ariyalur Government Hospital, ended his life on Friday evening. According to sources, the victim, a construction worker, was admitted to the hospital on April 6 and his test results were awaited. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-in-isolation-ward-ends-life/article31314132.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tangedco field staff too should get free treatment, ex gratia’||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) wants the State government to extend free treatment for COVID-19 and ex gratia benefits to its operations and maintenance staff. The staff, including linemen, wiremen, supervisors and local engineers, are involved in the rectification of power disruptions in the State. The State government on April 4 issued an order announcing an ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh for frontline staff of various departments involved in the fight against COVID-19 and that the expenses incurred for the treatment would be fully borne by the government. Front line staff of the Health and Family Welfare, police, sanitation and conservancy employees of urban and rural bodies and staff of Revenue and Disaster Management departments were covered under the order. But operations and maintenance staff of the Tangedco, who play a vital role in the maintenance of power supply, were left out, a Tangedco official said. Despite the lockdown, field staff have to visit the affected areas in the 15 zones in the city in case of power disruption to restore them, a senior official said. On Thursday night, when power was disrupted in several areas due to heavy rain, the field staff were involved in rectification work in places such as Royapuram, Tondiarpet, Mambalam, Adyar, Kotturpuram, Pallikaranai and Tambaram. “They work even in containment areas,” the official said. The Engineers Association of Tangedco plans to give a representation to senior officials to get the government include their field staff under the COVID-19 scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-field-staff-too-should-get-free-treatment-ex-gratia/article31314109.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decision on lockdown after today’s Cabinet meeting||After making a set of recommendations to the government on extending the lockdown, representatives of the expert team said that during the extended 14-day period, many people, including those who were contacts of COVID-19 positive cases, could be tested. Prabhdeep Kaur of ICMR National Institute of Epidemiology said: “Based on the data after the results of those tests, an informed decision could be taken after two weeks,” she explained. A senior official told The Hindu : “Some doctors recommended a two-week extension and some favoured a three-week extension and some, even beyond. The government will wait for Prime Minister’s video conferencing with Chief Ministers on Saturday and a final decision will be taken during the State Cabinet meeting [in the evening].” Besides medical experts from Tamil Nadu, Chief Scientist of World Health Organisation Dr. Soumya Swaminathan participated in the two-hour meeting through video conference from Geneva. A doctor, who participated in the meeting, said doctors who were present included some from the 19-member expert committee and also from other committees. Govt. steps lauded The doctors “were appreciative of the steps being taken by the State government” and emphasised on the need for strengthening the public health system, which would increase the State's capacity to detect the cases /clusters at the earliest. The doctors underlined the need for ensuring the safety of doctors, nurses and other health workers, who were in the front line in the fight against COVID-19. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh and senior officials participated.  Based on the data after the results of those tests, an informed decision could be taken after two weeks Prabhdeep Kaur ICMR National Institute of Epidemiology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-on-lockdown-after-todays-cabinet-meeting/article31314124.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,973 residents report symptoms||The Chennai Corporation has identified 1,973 residents who have reported symptoms in COVID-19 containment blocks across the city. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Friday said that all the residents would be monitored for the next few weeks. “Over 85% of households have been covered in the survey for symptoms of COVID-19. Survey results show 1,973 cases, with all kinds of symptoms, such as fever, in the past few days. As many as 1,312 residents no longer have such symptoms. They have been ruled out as clear cases. But 661 residents are being followed up. However, all the 1,973 residents will be on our radar for the next few weeks,” said Mr. Prakash. The civic body has earmarked 12,204 containment blocks, with 100 houses each. As many as 11,838 workers have been recruited for the survey. The number of residents with symptoms is higher in areas such as Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Tiruvottiyur, Tondiarpet and Royapuram, as per the list the Corporation generated. Of the 10.7 lakh houses in the 15 zones of the city, 9.18 lakh houses have been covered by the workers, collecting data from residents. “We have verified 17.04 lakh households. The city has 20.7 lakh households,” said an official of the Corporation. The Corporation will recruit more workers to visit houses and collect information on symptoms from residents this week. On Friday, residents in several neighborhoods complained about the collection of money by a group of individuals, who claimed that they were from the Corporation and were here for COVID-19 containment work. “The persons were wearing masks. Some residents even paid Rs. 1,000 to the people who visited the area. We are verifying CCTV camera footage,” said a resident of the Teynampet zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1973-residents-report-symptoms/article31314090.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tax revenue may drop to a minimum in April||Irrespective of whether the Tamil Nadu Cabinet would recommend extension of the COVID-19 lockdown or not on Saturday, the State government appears to be reconciling itself to the scenario of realising minimum revenue through State taxes in April. In other words, it has to rely much more on its share in Central taxes and grants-in-aid from the Union government. Its dependence on the Centre is expected to continue during the first quarter (April-June), as policy-makers feel that it may take at least a few months to see signs of economic recovery, even if the lockdown gets lifted in May. As per the Budget Estimate for 2020-21, the State Own Taxes Revenue (SOTR) is around Rs. 1,33,530 crore. In terms of monthly average revenue, it will be Rs. 11,127.5 crore. Even though it is too early to hazard a guess, the government is sure that only a negligible amount may get realised, that too if certain taxpayers come forward to make their remittances, understanding the government’s plight. Traditionally, SOTR’s share in the total revenue receipts is around 60%. Non-Tax Revenue contributes about 9 % of the revenue. Approximately 31 % of the revenue receipts is from the Union government in the form of the State’s share in Central taxes and grants. The State’s monthly average figure of total revenue receipts based on pre-COVID-19 calculations comes to around Rs. 18,281 crore. It would be a tall order if the total revenue receipts exceed the mark of Rs. 10,000 crore in April and even in May. The fall in SOTR is being visualised due to several factors such as 60-70% decline in consumption of petroleum products and ban on sale of liquor through retail outlets of the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (TASMAC) and registration of documents, apart from reduction in the prices of petroleum products.  GST revenue Besides, the government is not expecting much revenue through Goods and Services Tax in the next couple of months due to concessions announced by the Central government for firms. Those having an aggregate annual turnover less than Rs. 5 crore have been given three months (up to June last week) to file returns for March to May with no interest, late fee, and penalty. For “bigger firms,” a similar concession has been provided, though late filing of returns after 15 days will carry 9 % interest. The State government is of the view that these firms too will make use of the extension of time under the given circumstances. Even otherwise, during 2019-20, the State government experienced the pain of the general slump in the economy, which got reflected in terms of tepid growth in revenue. Amid a tight financial condition, it had made the full payment of salary to its employees for March, unlike in States such as Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, which have either deferred their payment or decided to make the payment in two installments, a senior Tamil Nadu government official points out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tax-revenue-may-drop-to-a-minimum-in-april/article31314130.ece
11 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Metrowater houses migrant workers at 32 camps in city||A total of 572 migrant workers, engaged in various water supply and sewerage projects, have remained in the city since the lockdown. Chennai Metrowater has set up camps in 32 places across the city to house these workers from various States, including West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha. The workers are involved in projects funded by multilateral agencies. They are being provided groceries, medicines and sanitisers. “Project engineers in-charge will check on their needs. Our dispensary doctors also visit them for regular check-ups. Works on to lay pipelines in the added areas have been suspended. Most migrant workers are engaged in such projects,” said an official. The workers have been advised to practice physical distancing. The water agency has provided safety gear to nearly 3,500 officers and workers engaged in essential services. This includes safety suits and boots.  Safety gear It has sought N-95 masks for field workers, particularly those involved in sewage management. “Several of them continue to work round-the-clock to provide water supply and sewage disposal. We continue to take up emergency works such as water pollution complaints and desilting of sewer manholes,” said an official. The N-95 masks will be given to workers with high-exposure risks. After the lockdown was announced, the number of trips by water tankers has come down by 600, every day, as more water is being supplied through pipelines. Now, about 5,000 tanker trips are being operated daily, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metrowater-houses-migrant-workers-at-32-camps-in-city/article31314099.ece
11 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||1,973 Chennai residents report symptoms during survey||The Chennai Corporation has identified 1,973 residents who have reported symptoms in COVID-19 containment blocks across the city. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Friday said that all the residents would be monitored for the next few weeks. “Over 85% of households have been covered in the survey for symptoms of COVID-19. Survey results show 1,973 cases, with all kinds of symptoms, such as fever, in the past few days. As many as 1,312 residents no longer have such symptoms. They have been ruled out as clear cases. But 661 residents are being followed up. However, all the 1,973 residents will be under our radar for the next few weeks,” said Mr. Prakash. The civic body has earmarked 12,204 containment blocks, with 100 houses each. As many as 11,838 workers have been recruited for the survey. The number of residents with symptoms is higher in areas such as Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Tiruvottiyur, Tondiarpet and Royapuram, as per the list the Corporation generated. Of the 10.7 lakh houses in the 15 zones of the city, 9.18 lakh houses have been covered by the workers, collecting data from residents. “We have verified 17.04 lakh households. The city has 20.7 lakh households,” said an official of the Corporation. The Corporation will recruit more workers to visit houses and collect information on symptoms from residents this week. On Friday, residents in several neighborhoods complained about the collection of money by a group of individuals, who claimed that they were from the Corporation and were here for COVID-19 containment work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1973-chennai-residents-report-symptoms-during-survey/article31314451.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Survey finds 1,973 residents of Chennai with symptoms||The Chennai Corporation has identified 1,973 residents who have reported symptoms in COVID-19 containment blocks across the city. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Friday said that all the residents would be monitored for the next few weeks. “Over 85% of households have been covered in the survey for symptoms of COVID-19. Survey results show 1,973 cases, with all kinds of symptoms, such as fever, in the past few days. As many as 1,312 residents no longer have such symptoms. They have been ruled out as clear cases. But 661 residents are being followed up. However, all the 1,973 residents will be under our radar for the next few weeks,” said Mr. Prakash. The civic body has earmarked 12,204 containment blocks, with 100 houses each. As many as 11,838 workers have been recruited for the survey. The number of residents with symptoms is higher in areas such as Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Tiruvottiyur, Tondiarpet and Royapuram, as per the list the Corporation generated. Of the 10.7 lakh houses in the 15 zones of the city, 9.18 lakh houses have been covered by the workers, collecting data from residents. “We have verified 17.04 lakh households. The city has 20.7 lakh households,” said an official of the Corporation. The Corporation will recruit more workers to visit houses and collect information on symptoms from residents this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-finds-1973-residents-of-chennai-with-symptoms/article31314436.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court favours higher salaries for front line workers||Observing that the monthly salary paid to government doctors, paramedical staff, sanitation workers and policemen was not commensurate with the services rendered by them, the Madras High Court has expressed hope that the government will appreciate their services by increasing their salaries appropriately. Justices N. Kirubakaran and R. Hemalatha made the observations in their common interim order on a couple of public interest litigation petitions. “This court is of the firm opinion that doctors, health workers, sanitary workers and policemen are serving round-the-clock throughout the year. Yet, their salary is not commensurate with their work. “This court hails and appreciates the services rendered by them especially in the fight against the dangerous pandemic COVID-19 which is now threatening the entire humanity. This court hopes and expects that respective governments will appreciate their services by proper increase in their salaries,” their order read. Though the litigant S. Jimraj Milton had complained about lack of certain facilities in hospitals, the court recorded the submission of Additional Advocate General P.H. Arvindh Pandian that 37,648 personal protective equipment, 1.17 lakh N-95 masks, 7.75 lakh three-layered masks and 14,000 testing kits were available as on date in the State. Pointing out that orders had been placed for more number of safety gear, he said the stocks were replenished regularly. The AAG denied the litigant’s claim that some residents and migrant workers at Pulianthope, Korukkupet, Vyasarpadi and Ambattur were suffering without food. He said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had ordered free distribution of rice, oil, dal and Rs. 1,000 cash not only to ration cardholders but also to non-cardholders. When the court wanted to know whether government doctors and paramedical staff were being given sufficient time to relax, the AAG replied in the affirmative. “They should be safeguarded against the viral attack and therefore, they should be subjected to regular testing by the authorities,” the Bench said and adjourned the cases by two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-favours-higher-salaries-for-front-line-workers/article31314126.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mangoes land in city, to be sold through mobile units||Fresh loads of mangoes, apples and pomegranates arrived in Chennai on Friday, for sale through mobile units. The Tamil Nadu Horticulture Department has been directly buying fruits and vegetables from farmers for distribution to consumers during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. “Fresh Alphonso mangoes have come from Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri. We procured apples from the northern States and pomegranates from Maharashtra,” said agriculture production commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. He inspected the stock of vegetables and fruits, along with horticulture director N. Subbaiyan, at the horticulture godown in Madhavaram. Cheap rates Vegetables are being procured from farmers in Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. “Since we are buying directly from the farmers, the rates are cheap and this will also benefit the buyers. We are selling either in bulk or in packages with fixed prices,” Mr. Bedi said. In Chennai, vegetables and fruits are sold in 15 zones, through mobile vehicles, and the department sells 200 tonnes a day. Besides, the Chennai Corporation and CMDA are buying directly from the wholesale market in Koyambedu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mangoes-land-in-city-to-be-sold-through-mobile-units/article31314092.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport to have limited flights||The number of flights departing from Chennai airport, every hour, is likely to be brought down significantly for some time, once operations resume after the COVID-19 lockdown is lifted by the government. Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials said that the plan was being discussed since physical distancing would be of prime importance after the lockdown ends. The authorities have been holding extensive talks for the last few days, and the process of revising and drawing up fresh flight schedules for the airport will begin soon. “In case the lockdown is lifted, we should be prepared for operations. The number of flights departing at a time is likely to reduce substantially. This is because the airport has severe peak-hour congestion, wherein hundreds queue up to complete check-in and security procedures ,” an official said. “This cannot happen henceforth, as we have to maintain physical distancing. It can be implemented only if a limited number of flights take off at a time,” the official noted. “Apart from the fact that aircraft movement will be affected, many will also hesitate to take up leisure air travel initially, and fly only for something absolutely essential,” another official said, strongly indicating that passenger traffic may be hit as well. Airlines like IndiGo have already announced that there will not be any onboard meals for a while and airport buses of airlines will be run only at 50% capacity to ensure physical distancing. Sources said that physical distancing was likely to be enforced inside the aircraft as well. Middle seats in the aircraft may be left vacant to implement the same, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-to-have-limited-flights/article31314096.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC seeks report on police ‘excesses’||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has sought a report from the Director-General of Police on a plea, which sought an easy access complaint mechanism through which general public could post their grievance against police officials. The plea also urged the SHRC to direct the DGP to ensure protection for all policemen from the spread of COVID-19. The complainant, R.S. Aafreen, a student of the Tamil Nadu National Law University, submitted that a few police personnel beat up those on the road. Some of them resorted to such action without even finding out the reason for which they had come out. The complainant said in a video clip a police officer was seen beating up a doctor. Later, he is seen asking why the victim had not informed him that he was a doctor. “It might be the tip of the iceberg since many such incidents might go unnoticed because there are neither many on the streets nor do they have the courage to videograph such violations,” Mr. Aafreen contended. “Moreover, a few video clips in circulation on social media show that some of the police personnel are not provided with adequate protective equipment/information to safeguard themselves from the spread of COVID-19,” the complainant said. Excessive force While the general public appreciated the dedication of the police they were also equally worried that exercise of excessive or illegal or inhuman force might degrade the dedicated service of the entire Police Department. Acting on the complaint, SHRC acting chairperson D. Jayachandran has sought a report from the DGP within four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-seeks-report-on-police-excesses/article31314134.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railways to rope in ex-servicemen||Once services resume after the lockdown ends, the Railway Protection Force (RPF), Chennai division, is planning to rope in ex-servicemen to provide security on trains. “All our personnel will be provided masks and sanitisers,” said an officer. The officer said that an RPF officer or ex-serviceman would escort two compartments. “Immediately after the lockdown is lifted, some changes are expected in the structure of the compartments. There will only be one entry/exit and the number of seats will be reduced. Each train will run to only 2/3rd of its capacity. There will be no unreserved compartment,” said an officer. The government is also planning various measures pertaining to the running of trains. One is to divide the country into three zones — red, yellow and green — depending on the number of COVID-19 cases. In the red zone, no transport services will be introduced, yellow will have restricted services and green will have no restrictions on the number of services “To ensure physical distancing, there will be no allotment of the middle berth in the three-tier sleeper and air-conditioned coaches of long-distance trains. Even side berths may not be there. Linen and food will not be introduced till the number of cases come down. All scheduled trains are to be cancelled and only special trains will run. There will be thermal screening at all entry points and passengers above 60 will not to be allowed to travel,” said a railway official. There are also plans to make wearing of masks compulsory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-to-rope-in-ex-servicemen/article31314088.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bringing patrons back to theatres||Theatres and multiplexes across Tamil Nadu are mulling options to bring back movie lovers once shows resume. From physical distancing within theatre premises, cleaning the restrooms after every usage, to delivery of food and beverages to the seats, theatres are looking at how to operate their business during the initial few weeks after the lockdown. PVR Cinemas has decided on maintaining physical distancing between seats. CEO Gautam Dutta said leaving one seat between a certain group would eat into 16-20% of capacity, but the brand’s endeavour was to win back confidence of its consumers. Udeep B., managing director of Mayajaal Cinemas, said that his group would be selling tickets for alternate seats, like airlines. The team at AGS Cinemas is looking at how to work out seating arrangements. Archana Kalpathi, CEO, AGS Cinemas, said, “We are putting together a sanitation plan and trying to see how temperature checks can be done for our patrons in a short duration.” Nikilesh Surya, exceutive director of Rohini Silver Screens, is planning to enforce physical distancing, but is waiting to see how the situation will unfold in the coming weeks. According to estimates, a one-day closure of all theatres in the State will lead to an average loss of Rs. 8 crore a day. Senthil Kumar, co-founder of Qube Cinema Technologies, said that physical distancing and deep cleaning between shows would give people extra confidence. Theatres across the State are working on the economics of installing hand-washing stations and disinfectant spraying booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bringing-patrons-back-to-theatres/article31314094.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Innovators urged to come up with products for immediate use||The current health crisis has spawned competitions, all looking for answers to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 infection among people as quickly as possible. The National Innovation Foundation, that comes under the Department of Science and Technology, has announced an open-ended contest calling on citizens to give ideas that can be put to use immediately by the public. The Challenge COVID-19 Competition is open to all. The NIF would assist with mentoring or funds to make a prototype or develop the idea/product. Foundation director Vipin Kumar said already hundreds of suggestions and ideas had been received in the last few days. The contest was announced on March 31. “We have shortlisted 10 of them and we are in touch with these people,” he said. “The aim is to have a technology that can be converted into a workable product. There is no deadline and we are not giving awards. If the idea is good we will provide funding and incubate it. We are looking at ideas and products that can be put into people’s hands. An open source platform would be created and people could make the product at home. The NIF is not looking just at the current scenario but also taking it forward post-COVID-19 and post-lockdown,” Mr. Kumar said. The NIF contest revolves around sanitation; supply and distribution of essential items to the disabled and the elderly; and keeping the population gainfully engaged during lockdown, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/innovators-urged-to-come-up-with-products-for-immediate-use/article31314116.ece
11 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Shops in containment zones in Chengalpattu to stay shut from today||All shops still operating in containment zones in Chengalpet district would be fully closed from Saturday. The district administration has proposed to close the vegetable and fruit shops in the areas identified to be having COVID patients to prevent further spread. In a press release issued by Chengalpet Collector John Louis said steps have been taken to distribute vegetables and fruits along with providing medicines and other food commodities at the doorsteps of patients every three days. However automated teller machines (ATMs) would be allowed to function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-in-containment-zones-in-chengalpattu-to-stay-shut-from-today/article31314114.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NCC cadets to help police||The Kancheepuram police have roped in NCC cadets from colleges in the district for crowd management at public places over the coming weeks.  “A total of 42 NCC cadets from various colleges have come forward to help us manage crowds at ration shops, ATMs and markets in Kancheepuram district,” said B. Shamoondeswari, SP, Kancheepuram district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncc-cadets-to-help-police/article31314097.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Grocery kits for Rs. 500||Ten lakh bags of groceries, with 19 items, will be sold through fair price shops in the State. Priced at Rs. 500 apiece, the bag will contain toor dal and urad dal (500 g each); gram flour (250 g); salt (1 kg) and edible oil (250 g), apart from pepper and mustard (100 g each), among other items. The Triplicane Urban Cooperative Society has procured all commodities. Chennai has been allotted 57,000 bags.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grocery-kits-for-rs-500/article31314100.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Contributions continue to come in for CM’s Public Relief Fund||Kalpathi AGS Group has contributed Rs. 50 lakh to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. The Group, which includes AGS Cinemas Private Limited that runs multiplexes, AGS Entertainment Private Limited and Kalpathi Investments, among others, had earlier contributed Rs. 15 lakh to the Film Employees Federation of South India (FEFSI). Gemini Edibles & Fats India Pvt Ltd (GEF India), a company which is in the business of importing of Palmolein through Chennai and Karaikal ports has contributed a sum of Rs. 25 lakh to the CM public relief fund. Chaudhary Anjana Samaj Foundation has made a contribution of Rs. 5 lakh, while Punam Jewellery has contributed Rs. 1 lakh each to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, PM Cares Fund and Rajasthan Chief Minister Public Relief Fund. Sun TV Network Ltd and its Group Companies said it will donate a sum of Rs.10 crore to COVID-19 relief funds. The employees of Sun TV and other affiliated Group companies numbering more than 6,000 will also contribute one day’s salary, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contributions-continue-to-come-in-for-cms-public-relief-fund/article31314117.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Transporters can’t pay for 2 months: assn.||Private transport industry will not be able to pay salaries to employees for the next two months and needs government support to tide over the situation, A. Afzal, president, Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association said. “Till mid of March the collections where coming and we had funds to pay the salaries,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transporters-cant-pay-for-2-months-assn/article31314120.ece
11 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. sanctions Rs. 4 crore corpus for fire services personnel||The State government has sanctioned over Rs. 4 crore to be released as feeding charges for the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) personnel across the State.  C. Sylendra Babu, DGP, TNFRS, sought funds for feeding charges, as firemen have been working hard to contain the spread of the virus. Over 5,587 personnel and 536 firefighting vehicles have been used to disinfect public places throughout the State, including government hospitals, Koyambedu bus stand and vegetable markets, railway stations, places of worship and other locations, where people gather. This is expected to go on till April 30 or till the need ceases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-sanctions-rs-4-crore-corpus-for-fire-services-personnel/article31314113.ece
11 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||District administration starts collecting details about migrant workers||The district administration has started collecting details of migrant workers across sectors in the district and is expected to submit the information to the State government before April 14. The Labour Department, Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH), and the District Industries Centre (DIC) are collecting the details. The revenue officials will co-ordinate with the three departments wherever required, Collector K. Rajamani told The Hindu on Friday. The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) have been asked to provide the details in a prescribed format to the DIC by email (dicmigrantlabours@ gmail.com) The MSMEs across sectors should share details of the name of the worker, mobile, Aadhaar number, address at his home State, employer name and address, the name and address of the industry, whether it is registered with the Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health, and if the industry is taking care of the workers during the lockdown period. This was only for enumeration purpose and the data could be used by the government to distribute relief materials to the workers at any point of time, the Collector said. Meanwhile, the Labour Department has disbursed Rs. 1,000 and relief kit (15 kg rice, one kg dal, and one litre oil) to construction workers registered with the Tamil Nadu Construction Workers Welfare Board. An official of the Department said that of the 41,000 workers registered with the board in the district and nearly 5,000 pensioners, 25 % had provided details of their bank accounts and the amount had been transferred to the accounts. For the remaining workers, the relief kit would be distributed through the PDS outlets and they could provide the bank account details at the outlets to receive the cash. According to officials at DISH, workers from other States (inter-State migrant workers), who are employed with the construction sector, will get the relief kit through the PDS outlets. The distribution process is on and 70 % of the workers have been covered so far. In the case of migrant workers employed in factories, only those with the units already registered will get the relief kit. The order for supply of materials to these workers is expected soon. However, there were confusions regarding the category of workers who will receive the rice, dhal, and oil. In Pollachi, an official reportedly told an MSME unit owner that the materials were only for migrant workers in the unorganised sector and not for those employed by the MSMEs. At Annur, it was said that migrant workers employed in foundries had also received the materials. A couple of MSMEs that had workers staying outside the unit premises were able to get the materials for the workers. S. Krishnamoorthy, district secretary of CITU, said Tamil Nadu had no data on migrant workers in the State. The workers were of three categories: those employed in factories, those who worked through contractors in a site or unit for a specific period, and the daily wage earners. “No benefit has reached those in the unorganised sector for daily wages,” he said. The CITU members had met the District Collector and the revenue officials and said they could support the data enumeration work and sought assistance for all segments of workers. Mr. Rajamani said the revenue officials were ensuring that migrant workers in the district, across sectors, received food or provisions for daily needs. The Labour Department had distributed relief to construction workers and the DISH was distributing relief package to migrant workers. It was initially for the construction workers and soon for the migrant workers in factories whose data was available with it. The data enumeration was an independent exercise and was not related to distribution of relief materials, which was going on now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-administration-starts-collecting-details-about-migrant-workers/article31314148.ece
11 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Good Friday: Church takes to live streaming of Holy Mass||On Friday morning, the presbyter (pastor) at the CSI All Souls’ Church conducted Good Friday Holy Mass. He went about delivering the God’s message just as he would on any other Good Friday. But this year it was different, for he was addressing empty pews as the faithful kept away because of the 21-day lockdown that the Government of India had announced to contain he spread of COVID-19 virus. The presbyter, however, reached out to the hundreds of faithful as the church live streamed his Mass. In the same way, the Protestant Diocese in Coimbatore had on Friday sent out Bishop Rt. Rev. Timothy Ravinder Dev Pradeep’s message through a social media platform. Eight districts “My message reached most of the members of the Protestant community in the eight districts,” he said. The Diocese managed 355 churches in the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri. The Diocese did not want to violate the lockdown order and at the same time wanted to reach out to the Protestants. So, technology came in handy, said the Bishop. To adapt to the lockdown situation, the presbyters had condensed their mass, which, otherwise, would go on for two-and-a-half to three hours. They had curtailed it to around half-an-hour or so. “Instead of reading on five to seven verses, the presbyters confined themselves to one or two verses. Similarly, they briefly dealt with the Utterances – the seven words that Jesus Christ had spoken on the cross,” the Bishop explained. The introduction of technology had also democratised the prayer in a way that the presbyter was able to immediately receive feedback for his mass, which would not have been possible had he conducted in traditional style. That many of the presbyters and Protestants were technology-savvy only helped matters, he added. The Catholic Diocese, however, stuck to the traditional way of praying on Good Friday. Vicar General S. John Joseph said the Bishop and 10 fathers prayed at the St. Michael’s Cathedral on Big Bazaar Street. The Catholics did not turn up because of the lockdown but they followed the instructions given through the official channel, Madha TV. This was the Tamil Nadu Arch Bishop’s official channel and that was how the Catholic clergy was in touch with its people, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-friday-church-takes-to-live-streaming-of-holy-mass/article31314158.ece
11 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Frustrated patient breaks window glass at ESI Hospital||A COVID-19 positive patient undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here broke a window glass at the isolation ward allegedly out of frustration after he was not allowed to eat the dish brought by his wife on Friday. According to the police, the wife of the 27-year-old patient brought home-cooked chicken biriyani to the isolation ward at the first floor of the hospital on Friday afternoon. She was stopped outside the ward as the hospital said that food brought from outside was not allowed. Out of alleged frustration, the man threw a fire extinguisher on the glass window and damaged it at around 5.45 p.m. Hospital sources said that the patient did not suffer any injuries. Based on a complaint by Resident Medical Officer K. Kulandaivelu, the Singanallur police registered a case against the patient under Section 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of Tamil Nadu Public Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act. Action will be initiated after the patient completes the treatment, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/frustrated-patient-breaks-window-glass-at-esi-hospital/article31314150.ece
11 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Milk producers face challenges during lockdown||Located on the Kerala-Coimbatore border, a milk society that supplies to Kerala has stopped procurement of milk from the farmers in Coimbatore. Six to seven farmers used to supply nearly 150 litres litres a day to the society. Now, they are looking for options to sell the milk. A milk vendor in Ramanathapuram in Coimbatore is anxious to know when the lockdown will be lifted. He supplies milk to individual households every day and the purchase has reduced. “Many have gone to their home towns because of the lockdown. So there is dip in sales,” he says. Several private dairies have reduced the procurement price by nearly Rs. 5 a litre, claim some of the farmers here. Since the lockdown came into force, several milk producers are facing drop in demand as hotels and bakeries are shutdown and a section of retail buyers have gone back to their hometowns. N. Murugesan, a farmer near Othakalmandapam, says he supplies milk to Aavin and there is no problem in procurement. However, there are challenges in getting fodder for the cattle and in transporting it. “We used to buy fodder from private players too. The rates have almost doubled,” he says. Milk vendors who used to come to farms and collect milk for sales faced problems for the initial two or three days. Now, they supply to the society, says Tamil Nadu Milk Producers' Welfare Association general secretary M.G. Rajendran. Aavin used to procure 28 lakh litres across the State. Now, it is more than 30 lakh litres, he says. He urged the milk producers to supply to the societies if they faced challenges in demand. In Coimbatore, an Aavin official said it is seeing an increase in demand in the district after the lockdown for milk, ghee and butter. It used to sell 1.42 lakh litres a day and now it is 1.57 lakh litres. Procurement has also increased by 10,000 litres a day. A lot of consumers used to buy milk packets of different brands from the neighbourhood grocery shops. Since these outlets are open only for a few hours a day, the shop owners have reduced the purchase of milk. Aavin has 800 agents and sales through them has increased, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milk-producers-face-challenges-during-lockdown/article31314155.ece
11 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Challenges in getting essential food products||In all probability, a consumer visiting the neighbourhood grocery shop or a supermarket may not find on the shelf his/her favourite brand of biscuit or the variety of pulses he/she is used to. Even as the nation-wide lockdown enters the 18th day and the government has relaxed norms for movement of essential commodities, producers, distributors, and traders continue to face challenges that affect availability of the essential food items. Further, prices are up for almost all the products. On an average, prices are up 10 % to 20 %, says Coimbatore Maligai Merchants Association president Prabhakaran. Except for rava, all the other essential food products are now available in the market. Even rava will be available from Monday, he says. However, the traders here pay almost double the cost for transport as the vehicles return without goods, he points out. This has an impact down the supply chain. There are also problems in loading and unloading the goods because of the time restrictions for these. C. Durairaj, treasurer of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, explains that if a vehicle is sent to a distributor for loading, it waits for almost a day. “Earlier, 60 to 70 distributors used to bring branded or packed goods to a supermarket. Now, vehicles are sent to the distributor for loading. Supermarkets may not be able to get products from all the distributors,” he says. Coimbatore gets pulses from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and the mills in these States have just resumed operation. “Though availability is not an issue, we may not get the same brand or the grade of the product that we want,” he says. Labour availability and transport are the main challenges right from production to retail level, he adds. Consumer demand continues to be good. Those in the city now get the products from all the outlets. The number of wholesale buyers coming from neighbouring districts is on the rise, adds Mr. Prabhakaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/challenges-in-getting-essential-food-products/article31314147.ece
11 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||20 family members of Tablighi participants test positive||Twenty family members of the 91 persons, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet had tested positive for COVID-19, said sources. Soon after the district administration completed the process of identifying the 91 persons who had returned to the district after attending the religious meet, it began taking to hospitals those who had tested positive. The administration placed under quarantine those who had tested negative. Now, the administration had began testing for COVID-19 the family members of the 91 persons. So far, it had tested around 90 persons and of those it had found 20 positive. The administration was yet to test the remaining family members, expected to be over 220. The administration expected the test results of a few more persons, including over 20 from within the city limits, to be declared and if they too tested positive the number of positive cases in the district would go up. The sources also said that the administration was on Friday engaged in the process of collecting samples from the families of those Tablighi conference participants who were from Anamalai in the district. The administration had identified the participants were residents of Mettupalayam, Annur, Coimbatore, Anamalai and a few other pockets in the city. It had taken them to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital and Government Hospitals in Mettupalayam, Annur and Pollachi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-family-members-of-tablighi-participants-test-positive/article31314156.ece
11 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Relief measures||Coimbatore District Hoteliers Association has taken up distribution of food to 3,500 people a day till the end of April. According to a release, the food will be distributed to the needy during the lockdown period. KCP Engineers has donated Rs. 61 lakh towards COVID-19 relief measures. A release said that the company had contributed Rs. 51 lakh to the State COVID-19 relief fund and spraying machine worth Rs. 10 lakh the Coimbatore Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-measures/article31314146.ece
11 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 88.93 lakh realised||Collector M. Vijayalakshmi said the district had received Rs. 88.93 lakh towards contribution to Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. She appealed to philanthropists to donate for the cause of treating COVID-19 pandemic. Public can make contributions online in Indian Overseas Bank, Secretariat, Chennai-600009. Bank account: 117201000000070 IFSC: IOBA0001172 CMPRFPAN: AAAGC0038F. Rain in district Vedasandur recorded 42 mm rainfall during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Friday. Natham recorded 36.5, Kodaikanal: 2, Nilakottai:8.3 and Chatrapatti (Oddanchatram) recorded 12 mm rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-8893-lakh-realised/article31314412.ece
11 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||NGOs serve food to 2,000 homeless every day||Seven Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) serve food to around 2,000 homeless and arm-seekers every day in the city since the lockdown was announced. With all the hotels, restaurants and roadside eateries being closed and people staying homes, homeless people, arm-seekers, daily wagers and a few others wandering on roads could not get food or water. The Corporation allowed NGOs to distribute food to them and many NGOs joined the service. Atachayam Trust and Jeevitham Foundation were allowed to shift the homeless people to the Corporation schools on Cauvery Road, at Railway Colony and Veerapampalayam where they were provided three meals a day, tea, fruits, biscuits and other essentials. Currently, about 80 to 100 people are provided shelter at each of the three schools and members of the NGOs are taking care of them. Also, the teams distribute food packets to people living on the roads every day. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that close to 2,000 people were given food three times a day by the NGOs and appreciated their contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngos-serve-food-to-2000-homeless-every-day/article31314145.ece
11 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. reaches out to people in core area of tiger reserve||The Forest Department has reached out to tribal people living in the core areas of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) and provided them with essential commodities in the wake of the lockdown. There are nine forest tribal settlements and 19 revenue tribal settlements in STR that lack road connectivity. People have to travel a minimum of 15 km to reach the market to purchase essential commodities. One such tribal village is Nandipuram in Karachikorai Panchayat located along the Moyar Valley where 18 families comprising 70 people are living for many generations. The village, in the core zone of STR, is located 20 km away from Bhavani Sagar and on the way to Thengumarahada. The village can be reached only by the two Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation buses operated by the Coimbatore Division from The Nilgiris and also through a private pick up van. People collect tamarind and neem and sell them in markets at Sathyamangalam and purchase essential commodities in the bus or van and reach their village. But, the lockdown has made commuting to the market impossible for them. A team led by Bhavani Sagar Forest Range Officer Manoj Kumar, on Friday, distributed essential commodities, vegetables, masks and sanitisers to the families. Also, the villagers were educated on COVID-19 and were asked to maintain personal distancing. They were informed on how to keep themselves away from wild animals and also measures to prevent the virus from spreading to the animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-reaches-out-to-people-in-core-area-of-tiger-reserve/article31314143.ece
11 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Railway hospital to become a COVID-19 treatment facility||Collector T.G. Vinay has proposed to take over the entire Divisional Railway Hospital here and convert it into a dedicated COVID-19 treatment facility as per a Directorate General of Health Services notification. Divisional Railway Manager V.R. Lenin has sought the approval of Southern Railway headquarters on the issue, according to railway sources. Mr. Vinay, who is also the Chairman of District Disaster Management Authority, said this move was one of the several measures being taken to contain the spread and break the chain of transmission of COVID-19 infection. “As per the guidelines of the Centre and State governments, we have to isolate all suspected and confirmed COVID-19 patients. We plan to take over the entire railway hospital and convert it into a dedicated COVID-19 health centre,” he said in a letter to the DRM. In the letter, a copy of which is available with The Hindu , the Collector has asked the DRM to hand over the 115-bed hospital with its existing infrastructure and manpower – doctors, staff nurses, pharmacists, lab technicians, paramedical and clerical staff and workers. With 21 doctors on its roll, the hospital has three operation theatres and four-bedded intensive care facility. According to a railway source, the hospital registers an average of 60% occupancy. The district administration has requested that all available drugs and consumables, all logistics and equipment (instruments for patients’ care) should also be handed over. Meanwhile, National Federation of Indian Railwaymen has objected to the proposal of handing over the railway hospital to the district administration. In its communication to the Principal Chief Medical Director, Southern Railway and the DRM, Madurai, its joint general secretary P.S. Suriyaprakasam said that railway staff, their spouses and wards and retired personnel, who availed treatment for various ailments at the railway hospital, would face the threat of infecting the virus in case the hospital was converted into a COVID-19 health centre. Since the railways had converted many coaches into isolation wards, the government could use the coaches for treating COVID-19 patients instead of disturbing the systematic working of the hospital, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-hospital-to-become-a-covid-19-treatment-facility/article31314432.ece
11 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Manamadurai circus artistes stranded in Panaiyur||For artistes of Kamala Circus, hailing from Manamadurai in Sivaganga district, summer is the time when they perform at many villages and earn a decent amount. They travel throughout Madurai, Sivaganga and Virudhunagar districts and conduct shows in villages. “Since we work only around eight months in a year, the money we earn during this period will see us through the rest of the year,” says R. Pandian, an artiste. However, this summer has turned out to be a disaster for them. The last show they performed this summer was at Panaiyur near Madurai, on the day before the announcement of the nation-wide lockdown due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Since then the 10 artistes and their children have been stranded, staying inside tents at Panaiyur village, as they cannot go home. The cancellation of shows has affected their very means of livelihood. These 10 artistes belong to around 500 families in four villages near Manamadurai - all circus artistes for generations. They go in groups, pitch camp in a village, perform there for a few days before returning to Manamadurai. The 10 artistes stranded in Panaiyur had performed in Tirumangalam earlier. V. Ramu, an artiste, says the Panaiyur panchayat president and the villagers have been giving them rice, vegetables and other essential commodities. They use firewood for cooking. “While we’ve been taken care of here, it is disheartening to hear from our families back home that they are running out of groceries. My mother, wife and I are circus artistes and send money to my three brothers and their families in Manamadurai. Now that we earn nothing after the lockdown, they are struggling to make both ends meet,” Mr. Ramu says. Many of the artistes are worried about how they would repay loans they availed from money-lenders. “Also, it costs a huge sum to transport all the circus equipment back to Manamadurai by lorry. With no income, we do not know how we are going to reach home,” he says. Additional Director of Panchayat A. Chelladurai says the district administration has been providing essential commodities to them. “We will also facilitate their transport, along with their circus equipment after the lockdown,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manamadurai-circus-artistes-stranded-in-panaiyur/article31314423.ece
11 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Drone deployed to disinfect some areas in Madurai||Regular disinfection of containment zones, which were formed near the residences where COVID-19 positive cases were recorded, was being carried out to curb spread of the pandemic, said Collector T.G. Vinay here on Friday. Mr. Vinay and Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inspected spraying of disinfectants through a drone at Melamadai, Narimedu and P and T Nagar, all containment zones. Boom sprayers and Fire and Rescue Services vehicles were also deployed to spray disinfectants in the containment zones. The Collector said that social activists and members of non-governmental organisations were distributing vegetables and other essential commodities to all people living in containment zones. Officials from different departments were regularly monitoring those who were home-quarantined, Mr. Vinay said. The Collector said strict action would be taken against shopkeepers who sold essential commodities at inflated prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drone-deployed-to-disinfect-some-areas-in-madurai/article31314425.ece
11 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers prepare, serve food for 1,500 people||A group of volunteers from Tirunagar here are preparing food for around 1,500 people for each meal every day and distributing them to migrant workers, daily wage earners and conservancy workers across Madurai, in the wake of the lockdown due to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. A dedicated team prepares the meals and makes parcels. These packets are distributed by social activists and members of various non-governmental organisations. This exercise has been going on since March 30. The team also distributes the food packets to conservancy workers, police personnel and other workers who discharge duties during the lockdown. “The conservancy workers who leave home as early as 5 a.m. find it difficult to have food as most of the hotels and eateries are closed due to the lockdown,’ said S. Adish, a volunteer who distributes food for conservancy workers at Tirumangalam every day. S. Raja Poornachandran from Tirunagar, a volunteer who oversees the preparation of food, says that initially they prepared food for 1,000 people. “As more people required food, we scaled up production,” he said. “Many of them have no source of income. It is important to feed these people as starvation is a more serious issue than the COVID-19 pandemic,” said P.R. Vishwanath, another volunteer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteers-prepare-serve-food-for-1500-people/article31314427.ece
11 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Shops near containment zone in Melur closed||Officials ordered closure of grocery shops around the containment zone in Melur on Friday after chaos reigned for three days. Around 11,000 people in 3,000 households at Melur have been placed under home quarantine. M. Jinnah, a resident of Melur, said that there was a plea on Tuesday to open shops near the containment zone as many people could not get basic goods like groceries, flour, oil and pulses. Only two major departmental stores were functioning but they could not cater to the needs of all people. A senior police official said that there was absolute chaos between Tuesday and Thursday when shops were kept open. Despite the threat of spread of coronavirus, people thronged shops to buy groceries for their homes. We understand the need but there was total disregard for physical distance. Although we tried to control the crowd, we could not do much, because over 20 shops remained open at the same time, according to a source. According to a trader's association, there are 151 grocery shops and 20 traders in the town. To bring the situation under control after news of another positive case on Thursday from Melur, Municipal Commissioner P. Balamurugan said they would permit grocery shops to apply for permission for home delivery. ‘Even if all 20 shops want to deliver goods at home, we will allow them as it would ensure that people follow home quarantine norms. No shop near the containment zone will be kept open,’ he said. On Friday, a total of 11 shops began delivering goods at houses and a total of 450 orders were received. The municipality also delivered 1,950 vegetable bags using eight vehicles to the residents in the containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-near-containment-zone-in-melur-closed/article31314430.ece
11 April 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Results awaited for 24 samples||Results are awaited for 24 out of 73 samples of persons, who were detected with symptoms for COVID 19 in Nagapattinam district. So far, 73 samples were sent for testing and 12 persons had tested positive. Thirty seven samples have turned out to be negative, District Collector Praveen P. Nair said. Six locations where the residences of the 12 COVID 19 positive cases have been identified have been made into containment zones. Movement of people in the containment zones has been restricted and essentials are being provided on door-to-door basis, as a precautionary measure to prevent community transmission. A door-to-door survey of the health conditions of residents in the containment zones in Nagapattinam town, Nagore, Thittacherry and Sirkazhi town, besides Poravacherry and Thirukalacheri in rural parts is being undertaken by 33 doctors, 36 nurses and 700 frontline workers with the support of 102 police personnel and officials, the Collector said. Those who had returned from foreign countries and those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi have been placed under home quarantine. Currently, 3,383 families are in home quarantine. Quarantine period has been completed by 1,702 other families. About 1,360 displaced labourers from other States, roadside dwellers, and other homeless people are being provided with food thrice a day in the district .So far, 53,701 food packets have been distributed. The officials are also coordinating with some of the district administrations in Kerala, Maharashtra and Goa to ensure proper care for the stranded workers belonging to Nagapattinam district, the Collector said. The district administration has completed disbursing financial relief of Rs. 1,000 for 98% of the family card holders in the district. The rest of the family card holders will be covered in a few days. So far, 3,76,676 family card holders have been supplied with 7,26 metric tonnes of rice, 343 metric tonnes of dal, 536 metric tonnes of sugar, 96 metric tonnes of atta, and 2,38 lakh litres of palm oil. For ensuring reach of old age pension and widow pension, the monthly allowance for physically challenged people, banking correspondents have been deployed. As many as 16,893 beneficiaries have been reached, he said. In Mayiladuthurai municipality, passes are being issued for people permitting a family member to venture out for purchasing essentials. Unorganised sector workers and and auto drivers are being provided with Rs. 1,000 each. The amount was being deposited into their bank accounts through ECS. Each worker will also be provided with one kg dal and one kg cooking oil. Each of the 22 transgenders in the district has been provided with 12 kg rice, one kg sugar and one kg dal, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/results-awaited-for-24-samples/article31314452.ece
11 April 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen’s false belief irks officials||Some fishermen in Akkaraipettai and a few other hamlets in Nagapattinam district faced the wrath of officials earlier this week, purportedly for having stepped into the sea in defiance of the prohibitory order in place for containment of novel corona virus. The errant fishers who had confessed to have done so believing in propaganda that having a bath in the sea will keep the virus at bay were also reprimanded by elders in the hamlets for causing disrepute to the entire community. At the very outset, the fishers in 64 hamlets had promised their fullest cooperation to the government's attempt to prevent the spread of the virus by arriving at a consensus that none should venture into the sea and there should be no trade activity in the fishing harbours. “It was out of sheer ignorance driven by fear of contracting the virus that some of the fishermen and their families went about having a dip in the sea during the afternoon hours,” Rajendran Nattar, president of Indhiya Desiya Meenavargal Sangam, said. “Even before the prohibitory order came into effect we had stopped venturing into the sea. For the first time, we decided to forgo catching fish even for our daily requirement. But, we do understand that the officials had a reason to be annoyed with some of us for entering into a sea as it was projected by a section of the media as a callous act,” Mr. Rajendran said. After senior officials gave the elders in the hamlets a dressing down, police presence was increased in the hamlets. While extending their cooperation to the government, the elders emphasised that the community should also be provided with financial support on the lines of relief of Rs. 6,000 being given for every farmer’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermens-false-belief-irks-officials/article31314447.ece
11 April 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Treatment arranged for leprosy patient||The Health Department has arranged for the treatment of a leprosy patient Sabha. Arulmani (48) of Athukudi near Mayiladuthurai who had developed a serious infection on his left foot, after a video clip he had circulated in social media describing his predicament went viral. The man had circulated the video clip narrating his plight after he was unable to get proper treatment in any hospital amidst the focus on COVID-19 pandemic. “I wish to make an earnest request to the district administration to arrange for my regular treatment at government or private hospitals providing specialised treatment for leprosy,” he said. “The infection that surfaced on my ankle a few days ago is spreading fast and has enveloped my left leg knee downwards. While getting my leg tested at the Mayiladuthurai Government Hospital, I sought amputation of my limb. The authorities have arranged for my treatment at the Tiruravur Government Medical College Hospital on Monday,” Mr. Arulmani said. A senior Health Department official said Mr.Arulmani could avail the utility of the services of 108 Ambulance for his treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/treatment-arranged-for-leprosy-patient/article31314448.ece
11 April 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Doctor tests positive, clinic sealed||The district administration has sealed a private hospital run by a doctor after he tested positive for COVID-19. The doctor who had returned from USA about 20 days ago, is the 12th COVID-19 positive patient in the district. The doctor's residence and clinic have been made containment zones. After detecting symptoms, the doctor reportedly got himself tested at the Nagapattinam Government Hospital. He is said to have opted to check into a private hospital. The Health Department is in the process of tracing the patients he had treated at the clinic, and other contacts. The identified patients will be asked to undergo isolation and testing, Health Department sources said. The 11 other COVID-19 positive patients, who are all attendees of the New Delhi conference, are in quarantine in the isolation wards in the government hospitals at Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctor-tests-positive/article31314419.ece
11 April 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal introduces colour-coded card system||The district administration has started issuing colour-coded cards to residents to reduce vehicle movement. To discourage the public from venturing out unnecessarily, the district administration from Thursday started issuing cards in three colours - green, blue and rose. Collector K.Megraj said in a release that those with green cards could come out on Mondays and Thursdays, while Tuesdays and Fridays would be the days when those with blue cards could venture out and rose card holders would be able to come out to buy essentials on Wednesdays and Saturdays. Mr.Megraj said that those going on medical emergencies would be exempted and only those in the age group of 15 and 60 years must use the cards to venture out. The district administration has advised the public to carry the cards with them when they come out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-introduces-colour-coded-card-system/article31314107.ece
11 April 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines for security personnel assisting police in lockdown duty||A set of guidelines has been issued for security personnel assisting the police force to maintain order and social distancing in public places to check the spread of COVID-19. The private security agencies are governed by The Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005 as welI as The Puducherry Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Rules, 2009. A circular issued by Balaji Srivastava, Director General of Police, noted that owing to manpower constraints of the police force, many points could not be covered. Hence, it has been decided to utilise the services of private security guards as 'force multipliers' to assist the police. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), formulated in this regard, spells out the objective of these guards as assisting and supporting the police personnel in enforcing the orders of the government during the pandemic and beyond when they would remain coopted in policing and crime prevention. The security guards shall not be posted alone, but along with a police official and twinned with the beat staff of local police stations. Wherever posted, it is the duty of the uniformed guards to cover a stretch of 100m and to inform the police of any illegal activity or anything amiss. Those overseeing markets, banks, ATMs or other places where people gather, should ensure social distancing markings and compliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guidelines-for-security-personnel-assisting-police-in-lockdown-duty/article31314106.ece
11 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Medical camp for sanitary workers||A special medical camp was conducted here on Friday for sanitary workers who are carrying out cleaning activity in Pudukottai municipality despite the lockdown. A total number of 3,651 sanitary workers were screened during the camp that was organised jointly by the Health Department and the Pudukottai Municipality. The medical camp was conducted as a precautionary measure for the benefit of the sanitary workers and ensure that they were not afflicted by the contagious disease. An official press release said lunch with vegetables was being provided to all sanitary workers in the afternoon. In order to improve their nutrition level, the sanitary workers were now being provided with two eggs each along with lunch. District Collector P. Uma Maheswari inspected the medical camp that was conducted here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-camp-for-sanitary-workers/article31314446.ece
11 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Man, cow electocuted||A 65-year-old man and a cow were electrocuted after they stepped on a snapped electric wire at Sendhamangalam village near Annavasal in Pudukottai district on Friday. The tragedy occurred in the morning when A. Koppan of Sendhamangalam was taking the cow for grazing, police sources said. He and the animal accidentally stepped on the electric wire which had snapped due to heavy rains on Thursday night. Both died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-cow-electocuted/article31314463.ece
11 April 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||10 samples from Ramnad test negative||Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao on Friday said that 10 samples, which were sent for swab test, showed negative to COVID-19 virus. After the district had two cases of COVID-19 positive, officials swung into action and cordoned off residential areas of the two patients. Blood samples taken from relatives of the two patients showed that they had no problem. However, surveillance was under way in the area as a precautionary measure and residents were advised to stay indoors as per local containment plan and tests were being held at random, he said. The district, which has five Amma Unavagams, has been feeding close to 7000 persons daily from 7 a.m. He visited R S Mangalam, Thondi and Tiruvadanai Amma Unavagams and oversaw the arrangements made to disinfect public places. . Chilli raised on 16,127 hectares, fruits on 762 ha and vegetables on 191 ha were ready for harvest. The district administration had made elaborate arrangements for direct procurement of farm produce from farmers. They can contact horticulture officers or Assistant Directors at Bogalur, Kadaladi, Kamudi, Mudukalathur, Nainarkoil, Paramakudi, Ramanathapuram, R S Mangalam, Tirupullani, Tiruvadanai and Uchipuli. Meanwhile, the police seized 1602 vehicles for violating the curfew and booked cases against 1262 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-samples-from-ramnad-test-negative/article31314414.ece
11 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Meat, fish shops banned||The Salem Corporation has banned functioning of meat and fish shops within the Corporation limits during weekends from April 11 till prohibitory orders are lifted. According to a press release, they can operate on weekdays, from Monday to Friday, within the Corporation limits, ensuring personal distancing. The Corporation has formed 10 teams to monitor them and stern action including cancelling licences will be taken if the shops are found functioning during weekends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meat-fish-shops-banned/article31314153.ece
11 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Eight held for stealing TASMAC goods||Eight persons, including five Vallam Town Panchayat employees and a TASMAC employee, were arrested on Thursday on charges of stealing wine bottles while the products were being moved from the TASMAC outlets to Vallam Town Panchayat Community Hall on Wednesday. The TASMAC authorities decided to move the unsold stock to marriage halls in the district after incidents of thefts occurred in some outlets. On Wednesday, the unsold stock from 28 TASMAC outlets in and around Thanjavur was moved to the Vallam Town Panchayat Community Hall with police protection. When the police were about to leave the Community Hall premises after sealing the same, they found a man moving out of the premises in a clandestine manner. When checked he was found carrying a bag with 16 wine bottles. He was identified as Palani (45) of Thiruchotruthurai near Thiruvaiyaru and an employee of the TASMAC outlet at Balaji Nagar in Thanjavur town. Subsequently, the police tightened the vigil and during night patrolling they found a mini-van parked on the by-pass road near the Pillayarpatti roundabout. A thorough search led to the seizure of 140 wine bottles with TASMAC seal. Van driver Bethuraj (27) of Keezhavasal in Thanjavur Town was arrested. On interrogation, he told the police that the consignment belonged to a TASMAC outlet functioning in Keezhavasal area. The police are on the look out for six employees of Keezhavasal TASMAC outlet. Meanwhile, around midnight on Wednesday the Vallam police received a tip-off stating that a huge consignment of TASMAC products was hoarded at an old building in Vallam Town Panchayat office premises. When the premises was searched by the police, they found 430 wine bottles stacked in the abandoned building. Investigations revealed that the consignment was allegedly hoarded by a team of five Vallam Town Panchayat employees who had assisted the TASMAC staff in transferring of wine bottles from the goods carriers to the Community Hall. Subsequently, all the five – Kannan (20), Manivel (23), Dinesh (25), all from Vallam, Raja (20) of Pillayarpatti, Brahdeeswaran (24) of Thirunairuppu – were arrested and Guna (28) of Chennampatti, a relative of Dinesh were arrested on Thursday, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-held-for-stealing-tasmac-goods/article31314457.ece
11 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Fertilisers to be made available at doorsteps of farmers||The Agriculture Department has launched the mobile sales of fertilisers in Thanjavur district in order to ensure that the agricultural input is made available to farmers on time. According to official sources, the mobile fertiliser sales outlets will sell urea right at the doorsteps of the ryots who have taken up summer cultivation. The fertilisers would be brought in mini-vans to the villages where the ryots have taken up summer cultivation, could procure the required quantity of urea, sources said. The scheme was launched by the Assistant Director (Quality Control), Agriculture Department, Charumathi at Ammapettai on Friday where she flagged off a mini-van carrying the urea bags. Sale of urea through mini-goods carrier was carried out at Ukkadai and Sermanallur villages near Ammapettai, sources from the department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fertilisers-to-be-made-available-at-doorsteps-of-farmers/article31314456.ece
11 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||51 test negative||Fifty one out of 289 persons identified as close contacts of the 11 persons, who had tested positive for COVID-19 virus in Thanjavur district, have tested negative for the virus. Disclosing this in a press release, Collector M. Govinda Rao has said that so far 11 persons – three from Kumbakonam rural area, two in Adhiramapattinam, one each in Orathanadu rural, Ammapettai Town Panchayat, Thanjavur Corporation, Thiruvonam rural, Thiruvaiyaru rural and Kumbakonam Municipal area - in the district had tested positive for COVID-19 virus infection and were under treatment. A total of 215 were identified as the contacts of the infected persons apart from their respective family members totalling 74 persons. Samples were lifted from all of them and 51 persons out of the 289 had tested negative for COVID 19 virus, he said. Apart from this, as many as 2,96,199 persons residing in the areas where these 11 persons hailed from were screened for the symptoms of COVID-19 with thermal scanners and they were found free of symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/51-test-negative/article31314458.ece
11 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Mobile outlet in Thanjavur||The Horticulture Dept. has launched a mobile outlet to sell banana by roping in farmers and farmers producers associations (FPAs) in the district. Launching the initiative at Ganapathi Agraharam on Friday, J. Ravichandran, Deputy Director (Horticulture), Thanjavur, said banana would be sold directly to the public and retailers at their doorsteps. Farmers could also approach the department office at Papanasam to explore the possibilities of exporting their produce to other States. Normally, bananas cultivated in about 2,000 acres would be taken to the auctioning centres by the ryots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-outlet-in-thanjavur/article31314444.ece
11 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Milk sachets distributed through Jamaats||Milk sachets were distributed to 280 families in Adhiramapattinam through their respective Jamaats on Thursday. Residents of Adhiramapattinam faced short supply of milk from April 7 as the supply from nearby villages came to a grinding halt in view of the fortification of the town. The officials sealed several parts of Adhiramapattinam town as two persons who had returned from New Delhi after attending the Tablighi Conference, tested positive for COVID-19 virus. On Thursday 280 milk sachets, 500 ml each, were handed over to the Jamaats by social activists M. Noor Mohammed, M. Mohammed Thameem, Kuppasa M. Ahmed Kabir and O. K. M. Thameem for distribution to 280 families free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milk-sachets-distributed-through-jamaats/article31314455.ece
11 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||First death in Thoothukudi||A 72-year-old COVID – 19 positive patient, who was undergoing treatment in the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, died on Friday evening. She is the first victim in the district. After the victim’s daughter-in-law, who was working with a private hospital as a lab technician, exhibited symptoms of SARS – CoV – 2 virus, she was admitted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital on April 7. Officials also isolated the woman’s husband and her 72-year-old mother-in-law, all living in the same house. When the old woman and her son too tested positive for COVID – 19, all the three were undergoing treatment in the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital. Even as the lab technician and her husband are reportedly “stable”, her mother-in-law died at 5 p.m. after developing “respiratory problems”, according to sources in the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. “As the government has formulated protocol for burying or cremating those who died of COVID – 19, the body will be handed over to the relatives as per these norms,” said the hospital sources. Sources in the Department of Public Health said a male from Ramasamypuram, who tested positive for COVID-19 on his return from Delhi after participating in a religious conference there, was admitted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital recently. “This COVID – 19 positive patient used to buy grocery items from a shop opposite the deceased woman’s house in Boldenpuram. As the woman was also a customer of this shop, she had contracted the viral infection, which has spread to her son and the daughter-in-law, the lab technician,” said the sources. Subsequently, the health department officials isolated the relatives who visited the lab technician’s house recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-covid-19-death-in-thoothukudi-district/article31314415.ece
11 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Beleaguered banana farmers see a ray of hope||Banana growers, who are in distress due to the sharp fall in price, can now sell the fruits directly at the Uzhavar Sandhais and temporary markets in the district. The district administration in association with the departments of Horticulture and Agri Business and Marketing has come to the aid of banana growers by facilitating the marketing and transport of bananas following persistent complaints from farmers over the fall in prices and problems in transportation of the fruit to the markets. With problems in transportation being sorted out with passes being issued for goods carriers transporting the fruits, the glut in the market and the poor demand due to the lockdown have led to a crash in price. Collector S. Sivarasu, who held a meeting with the officials to discuss the issue, has ordered that farmers be allowed to sell their produce at the eight temporary markets in Tiruchi city and the six Uzhavar Sandhais in the district. According to sources in the Agri Business and Marketing, five farmers have been allowed to sell the fruits at each of the temporary markets in the city. The farmers have already set shop at the Uzhavar Sandhais at Anna Nagar (temporarily functioning at Central Bus Stand), K. K. Nagar and Tiruverumbur over the past couple of days, officials said. This apart, five to 10 farmers are allowed every day to set shop at the six Uzhavar Sandhais. “We do not send back any farmer. Whoever brings his produce is allowed to sell the fruits at the Uzhavar Sandhais,” an officer said. Arrangements have also been made for marketing of the fruits through the Farmers Producers Organisations (FPO) including Tiruchi city. The fruits are also being sent by goods carriers to Namakkal, Coimbatore and Chennai. Besides, with the issue of passes, the fruits are also being transported to Kerala, the officer said.  Integrated Complex lies unused Meanwhile, the Integrated Market Complex for Banana established at Thiruchendurai near Jeeyapuram in the district about six years ago at the initiative of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa now is largely underutilised due to poor patronage by banana growers of the region. Despite being located on the State’s major banana growing belt off the Tiruchi-Karur national highway, banana trade at the complex has at best been modest even during peak harvest season. A 1,000-tonne capacity cold storage at the complex is lying in disuse. The complex, opened in 2014, was established at a cost of about Rs. 4 crore. The facility was expected to help farmers improve post-harvest handling of the fruit grown in the region. Official sources conceded that there was hardly any arrival at the market now and the weekly auctions were not being held now. “Despite repeated appeals, both farmers and traders are not patronizing the facility. Both prefer to transact the business right at the fields,” an officer observed. Besides, with temples being closed there was no off take of the fruit for making panchamirtham. Similarly, with almost all functions remaining suspended there is poor demand in the market. However, officials said efforts were on to revive auctioning at the market soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beleaguered-banana-farmers-see-a-ray-of-hope/article31314450.ece
11 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Travel for Tiruchi residents now restricted to two-km radius||City residents will only be permitted to travel within a two-kilometre radius from their residences to purchase essentials and groceries only on two-wheelers, District Collector S. Sivarasu said. In an effort to reduce cases of COVID-19 and ensure that community transmission does not occur, the Tamil Nadu government has laid down some stringent norms. Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure will be in force in the district up to April 14, Mr. Sivarasu said. “People are requested to purchase groceries, medicines, and other essentials within two kms of their residences. Only one person must go in a two-wheeler,” he said. Four-wheelers are not to ply in the city except for medical emergencies, Mr. Sivarasu said. “All those leaving their houses must carry identity proofs. Those travelling for medical emergencies must also carry proof of travel,” he said. The Collector said that the police department had observed that the public had been gathering in large crowds while purchasing essentials and therefore these measures have been taken. “The people are requested to wear face masks when they go outdoors. Ensure personal distance and wash hands regularly,” he said.  Over 25,000 vehicles seized Meanwhile, police were continuing their drive against those violating the prohibitory orders in the central zone by booking cases against them every day with over 24,000 two-wheelers being seized so far since March 25. More than 500 four-wheelers have also been confiscated. Police sources said vehicles of those found venturing out without any valid or genuine reason were being seized. Although the arrested violators were subsequently let on bail, vehicles belonging to them were seized by the police teams deployed at various places in the zone encompassing eight districts. The seized vehicles have been stationed at the Armed Reserve units of the respective district or at the police stations. Police statistics reveal that Tiruchi Rural tops in respect of seizure of two-wheelers with the figure being 6,177 during the period from March 25 till date. Tiruchi Rural also topped with regard to number cases booked against the violators with the figure being 6,541. In Tiruvarur district as many as 3,769 two-wheelers have been seized followed by 3,544 in Thanjavur district and 3,360 in Pudukottai district. The number of two-wheelers seized in Karur, Ariyalur, Nagapattinam and Perambalur districts were 1,988, 2,555, 1,717 and 1,025, respectively. According to Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi V. Varadharaju, the City Police have booked 999 cases from March 25 till date and seized as many as 3,256 two-wheelers besides 41 autorickshaws and 34 cars. The City Police had realised Rs. 8.17 lakh as fine from the violators. Mr.Varadharaju said the vehicles would be detained till the lockdown period was over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/travel-for-tiruchi-residents-now-restricted-to-two-km-radius/article31314460.ece
11 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railway hospital to recruit doctors||The Southern Railway has asked the Divisional Railway Hospital at Tiruchi to recruit doctors, nurses, pharmacists, lab assistants, radiographers, hospital attendants and housekeeping assistants on contract basis for a period of three months in view of COVID-19 pandemic. Based on a communication from the Principal Chief Medical Director, Southern Railway, the Tiruchi divisional railway authorities have issued a notification for the recruitment of doctors and para-medical staff at the divisional railway hospital here. The interview for these posts would be held online on different dates this month with monthly remuneration fixed for each category. Senior railway officials told The Hindu on Friday that the plan was to recruit 36 doctors of which 27 would be general duty medical officers; three anaesthetists; three general medicine and three chest physicians. Thirty-six nurses and and an equal number of hospital attendants are proposed to be recruited. A total number of 72 housekeeping assistant would be recruited and 12 each for the posts of pharmacist, lab assistant and radiographer. As per the notification, the online interview for the contract medical practitioners (doctors) was scheduled on April 16, while it was April 17 for the posts of nurses and pharmacist. The online interview for lab assistant, radiographer, hospital attendant and housekeeping assistant was slated on April 18. The doctors and para-medical staff were expected to be recruited before this month-end and posted in shifts, a senior official attached to the Medical Department said. The recruitment would be done in consultation with the Divisional Railway Manager in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedure on medical matters. The existing strength of doctors at the divisional railway hospital at Tiruchi was 19. They belonged to different specialities such as Ortho, Opthalmology, Gynaecology, Anaesthesia, General Surgery, General Medicine and Paediatrics. In the wake of the spread of COVID-19, the railway hospital here has been designated as hospital for COVID-19. An isolation ward was created at the hospital early last month. The Southern Railway administration has also stated that 110 out of the 197 beds at the divisional railway hospital here could be spared for the State government for COVID-19. The railway administration has also made it clear that accommodation and food for the contract medical practitioners and contract paramedical staff should be taken care as they would not be permitted to go to their homes during the duty period in view of the high infectivity of COVID-19. Food could be arranged through the IRCTC or through the Commercial Department, the administration further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-hospital-to-recruit-doctors/article31314462.ece
11 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||National recognition boosts morale of ordnance factory employees||Thousands of employees in the two ordnance factories in Tiruchi have derived a sense of pride over the nation-wide recognition of the skills of the workforce in the ordnance units across the country for addressing the challenges posed by the spread of COVID-19 virus. The ordnance factories started across States since Independence to manufacture indigenously developed arms and ammunitions for the three forces, as war reserve for the nation, have risen to the occasion by fulfilling the need for medical safety gears in enormous quantities. The employees take pride in categorising themselves as the fourth arm of the defence after the army, navy and airforce, V. Balachandran, National Executive Member of Al India Defence Employees Federation, said. The employees of Ordnance Factories who have donated two days salary to the PM CARE fund amounting to over Rs. 30 crore are elated over the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) transforming into a complete combat solution provider. The latest achievement is development of isolation ward in tent. The Tent Medical 2m (COVID- 19), has provisions for two patient beds and medical equipment. The isolation ward is made of water proof poly viscose fabric of olive green colour, supported by mild steel and aluminium alloy. The tent has dimensions of 2.05 metre length, 4.66 metre width and 2.8 metres height. The wall height is of 1.9 metre, and the floor area is 9.5 square metre. These isolation beds are being provided to 10 hospitals in six States. Cordite Factory Aruvankadu, Ordnance Factory, Itarsi (Madhya Pradesh), and Ordnance Factory Bhandara (Maharashtra) can together produce 3,000 litres of sanitiser per day, meeting WHO standards. The Ordnance Equipment Factories located at Kanpur, Shahjahanpur, Hazratpur (Firozabad) and Chennai are engaged in developing coverall and masks. They have also arranged special heat sealing machines for manufacture of these garments at a very short notice. The OFB has got the samples of the coveralls, designed and produced by the Ordnance Factory, Jajhahanpur, tested successfully at the DRDO establishment in Gwalior. Bulk production of coveralls up to 5,000 to 6,000 pieces per week has started, C. Srikumar, General Secretary of All India Defence Employees Federation, said. The employees are a motivated lot by their full-fledged involvement in production of the medical safety gears notwithstanding the duration of the lockdown. Testing of masks made by Ordnance Clothing Factory, Avadi, Chennai is being undertaken by the South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) in Coimbatore. Three machines have been developed which have been approved by SITRA for testing the efficacy of coveralls and masks. OCF, Avadi, has received orders to manufacture surgical and non-surgical masks in lakhs. The most essential and life-saving medical instrument, the Non-Invasive Ventilator has also been designed and started production in Ordnance Factory, Medak, and Machine tool Prototype Factory, Ambernath, Mumbai. The Ordnance Factory, Ambernath, has produced aluminium stretchers to carry the COVID-19- affected patients, Mr. Srikumar said.  Bulk production of coveralls up to 5,000 to 6,000 pieces per week has started and the employees are a motivated lot  C. SrikumarGeneral Secretary of All India Defence Employees Federation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-recognition-boosts-morale-of-ordnance-factory-employees/article31314453.ece
11 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A farewell after a full recovery||A 24-year-old man who had tested positive for COVID-19 at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on March 26 was discharged on Friday after treatment. He was discharged after two successive tests turned out to be negative. The man, who hails from Erode had travelled to Dubai in search of job opportunities, official sources said. The patient had been discharged and sent to his hometown in a 108 ambulance by hospital officials. He was handed some fruits, boiled eggs and two water bottles so that he did not go hungry on the 150-km journey to Erode. “Even though he has recovered, he will have to remain in home quarantine for the next 28 days. The district authorities in Erode have been informed of his arrival. The doctors there will monitor his health,” K. Vanitha, Dean, MGMGH, said. A set of self-care instructions, including dietary information, has been given to the patient, Dr. Vanitha said. “He came to the hospital on March 22, on his own after he experienced cough and fever. He has been cooperative and has responded very well to treatment,” she said. Along with treatment for COVID-19, the hospital held a counselling session for the patient. “Patients tend to get anxious and depressive. However, he took everything we said positively and had no fear,” he said. Meanwhile, a team of doctors who cared for the patient said he was an example of how early detection could save lives. “We are hearing about cases of people hiding symptoms and resisting visits to the hospital. They must know that they are not only putting themselves at risk, they are also harming their near and dear ones,” a doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-farewell-after-a-full-recovery/article31314119.ece
11 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||UP man dies, sample lifted for testing||A 47-year-old man hailing from Uttar Pradesh died at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital hours after he was brought from Perambalur where he had been working. The man had experienced breathlessness and was diagnosed with meningitis when he was sent from Perambalur, official sources there said. He was admitted to the Tiruchi GH on April 8 and died within three hours, officials here said. Samples have been lifted from the patient to test for COVID-19. Meanwhile, the man's family protested outside the mortuary as his body was not handed over to them yet. “We cannot handover the body without a confirmation. The test results will come by tomorrow,” officials at the MGMGH said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/up-man-dies-sample-lifted-for-testing/article31314438.ece
11 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Civic body to conduct health check-ups for conservancy staff||Tiruchi Corporation has decided to conduct full body check-ups for all conservancy workers in an effort to ensure their well-being during the novel corona virus outbreak. The 18 Urban Primary Healthcare Centres (UPHCs) in the city will check the workers’ blood pressure level, cholesterol level, haemoglobin and diabetes. They will also be checked if they have fever and cold symptoms. All 3,800 workers have been allotted a schedule and assigned to UPHCs near their residence, S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner, said. The initiative is aimed at removing any apprehension among the workers, he said. “It is natural for them to be afraid. These tests will give them a sense of confidence,” he said. In case of existing ailments such as diabetes or blood pressure, they will also be provided with the necessary medicines, he added. All workers are also being sensitised on the importance of personal distancing, hand washing and hygiene practices. “These workers are on the job so the rest of us can stay indoors safely. The least we can do is ensure their well-being,” he said. Earlier in the day, the Tiruchi City Corporation on behalf of the Railway Protection Force, Tiruchi Division distributed cloth face masks for conservancy workers of ward number 35 and 42. Face masks, stitched by the RPF staff themselves was distributed along with breakfast for 62 workers. “The workers were all given porridge for breakfast and went to work with energy this morning,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-to-conduct-health-check-ups-for-conservancy-staff/article31314445.ece
11 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police stations in Ariyalur get thermal scanners||Police stations in Ariyalur district have been equipped with thermal scanners to screen complainants approaching the station. The equipment has been provided to the police quarters and Armed Reserve unit also to screen police personnel and their family members in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. About 20 thermal scanners have been procured and supplied to police stations, police quarters, Armed Reserve Unit and district police office, Superintendent of Police, Ariyalur, V.R Srinivasan, said. In addition, masks, sanitisers, gloves and soaps have been provided to the police personnel who were enforcing prohibitory orders in the district. Complainants approaching police stations were screened using the thermal scanner and were being advised to wash their hands and legs before entering the station as a precautionary measure. They were being advised to wear mask. Police personnel were also being screened using the equipment at the respective station. A police team met recently a group of labourers from north India who were employed in private cement companies to create awareness of the need to wear mask, wash hands and legs and drove home the importance of personal distancing. The police team also reviewed the medical-related facilities provided to them by their respective companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-stations-in-ariyalur-get-thermal-scanners/article31314464.ece
11 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Country boat fishermen’s plea to resume operations||The country boat fishermen of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts have appealed to the State Government to allow them for fishing as it will ensure uninterrupted supply of protein-rich fishes to the consumers in the coastal and the inland districts during the lockdown. The fishermen have also assured that they would ensure physical distancing in during the sale of harvested fishes in the fish-landing centres. Fishing operations of mechanised boats both involved in deep sea multi-day stay fishing and also in regular fishing as being done by the mechanised boat fishermen of Thoothukudi has been thrown out of gear ever since the State Government clamped prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code following pandemic outbreak. Arrival of fishes to the markets stopped completely after the country boats were also restrained from fishing operations as part of the nation-wide lockdown subsequently clamped. However, only a few fibreglass boats from a handful of coastal villages in these three districts, ventured into the sea and the prices of fishes consequently skyrocketed with a limited arrival. While one kg of barracuda (ooli), which was sold at Rs. 350 before the lockdown, was sold at Rs. 650 a kg and one kg of white snapper (velameen that was sold for Rs. 300) cost Rs. 600. As expected, price of ‘seela meen’ (seer fish), the premium variety, crossed Rs. 1,000 a kg from Rs. 600 a kg. “In a place like Colachel, a coastal town in Kanniyakumari district, where fresh fishes would usually be available at the right price, seafood prices skyrocketed due to trivial arrival. While one sardine was sold for Rs. 10 (which was otherwise available in the market 3 or 4 for Rs. 10), we could not even dream of ooli, velameen or seela,” said Vimala Xavier, a retired teacher from Colachel. Fish traders justify the price rise. “Since the demand is very heavy, the arrival is very less. So, its quite natural that the price would be higher as the fishes are purchased in the midst of heavy competition from the traders,” says Clyton, a fish trader from the coastal village of Kooduthaalai near Uvari. The non-availability or limited arrival of fresh fishes forced the seafood lovers towards dry fish, which also vanished from the shelf within the next few days due to heavy demand. When the lockdown was enforced with more vigour by the police, revenue and the fisheries department officials, all fish markets in the three districts fell silent. In other words, lockdown left over 1.50 lakh country boat fishermen from Vembar in Thoothukudi district to Neerodi on Kerala border in Kanniyakuamri district (around 120 villages) in a spicy situation as their livelihood has been wiped-out. “The country boat fishermen, who have no big savings, do not know anything other than fishing. With the little or nil savings, the poor country boat fishermen are struggling to feed their families now. Hence, the State Government should think of allowing the country boat fishermen for fishing with regulations, including ensuring of physical distancing during the auction at the fish landing centres and also in the fish markets. We’re prepared to cooperate with the State Government, which is taking earnest efforts to tackle the pandemic,” said Maharajan, former panchayat president of Tharvuaikulam, a coastal hamlet near Thoothukudi. Similar appeal has been made by the country boat fishermen of Kanniyakumari district also in a petition forwarded to the Chief Minister. “Our neighbouring State of Kerala, which has banned fishing by mechanised boats in the wake of lockdown, has allowed the country boat fishermen to continue their fishing operations with the rider that each boat can have maximum of 4 fishermen. Hence, the people of Kerala continue to get fresh fishes. Since seafood is part of the people living in all 13 coastal districts of Tamil Nadu, we appeal to the State government to allow the country boat fishermen to continue fishing,” said Rev. Fr. Churchill, general secretary of Muttom-based South Asian Fishermen Fraternity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/country-boat-fishermens-plea-to-resume-operations/article31314416.ece
11 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Distribute essentials through officials’||With distribution of relief materials to the poor by office-bearers of political parties and individuals increasing every day, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has urged them to give assistance in a regulated manner through the official machinery. In a release, she said since the aerosol from the affected person through sneezing or coughing would affect others, the government is advocating ‘physical distancing.’ Since there is no physical distancing maintained during distribution, those who give relief materials should approach the tahsildar concerned so that officials would regulate the distribution with due protection. Those who want to distribute should register by calling toll-free 1077 which will enable the officials to distribute the materials in an orderly manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribute-essentials-through-officials/article31314418.ece
11 April 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||‘Farmers selling produce at throwaway price’||Farmers who have harvested black gram, groundnut and other crops are being forced to dispose their produce at throwaway prices by traders, P. R. Pandian, president, Tamil Nadu All Farmers Organization Committee, has alleged. In a statement, Mr. Pandian alleged that wholesale dealers of groceries, vegetables and fruits seem to have hoarded goods in order to help the online trading business enterprises to create a demand - supply gap and thereby exploit the situation. Urging the State to initiate steps to check hoarding of goods, he called upon the Union Government to disburse the entire amount of annual financial assistance Rs. 6,000 extended to the farmers through the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana as an one-time payment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-selling-produce-at-throwaway-price/article31314454.ece
11 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door sale of fruits, vegetables on in Udhagamandalam||The district administration’s effort to deliver fruits and vegetables to residents’ doorsteps is assisting farmers in selling their crop and also ensuring that open-air markets established across the towns in the district remain free of crowds. Over the last few days, produce from farms across the district are being sold directly to residential areas in the town, while a similar system has been followed in Coonoor and Kotagiri as well. The initiative, which is being undertaken jointly by the departments of horticulture and agri-marketing in the Nilgiris, was necessitated after the farmers complained of being unable to sell their products due to lack of movement of freight between districts and also due to the closure of businesses due to lockdown. To stop the farmers from disposing of their crop, the district administration had urged them to contact the Horticulture Department, which in turn was co-ordinating efforts with traders and distributors, who could sell the produce directly at local residents’ doorsteps. Prevents crowding In the last few days, produce-laden trucks have made rounds across various parts of Udhagamandalam town, ensuring that there are not too many crowds at the temporarily established open-air markets in the government bus stand and at the Shri Shanthi Vijai Girls Higher Secondary School grounds. The Horticulture Department, through the Tamil Nadu Horticulture Department Agency, has also procured over ten tonnes of vegetables from farmers and has been distributing to remote villages and settlements across the district over the last week. Joint Director of Horticulture, Sivasubramaniam Samraj said that bags of vegetables, each weighing around four kg, had been distributed to remote villages and settlements in Udhagamandalam and surrounding areas.  Good response “We have had a tremendous response from people, and have already sold more than 2,000 bags of fresh produce,” said Mr. Samraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-sale-of-fruits-vegetables-on-in-udhagamandalam/article31314152.ece
11 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Details of workers of fireworks, and match units being collated for relief||Amidst demand for assistance for fireworks employees, Virudhunagar district administration has been collating the details of the fireworks employees from all the fireworks and safety matches units in the district. The Special Tahsildar for Fireworks and Matches has asked the units to send through mail the details of the employees and their bank account details. An official said that the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has announced that the workers of fireworks and match industry would be provided with an assistance of Rs. 1,000 for them to overcome the joblessness during the lockdown period. Meanwhile, Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore has written to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide interim relief/salary from the PF and ESI fund to the labourers of both matches and fireworks and allied industries. The Congress MP said that the cumulative turnover of both the industries was around Rs. 7,500 crore with direct and indirect employment to over 10 lakh employees, with a majority of them being underprivileged women workers He said that Rs. 7,500 relief should be provided to all the employees. Stating that it appeared that only those employees who had PF and ESI accounts with the fireworks units were being selected for the relief, its Virudhunagar district secretary P.N. Deva appealed to the Chief Minister that all the employees should be given Rs. 10,000. The Communist Party of India demanded Rs. 10,000 to all family cardholders. Its district secretary P. Lingam also demanded that free test for COVID-19 infection should be done free of cost to all the citizens. Exemption should be given for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Guarantee scheme so that the rural masses get their livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/details-of-workers-of-fireworks-and-match-units-being-collated-for-relief/article31314417.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||32 coaches converted into isolation wards||With the number of COVID-19 cases rising in Coimbatore, as many as 32 coaches have been converted into isolation wards for patients at Coimbatore Junction. Salem Division of Southern Railway has 40 isolation ward coaches in total, of which eight were converted in Erode Junction, a senior section engineer from Mechanical Engineering Department told The Hindu . “The works were supposed to be finished by [April 10], but we finished a day earlier,” he said. These works began on March 30 and involved nearly 100 staff members from various departments each day in converting the 32 coaches into isolation wards. Out of four toilets in each of the coaches, one was converted into a bathroom with buckets, mugs, plastic stools and dustbins. One out of the nine bays in each of the coaches was converted into a ‘doctor’s bay’. Plastic sheets for bay entrances, nets for windows and fire extinguishers were provided for each of the 32 coaches, along with three colour-coded dustbins (biodegradable, non-biodegradable and medical waste) for individual bays, the senior section engineer said. Hooks to affix saline solution for intravenous drips to patients are also available in the bays, he added. The 32 coaches comprised five non-AC sleeper coaches and 27 unreserved coaches. For the sleeper coaches, the middle berths were removed as part of the modifications. All the coaches have been currently placed in the yard at Coimbatore Railway Station. A railway official from Salem Division said that the eight converted coaches arrived at Coimbatore Junction on Friday. “The 40 coaches will be converted into two rakes with 20 coaches each,” he said. These mobile isolation wards will be moved to a particular location within the Salem Division depending on necessity in the future, according to the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/32-coaches-converted-into-isolation-wards/article31314164.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Extend lockdown by 14 days: experts||All family members of COVID-19-positive persons were being tested for the infection, and this exercise would be completed within two days. Their contacts would be isolated, checked for symptoms and further action would be taken as per protocols, he said, adding: “The Chief Minister has instructed that all family members should be tested again.” “We hope that the number of positive cases will come under control once all contacts are tested for COVID-19,” he added. Persons hospitalised with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) are being monitored on a daily basis across Tamil Nadu. “This is to check if there is community spread of COVID-19. In the last 24 hours, a total of 71 persons were tested. Five results are pending, and none of the remaining persons has tested positive for COVID-19,” the official said. As per Thursday’s data, the source of infection for 23 persons, who tested positive for COVID-19, could not be established and confirmed. “However, we can tell indirectly. For instance, there are two or three patients who have visited Phoenix mall. There is a contact but we are unable to confirm it. Apart from the 23 persons, there is no case where we have not been able to zero in on the source,” he said. He said as per the statistics, the State was still in stage 2 of COVID-19 transmission. “We have not progressed to stage 3. In that, there will be numerous cases with unidentifiable sources of infection,” he explained. The rapid test kits should have reached the State on Thursday night, he said, adding: “The Centre has got a purchase order and has informed us it would supply a part of the order. We will get the kits in a day or two.” Protective gear On availability of protective gear, he said, “As soon as the pandemic broke out in China in January, the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation started preparatory works to procure medical equipment. We are not dependent on the Centre for supply of personal protective equipment. We have roped in manufacturers in Tiruppur and are directly purchasing from them. This is the same for triple layer masks. We are directly procuring ventilators as well,” he said. The official clarified that the State had received Rs. 314 crore from the National Health Mission for tackling COVID-19. He said that Rs. 234 crore - Rs. one crore from Member of Legislative Assembly Constituency Development Fund - would be utilised for procuring medical equipment, and a G.O. would be issued soon. Meanwhile, a staff of the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services, Chennai, has tested positive for COVID-19, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-lockdown-by-14-days-experts/article31314128.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||26 new cases in Coimbatore, three in the Nilgiris||A total of 26 positive COVID-19 cases was confirmed in Coimbatore district on Friday, bringing the total tally to 86 cases. This is the second such sharp spike in five days after a similar spike on April 5, when the district saw the confirmation of 29 cases in a single day. After Tuesday, no new cases were confirmed in the district till Thursday and the number of positive COVID-19 cases remained 60 till Thursday. According to sources in the Health Department, 19 cases are from Mettupalayam, six from Annur and one from within the city Corporation limit. The 26 new cases are contacts of patients from a single source who were tested positive for COVID-19. The patients are currently undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. Results of 117 more contacts of COVID-19 positive patients are awaited, according to the sources. Tiruppur district saw no new COVID-19 positive cases on Friday as its tally remains 26. In the Nilgiris, three more test positive for COVID-19. Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya, said that the three persons had initially tested negative for the infection but had been subjected to another test after the lapse of 14 days since their isolation, and the results returned positive for COVID-19. “These people were already in isolation from last month,” said the Collector, adding that the direct contacts of the people who have been isolated have already been placed under home quarantine. With the three new confirmed infections, the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the Nilgiris now stands at seven. The areas surrounding the residences of all seven people, who have tested positive have been declared to be containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/26-new-cases-in-coimbatore-three-in-the-nilgiris/article31314161.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Retaining the humanitarian approach in times of COVID-19||There are many questions that plague us everyday, as health care professionals. But in times of COVID-19 the very core of medical practice – its humanitarian approach is under threat. The questions now in front of health care professionals, for different reasons are: “To treat, or not to treat” “Is it right, or is it wrong?” Further, “How long can we defer treatment?” This decision is neither simple nor easy, as treating doctors, we have to think of the patient and the family in the context of the pandemic, and what we do based on strong evidence. For instance, early common cancers are curable. In such cases, it will be unethical to delay treatment. An advanced disease can be controlled, and if untreated, it might progress to the stage of palliative care. Again, palliative care cannot and should not be denied to patients. And then, uncommon cancers with a doubtful outlook, advanced age, and with multiple co-morbidities form a category all by themselves. They have to be treated based on individual decisions and are ideally deferred. The expenses involved, in relation to survival, will not be either risk or cost beneficial. Treating institutions As of now, only partial, selected cases are being treated. Should this continue? NGOs, and voluntary charitable institutions providing free cancer care, of which Cancer Institute is one, are facing a major crisis. Patients have a serious problem, with the lockdown, they are not able to find  transportation to reach the centre for treatment. While with residential staff, there are no issues, because they live on campus.However, non–residential health care staff too face the same problem – lack of transport to reach the hospital. As for housekeeping staff, who are key to running a hospital well, the institution has to make transport arrangements until the condition improves. Some medical staff members too, who do not have their own personal vehicles, need assistance to reach the centre. General criteria We need specific guidelines or criteria for providing personal protection equipment, masks, gown etc for professional and paraprofessional workers. For one, it will be helpful to reduce staff fear/panic and convince them that they are well protected with the gear. This is for those who are not working with those who tested positive, are on routine hospital duty, including doctors, technicians and nurses who are working with patients who have not been tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retaining-the-humanitarian-approach-in-times-of-covid-19/article31314104.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Temple staff give food to the homeless||Staff members of Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple have been distributing cooked food to a homeless persons living on the streets surrounding the temple, in the wake of the lockdown due to COVID-19. G. Anandhan, one of the six staff members, said they make one type of variety rice each day at the temple kitchen where annadhanam is cooked, and make around 300 packets for distribution. This practice has been going on since March 24. Joint Commissioner of the temple N. Natarajan said that prior to the lockdown, 550 food packets were made ready each day and distributed to devotees for lunch. “Considering that there are so many people who end up sleeping on the streets near the temple, it is important to ensure that they are fed too. These are persons with disabilities, nomads and the urban poor who earlier used to survive by begging outside the temple. Now, they do not have any other source of income for their meals,” he said. The temple staff give food packets to those on Chithirai, Masi and Avani Moola streets at around 9 a.m. Police and Corporation personnel help the temple staff in the exercise. Ever since lockdown, Meenakshi temple has been closed to the public as per the State government’s order. Cleaning work is taking place at the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-staff-give-food-to-the-homeless/article31314421.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Colour-coded card system introduced in Namakkal||To cut down vehicle movement on roads and to improve compliance to prohibitory orders among public, the district administration has started issuing colour-coded cards to residents to reduce vehicle movement. To reduce vehicle movement and discourage public from venturing out unnecessarily, the district administration from Thursday started issuing cards in three colours, green, blue and rose to residents here. District Collector K.Megraj said in a release that those with green cards can come out on Mondays and Thursdays, Tuesdays and Fridays for those with blue card and rose card holders can come out to buy essentials on Wednesdays and Saturdays. Mr. Megraj said that those going on medical emergencies would be excluded and only those between the age of 15 and 60 years must use the cards to venture out. Namakkal Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu said that the new system has brought in good response and vehicle movement has reduced. He added that five teams have been put to conduct random checks here and those stepping out without the card are advised and returned. Action would be taken against those venturing out unnecessarily on non-designated days, he said. K. Parthibhan, a resident, opined that the number of vehicles on roads have reduced. K. Shaktivel, a youngster, said that with high number of COVID-19 positive cases reported in the district, such measures would help in preventing spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colour-coded-card-system-introduced-in-namakkal/article31314166.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||214 violation cases registered in Namakkal||On Thursday, Namakkal police registered 214 cases in various stations here for violating prohibitory orders and police seized 128 vehicles. Salem city police registered 180 cases against persons roaming unnecessarily on the roads. 182 persons were arrested and released on bail, Salem Rural police have registered 295 cases and arrested 378 persons for violating prohibitory orders on Thursday.  Coimbatore  Coimbatore city police registered 207 cases and district police registered 592 cases for violation of prohibitory orders under CrPC Section 144 as of Friday. A total of 431 accused were arrested in the city and 638 accused were arrested in the district, who were released on bail, police said.  The Nilgiris  A total of 1,637 cases were registered in the Nilgiris against persons violating prohibitory orders Officials said that a total of 1,637 cases have been registered, so far, since the beginning of the lockdown against persons violating prohibitory orders, with 616 vehicles being seized till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/214-violation-cases-registered-in-namakkal/article31314168.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Free egg offered with lunch||The Salem Corporation from Thursday started offering free boiled egg along with lunch to its consumers. According to a release, the Salem Corporation is offering food through its 11 Amma Canteens and since the beginning of the lockdown, the outlets have served 73,738 customers here. The canteens serve idlis for breakfast and different kinds of variety rice for lunch. From Thursday, the corporation started offering free boiled egg to consumers for lunch. Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh on Thursday inspected Amma canteens at various places and reviewed the functioning of the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-egg-offered-with-lunch/article31314154.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Those in home quarantine who tested positive sent to hospital||All the 26 persons who were in home quarantine and tested positive for COVID-19 were sent to the isolation ward of the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai here on Friday. After 32 persons tested positive in the district, a total of 33,330 families comprising 1,66,806 persons in Erode City, Gobichettipalayam Municipal areas, Karattipalayam, Kavindapadi and Sathyamangalam were under home quarantine and were continuously monitored by health officials. A total of 83 samples were taken from persons, who are the family members of persons tested positive and were in the isolation ward. On Thursday, 26 persons, including 14 women, tested positive. Collector C. Kathiravan said that people can call the toll free number 1800-120-555550 and get consultation or contact the 24-hour-helpline 104 and 1077. He stressed on the importance of washing hands with soap regularly and also maintaining personal distancing. He said that 54 persons had tested positive in the district so far and asked people to stay at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/those-in-home-quarantine-who-tested-positive-sent-to-hospital/article31314159.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Entry of outsiders restricted in containment zones’||Salem City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar has said that containment zones have been set up at places were COVID-19 positive cases have been reported and entry of outsiders have been restricted in those areas. As on Thursday, 14 COVID-19 positive cases have been reported in Salem district and they are undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Police and health officials have set up containment zones at places where positive cases have been reported. Residents in the areas are screened and checked for any symptoms by officials. Officials said 19 wards have been covered as containment zone within city limits. According to the police, there are five containment zones within the city and close to 70 police personnel have been deployed at these zones on shift basis. P. Thangadurai, Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order) said, “besides this, patrol vehicles have also been arranged in these areas.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entry-of-outsiders-restricted-in-containment-zones/article31314167.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 Update||As on April 10   Coimbatore  House quarantine cases: 4,786 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 2,618 Samples lifted: 546 Results declared: 429 Negative: 343 Positive: 86 (26 confirmed on April 10; all admitted to ESI Hospital) Results awaited: 117  Tiruppur  House quarantine cases: 914 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 70 Samples lifted: 142 Results declared: 75 Negative: 49 Positive: 26 (Old cases; admitted at ESI Hospital, Coimbatore) Results awaited: 67  Nilgiris  People under quarantine: 521 Number of people who have finished quarantine period: 1,029 Positive cases: 4  Salem  Persons quarantined at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical college Hospital: 26 (Negative:22, results awaited: 4) Positive cases:14  Namakkal  Positive cases:41 Persons in government quarantine facilities: 19 Persons in home quarantine: 314||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article31314165.ece
11 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Relaxation in gender test norms opposed||Women’s organisations have opposed the Union government’s order relaxing prenatal gender testing norms, as they fear it would be misused. In an order issued on April 4, the Centre has relaxed norms under Prenatal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Rules, 1996, guiding ultrasound scanning clinics that have the equipment to determine the sex of a baby before it is born. Till now, they were supposed to maintain detailed records of scans undergone by each woman who visits the clinics and submit it to the local appropriate authority. This rule has been relaxed under emergency provisions of COVID-19. Now, such clinics are not required to maintain such records till June 30. However, women’s rights activists have opposed this. This is nothing but a legal loophole to allow malpractice. Such an exemption would surely be misused by unscrupulous elements, they said. An email sent to the director general of health services, new delhi, seeking a response to the issue, did not elicit any replies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relaxation-in-gender-test-norms-opposed/article31314255.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP plans to use autos, pushcarts to sell essentials on each road||A total lockdown at Padarayanapura and Bapujinagar wards where five people tested positive for COVID-19 has residents worried. The civic body is leaving nothing to chance. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar tweeted that vehicular movement will be banned, and citizens will not be allowed to venture out even to buy essential commodities. A senior Health Department official, who spoke to The Hindu on the condition of anonymity, said that a micro-plan is being drawn up to ensure supply of essentials to residents. “The vendors’ associations are in talks with civic officials and have agreed to sell essential commodities in goods autorickshaws or push carts on each road and bylane in the two wards,” the official said.  Reserve police force deployed Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao, addressing reporters later in the day, said the department had deployed additional Hoysalas to reach out to people for their needs. Also, to ensure a stricter lockdown and 100% compliance, reserve police from the city have been deployed for nakabandi in these wards. “Residents here may call the Police Control Room for any help. I request them to cooperate with the government; we (police, BBMP and Health Department) are working for their comfort and welfare,” he said. Meanwhile, the BBMP official said that as part of the containment plan, a house-to-house survey is being conducted till a dead zone, which is an open space like a playground, by the health workers. They will also be closely monitoring the health of the residents. Justifying the containment plans, the official said: “The COVID-19 cases were earlier restricted to apartments and gated communities. After the religious gathering in Nizamuddin, a few suspected cases have been reported from thickly-populated areas. Also, these areas house citizens mostly belonging to lower middle class and lower socio-economic groups. There is a possibility of the virus spreading. Hence, the containment plans have been put in place.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-plans-to-use-autos-pushcarts-to-sell-essentials-on-each-road/article31314037.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State’s finances, already precarious, may take further beating||The precarious financial position in Karnataka is expected to deteriorate further with the State expected to take a further hit in loss of revenue. While excise duty on liquor and tax on petroleum products — among the State’s two big own revenues — have been lost for nearly three weeks now, GST collections in which the State has a share are also expected to take a massive hit. Finance Department sources said that a clearer picture on the State’s finances would emerge by April 20 when remittances to the treasury for March is completed. “For March, about 60% of the revenue is estimated since life was almost normal till about March 20. The effect of lockdown in April will be felt in May when figures are collated,” a senior official said. GST issues The effect of COVID-19 is to be seen in the light of the State yet to receive GST compensation from December 2019 to March 2020. The dues from the Centre is about Rs. 2,020 crore for December and about Rs. 2,800 crore for January, while compensation expected for February and March is around Rs. 1,500 crore a month each. It adds up to about Rs. 8,000 crore. Enquiries in multiple tax collection agencies in Karnataka revealed that while the permanent loss of revenue would be upwards of Rs. 3,000 crore if the entire month of April is locked down, the other taxes, including registration of properties and vehicles, which are deferred now owing to lockdown, is expected to gather pace once the lockdown is lifted. Officials, however, are skeptical as to how much of these deferred registrations would actually come in, with the general mood of consumption having come down.  The government received between Rs. 65 crore and Rs. 70 crore a day based on the liquor consumption pattern, and this has been lost since the third week of March. Clubs were asked to shut down on March 14 and the State government then banned sale of liquor in bars on March 21 before shutting down wine shops on March 24. Sources in the Excise Department estimated that the losses could between Rs. 1,700 crore and Rs. 1,800 crore if the lockdown remains for a month. For the Commercial Tax Department, the Karnataka Sales Tax on petroleum products is estimated to come down between Rs. 1,000 crore and Rs. 1,200 crore a month. This apart, sources said that it would be the GST that will be worst hit if the entire April is locked down. On an average, Karnataka collects Rs. 7,000 crore a month as GST, and this collection, a part of which comes back to the State, is likely to be affected much. “The date for filing returns for a section of traders has now been deferred. On one hand, GST collection comes down drastically, and on the other, the previous GST returns has been deferred, which means collection in treasury comes down,” an official said. No registrations With registration of properties not taking place, sources in the Department of Stamps and Registration said that these could be deferred and registration could take place when the lockdown opens. “On an average, the department collects between Rs. 800 crore and Rs. 900 crore a month, and this now stands deferred,” said a source. All the deferred transactions may not fructify once the lockdown is opened, the official acknowledged. The Transport Department, officials said, was losing Rs. 18 crore to Rs. 19 crore a day coming from vehicle registration and other revenue sources. Besides, the department has also deferred payment of vehicle tax that are due now. “All these are being treated as deferred income and will be realised later,” an official said. Apart from the revenue earning departments, urban and rural local bodies will take a deferred hit as tax payments have been deferred.  (With additional inputs from Suchith Kidiyoor)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/states-finances-already-precarious-may-take-further-beating/article31314056.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doreswamy celebrates 102nd birthday on Facebook Live||Freedom fighter H.S. Doreswamy celebrated his 102nd birthday and interacted with well-wishers via Facebook Live from his residence on Friday. Several organisations in the State had planned to celebrate his birthday on a grand scale this year, but the pandemic has confined celebrations to the Internet. Mr. Doreswamy, who had recently come under attack from a section of BJP leaders for his criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said the COVID-19 pandemic was unprecedented and could only be defeated when people were awakened and took it upon themselves to fight it. “The Mai-Baap governments seem to have infantilised our people to such an extent that they now depend on the government for everything. In a country as large as India, there are limits to what governments can do, which both the government and the people need to understand. The government has done its best. Now people need to take responsibility and fight the pandemic. But what we are seeing today is communalising of the pandemic, which is sad,” he said. He also spoke about the impact of COVID-19- on the economy of the country, especially the poor. “I hope at least now Prime Minister Narendra Modi doesn’t go back to his earlier programmes - National Population Register, National Registry of Citizens and Citizenship Amendment Act - clearly diversions from the real problems of the nation... I hope the PM focuses all his energies on restoring the country back to normalcy. That is his foremost duty now,” he told The Hindu.  Mr. Doreswamy had earlier announced that if the PM did not focus on the real issues of the day - unemployment, rural distress and economic slowdown - by the year-end, he would launch a non-cooperation movement. “I stand by my word. The pandemic has only given a break to all people’s movements. If the Union government doesn’t respond to the issues of the people, I will launch an agitation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doreswamy-celebrates-102nd-birthday-on-facebook-live/article31314032.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All eyes on CMs’ meet with PM today||Extension of the lockdown in Karnataka will be known on Saturday, after discussions with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his videoconference with the Chief Ministers of all States. During the discussion, the Prime Minister will assess the situation on ground and firm up a plan on extending the lockdown norms. Though the Karnataka Cabinet is unanimous in its opinion that the lockdown period should be extended to contain the spread of COVID-19 cases in the State, the government has decided to take a final decision after the meeting with Mr. Modi.  Virtual meeting    During the virtual meeting with the Prime Minister, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is expected to brief the report given by the State’s task force on extending the lockdown in certain sectors of the economy and relaxing the lockdown norms in some other sectors and non-COVID-19 affected districts. Mr. Yediyurappa is also expected to explain the impact of COVID-19 on the State’s economy, particularly highlighting the problems of rural people and farmers. He is expected to brief him on the steps taken by the government, including clamp down in some pockets of Bengaluru city, to fight the spread of the virus. Sources said since many States have been demanding the extension of the lockdown till April- end, the Centre is likely to extend the lockdown period for another 15 days. However, the Centre is expected to direct the States to relax norms depending on the ground situation in districts.  Several States such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, and Telengana have sought an extension of the lockdown by at least 15 days. Odisha and Punjab have already extended the lockdown period till April-end. In Karnataka, the task force headed by cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty has recommended closure of all educational institutes till May 30, operation of industries, IT and biotechnology firms and garments units at 50% strength, continuation of lockdown in hotspot areas, and stoppage of mass transport modes such as metro train in Bengaluru, buses, trains, and flights till April 30. However, it has favoured permitting plying of autorickshaws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-eyes-on-cms-meet-with-pm-today/article31314049.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power cuts are citizens’ bane||Popular memes doing the rounds on social media on the forced scenario of work from home for lakhs of employees show regular doorbell interruptions and deliveries, whistles from the pressure cooker in the kitchen and vehicular noise from outside. Those in Bengaluru have another addition to this list: power cuts. Many areas in the city are experiencing interruptions in power supply, much to the chagrin of those at home wishing to finish office work or house work or even watch TV, an activity that has seen a steady rise since the lock down began. With the recent rains contributing to snapping of electricity, citizens are taking to social media to vent their frustration. One user tweeted to the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company, “Dear BESCOM , What’s with your romance with rain ? Do you go on a date with it? Every time I observe when it rains .. you always go missing !! Kindly come back ... we have work to complete !! You can romance later !! Thanks.” Another person dedicated a poem: “Cheers to the darkness, cheers to the mosquito bites, cheers to the starving nights, cheers to the dying batteries, cheers to the slight rain and its amazing repercussions.” Some citizens also alleged a lack of response from the Bescom helpline. “You should actually rename your helpline as “No helpline”. I have dialled your number 138 times, the number is busy,” was one such comment. But there were others who did not fail to thank the Bescom staff on the ground for restoring power supply. Thursday evening’s rain brought in more misery. In areas such as Whitefield, residents said they went without power the whole night - from 7 p.m. till 11 a.m. on Friday. “The power supply in Whitefield and nearby areas is pathetic. It has added to the misery of the current situation that also entails many working from home using computers and internet. Generators, including in PGs, spew smoke and emit loud noise,” said Pravir B., a Whitefield resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-cuts-are-citizens-bane/article31314041.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa reshuffles district in-charge Ministers to oversee COVID-19 work||For effective handling of the lockdown and checking the spread of COVID-19 in Karnataka, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has reshuffled district in-charge Ministers while retaining the charge of Bengaluru with himself. The government issued an order late on Thursday effecting some changes to reduce the burden on Ministers who were holding additional charges of districts. The charges were redistributed to newly inducted Ministers. In all, 25 Ministers, including the Chief Minister, have been assigned districts. The Chief Minister surprised many by changing Mysuru district in-charge Minister V. Somanna, who has now been given the charge of the smaller Kodagu district. Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar has been given the charge of Mysuru district. In what is considered as a major setback to Health and Family Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, Mr. Yediyurappa appointed Forest and Environment Minister B.S. Anand Singh as in charge of Ballari district. Mr. Sriramulu was keen on Ballari, his home district, though he represents the Molakalmuru Assembly constituency in Chitradurga district. Mr. Sriramulu has been made in charge of Chitradurga. Earlier, Deputy Chief Minister Laxam Savadi, who is holding the Transport portfolio, was in charge of Ballari district. Mr. Savadi is now in-charge Minister for Raichur district. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar continues to be in charge of Belagavi, besides his home district, Dharwad. Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle has been assigned Vijayapura district. Minister for Major and Medium Irrigation Ramesh Jarkiholi’s name is missing in the list. It seems he is not keen on any other district but Belagavi. Similarly, other two Ministers who have been excluded from the district-level responsibilities are Shrimant Patil and K. Gopalaiah. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan continues to be in charge of Ramanagaram, while Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar continues to be in charge of Chamarajanagar. The rest of the Ministers have been given responsibilities of their respective home districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-reshuffles-district-in-charge-ministers-to-oversee-covid-19-work/article31314052.ece
11 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dairying comes to the rescue of farmers during lockdown||At a time when the COVID-19 lockdown has shut down most economic activities, dairying, which is continuing unhindered in rural areas, is assuring a regular income for many farming households. In fact, the State’s rural economy is now surviving mainly on dairying, as farmers are finding it difficult to sell their horticultural and agricultural produce. Dairy farmers are relatively safe as milk producers’ co-operative societies have not stopped milk procurement from them or cut payments. This enterprise has now started catching the attention of youngsters as well. B.G. Sathish, secretary of the milk producers’ co-operative society in Bannikuppe village of Ramanagaram taluk, said that two new categories of people have been showing interest in dairying ever since the lockdown began — those who worked as labourers or did ordinary jobs in Bengaluru but had to return home because of the lockdown, and those who are well-educated and have good jobs in Bengaluru, but fear the possibility of job loss or pay cut. “I have been getting enquiries from such people on a daily basis, seeking guidance to start dairying,” he said. Average returns Mr. Sathish said that if a farmer has three or four cows of good breed, he or she can,on an average, get over 50 litres of milk a day. “This will get a monthly revenue of Rs. 55,000 to Rs. 60,000, at a rate of Rs. 34 a litre, including the incentive of Rs. 5 per litre being given by the government,” he said. This gives a profit of Rs. 35,000 to Rs. 40,000 if the farmer grows green fodder in his or her field and manages the unit without labourers. “My family depends on dairying and we earn an average monthly income of Rs. 50,000 from dairying,” said Mr. Sathish. Milk societies procure milk from their member-farmers twice in a day and issue printed receipts in return of procurement. The payment is credited to the farmers’ bank accounts once in 15 days. The Bannikuppe milk producers’ co-operative society, which procures 1,500 to 2,000 litres of milk a day from its 100-plus members, pays a total of Rs. 15 lakh a month to its members. This has not changed since the lockdown came into effect.  My family depends on dairying and we earn an average monthly income of Rs. 50,000 from dairying B.G. Sathish, secretary of Bannikuppe milk producers’ co-operative society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dairying-comes-to-the-rescue-of-farmers-during-lockdown/article31314066.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSTDC buses to pick up homeless and destitute||The BBMP will borrow a few buses from the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation to pick up homeless people, beggars and destitute persons off the street. Marshals on board these buses will pick up the homeless, beggars and destitute off the streets and transfer them to hostels and other facilities for their safety. BBMP’s Joint Commissioner Sarfaraz Khan has urged the marshals to make people understand that they were being shifted for their own safety. After picking them up, the marshals have been asked to maintain a record of details of the persons picked up and the area from where they were picked up. “The social welfare department will monitor from the head office. The homeless and destitute persons may be sent to the facilities that have been established to rehabilitate them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kstdc-buses-to-pick-up-homeless-and-destitute/article31314039.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress seeks action against three BJP leaders||The State Congress on Friday urged the police to take suo motu action against Shobha Karandlaje, Anathkumar Hegde, both MPs, and M.P. Renukacharya, MLA, for issuing “vituperative statements aimed at creating enmity between Hindus and Muslims and disrupting communal peace and harmony during the lockdown”. In a memorandum to Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood, president-designate of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee D.K. Shivakumar said that the inflammatory statements amount to offences under the IPC Section 153 A and demanded Mr. Sood to take suo motu against the BJP leaders. The Congress alleged that these political leaders “are ostensibly misusing even the killer COVID-19 pandemic to further their oblique political purposes”. Ambedkar Jayanti Mr. Shivakumar said Congress leaders and workers would observe the 130th birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar, chairperson of the drafting committee of the Constitution, in a meaningful way by reading the Preamble of the Constitution at 10 a.m. on April 14. “You may read the preamble from wherever you are, whether at home or work. Please stand while reading in honour of Amebdkar and reaffirm the faith we have in the guiding principles of our Constitution,” the State Congress leader tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-seeks-action-against-three-bjp-leaders/article31314046.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A remote health monitor for COVID-19 patients||A remote patient health monitoring system that can be installed at homes or hospitals handling isolated COVID-19 cases, which promises to spare healthcare workers from exposure to suspected or quarantined cases, has been developed. It also reduces their need to use precious protective gear, which has become scarce. It will help generate hotspots so that authorities can contain these zones. Defence major Bharat Electronics Ltd. (BEL) has developed this system along with the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh. The device has non-invasive sensors to measure the main parameters of the COVID-19 patient’s health — temperature, pulse rate, SPO2 (saturated oxygen level), and respiration rate. “The solution aims to significantly reduce the risk of exposure in healthcare workers. It is also expected to reduce the increasing demand of PPE (personnel protection equipment) and logistics,” BEL said on Thursday. How it works The system involves a mobile app or web browser. People who show symptoms of the viral infection can get enrolled with AIIMS-Rishikesh. The hospital will assess the complaints and, if found necessary, will provide the patient a health monitoring kit to monitor his or her parameters regularly. “Patient health parameters, along with patient location, are uploaded on a regular basis on to a centralised command and control centre on cloud using either the patient’s mobile phone or an integral GSM SIM card. The use of cloud will facilitate seamless scaling of the database of COVID-19 suspects/patients,” BEL said. When the health parameters exceed the threshold, an alert is sent to medical officers and healthcare workers. It will also show the severity of the patient’s condition using colour codes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-remote-health-monitor-for-covid-19-patients/article31314063.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Switch from contact lenses to eyeglasses’||In the wake of the rapid spread of COVID-19, ophthalmologist K. Bhujang Shetty has advised those wearing contact lenses to switch to eyeglasses as a preventive measure. “Not many know that the virus can also enter the body through the eyes when people touch their face after coming in contact with infected surfaces such as doorknobs, keys, and tables. Glasses provide extra protection by shielding eyes from any virus particles that may be floating in the air,” said Dr. Shetty, who is also chairman of Narayana Nethralaya. “Although it is more likely that people will catch the infection through the mouth and nose, there are chances of the virus entering through the eyes. During the course of a day, people tend to touch their face and eyes almost 20 times an hour, knowingly or unknowingly. Users of contact lenses end up touching their eyes and face frequently, increasing the risk of infection,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/switch-from-contact-lenses-to-eyeglasses/article31314075.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No safe transport for pourakarmikas during lockdown’||The BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha has blamed the lack of safe transport as the cause for the recent accident involving a garbage tipper that left 11 pourakarmikas injured. The condition of two of the pourakarmikas is critical. “Pourakarmikas are forced to travel to work and back standing on the trailers of the garbage tippers, which is clearly a risk to their lives as is evident from the accident reported on April 8 in Byatarayanapura,” said Lekha Adavi from the Sangha. “The BBMP has assured the High Court in an ongoing case that it is in the process of providing transport. However, not only has the BBMP failed to ensure safe transport to the already high-risk workers, the pourakarmikas also continue to face other transport issues due to non-availability of public transport as well as expensive private transport and are compelled to either walk or pay exorbitant auto fares,” read a statement from the Sangha. BBMP has agreed to pay a travel allowance of Rs. 100 to each pourakarmika during the lockdown. Sarfaraz Khan, Joint Commissioner, Solid Waste Management, BBMP, said that in a meeting, representatives of pourakarmikas had opted for travel allowance. “Since the BMTC is also off the roads, we have buses at our disposal. We are ready to provide safe transport facilities. If the pourakarmikas tell us where there is a need, we will arrange for pick-up and drop facilities,” he said, adding that the BBMP would take care of all medical expenses of those injured in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-safe-transport-for-pourakarmikas-during-lockdown/article31314031.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rumours of stricter lockdown create panic||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) decision to seal Bapujinagar and Padarayanapura wards sparked panic across the city amidst rumours that a stricter lockdown would be enforced in other areas too. As phones pinged with false alerts, many citizens rushed to stock up on more essential commodities. Serpentine queues were seen in front of grocery shops and pharmacies in several parts of the city. At HRBR Layout, messages were being circulated about the seal to be put in place by the BBMP and police from Saturday till the end of the month. Ranjani Srinivasan, a resident of the area, said that the messages caused panic among many residents, who were worried about the availability of fruits, vegetables and milk. Similarly, citizens in Yelahanka were also reportedly told that the area would be sealed. The panic was further fuelled by a few television channels carrying reports that other areas like Sanjaynagar, Srinagar and Girinagar would be sealed. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar and Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao stepped in to dispel such false messages. They both took to social media platforms to inform citizens that only Padarayanapura and Bapujinagar, which had been identified as hotspots, had been declared as containment zones and sealed. In a tweet, Mr. Anil Kumar said: “Dear citizens, I appeal to all of you not to panic and go out to buy essentials... Urge TV news channels to report facts and not speculate.” Mr. Rao, while addressing reporters, said: “There are adequate supplies of all essential commodities and the shops will be open and hence there is no need to panic buy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rumours-of-stricter-lockdown-create-panic/article31314040.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vulnerable groups want consultation||A coalition of 17 organisations and unions of vulnerable groups such as farmers, garment workers, drivers, and pourakarmikas, have called for widespread consultation with them before extending the lockdown in the State. Detailing the consequences of the lockdown on daily wagers, farmers, and other vulnerable communities, a statement from the coalition has argued that the government’s measures to ensure food security had been limited. “The Chief Minister has said that the final decision will be taken after consulting the Prime Minister. The decision cannot come from Delhi. A committee of multi-disciplinary experts who work on epidemics and marginalised communities must be formed to take the decision. People have to be involved and the government should be public with the data,” it stated.  It has called for an open debate on the goals of the 21-day lockdown and whether they were being achieved. “The lockdown was also meant to augment our health resources for a public health crisis. But there is no data available on what we have done on that front,” it stated. The statement lists various measures, from food to transport, that will have to be assured before extending the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vulnerable-groups-want-consultation/article31314045.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Freedom Oil donates Rs. 25 lakh||Gemini Edibles and Fats India Pvt. Ltd., the makers of Freedom Healthy Cooking Oils (Freedom Oil), donated Rs. 25 lakh to the Karnataka Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to support the relief and safety measures being undertaken by the State government in view of COVID-19 pandemic. Besides, it will also contribute an additional Rs. 9.25 lakh by 640 employees towards the PM Cares fund||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/freedom-oil-donates-rs-25-lakh/article31314033.ece
11 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||More fever clinics in Dharwad district||Assuring that steps were being taken to ensure that private medical practitioners opened their clinics to offer services to outpatients, Dharwad Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has said that the district administration was setting up additional fever clinics to offer medical assistance to the general public. Speaking at an interaction with media regional chiefs and chief reporters of electronic and print media here on Friday, Ms. Deepa said that she was aware of the problem and steps had already been taken to address the issue. More fever clinics would help the people, she said. Appreciating the cooperation extended by the media in sensitising the general public on COVID-19-related restrictions and precautionary measures and in pointing out the problem areas, she said that the district administration was doing everything to implement the government directions which were being modified based on the day-to-day developments related to the pandemic. To a query on more number of vendors frequenting residential localities, she said that teams would be sent to check that. Only vendors permitted by the district administration would be allowed to visit localities to sell vegetables and they followed the safety guidelines. She said that food and accommodation were being provided to around 3,000 persons, including migrant workers and the destitute. They were also being provided necessary healthcare facilities and medicines apart from holding counselling sessions for them from Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (DIMHANS) As per the government order, 60 % of BPL card holders had already been distributed foodgrains. There were some issues with people lining up in front of banks to withdraw monetary assistance given for Jandhan account holders and they had been sorted out.  Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Additional Deputy Commissioner Shivanand Karale and Assistant Commissioner Mohammed Zuber and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-fever-clinics-in-dharwad-district/article31314262.ece
11 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Excise vigil intensified||The Department of Excise has intensified vigil to check possible manufacturing, transportation, storage and sale of illicit liquor during the lockdown period in Dharwad district. According to a release, the department has closed down 276 liquor shops and two KSBCL depots in the district. There are possibilities of anti-social elements exploiting the situation to carry on with illicit liquor business. Between March 21 and April 8, the department officials have conducted inspection on 48 occasions and conducted 142 raids. Besides, seven cases have been registered and five accused have been remanded to judicial custody. So far, 598.895 litres of liquor, 293.570 litres of beer, 2.5 litres of water mixed spirit and 400 litres of chemical contents have been seized. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/excise-vigil-intensified/article31314259.ece
11 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||313 coaches, with 2,400-bed capacity, converted into isolation wards||The South Western Railway Zone had already achieved the target of converting 312 coaches into isolation wards (coaches) with a 2,400-bed capacity (eight beds in a coach), Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi has said. Speaking to presspersons after inspecting, along with Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar, the railway coaches that have been now converted into isolation coaches at the Carriage Repair Workshop in Hubballi on Friday, Mr. Angadi lauded the railway employees for completing the target in just 11 days. The Union Minister said that like the Health and Police departments, Railways too was working 24 x 7 in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. “In a bid to increase the country’s capacity for isolation facilities, the Railways has converted sleeper class coaches into COVID-19 isolation wards suitable to be as quarantine hubs,” he said. Mr. Angadi said that the deployment /movement of these isolation coaches would be decided by the Ministry of Health and National Disaster Management Cell and these coaches would supplement the number of isolation beds in hospitals, if a need arises. The Minister said that the Railway Police Force in collaboration with IRCTC had been providing food to the needy persons at various stations across the country and in Hubballi, the number of meals distributed so far stood at 29,000. MLA Arvind Bellad, General Manager of South Western Railway Ajay Kumar Singh and senior railway officials were present on the occasion. As on Friday, South Western Railway has converted 313 coaches, as against the target of 312 coaches, into isolation wards. While 96 coaches were converted into isolation wards at the Hubballi workshop, 89 were converted at the Mysuru Workshop, 61 in Bengaluru and 32 in the Mysuru Division.  ‘In a bid to increase the country’s capacity for isolation facilities, the Railways has converted sleeper class coaches into COVID-19 isolation wards suitable to be as quarantine hubs’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/313-coaches-with-2400-bed-capacity-converted-into-isolation-wards/article31314264.ece
11 April 2020||HUBBALLI/ DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Sanitisation taken up at Mullana Oni in Hubballi||With the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad declaring the area around Mullana Oni in Hubballi where the second COVID-19 positive person in the district was residing, the Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation has begun work to sanitise the entire area. Steps have also been taken to begin a health survey in the designated area. On Friday, pourakarmikas and trained staff were engaged in sanitising the locality with the spraying of disinfectant sodium hypochlorite in various localities in the Containment Zone. Already, the police have barricaded the roads in the zone to prevent movement of people and vehicles. The entry and exit points of these localities have been sealed and all the shops asked to close. Residents have been requested to remain in their houses. In Dharwad, Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa held a meeting with office-bearers of Anjuman-e-Islam and religious heads from various localities of the containment areas to educate them about the steps being taken in the fight against the pandemic. Ms. Deepa said that after declaration of the Containment Zone, now there would door-to-door survey by Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and anganwadi workers would be conducted from Saturday and requested the leaders to sensitise the residents to cooperate with the workers by providing the requisite information. The workers would collect details regarding the health of the members of the families residing in the containment zone and also their travel history. She told them that the information collection was basically to protect the residents from the pandemic and asked them to sensitise the people to provide information regarding their travel and health without hiding anything. Concurring with her, Police Commissioner R. Dileep asked them not to distribute foodgrains or packed food without informing the administration and not to send youths outside unnecessarily. Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal said that 14 wards that fall under a one-kilometre radius of Mullana Oni had been contained now and the restrictions would be implemented strictly.  Not from Nizamuddin Meanwhile, speaking to presspersons earlier, Ms. Deepa clarified that the person who had tested positive was in nowhere connected to the Tablighi Jamaat. It was reported in a section of the media that he was related to the Delhi congregation. He is a businessman who had travelled to various places, including Hyderabad and Delhi, before returning to Hubballi, she said and added that already, several of those who had come into contact with the businessman, including his family members, had been quarantined. “We are collecting information on his daily activities after he returned to Hubballi and all those who have come in contact with him will be tested,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sanitisation-taken-up-at-mullana-oni-in-hubballi/article31314261.ece
11 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||State tells Centre that 10 dists. have been identified for focused preventive steps||Health and Family Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu told Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Harsh Vardhan that the State has identified 10 COVID-19 hotspot districts for implementing intense monitoring and preventive measures. Participating from Ballari in a videoconference that the Union Minister held with the Health Ministers of the States on Friday for discussing matters related to COVID-19, Mr. Sriramulu said that the condition in the COVID-19-hit districts in the State was under control. “As many as 207 positive cases of COVID-19 have thus far been reported from the State. They include the six deaths and 30 patients who have been discharged upon their recovery. “Of those who had returned from Delhi, 30 tested positive. As many as 1,804 primary contacts and 5,533 secondary contacts of those who tested positive for COVID-19 have been identified and kept under watch. As many as 16,334 foreign travellers are kept under home quarantine. Of the 7,613 samples collected, 7,176 tested negative for the disease and results for 437 samples are awaited,” Mr. Sriramulu told the meeting. Asserting that more COVID-19 testing facilities in the State are required to meet the growing demand, Mr. Sriramulu demanded that the Union government to provide at least two more such laboratories. “We have 10 laboratories in the State for COVID-19 tests. For the 13 districts in North Karnataka, we have only two, one each in Kalaburagi and Ballari. We need to establish two more in the region. I request you to sanction them so that we can effectively fight COVID-19,” Mr. Sriramulu told Mr. Harsh Vardhan. Referring to the increased number of COVID-19 positive cases being reported from Mysuru, Mr. Sriramulu said that 26 of the 37 positive cases reported from the city were related to the Jubilant Life Sciences pharmaceutical company at Nanjangud. “The company had imported a semi-liquid container from China. The samples of this container had been sent to a Pune lab to check whether it had been contaminated. The report is still awaited. As per reports we have, three technicians from Japan and one more from Delhi had visited the plant. We have already written to the Japanese authorities in the matter,” he said. He told the Union Health Minister about the imminent arrival of one lakh Rapid Test Kits, 10 lakh Personal Protective Equipment kits, 18.33 lah N-95 masks, 54 tripple-layer masks, hydroxychloroquine phosphate tablets and 324 ventilators. Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-tells-centre-that-10-dists-have-been-identified-for-focused-preventive-steps/article31314258.ece
11 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No fish to eat even for fishermen||Fish, the staple food for a majority of people along the coast, has been missing from meal plates ever since the declaration of the lockdown to combat COVID-19. Even fishermen, already bogged down by fish famine, are being forced to forego fish in their meals. The administrations of three coastal districts — Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada — imposed a ban on deep sea fishing from March 23 and cut off diesel supply to vessels. It was aimed at preventing large gatherings of buyers at dhakkes (fish landing points). Since then, mechanised vessels have not ventured out, thereby drastically reducing the supply of marine produce not only in the coast, but also across the State. While traditional fishing is on in Uttara Kannada and Udupi districts, the Dakshina Kannada district administration on April 4 said it cannot allow even motorised boats for conventional fishing, for fear of entry of people from Kerala to Mangaluru. Since State borders have been sealed to prevent the spread of COVID-19, there have been instances of people from Kerala coming to Mangaluru using the sea route. Shobendra Sasihithlu, president of the Sasihithlu Fishermen’s Cooperative Society at Sasihithlu, close to the Udupi district border, told The Hindu that just a few conventional boats venture out early in the morning and come back with almost no catch. The famine has ruined the fisherman community, he said. Eighty-five-year-old Vittal Gurikar,a fishermen’s head from Kapu in Udupi, said he has never seen a fish famine as severe as the present one. Fishermen have not seen silver fish, sardine, mackerel, kingfish, ladyfish and other popular varieties for long, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-fish-to-eat-even-for-fishermen/article31314068.ece
11 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Seven people who crossed State border booked, sent to quarantine||Seven residents of Addur in Bajpe police limits who had allegedly sneaked back to Karnataka by crossing a rivulet after their long stay in Kerala were booked and sent for quarantine on Friday. Commissioner of Police P.S. Harsha in a press release here said Yakoob, 48, allegedly crossed over to Talapady with his family through “sea/water route” with the help of Shakir who provided logistical support. In this connection, a case has been registered at the Bajpe Police Station against Yakoob and six others. Dr. Harsha said that in view of the seriousness of the situation, all the accused in the case have sent for medical check-up to the Government Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. The quarantine status of the accused would be monitored in association with the district health officials, he said. Two minor children Assistant Commissioner of Police (North) Belliappa said Yakoob had been to his in-laws’ house near Hosangadi in Manjeshwar taluk on March 14 and stayed put there. He, along with his family members, reportedly reached Talapady on Kerala side from Hosangadi on Thursday, and crossed the Talapady rivulet to reach Karnataka’s side of Talapady, from where they went to Addur, near Bajpe, by road. The group had a minor boy and a minor girl besides three women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-people-who-crossed-state-border-booked-sent-to-quarantine/article31314060.ece
11 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Another man discharged||One more person who had tested positive and was undergoing treatment at the Government Wenlock Hospital here was discharged on Friday, according to Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh. He was the fifth among the 12 persons who tested positive and were under treatment to be discharged in Dakshina Kannada. The 21-year-old male discharged on Friday had arrived from Dubai by flight on March 21 in Bengaluru. Later, he had travelled by a KSRTC bus from there to Uppinangady and had taken an autorickshaw to reach his village, Karaya, in Belthangady taluk. He tested positive on March 27. His throat swab samples were tested again on April 7 and April 8. They proved negative. Ms. Rupesh said in a release that 2,979 persons have completed their 28 days home quarantine in the district. They have no symptoms. In all, 2,945 persons are under home quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-man-discharged/article31314267.ece
11 April 2020||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Online campaign||Fish lovers in Udupi district have launched an online campaign — Enkleg Fish Bodu (we need fish) — urging the district administration to relax restrictions on fishing. Even if conventional fishermen come back with some catch, they were unable to sell it for lack of transportation facilities and restrictions on gatherings, the campaigners said. The price of all fish varieties across the coast has more than doubled, with sardines selling for Rs. 250 to Rs. 300 a kg, up from Rs. 100 to Rs. 150, and mackerels selling for Rs. 350 to Rs. 400, as against Rs. 150 to Rs. 200.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-campaign/article31314076.ece
11 April 2020||MYSUR,KARNATAKA||Uncertainty haunts farmers despite rain||Parts of the State receiving light to moderate rain in the past five days has not brought any cheer to farmers, who are staring at an uncertain future because of he COVID-19 outbreak and the lockdown that is in force to curb its spread. Summer rain and pre-monsoon showers that follow make the period when farmers hit the fields in preparation for early kharif crops. Most of this takes place under rain-fed conditions. Black gram, green gram, and cowpea cultivation are taken up extensively in many parts of the State. The preliminary work of preparing the field entails tilling and mixing plant stubs and residue with soil to enrich it, but none of this is taking place though the time is ideal now, according to Puttamadu of the State Agriculture Workers’ Union. Agricultural practices across the region are labour-intensive and provide direct employment to more than 70% of the workforce in rural areas. But there are uncertainties — financial and labour-related — and as a result, farmers are not taking the risk, he said. “Preparing the land entails investment, which is hard to come by, and there is no guarantee that the situation will ease in the days ahead. If the lockdown is not lifted and the pandemic outbreak shows no signs of abating, then it will be a waste of money — a risk farmers cannot afford to take,” said Badagalpura Nagendra of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha. Manpower matters Farmers are also uncertain about engaging the manpower required for the task. It is normal to deploy people from different regions as one village alone cannot provide the sufficient labour force. Landless agricultural workers used to be transported daily from different taluks and districts in tractors and trucks and hired on contract. But there are restriction on the movement of people now. Even if these curbs are lifted, people will averse to employing strangers in fear of the pandemic. Local gram panchayats have issued fiats orally that no stranger should be entertained in any village, said Atahalli Devaraj of the sugarcane cultivators' association. However, the Agriculture Department has directed that all Raitha Samparka Kendras to remain open and be stocked with seeds. There are inquiries pouring in from farmers about the availability of seeds as well. But whether this will translate into action on the field is uncertain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uncertainty-haunts-farmers-despite-rain/article31314071.ece
11 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Coffee growers are staring at another year of losses||Even with transportation of harvested coffee from Kodagu estates for curing and processing works being allowed after a delay, the growers, having suffered heavy losses during the previous flood-hit years, are again staring at an uncertain future. The reason: the delay and ambiguity caused by the lockdown in getting plantations ready for the next crop. Tonnes of harvested coffee has been lying in estates awaiting transport to curing plants. The district lacks warehouses to store the harvest, and therefore transport of 90% to 95% of the harvested crop for the curing works is key. Though the government has permitted transport of agricultural produce, the worriedgrowers have been unable to get adequate transport in view of certain restrictions. Reports of a possible extension of lockdown could hold up the operations further, and growers fear losing the crop this season. Shipment troubles With the closure of ports over the COVID-19 pandemic and many coffee-importing countries hit by the deadly novel coronavirus, coffee growers fear difficulties in shipments of processed coffee this year. “Unless we sell our coffee for curing works, we cannot get money for readying the estates for the next crop. The growers largely depend on this money for hiring workers, irrigation, buying fertilizers and so on. If we delay or miss the operations owing to shortage of labour or non-availability ofinputs, the next season is considered gone,” said Bose Mandanna, former vice-chairman, Coffee Board, and a leading planter in Suntikoppa. He told The Hindu that growers cannot store the harvested coffee for long. “If cannot take up post-harvest operations in estates for the next crop before monsoon, we better not waste resources. What is the use in applying fertilizers when rains commence?” he asked. In Kodagu, coffee is cultivated on around 1.5 lakh hectares. Both Arabica and Robusta varieties are cultivated. Floods and landslips had affected south Kodagu badly in 2018 and north Kodagu in 2019. Productivity was badly affected, with estates being washed away in floods, landslips devouring some, and excessive berry dropping caused. Last year, the productivity was less by 30,000 tonnes. The average production is around 1.2 lakh tonnes in Kodagu, according to growers. When contacted, Coffee Board Deputy Director (Extension) Shivakumar said, “There are labour problems, but curbs have been eased now for transport of harvested coffee for curing works. Some planters are making use of resident workers to prune shade trees and irrigate for the next crop.”  If we delay or miss the operations owing to shortage of labour or non-availability of inputs, the next season is considered gone Bose Mandanna,former vice-chairman, Coffee Board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coffee-growers-are-staring-at-another-year-of-losses/article31314062.ece
11 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure hassle-free movement of vehicles carrying farm produces’||Minister for Agriculture B.C. Patil has directed the Shivamogga district administration to take steps for hassle-free movement of vehicles carrying agriculture produces during the lockdown. He was speaking at a meeting here on Friday to discuss the problems faced by farmers due to the lockdown. He said that both the Union and State governments have permitted the movement of vehicles carrying agriculture produces. Farmers carrying their produces to market should not be unnecessarily harassed at check-posts. He also said that outlets selling agriculture inputs, including fertilizer, pesticide, pipes, and workshops that repair tractors and farm machinery should be allowed to function. The officials from the Department of Agriculture told the meeting that harvesting paddy crop cultivated on 12,000 hectares of land and maize on 7,000 hectares in the district as summer crop would commence in the third week of April. Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa and Shivamogga MP B.Y. Raghavendra attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-hassle-free-movement-of-vehicles-carrying-farm-produces/article31314271.ece
11 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Minister promises to help pineapple farmers||Minister for Agriculture B.C. Patil said on Friday that he would soon speak to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on the problems faced by pineapple growers in Shivamogga district because of the lockdown. Speaking after chairing a meeting with elected representatives and functionaries of farmers’ organisations here, he said that according to an estimate, more than 20,000 quintals of pineapple cultivated in Sorab and Sagar taluks are ready for harvesting. The pineapple cultivated here used to be purchased by food processing units in North Indian States. With the nationwide lockdown, there has been a disruption in the supply chain and food processing units have been shut down. As a result, the crop is rotting on the fields. Mr. Patil said that arrangements should be made for hassle-free transportation of fruits and the re-commencement of food processing units in North Indian States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-promises-to-help-pineapple-farmers/article31314074.ece
11 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Three COVID-19 positive men recover in Udupi||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Friday that all the three men who had tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district had recovered and would be discharged from the designated hospital here soon. In a video message here, Mr. Jagadeesha said that the primary and secondary contacts of these three men were traced, and given treatment; they had all tested negative for COVID-19. “Hence, the big problem facing us has got solved for now,” he said. He said that there was now lesser chances of COVID-19 cases from within the district. But he had information that people from other places were coming into the district.  Borders sealed  Hence, the borders of Udupi district had been sealed. “No one will be allowed from other places will be allowed to enter the district. Neither will anyone from inside the district will be allowed to go out,” he said. Hence, people from neighbouring and other districts and other States need not visit the district now. “If anyone tries to come, he will not be allowed to enter the district,” Mr. Jagadeesha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-covid-19-positive-men-recover-in-udupi/article31314268.ece
11 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Water pumping||On account of the declining water level in the Baje dam against the Swarna from where water is supplied to Udupi city, a team under the leadership of Raghupati Bhat, MLA, got three pumpsets installed to pump water from Sanebettu to Shiroor dam on Thursday. The water from the Shiroor dam would be then pumped to Baje dam with the help of two other pumpsets, stated a press release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-pumping/article31314256.ece
11 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Five with symptoms admitted in Udupi||As many as five persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals in Udupi district on Friday. A press release issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare here said that of the five cases, two were of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and one was of Influenza like illness. Of the five persons, four were male and one female, the release said. Meanwhile, a pregnant woman from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada district, who tested positive for COVID-19, was admitted to the designated hospital here for treatment on April 9. This was done as a special case considering her health history, sources in the Health Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-with-symptoms-admitted-in-udupi/article31314269.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||EMT, drivers of 108 struggle with rise in stress level||Chandranna has not returned to his house in Doddaballapur for over a month now. He has not seen his parents and his daughter since the lockdown. As an Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) for 108 Arogya Kavacha, he is responsible for the transportation of suspected COVID-19 patients and works for at least 12 hours a day, driving the ambulance from one corner of the city to another, often without a break. “Five hundred km from here, in Belagavi, my wife works as a staff nurse in the district hospital where there are cases of COVID-19. She has not been able to come over here,” said Mr. Chandranna. 108 Arogya Kavacha is largely responsible for transporting suspected cases of COVID-19 across the State but the personnel are not government employees and are contracted through an agency. Of the 90 ambulances, more than 35 are being used exclusively for COVID-19 purposes.  Drivers and EMT staff said they are working under extremely stressful conditions, both physically and psychologically. “We are the first responders, but have not been given any training in handling suspected COVID-19 cases nor have we been given alternative accommodation by the agency,” said an EMT. Everyone that The Hindu spoke to urged the government to provide accommodation until the pandemic is under control as they are afraid of getting infected by the virus and infecting their loved ones. “Because of the risk, I sent my family to my native town,” said Chandru Punyakoti, driver of an 108 ambulance. Many also urged the government to direct the authorities concerned to increase their salaries. “We are risking our lives and working. Let the authorities take a call once everything settles down,” an EMT said. Protection According to Mr. Chandranna, though they have been allocated Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), they have not been told how to use them or dispose them. “We are learning on the job, based on common sense and experience,” he said. Srishail Halloor, president of the Karnataka State 108 Arogya Kavacha Employees' Association, said that challenges faced by the staff of 108 vary depending on the place of duty. “Working with the PPE kits is horrible. We sweat profusely, leading to dehydration, there is also the problem of itching. Many of our colleagues in other districts, like Uttara Kannada, are transporting people from over 100 km. That is very stressful, considering that they have to wear the PPE kits,” he said. Through it all, the drivers and EMT staff are aware that this invisible enemy can wreak havoc if it spreads. Bhuvanesh H.S., an EMT, said, “As per the protocol, after each trip the ambulance should be fumigated and cleaned with disinfectants. Though we get little time, we do this.” he said. No complaints Unlike the paramedics of 108 Arogya Kavacha, those at the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre at Victoria hospital said they were well supported by the government with accommodation and transportation. Lakshmeesha B.V., a technician, said, “We were given training in handling the situation, and counselling classes were held.” A plumber and an electrician have been permanently stationed in the hospital to ensure that there is no interruption in water and electricity supply. “We are made to wear PPE kits even when enter the building. Tanks are being cleaned every day,” an employee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/emt-drivers-of-108-struggle-with-rise-in-stress-level/article31314030.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC doubts BBMP’s claims on migrants’ shelters||Expressing doubts about the BBMP’s claims on providing shelter for migrants during the lockdown, the Karnataka High Court directed the Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development Department to look into BBMP’s migrant management actions. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhya Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the direction on Thursday after finding several discrepancies in the report submitted by the BBMP Commissioner on shelters set up for migrants during the lockdown. Though the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) had on April 7 informed the bench that it found around 2,000 migrants, homeless and stranded persons living on footpaths in Majestic area, the BBMP’s report stated that there were only around 100 migrants in Majestic area. The bench noted that the BBMP had not contacted the KSLSA to know the whereabouts of the 2,000 migrants before claiming that the number was only 100. As the KSLSA counsel pointed out, Bengaluru Urban District Legal Services Authority found that a large number were living under the Mahadevapura flyover, and some were getting food from NGOs, the bench observed that “there is no real effort made by BBMP to address the issue of migrants.”  While the BBMP claimed to have established 13 shelters for migrants and other persons with a capacity of 652, and that 451 persons have been accommodated in these shelters, the KSLSA pointed out that these 13 were existing night shelters and not new ones. Following this contradictory claim, the bench observed that the report submitted by the BBMP commissioner “creates a serious doubt whether there are 13 new shelters for migrants, homeless people etc., within the limits of the BBMP.”The BBMP’s report indicates that there was no systematic effort to ascertain how many migrants, homeless people and stranded people are on the streets, or are squatting in public places, the bench observed. As the BBMP’s report itself pointed out that nearly 1/3rd of the total COVID-19 positive cases in the State are from Bengaluru Urban, the Bench said that it is all the more important for the BBMP to implement all the measures announced by the government. 48 hours sought As the BBMP counsel sought 48 hours to come out with a fresh action taken report, the bench sought the fresh report by Sunday. Adjourning hearing till April 13, the bench asked the Additional Chief Secretary to issue appropriate directions to the BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-doubts-bbmps-claims-on-migrants-shelters/article31314042.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||The headline of the report on the sixth COVID-19 death in the State that was carried on Page 1 of Friday’s edition should have been ‘Gadag woman dies as State records sixth casualty’, and not as published. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/correction/article31314044.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Livelihood hit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/livelihood-hit/article31314058.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A helping leg||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-helping-leg/article31314073.ece
11 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||2,000 isolation beds to be set up in houseboats||Steps have been taken to set up 2,000 isolation beds in houseboats in the district to meet any emergency situation arising out of COVID-19 pandemic, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. He was speaking at a review meeting at district collectorate here on Friday. “District has done exemplary work in tackling the spread of COVID-19. We should not let our guard down. We have started measures to deal with an influx of people including from overseas after the end of the lockdown. Isolation beds will be set up in houseboats,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2000-isolation-beds-to-be-set-up-in-houseboats/article31314395.ece
11 April 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Rahul Gandhi hails community workers||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, has hailed Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs), Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) and anganwadi workers for their active role in the fight against the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the country. “Anganwadi workers, ASHAs and ANMs are working across the country with dedication and courage, putting their lives at risk, on the front lines of our battle against COVID-19,” Mr. Gandhi said in an open letter here on Friday. In an environment in which fear and misinformation posed a bigger threat than the virus itself, community workers had a key role to play in educating people about COVID-19, he said. “I salute each and every community worker for their service to the nation,” Mr. Gandhi said..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-gandhi-hails-community-workers/article31314364.ece
11 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Kasaragod heaves a sigh of relief||In a huge relief to Kasaragod district, which has witnessed the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the State, 22 patients who were tested positive for the disease have been discharged from various hospitals. In the second stage of infection, a total of 138 patients from the district are being treated at various hospitals. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said COVID-19 patients from Kasaragod were undergoing treatment at various hospitals. So far, 10 patients from the Kasaragod General Hospital, three from the Kanhangad District Hospital, one from the Kozhikode Medical College and eight from the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital have been discharged, he added. Dr. Ramdas said with 22 persons getting discharged, the number of patients has come down from the earlier 160 to 138 in the district. Fresh cases Meanwhile, three more persons from the district were diagnosed with COVID-19 on Friday. Two women, aged 52 and 24, both residents of Poovul in Mulliyar panchayat, and a 17-year-old from Kasaragod municipality were tested positive. At present, 10,721 persons are under observation, including 10,474 in home quarantine and 260 in hospitals. In Kannur Two more persons were tested positive for COVID-19 in Kannur on Friday, District Collector T.V. Subhash said. Those who contracted the disease are a 60-year-old and a 59-year-old from Kudiyanmalai. On April 9, the two men underwent a swab test at the Kannur Government Medical College after they showed symptoms. Both are relatives of a 35-year-old, who was diagnosed with the disease on March 29. He returned home from Dubai on March 20 and is undergoing treatment at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital. With the two confirmed cases, the number of positive cases in the district has reached 66. As many as 37 persons have recovered. In Malappuram Two more persons from Malappuram district who had participated in the Tablighi conference at Nizamuddin on March 7 and 8 were tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. They are a 30-year-old man from Chungathara, Nilambur, and a 48-year-old man from Valakkulam, Kozhichena, near Kottakkal. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said they were shifted to Medical College, Manjeri. Seventeen COVID-19 patients are under treatment in the district, she added. Dr. Sakeena said the families of both men were shifted to quarantine wards at Medical College, Manjeri. She added that 14,437 persons were under observation in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kasaragod-heaves-a-sigh-of-relief/article31314359.ece
11 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Tests on dead rat||After cats, now a rat was found dead near the isolation wards arranged for the COVID-19 patients in the Kasaragod General Hospital on Friday. A post-mortem examination was conducted and its internal organs were harvested for further tests to detect the presence of the virus. Earlier this week, five cats caught near the isolation wards were found dead on different days. The post-mortem of three cats was carried out following reports of a tiger in the U.S. being diagnosed with COVID-19. “We decided not to take risk and conduct post-mortem,” said Tito Joseph, Animal Disease Control Project Coordinator, who carried out the post-mortem of the rat. He said the rat had injuries, bite marks and its neck was broken. Dr. Joseph said though the earlier plan was to send the organs of cats to the lab in Thiruvananthapuram , they had now requested that the test be conducted at the COVID-19 lab in the Central University of Kerala in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tests-planned-on-dead-rat/article31314367.ece
11 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Traders assured of trouble-free lockdown||Inspector General Vijay Sakhare, special officer, COVID-19 prevention, has assured traders and workers in Kasaragod that they will not face problems or harassment during the lockdown. K. Ahmed Sheriff, district president of Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi (KVVES), said the assurance was made after traders raised strong protests against police excesses during the lockdown. The traders had threatened to close shops and took up the complaint with the Chief Minister and the Revenue Minister. Following this, Mr. Sakhare, along with other officers, held a meeting with KVVES members. Mr. Sheriff said the special officers and others had assured him that people could purchase things from shops by maintaining the stipulated distance and following related norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-assured-of-trouble-free-lockdown/article31314353.ece
11 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Crowding near elephants restricted by owners||Visitors attempting to get near captive elephants and feed them are worrying elephant owners against the backdrop of the COVID-19 outbreak in the State. With no temple festivals and movement of elephants during lockdown, the animals are drawing crowds at places where they have been tethered. Some visitors attempt to feed them jaggery and plantains besides lending a helping hand to mahouts. After reports of a tiger in a U.S. zoo developing the viral infection, elephant owners have clamped restrictions on strangers getting near the tuskers. Warning The Elephant Owners Association and the Kerala Elephant Owners Federation have asked mahouts not to allow strangers come near the animals. Association president G. Krishnaprasad said signage would be put up near the resting place of animals highlighting the restrictions. The animals should not be given the food brought by outsiders. Conditions for food “Mahouts should ensure that they do not come into contact with the sick and those in quarantine. The help of forest officials and the police shall be sought to protect the animals and its handlers. Palm fronds and other food shall be fed to the animals only after keeping them aside for 24 hours to prevent the spread of virus,” he said. “The federation has asked mahouts not to cover up any symptoms of disease in animals and seek the help of veterinarians in case elephants develop illness. The food for the animals shall be handed by only one person. Anyone with symptoms of any disease shall not go near the animal,” said Sasikumar, president of the federation. Directive to handlers Mr. Krishnaprasad said mahouts had been asked to take turns to attend the animal. Masks and gloves should be worn while cleaning the resting place of animals and the handlers should clean their hands using soap and water at intervals. “Though there are no known cases of animals being infected by SARS-CoV-2  virus, due care has to be taken for maintaining its health,” said David Abraham, a veterinarian with the Forest Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crowding-near-elephants-restricted-by-owners/article31314377.ece
11 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Even the first response to treatment is crucial: expert||“How early is early intervention” is a common question raised by doctors handling COVID-19 patients. “But in an epidemic, when there is an unknown agent, even the first response to treatment is important,” said Dr. A. Fathahudeen, professor and head of the department of pulmonology and critical care at Government Medical College, Ernakulam. Two seriously sick patients were cured of the disease at the hospital. One, a 57-year-old British national who went to the hospital with very severe symptoms and the other, a 37-year-old online cab driver who was a primary contact of a COVID-19 patient who died. Though serious, the cab driver was not as critical as the British national, said Dr. Fathahudeen, who is also the nodal officer for corona care. “The UK citizen had come in with hyper infection symptoms like high fever and muscle pain but not much breathlessness. When we saw a suspicious shadow of pneumonia in the X-ray, we decided to get a CT scan done,” he added. Though the good prognosis of the British national could be replicated in the case of the cab driver, it is important that the drugs probably have better efficacy if treatment is started early, he observed. “However, we need to do more such trials as the two were not in comparable age groups, with the second patient having the advantage of age with no co-morbid conditions,” he said. According to Dr. Fathahudeen, the medical fraternity should take the treatment protocol with optimism. He used a combination of drugs including hyrodychloroquine, erythromycin, and lopinavir and ritanavir. “My observation is that there is no point in starting medication late when the patient has advanced pneumonia that will land him in the intensive care unit and then the ventilator,” he said. In the case of the second patient, fever continued for three more days, before it showed signs of coming down. It was on the sixth day of medication that the patient’s temperature returned to normal. And, the viral load in him turned negative on the 10th day. Compared to the British national, who was put on non-invasive mask ventilation, the second patient recovered sooner, mainly because his treatment began early,” said Dr. Fathahudeen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/even-the-first-response-to-treatment-is-crucial-expert/article31314352.ece
11 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Women convicts in Kerala may walk out of jails soon||Women convicts with their minor children living in cells have found the COVID-19 outbreak turning to their favour. Children below six years are considered minors in jail parlance. The mothers of such children, who are spending their life in the prisons, can walk to freedom for 30 days with their wards by making use of the amnesty scheme of the government. Relaxation Imprisoned mothers with minor children staying outside are also eligible for a relaxation in their prison life. The State government has issued orders allowing 30 days’ parole for such women prisoners. The initiative comes as part of the efforts to decongest the jails in the wake of the pandemic and to prevent the inmates from falling sick in prison cells. Women convicts aged above 50 years are also covered by the scheme. Pregnant women, who are cooling their heels in the prison cells, also could take a month’s break. However, primary indications are that no pregnant women are being housed in the Kerala jails. The State has around 120 women inmates in its jails. The State government has also decided to release male prisoners aged above 60 years for 30 days parole. The prisoners who were under various medical treatment as inpatients in the jails and other medical facilities, would also be thus released.  The Hindu had earlier reported that the Prisons Department had moved such a proposal for releasing the elders considering the fact that they were vulnerable to the viral disease. A government order on the release of such prisoners was issued on Friday, said S. Santhosh, DIG (Prisons) Head Quarters. As many as 350 persons could benefit from the scheme, Mr. Santhosh said. The government has also asked the Prisons Department to consider the remission of jail term of prisoners, who have completed two-thirds of the period behind the bars. The remaining imprisonment period of such prisoners, which could come to an end in a couple of months, could be waived-off under the scheme, sources said. Earlier, the government had extended the parole period of 105 prisoners, who were out on bail before the amnesty scheme, by 15 days. These prisoners need to come back only on April 30, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-convicts-in-kerala-may-walk-out-of-jails-soon/article31314365.ece
11 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Paravur goes on a ‘star hunt’ to beat lockdown boredom||The lockdown, it seems, may turn out to be a blessing in disguise for residents of the Paravur block panchayat along the suburbs of Kochi, with the local body authorities determined to discover hitherto hidden talents among its residents. The ‘Lockdown Family Fest’ being organised by the block panchayat in association with the artistes of the Department of Culture will run through the length of the lockdown. The event is promoted as an ‘easy way to be a star while staying at home.’ “The idea was conceived to address the boredom of people locked up inside their homes and to discover their hidden talents while facilitating bonding among family members. People can send video entries of their performances to two WhatsApp numbers, which will be uploaded on our official Facebook page from Monday,” said Yesudas Parappilly, block panchayat president. It features contests for both individuals and families who can perform any art form not exceeding five minutes. The block panchayat, with a population of around 1.75 lakh spread over five panchayats, seems to have taken the contest quite seriously. “We have around 100 entries ranging from paintings to skits,” said Vishnu Maheedharan, an artiste deployed to the block by the Department of Culture. One entry will be accepted from each household while those pre-recorded using applications like Dubsmash and TikTok will be disqualified. ‘Likes’ too matter The best five performances each from among the individual and family entries will be selected at the end of the lockdown by a jury though the number of likes received in the Facebook will also be a deciding factor. “Paravur being home to film actor Salim Kumar, we plan to request him to be a jury member,” said Mr. Parappilly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paravur-goes-on-a-star-hunt-to-beat-lockdown-boredom/article31314385.ece
11 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||College reaches out with tele-counselling||The Union Christian (UC) College in Aluva has found a unique way to reach out to the needy during the lockdown. The faculty members of the departments of psychology and Hindi are involved in the social outreach project. “The Department of Psychology is offering free tele-counselling for people experiencing mental stress and anxiety during this emergency. Our Hindi department has come out with pamphlets in Hindi aimed at educating migrant workers about the epidemic and how to stay safe in these tough times,” said David Saj Mathew, Principal in-charge. Brochure “We had prepared a brochure with the mobile numbers of faculty members (see photo) and it was widely shared among various WhatsApp groups. The college had formed a WhatsApp group involving the representatives of the Karumaloor panchayat. We are offering mental and emotional support for all those in quarantined, those in hospitals and those who need it,” said Seena M. Mathai, head of the department of psychology. The facility is open from 10 a.m to 4 p.m. R.S. Radhika, assistant professor, department of Hindi, said the pamphlets in Hindi were handed over to the panchayat representative for distribution among migrant workers with the help of Accredited Social Health Activists. “In simple language, we had included key messages such as social distancing and the need to wear masks. The importance of washing hands using sanitisers and remaining indoors to check the outbreak was also stressed,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/college-reaches-out-with-tele-counselling/article31314375.ece
11 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Community kitchens supplying 2.8 lakh food packets daily||Community kitchens that were launched in the State a fortnight ago as part of the government mission to ensure hunger-free life in the lockdown period have enhanced their capacity to cook and distribute 2.5 lakh to 2.8 lakh food packets daily. As many as 33 lakh food packets were distributed from the kitchens as on Friday afternoon. Food is being prepared at 1,255 kitchens set up across 14 districts. The kitchens chiefly cater for the marginalised including migrant labourers, homeless people and the destitute rehabilitated under the Ashraya integrated project, according to a press release. A huge portion of the food packets is being given free of cost, mainly for the marginalised. The kitchens are being run by local self-government bodies in association with the State’s poverty-alleviating Kudumbashree project involving women. S. Harikishore, Director of Kudumbashree, said that its 238 Janakeeya hotels (people’s restaurants) were now serving budget meals. “Owing to the lockdown, we have brought the price down to Rs. 20 from the earlier proposed price of Rs. 25,” he said. Community kitchens are also preparing breakfast and supper. While dosa or idli with sambar is the morning food, chappati and curry (vegetable) is being prepared as night food. These cost is between Rs. 20 and Rs. 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/community-kitchens-supplying-28-lakh-food-packets-daily/article31314356.ece
11 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Praise heaped on fire service’s gesture||The experience of a pregnant woman in Pathanamthitta seems to have wowed social media and is getting widely circulated as an example of the State’s welfare-oriented measures during the lockdown. Fathima Ashraf, a 24-year-old from Vettipuram in Pathanamthitta town, had a scare on April 2 when she was diagnosed with minor bleeding. It emerged that her husband’s house was located in an elevated area where water supply was often hit and the pregnant woman had to walk all the way down and fetch water uphill, which probably triggered the bleeding. MLA’s intervention Later in the day, a bunch of Fire and Rescue Services personnel reached Ms. Ashraf’s house and filled the water storage tank there to the brim. This was after the woman’s ordeal was shared in a WhatsApp group started by Veena George, MLA, for ensuring the well-being of women and children during the lockdown. Ms. George contacted the Pathanamthitta fire and rescue services seeking a solution. “We could think of just one solution, which was to supply water at her doorstep. So, we washed our 5,000-litre capacity tanker and filled it with water from our KWA supply line,” said V. Vinod Kumar, Station Officer, Fire and Rescue Services, Pathanamthitta. A tough task Supplying the water proved to be a tough task as the house was situated at an elevation of around 200 metres from the nearest road. The fire and rescue services personnel connected four long delivery hoses to pump water into the storage tanker at Ms. Ashraf’s house. “They filled our storage tank with a capacity of around 2,000 litres. Thankfully, water supply has since been restored,” said Habeeb Mohammed, Ms. Ashraf’s father-in-law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/praise-heaped-on-fire-services-gesture/article31314378.ece
11 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Good to be back home, says COVID-19 survivor||Latheesh C.L. has just one thing to say: “Stay home, stay safe”, for he is a COVID-19 survivor. It is good to be at home, he says. He has to observe a 28-day quarantine before moving out. “We [online cab drivers] were aware of the danger but never expected to face it,” says Latheesh, who took the Mattancherry native while on a return trip from the airport. The passenger was already sick when he arrived on March 16, and the airport staff helped him into the cab on a wheelchair. “I was apprehensive, but the airport staff said he had pain in the legs, hence needed assistance. But once I started to drive, he asked me if he could lie on the seat. When we reached the destination, he had already slept, and I had to wake him up. That was the only personal contact I had with him,” recalls Latheesh. The passenger was later tested positive for COVID-19 and died while undergoing treatment. Latheesh started showing symptoms on March 20. “On March 23, I got a call from the Regional Transport Office and the Health Department, informing me that I was one of the primary contacts of a COVID-19 patient. I panicked first but decided to face it,” he says. The Health Department advised him to remain in quarantine. “The control room would call me to find out how I was doing. On March 25, I could not pick up the phone, but when I called them back on March 26 morning, I was told that the Mattancherry native’s wife too had been admitted to hospital with symptoms. I got admitted and got tested the same day. By evening, I was told that I had been tested positive for the disease,” Latheesh recalls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-to-be-back-home-says-covid-19-survivor/article31314350.ece
11 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC: no need to surrender passports in bailable case||The High Court has observed that it is illegal and improper to direct an accused to surrender his/her passport as a condition for granting bail when the offences slapped against the accused are bailable. The court passed the ruling while disposing of a petition filed by two accused in a case registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act as well as under the Prohibition of Electronic Cigarettes (Production, Manufacture, Import, Export and Transport, Sales, Distribution, Storage and Advertisements) Act. The magistrate granted them bail on certain conditions, one of which was surrender of their passports. The court pointed out that the offences under Section 4 read with Section 7 of the Prohibition of Electronic Cigarettes Act were punishable with an imprisonment of one year or with fine which may extend to Rs. 1 lakh or with both. Any offence punishable with imprisonment for less than three years or with fine only shall be bailable. Therefore, all the offences alleged against the accused were bailable. The court observed that when the offences alleged against a person were bailable, it was illegal and improper to direct him/her to surrender the passport before a court as a condition for granting him bail. The court ordered the return of the surrendered passport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-no-need-to-surrender-passports-in-bailable-case/article31314366.ece
11 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Two WISKs installed in Kollam district||Two COVID WISKs (Walk-in Sample Kiosk) sponsored by NS Co-operative Hospital were installed at Kollam District Hospital and Government Medical College, Paripally, here on Friday. The kiosks covered from all sides with disposable rubber gloves attached to the front ensures safe sample collection. Used for mass sample collection, they were first introduced in the State at Kalamassery Medical College, Kochi. District administration and Health Department have set up 179 corona care centres with 4,620 rooms in Kollam. “Currently 198 persons are staying in eight centres and 20 firstline treatment centres capable of accommodating 1,000 persons at a time will be ready in case of emergencies,” said Collector B. Abdul Nasar. The district also have 10 centres functioning exclusively for homeless and destitutes. A total of 371 persons were shifted to such centres as part of rehabilitation in connection with COVID-19 prevention activities. Police and Health Department are also conducting strict inspections at district borders and 3,668 persons were screened at various places including Oachira, Kadambattukonam, Enatt and Aryankavu checkpost. Special squads Meanwhile, District Collector has deployed special squads at the borders to block the inflow of stale fish to the district after seizing huge quantities on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-wisks-installed-in-kollam-district/article31314397.ece
11 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Special package for fishers sought||Minister J. Mercykutty Amma has demanded that the Centre should immediately consider the relief package for fishers submitted by Kerala government. The community has been in distress since the beginning of lockdown with most boats idling and the State has already allocated Rs. 36.68 crore for those involved in fishing and allied activities. As part of of relief measures 1,15,668 marine fishers and 23,833 inland fishers will receive Rs. 2,000 while those working in allied sectors will get Rs. 1,000. The Minister said that apart from State’s aid, the Centre should announce a separate package for fishers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-package-for-fishers-sought/article31314396.ece
11 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Going beyond call of duty||Service during a pandemic can be stressful for those who work on the front lines. The situation is no different for the medical staff at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, (MCH) who work relentlessly to make Kottayam free of COVID-19. However, they do not want to rest on the laurels. Instead, they now look to pack their bags and join the activities in Kasaragod -- a hotspot of the disease in Kerala. Officials say the MCH authorities would soon submit a list of medical staff who have expressed their willingness to work in Kasaragod to the Health Department. The government, on its part, has shown interest in the proposal and “asked them to be ready”. Among those who have evinced interest in the service included 12 nurses and five nursing assistants, who were part of the first batch on duty at the corona isolation ward here. The list would be prepared taking into consideration the staff requirement at the hospital here. “They will be divided into five teams, each comprising two doctors, two nurses, and a nursing assistant and called into service as soon as the tenure of the current team at Kasaragod expires,” says a top MCH official. The officials say the tenure of each team would be limited to 14 days, following which the team members would have to remain in isolation for the next two weeks. So far, two batches of nurses have completed their duty term at the isolation ward at the MCH. The other day, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Health Minister K.K.Shylaja lauded Papa Henry, a staff nurse here, who expressed interest in joining COVID-care duty anywhere in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/going-beyond-call-of-duty/article31314394.ece
11 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Efforts still on to trace suspected patients||The State Health department is still searching for possible missing links of asymptomatic patients in north Kerala to stop the spread of COVID-19. Many may have dodged thermal screening at the Calicut and Mangaluru airports or may have deliberately provided sketchy details of their travel history. “About 95% of positive cases are those with travel history to West Asia and their contacts. The Health Department has collected the list of domestic and international passengers from the Mangaluru airport a week prior to the suspension of flights,” said A.T. Manoj, Nodal Medical Officer for Kasaragod and Kanhangad. Measures such as bringing air passengers in specially arranged vehicles to Thalappady and subjecting them to either home quarantine or hospitalisation have yielded positive results in preventing community transmission. “To a great extent, we have been able to identify the suspected patients and their primary contacts,” said Dr. Manoj, adding that work still remained on finding if some were left out of the list. Tracing suspects has been a daunting task for health officials in the neighbouring Kannur district, which has a reasonable number of cases. “Volunteers of the Integrated Child Development Services and Accredited Social Health Activist have been involved in isolating patients,” said A.K. Jayasree of Kannur Medical College. Some of the participants of Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin, especially those who travelled in trains, may also have remained off the radar of the district administrations in north Kerala. Authorities of the Calicut International Airport have been helping the districts of Malappuram, Kozhikode and Palakkad identify passengers. A total of 59,691 passengers arrived in 444 international flights from March 1 to 22, while 13,031 reached the airport in domestic flights during the period. “However, tracing suspected patients has its limits. At times, local people inform us about undetected passengers,” said C.J. Michael of Government General Hospital, Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efforts-still-on-to-trace-suspected-patients/article31314349.ece
11 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Rising demand to bring back expats stuck in Gulf||Anxiety is looming large on the prospects of expatriate Indians, particularly Malayalis, stuck abroad during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Tension is mounting among large sections of Keralites even as the situation has started to worsen in the Gulf countries, particularly the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Kuwait. Outcries have risen from socio-political leaders in the State demanding special initiative from the country and its external affairs managers to bring back the expatriates before a possible explosion of the pandemic in the Gulf. What worries the expatriate community is the poor condition in which they are stuck in countries such as the UAE, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar and Oman. A large number of Keralites are cooling their heels in labour camps, which are potential COVID-19 volcanoes. Situation worsening “The situation is worsening. Many are under severe mental duress, having confined like a herd in camps during the long days of curfew,” said Anas Yasin, a Malayali journalist in the Gulf. The treatment they get in those countries is not satisfactory, especially during a communicable disease outbreak. The fact that even uninfected people are forced to live with some infected persons in some camps in the Gulf is giving shudders to their families back home. The death of a few Keralites in the Gulf as well as in other countries, including the U.S., has increased the tension in the minds of relatives back in Kerala. “The situation over there (Gulf) is bleak. The treatment conditions and the COVID-19 management system we have here in Kerala are much superior and incomparable. We don’t want our folks to die abroad,” said Amin Faizal, a school teacher who has his brother and cousins stuck in Saudi Arabia. Plea to Chief Minister E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, in an appeal to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, demanded that efforts should be made to address the Gulf Malayali crisis. He asked Mr. Vijayan to convince the Prime Minister during his videoconference about the gravity of the situation. Indian Union Muslim League district president Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal said the State and Central governments should contact the powers concerned to address the woes of the expatriates abroad. Muslim Educational Society district committee member E.P. Ubaidullah demanded that special flights be chartered to bring back the expatriates stuck in the Gulf, and special quarantine camps be opened near the airports in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rising-demand-to-bring-back-expats-stuck-in-gulf/article31314386.ece
11 April 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Automated disinfectant system installed at Walayar||An automated disinfectant system was installed on Walayar border between Kerala and Tamil Nadu on Thursday with the objective of disinfecting all vehicles and their drivers passing through the border. It was arguably the first such in the country. Walayar is the biggest crossover between the two States. While the Motor Vehicles Department installed the automated system to disinfect vehicle drivers with the help of the Rotary Club of Palakkad East, the Vivekananda Darshanika Samajam (VDS), a youth organisation under the Sri Ramakrishna Math, installed the machine to disinfect vehicles. Minister for Water Resources K. Krishnankutty inaugurated the automatic vehicle disinfection machine on Thursday evening. The Minister said that enough water would be ensured for the functioning of the automated disinfectant mechanism. A group of students under the National Service Scheme (NSS) at Government Polytechnic College, Palakkad, developed the system for driver disinfection. “We will make sure that all drivers coming from other States enter Kerala only after disinfection,” said Regional Transport Officer (Enforcement) P. Sivakumar, who inaugurated the machine along with RTO A.K. Sasikumar and Rotary Club president Khader Moideen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/automated-disinfectant-system-installed-at-walayar/article31314363.ece
11 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||MLA comes to elderly’s rescue||Timely intervention of local MLA Chittayam Gopakumar has helped an elderly woman, Karthyayani Amma, at Parakode near Adoor, to get her life-saving drug for chronic lung ailment. Karthyayani Amma has been a Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) patient for the past several years and her medicine stock has been fast reducing day by day owing to the 21-day nationwide lockdown since March 25. She has been staying with her son, a labourer, and the COVID-19 crisis and subsequent lockdown has rendered him jobless, plunging the family into a near-penury situation. It was the old woman’s daughter, Prabha, staying at Chittar who had taken up the matter with the Adoor MLA, with the help of the Chittar panchayat member Shylaja Beevi. Intervention The MLA soon directed an ASHA worker to enquire into the matter and she, in turn, visited the elderly woman and reported the matter on Friday itself. The MLA himself called on the old woman to deliver the medicine in the next one hour, extending instant relief to her. The MLA’s visit also helped her receive her pending welfare pension to the tune of Rs. 10,900.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-comes-to-elderlys-rescue/article31314399.ece
11 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new case for third consecutive day in Pathanamthitta district||No new case of COVID-19 has been reported from any part of Pathanamthitta district for the third consecutive day on Friday, according to a medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu here on Friday. The clinical examination results of all 174 throat and nasal swabs from the Virology Laboratory at Alappuzha on Friday were negative, the bulletin said. A total of 2,106 samples have been sent from the district for clinical examination so far. The test results of 16 samples were positive, while that of 1,481 negative for the infection and the Health Department awaits test results of 683 samples from the Virology Laboratory. 16 in isolation A total of 16 persons have been admitted to isolation wards of the Pathanamthitta General Hospital (7), District Hospital at Kozhencherry (6) and at the General Hospital at Adoor (3) as on Friday evening. One person has got discharged from the isolation ward and another four have been newly admitted. A total of 129 persons, including the seven persons who were cured of the disease, have been admitted to the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district. As many as 6,748 persons have been home quarantined in different parts of the district as on Friday. Of them, 1,967 persons were those came from abroad, 4,583 people who came from various other States and 228 primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons, the bulletin said. The administration has introduced an integrated voice response system exclusively at the service of the migrant workers. They can obtain information in Hindi, Bengali, and Tamil from the district control room by calling 9015978079.  Migrant workers can obtain information from the control room by calling 9015978079||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-case-for-third-consecutive-day-in-pathanamthitta-district/article31314400.ece
11 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Health condition of elderly patient stable||The health condition of the 80-year-old woman who was diagnosed with COVID-19 in the district a day ago remained stable. She has been undergoing treatment in the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital. According to official sources, she had been placed under home quarantine after her 61-year old son, who had come from the Middle East, tested positive for the infection on April 1. She did not come into close contact with other people during the quarantine period, they added. Restrictions relaxed Meanwhile, the district administration has begun to relax the restrictions that were imposed in Pothencode and adjoining areas in view of the receding panic that had prevailed following the COVID-19-infected person’s death nearly two weeks ago. Commercial establishments that sell essential commodities have now been permitted to function from 7 a.m. until 1 p.m. Traders had been earlier directed to conclude business by 9 a.m. Seventy-three people were placed under quarantine, while 27 symptomatic people were admitted to hospitals in the district on Friday. There are currently 4,677 people who are quarantined in their homes. As many as 775 people were removed off the quarantine list after completing the mandated period in isolation. While three COVID-19-infected people were undergoing treatment in the Government Medical College Hospital, two children were being treated in the SAT Hospital. All the 136 lab test results that were received on the day were negative. Eighty-eight samples have been sent for tests. The Thiruvananthapuram City Police registered cases against 89 people of which 70 were booked under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. Forty-seven vehicles were confiscated. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural Police also registered 360 cases and arrested 364 people. As many as 249 vehicles were confiscated in various police station limits. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan inspected community kitchens and district border check-posts that functioned in Varkala. Visits camps DIG (Thiruvananthapuram range) K. Sanjaykumar Gurudin visited various camps of migrant labourers in the city to ascertain their well-being. He took stock of the situation in a camp that functioned in Oruvathilkotta, near Pettah that accommodates around 700 people and another near Ananthapuri Hospital where nearly 150 workers reside. While the workers expressed satisfaction over the facilities they were provided, many sought assistance to reach their native places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-condition-of-elderly-patient-stable/article31314404.ece
11 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local bodies collecting data of migrant workers||In the absence of specific details of the number of migrant workers in the State, local governments have embarked on a data collection drive of the labourers currently housed at various camps across the State. The lockdown has given a breather for the local bodies to secure the details of workers, their living conditions, basic amenities and rigours they are facing at the camps. Payippad unrest An unrest of migrant workers at Payippad in Kottayam of late had come as a reminder of the rather sparse information about the workers and the drive was launched with the cooperation of the Labour Department and the police. As per the data collated by local bodies on April 8, the State has a migrant worker population of 3,98,051. This includes the 1,08,031 workers located in urban local bodies and 2,90,020 persons in 39,057 camps in rural areas. According to Joy Elamon, director, Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA), a macro-level exercise is no panacea to the issue and hence the local bodies that operate at the grassroots-level with elected members who have a thorough knowledge about each ward have been engaged for collecting the details of the workers. The survey seeks all pertinent details starting from the native States, the number of persons housed in each settlement with specific details of men, women and children, whether they have been housed in rented buildings provided by contractors or hired by them and also have the basic amenities, including adequate room, toilets and food. Corrective action “This micro-level exercise is not just aimed at gathering information, but is also for corrective action. Adequate facilities will be provided to workers who need such support. Details of their food preferences too are being sought. While some prefer cooked food, a majority wants kits of essentials. All such aspects are being looked into and corrective measures are being initiated, “ said Dr. Elamon. The data could be harvested for various purposes in future, especially in the face of an epidemic outbreak or a natural disaster, and locating the workers would not be a tough task, Dr. Elamon said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-collecting-data-of-migrant-workers/article31314370.ece
11 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Health surveillance data compromised: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Friday flagged the possibility that State government might have secretly compromised the personal medical information of thousands of persons under surveillance for COVID-19 to aid favoured players in the highly competitive private health care and pharmaceutical sector profit from the vital data. The government had contracted a U.S.-based company, Sprinklr, to collate the personal health data collected by field-level workers from nearly 1.75 lakh people categorised as “vulnerable and potentially exposed” to the epidemic. Tender process He alleged that the IT department, headed by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, had by-passed the tender process to award the deal to Sprinklr. Mobile app The government had procured a health-care worker mobile application from the firm using disaster management funds to input the details of persons under surveillance. The company had stored the electronic medical records in a private domain far beyond the country’s legal jurisdiction. IT Secretary M. Shivsankar had appeared in the firm’s advertisement film. The company, run by a non-resident Keralite (NoRK), had also used the coat of arms of the Kerala government, its vast army of public health workers and critical IT department infrastructure to promote its application globally. Mr. Chennithala said health information privacy was central to any society. Pharmaceutical majors, big players in the health-care business and private research and development firms would pay a fortune for the public health data now in possession of Sprinklr. The company could sell the information to the highest bidder without the consent or knowledge of citizens health workers had surveiled as part of the government’s epidemic containment strategy. The deal appeared murky, said Mr. Chennithala and he demanded an anti-corruption enquiry. Mr. Shivsankar told The Hindu that the government was calibrating its response to the allegations. “The IT department would state facts at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-surveillance-data-compromised-chennithala/article31314382.ece
11 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Digital passes for entry post-lockdown||In view of an expected influx of expatriates into Kerala after the lockdown, the State government is mulling the introduction of digital passes consisting of a health declaration to regulate entry. The Kerala State IT Mission is in the works to ready the software, which will be a customised version of the existing travel pass issued to the public here to travel in a limited area during lockdown. According to S. Chithra, Director, Kerala State IT Mission, the system is aimed at restricting the entry of people to prevent spread of COVID-19. Declaration on health “The system is still not finalised, as everything depends on the final decision taken by the government on the lockdown. In case the decision is for a phased lifting of lockdown or whenever the entry ban is lifted, we will need a pass system to regulate entry. There will be screening for those coming from countries classified as having COVID-19 risk. They will be required to apply for the pass and give a health declaration once they get their tickets. The digital pass with a QR code can be used for entering as well as to move to home isolation or a quarantine centre here, as per their health status,” she said. In Singapore A similar system was earlier introduced by Singapore following the COVID-19 outbreak, by which all travellers to the country are required to submit their health declaration before arrival. The system there also stipulates hefty fines for providing false information. But, regulating entry from within the country, for those arriving by road or rail is going to be tough, due to the practical difficulties as large numbers are involved, and also because the digital pass requires the person entering to have a smart phone. Physical forms to be distributed at the help desks at the various entry points are also being considered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-passes-for-entry-post-lockdown/article31314371.ece
11 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protection of the elderly pivot to post-lockdown strategy||How well Kerala protects its senior citizens from getting infected will be critical to the State’s overall strategy to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, reveal projections by the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA). Public health experts, given the COVID-19 infection patterns and mortality rates worldwide, have already voiced the need to prevent infections among the aged as they are more at risk. KSDMA projections on post-lockdown scenarios in Kerala presented before Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday categorically emphasise this point. The authority has suggested measures such as reverse isolation once the lockdown is lifted for protecting people above 60 years of age from getting infected. As per the projections, the overall COVID-19-related hospitalisation requirement will diminish by 33% if two-thirds of the people aged above 60 are protected from infection. In this scenario, critical care requirements will come down by 55%. If half the senior citizens are adequately protected, overall hospitalisation and critical care needs will get reduced by 25% and 41% respectively. In a third scenario where one-third of the 60-plus population is protected from infection, the overall hospitalisation and requirement for critical care will diminish by 16% and 28% respectively. The projections have been made by an eight-member team at the KSDMA using local data and a refined Kerala-centric model of the SEIR (susceptible population- exposed- infected-recovered) used for influenza forecasts. Analysing the first 51 locally transmitted COVID-19 cases in the State, the KSDMA team points out that nine of the patients were aged above 60 years. A sizeable section of the patients are aged above 60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protection-of-the-elderly-pivot-to-post-lockdown-strategy/article31314384.ece
11 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RPF uses drones for surveillance||The Railway protection Force (RPF) has introduced drones for aerial surveillance over the railway properties and the empty train rakes stabled at railway terminals and different stations during lockdown. Drone cameras were used on Friday at Kochuveli railway terminal, where a large number of empty rakes are stabled. The RPF personnel had used the facility at Ernakulam Junction two days back and at Nagercoil on Thursday, according to S. Ramakrishnan, Divisional Security Commissioner, Thiruvananthapuram Railway Division. M. Sivadas, Assistant Commissioner, RPF, Thiruvananthapuram; Aishwarya Dongre, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Shangumugham and RPF Inspector Binukumar were among those who took part in the surveillance carried out by the RPF to find the unauthorized entry into the yard in Kochuveli. At all stations The RPF has plans to use drone cameras at all the important stations where the rakes are stabled in the Thiruvananthapuram division and also for the security of railway properties, the DSC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rpf-uses-drones-for-surveillance/article31314401.ece
11 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Prisoners making gowns for doctors||After boosting the production of facemasks to ward off COVID-19 pandemic, the tailoring unit at the Central Prison, Poojappura here has started producing uniforms and gowns for doctors and para medical personnel. “We have received an order from Sri Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) for making uniforms and gowns for their staff. Since they have to treat emergency COVID-19 cases, there is a rise in demand for gowns,” said B. Sunil Kumar, Superintendent, Central Prison, Poojappura. Actor Indrans, himself a costume designer, visited the jail earlier this week and demonstrated how to make the simple protective device effortlessly. While two prisoners are assigned the stitching of gowns, 23 others are engaged in the production of masks. The hospital has placed an urgent order for 500 gowns. “The material for uniforms and the model are provided by SCTIMST. So we will be charging only for stitching, that too nominally. We have already supplied a set of 25 uniforms to them, and more are in the making” Mr Kumar said. Hand sanitizer which is in great demand is also being produced at the Central Prison. “We have got 7,000 litres of spirit from the Excise Department for producing sanitizers ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prisoners-making-gowns-for-doctors/article31314408.ece
11 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||App to track patients||To augment government’s efforts for surveillance of COVI-19 suspects, the district administration has developed a web platform and mobile application ‘Karuthal’, which can track quarantined persons and monitor their health status daily. There will be daily ongoing monitoring through the mobile App. This aids in immediately alerting the health system if the condition of the patient worsens so that transportation, testing and admission of the patient can be planned accordingly without delay. Care Thiruvananthapuram android app will also help the authorities keep a close eye on the quarantined person with the help of geo-fencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/app-to-track-patients/article31314407.ece
11 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dispute over unloading||Tension prevailed at the Supplyco godown in Valiyathura on Friday after a group of headload workers refused to unload a load of chickpeas after being denied the additional remuneration they demanded from Civil Supplies officials. The impasse was broken after nearly eight hours following the intervention of the Labour Department which promised to consider the workers’ demand after the lockdown restrictions were lifted. The issue cropped up when the workers demanded that they be paid ‘attikooli’ of Rs. 10 per sack in addition to the unloading rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dispute-over-unloading/article31314402.ece
11 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More stale fish seized||Food safety officials seized and destroyed 11,756 kg of rotten and contaminated fish in raids conducted as part of Operation Sagar Rani on Friday. With this, the total volume of spoiled and contaminated fish seized since last Saturday has risen to 62,594 kg, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said. The Food Safety Commissionerate strengthened inspections under Operation Sagar Rani last Saturday (April 4) following complaints about spoiled fish being sold during the lockdown period. On Saturday, 2,866 kg was seized. The days that followed revealed the extent of the problem. Six issued notices On Monday, 15,641 kg was seized, and on Tuesday 17,018 kg. The seizures on Wednesday and Thursday stood at 7,558 kg and 7,755 kg respectively. The raids were carried out at 126 centres on Friday. Six persons had been issued notices, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-stale-fish-seized/article31314372.ece
11 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Prime Minister contacts leaders of Gulf countries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has requested the heads of various countries to ensure the welfare and safety of the Indian community. A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) press note said here on Friday that he had been holding consultations with leaders of Gulf countries in the past few weeks. He contacted the rulers of Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, and Bahrain. The leaders had given firm assurance to Mr. Modi that the Indian diaspora would be taken care of during these tough times. In an interaction with heads of Indian missions too, the Prime Minister had stressed on the welfare of the Indians abroad, the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prime-minister-contacts-leaders-of-gulf-countries/article31314383.ece
11 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Motorist killed in accident||A 61-year-old man was killed after his motorcycle collided with a pickup van near Thiruvallam early Friday. The deceased was identified as Mohanan, 61, of Vandithadam, near Thiruvallam. The incident occurred around 4.30 a.m. when Mohanan was headed for the General Hospital. The coconut-laden van which came from Kollam was headed for Nagercoil, the police said. The collision took place on the old bridge near Pachalloor that leads to East Fort. Despite being rushed to the MCH, Mohanan’s life could not be saved. He was the Santhipuram branch secretary of the CPI (M). He is survived by his wife and two children. The van driver was arrested and let off on bail later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/motorist-killed-in-accident/article31314405.ece
11 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Helpline for the aurally challenged||The National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH) has launched a helpline service for hearing and speech impaired persons. Lockdown queries and issues will be answered in Indian sign language through video call through the WhatsApp helpline numbers. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, and Pathanamthitta: 9249505723, 9496918178, 8078871318 and 9061730310. Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad: 7994548133, 9446750983, 9061627892 and 9142652525. Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod: 7025065488, 9496366836, 9995459717 and 9061489198. NISH will also supply batteries used in hearing aids through the 24X7 helpline service. For details, visit: www.nish.ac.in or https://bit.ly/3auXgDP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/helpline-for-the-aurally-challenged/article31314373.ece
11 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3 more PHCs get quality certification||Three more health-care institutions in the State have won the National Quality Assurance Standard (NQAS) certification. The new primary health centre at Kallikkadu, Thiruvananthapuram; Nenmanikkara PHC in Thrissur; and Kalladikkode Family Health Centre in Palakkad are the institutions to win NQAS certification. With this, Kerala has achieved the unique distinction of having the top 12 NQAS-certified PHCs in the country. 64 certified in State Till date, 64 health-care institutions in the State have won the NQAS certification. Kannur has 12 of these institutions. In the midst of COVID-19 containment, this achievement of the State has brought much cheer to the health workers who have been working hard to keep the health system on top, Health Minister K. K. Shylaja said.  6,500 checkpoints NQAS certification is a tough and long drawn process wherein hospitals are assessed on nearly 6,500 checkpoints in eight categories such as service provision, patient rights, inputs, support services, clinical services, infection control, quality management and outcome. The hospitals so assessed will have to clear the district-level and State-level checks before being subjected to the national-level assessment by a panel of examiners appointed by the National Hearth System Resource Centre The NQAS certification is valid for a period of three years. Hospitals which get the certification also get annual cash incentives, with PHCs getting Rs. 2 lakhs and other hospitals Rs. 10,000 per bed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-more-phcs-get-quality-certification/article31314389.ece
11 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BTech results out||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has published the results of the seventh semester BTech regular and supplementary examinations which were conducted in December last. The deadlines for applying for revaluation and seeking copies of the answer sheets will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/btech-results-out/article31314406.ece
11 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||A hand of help from a widow in times of distress||For Devayani of Cherpu in Thrissur, who lost her husband, Rs. 2,400, her widow pension for two months, is not a meagre sum. She lives with her youngest son, a daily wage worker at a tea shop. But when she heard about the efforts made by the State government to stop COVID-19 spread, she wanted to support that mission. Donated to CMDRF In response to the Chief Minister’s call to donate to the distress relief fund, she wholeheartedly gave her pension of Rs. 2,400.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-hand-of-help-from-a-widow-in-times-of-distress/article31314354.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Two more recover in Kozhikode||Two more persons undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Medical College Hospital here have recovered from the infection. One of them is from Kozhikode and the other is from Kasaragod, District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a release on Friday. The number of people under surveillance came down to 17,824, with 1,575 completing their observation cycle on the day. Thirty persons are now under observation at the medical college hospital. No new SARS-CoV-2 positive cases were reported in Kozhikode for the fifth consecutive day. Of the 463 body fluid samples sent for lab tests, 419 are negative. The results of 29 samples are awaited, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-recover-in-kozhikode/article31314355.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In great demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-great-demand/article31314358.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-devotion/article31314361.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Prayer with social distancing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prayer-with-social-distancing/article31314410.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Free ration||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-ration/article31314388.ece
11 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 house surgeons quarantined, 2 more test positive in Anantapur||Thirty house surgeons (all male) were quarantined as a 24-year-old batchmate tested positive after treating a third patient, a 58-year-old man from Hindupur, at the GGH on Friday. Meanwhile, two more persons – a staff nurse and a secondary contact of a Mecca- returnee from the Kothacheruvu area in the district – tested positive for COVID-19, taking the tally to 15. The house surgeons had boycotted their duties on Thursday, forcing the administration to hold a meeting and promise them to provide masks and personal protection equipment (PPEs) . Protest seeking masks But to their dismay, the female house surgeons who reached the hospital with surgical masks on Friday were not given the N-95 masks as promised. This led to all the house surgeons boycotting their duties again. When the issue went to the Collector and Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath, the masks were given to the house surgeons at their hostels in the evening. The house surgeons criticised the “callous attitude” of the hospital management with regard to their safety, and decided to join duties from Saturday. Meanwhile, the house surgeon who tested positive celebrated his birthday in his room. His batch mates came to his room to greet him as he was not even a suspect then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-house-surgeons-quarantined-2-more-test-positive-in-anantapur/article31314498.ece
11 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||An error of judgment: Buggana||Fifteen medical and paramedical personnel in the Government General Hospital here contracting COVID-19 in the first week of April while treating a patient from Hindupur (who died later) was an error of judgment committed by the staff in assessing the patient’s health status, said Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath on Friday. After holding a three-hour review on the situation in the district, Mr. Rajendranath said such mistakes do happen, that too at a time when none was conversant with the behaviour of the disease, but there was no shortage of the personal protection equipment (PPEs), or N-95 masks. “We have sufficient PPEs, but there is no excess to splurge at the moment,” the Minister said, and assured the medical and paramedical staff that they would be provided all protective gear essential for each and every activity, including for those who work in the isolation wards. Order had been placed and there was an all-round shortage of these materials, hence there was a delay in the arrival of stocks. “But we have made local arrangements for manufacturing these with alternative material,” the Minister said at a press conference. He also said that the government was preparing to expand the testing facility in Anantapur and set up a new one in Kurnool. ICMR protocol The ICMR protocols did not allow the results to be declared within two days, but now it was possible within 24 hours, he observed. The Minister appreciated the government staff of various departments for working with dedication. BC Welfare Minister M. Sankaranarayana and district Collector Gandham Chandrudu along with MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy were present.  Such mistakes do happen, that too at a time when none was conversant with the behaviour of the disease, but there was no shortage of PPEs or N-95 masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-error-of-judgment-buggana/article31314495.ece
11 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trust contributes its mite for COVID-19 fight||Centenary celebrations of Vincete Ferrer, the Spanish national who established the Rural Development Trust (RDT) in Anantapur, were held on a low key due to the outbreak of coronavirus. The RDT donated Rs. 3 crore for COVID-19 relief activities in Anantapur district. Programme director Moncho Ferrer along with the trust employees participated in a programme held on the office premises, while a couple of public representatives garlanded the statue of Vincente Ferrer in the city. Most significant, however, was the donation of over Rs. 3 crore both in kind and cash to support the fight against the COVID-19 by the district administration. Trust executive director Anne Ferrer, while making a donation of Rs. 1 crore to a special COVID-19 account at the district level, asked the administration to send bills for another Rs. 1 crore worth material required at the quarantine centres being set up by the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trust-contributes-its-mite-for-covid-19-fight/article31314471.ece
11 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jumbo’ fear grips villagers on Chittoor-Tamil Nadu border||Tension gripped the forested villages abutting Chittoor-Tamil Nadu border on Friday when a herd of wild elephants from the Koundinya sanctuary attacked a group of men, killing one and critically injuring another, inside the forest close to Keeramanda village of Bangarupalem mandal, 45 km from here. According to Sub-Inspector (Bangarupalem) P. Ramakrishna, a group of men from Keeramanda and surrounding hamlets went inside the forest in the morning to collect some forest produce and were returning home in the evening, when they were rounded by a herd of wild elephants close to the buffer zone. While two men were caught in the ring, others could flee the spot. The elephants, said to be eight in number, trampled one person, identified as Dhananjaya (48), to death, and the other man, Ravi (30), suffered grievous injuries, with multiple fractures. After throwing Ravi into bushes, the herd surrounded the dead. The others, who fled the scene, informed the tragedy to the villagers at Keeramanda, who in turn rushed to the spot and shifted the injured Ravi to Government Hospital at Bangarupalem. In critical condition In view of lockdown, getting an auto to the forest location was considerably delayed, the police said. Those who fled the scene went absconding later, fearing police interrogation. As the condition of Ravi was critical, the hospital staff said that he would likely to be shifted to Chittoor hospital. As the attack came to light after dusk, the police and forest personnel found it tough to reach the forest location. The police and the elephant-trackers drove away the herd and retrieved the body .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jumbo-fear-grips-villagers-on-chittoor-tamil-nadu-border/article31314493.ece
11 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nagari Municipal Commissioner suspended||In a swift move, the State government on Friday placed Nagari Municipal Commissioner K. Venkatrami Reddy under suspension for his ‘adverse comments’ on the government with regard to COVID-19 crisis. According to an order issued by the Commissioner and Director of Municipal Administration, Mr. Reddy “has made certain adverse comments on the government and got involved in political conversation on COVID-19, which are against to rule 17 (1) of AP Civil Services (conduct) Rules 1965.” The order gave Sanitary Inspector (Nagari Municipality) Ch. Venkateswara Rao full additional charge of the post of Municipal Commissioner. The order said the official should not leave the Nagari municipality without prior permission . A video of Mr. Reddy, which showed him criticising the government for blocking the accounts and not supplying the COVID-19 fighting equipment such as masks and necessary gear, was widely circulated in the social media since Thursday evening. The video showed him heaping praises on local MLA and APIIC chief R.K. Roja. The purported footage mentioned Mr. Reddy as criticising the local political leaders for not responding to the COVID-19 crisis. Meanwhile, it has created ripples in the official circles in Chittoo, following a similar incident involving a medical faculty from Vishakapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nagari-municipal-commissioner-suspended/article31314499.ece
11 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ID liquor units raided in Chittoor, 9 held||The Puttur Sub-division Police on Friday conducted raids on the units manufacturing ID liquor in Sri Rangaraja Puram and Karveti Nagarm mandals and destroyed around 3,000 litres of ID liquor and a large volume of fermented jaggery wash. Nine persons were taken into custody during the raids. SP S. Senthil Kumar, in coordination with the Excise and Prohibition Department, has formed special teams which raided many hamlets and villages. The raids were conducted at Chinna Tayyur and Pedda Tayyur villages in SR Puram mandal, and an isolated location near Krishnapuram reservoir near Karveti Nagaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/id-liquor-units-raided-in-chittoor-9-held/article31314475.ece
11 April 2020||G.V.R. Subba RaoVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanaka Durga temple offers food to needy||With hundreds of people getting stranded at various locations in the city due to lockdown, Sri Durga Mallesewara Swamyvarla Devasthanam here has taken up supply of food from its kitchen meant for the pilgrims visiting the temple. Ever since the lockdown was clamped, the Kanaka Durga temple authorities have distributed 'kadambam' (a special dish made of rice, dal and vegetables) and 'dadyodanam' (curd rice) to the needy. The temple has distributed ab out 56,000 kg of 'kadambam' and 'dadyodanam' so far. The temple is fetching curd from Sangam Dairy to prepare the 'dadyodanam'. Donations sought Temple Executive Officer M.V. Suresh Babu says the devasthanam has been supplying 8,000 packets of food every day. The food is prepared in most hygienic conditions. Each packet weighs 450 grams to 500 grams. A lot of preparations go into it as the food has to be delivered at the earliest time. As the temple has kitchen, infrastructural facilities and dedicated staff, the devasthanam has decided to provide 'kadambam' and 'dadyodanam', which are most sought after prasadams at the temple. The devotees can make donations by logging ontowww.kanakadurgamma.orgor eosdmsd@sbi through BHIM UPI app. They can scan QR code, and phone pay or Google pay, he says. The devasthanam follows the dictum that offering food without expecting anything in return in letter and spirit, says AEO B. Venkat Reddy, who is in-charge of the 'annadanam'. The devasthanam is spending about Rs. 24 on each packet. Close to 20-kg vegetables goes into 'kadambam' prepared for 2,000 people. Apart from vegetables, red gram, Bengal gram, rice, mustard, oil etc are used. For 'dadyodanam', 200 litres of curd supplied by Sangam is used for 2,000 people. The temple prepares 8,000 packets every day, he explains. Kanaka Durga temple usually provides free meal to about 5,000 devotees every day. The devasthanam provides free meal to 3,000-4,000 during normal days. The rush surges to 5,000 on Sundays and Fridays. And, during festivities, it peaks to about 25,000 per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kanaka-durga-temple-offers-food-to-needy/article31313982.ece
11 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Window for buying essentials curtailed to 3 hours in Guntur||The civic authorities have curtailed the window for the purchase of essential commodities to three hours a day from the earlier hours. The shops selling essential commodities such as groceries and vegetables, which were allowed to remain open from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m., have been instructed to down shutters by 9 a.m. With the revised timings came into force on Friday, many people who went to buy the provisions were stopped by the police on the roads. They were let off only after 9 a.m. Amid the stringent enforcement of the lockdown norms, the district administration has announced that wearing masks while going out has been made compulsory.  No travel after 10 a.m. “The decision was taken as per the directives issued by the Central and State governments. A fine of Rs. 1,000 will be imposed on for not wearing masks while venturing out,” said Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar on Friday. Meanwhile, restriction has been imposed all kinds of travel between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Even, the government employees have been instructed to reach their offices before 10 a.m. Control rooms for locals The Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) has opened control rooms in 10 containment zones to help the local residents get essential commodities. Earlier in the day, Mr. I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, along with Special Officer B. Rajasekhar, visited Guntur Medical College where a new virology lab has been opened. They also went inspected the areas in I Town from where several positive cases have been reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/window-for-buying-essentials-curtailed-to-3-hours-in-guntur/article31313988.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, masks mandatory while stepping outside||The State government has ordered propagation and implementation of ‘MaskOn’ policy at all levels that envisages that people wore masks while stepping outside, stationed in closed spaces and interacting with others. The policy was an update to an earlier advisory by the government that masks be used ‘only for the sick’. The update was based on studies in Japan that showed that MaskOn had slowed the spread of coronavirus considerably, a memo issued by Special Chief Secretary, Health, A. Santhi Kumari, said. The revision of advice was a sequel to the learning from the medical and scientific community that a large number of infected people did not show any symptoms but were still carriers of the infection and could infect others. MaskOn will protect people from inhaling infected droplets released while sneezing, coughing and talking. Therefore, homemade cotton double layer reusable masks were recommended for use as the first line of protection. The government hoped that State-wide compliance with MaskOn policy would contribute significantly to control the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/now-masks-mandatory-while-stepping-outside/article31313950.ece
11 April 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||State seeks duty waiver on medical equipment||Health Minister Eatala Rajender has requested the Central government to take steps to waive Customs and other duties levied on import of medical equipment from abroad. The government should also ensure that no taxes are levied on medicines and medical equipment manufactured domestically as it would come as breather to the State governments. The Minister was participating in a video conference conducted by Union Health Minister Harshvardhan on Friday to review the coronavirus (COVID-19) situation in the country. Mr. Rajender said the Centre should entrust manufacture of ventilators and other medical equipment to agencies like the ECIL and DRDO for supply to the States. At the same time, steps should be initiated to ensure that requirement of the States relating to N-95 masks, personal protection equipment kits, testing kits and other necessary equipment were fulfilled. There was need for steps to curb black-marketing of medical equipment used to check spread of coronavirus and the Centre should procure the equipment from the companies and supply them to the State. The Minister said there was no community transmission of coronavirus in Telangana so far. In all, 8,500 samples had been tested of which 471 were reported positive. Forty five persons admitted into different hospitals were discharged after undergoing treatment and 12 succumbed to the virus in the State. Referring to the ongoing lockdown, the Minister suggested that the Centre should elicit the views of all States before taking a decision on the extension of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waiver-on-medical-equipment-sought/article31314043.ece
11 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Chakra Snanam’ brings curtains down on Vontimitta temple fete||It was curtains down on the annual Brahmotsavam at Sri Kodandarama temple in Vontimitta on Friday, with the priests formally completing the ‘Chakra Snanam’ ritual in a simple manner, due to the lockdown situation. The festival began on a low key nine days back and all the rituals and processions were conducted in private, with no devotees allowed into the temple or in its vicinity. Only the priests, officers and temple staff were present during the rituals. But for the COVID-19 threat and the lockdown that inevitably followed, the annual event would have been a grand spectacle and a feast for the eyes. The deity of ‘Sudarsana Chakra’ is normally given a holy dip in a temple tank, but due to the lockdown situation, the same was immersed in the ‘Gangalam’ (huge container) filled with sacred water, amid chanting of Vedic hymns. Earlier, the Archakas performed ‘Snapana Tirumanjanam’ (celestial bath) to the processional deities of Sita, Rama, Lakshmana and Sudarshana Chakra. TTD Deputy Executive Officer (Vontimitta temple) Lokanatham was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chakra-snanam-brings-curtains-down-on-vontimitta-temple-fete/article31314489.ece
11 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three women, two girls test positive in East Godavari||Three women and two girls aged 3 years and 10 years respectively have been tested positive for coronavirus in Kathipudi area of Shankaravam mandal in East Godavari district on Friday. Of the postive patients, a 50-year-old woman and the 10-year-old girl belongs to one family while the rest are their tenants. According to health officials, all the women and children are direct or indrect contacts of a 38-year-old COVID-19 positive patient from Visakhapatnam. ‘Hiding medical history’ The man is a relative of the 50-year-old woman and he visited her family area on March 25 during the Ugadi festival. The 38-year-old patient allegedly attempted to hide his COVID-19 status by undergoing treatment in a private hospital till Thursday. According to Peddapuram Revenue Divisional Officer S. Mallibabu, earlier the 50-year-old woman reportedly took the man to a hospital in East Godavari district earlier. “The other members of the family who were tested negative on Friday will undergo some more rounds of tests,” said Mr. Mallibabu. All five patients have been shifted to GSL Hospital in Rajamahendravaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-women-two-girls-test-positive-in-east-godavari/article31314509.ece
11 April 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala girl sketches Spanish street, wins hearts||For Shehana Fathima, a 20-year-old engineering student from Thrikkakara, the evening of March 24 will always be memorable. Just an hour before the Prime Minister announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown, the budding artist posted on Instagram a pencil sketch that portrayed two artistes serenading an eerily empty Spanish street from their balconies even as quarantined neighbours emerged on their balconies to enjoy the music. The video of noted Spanish pianist Alberto Gestoso and saxophone player Alex Lebron Torrent performing Canadian singer Celine Dion’sMy Heart Will Go Onin the middle of March had gone viral. Musicians take notice The youngster was on cloud nine when hardly a couple of hours later she posted the image, both the musicians praised her work, with Mr. Torrent even promising to repost it from his Instagram account. Later, the partner of one of the artistes also personally messaged her. “The video was going around for a while, and that inspired me. It took me a day to complete the picture. Actually, I don’t know how to draw buildings, and I simply replicated the scene from the video,” said Ms. Shehana, a self-taught painter who is still basking in the glory of completely unexpected adulations. Hoping to go further in the world of arts, she is now using the lockdown period to master digital drawing tools. Other mediums Having started with painting two years ago, the youngster has since then moved on to other mediums and a wider canvass. “I plan to conduct an exhibition and even a workshop once I have enough collection of works,” Shehana Fathima said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-girl-sketches-spanish-street-wins-hearts/article31313961.ece
11 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two primary contacts of Delhi returnees test positive||Two more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kurnool district on Friday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 77. According to District Collector G. Veerapandian, the two positive cases registered today were primary contacts of Tablighi Jamaat returnees. However, 70 samples tested negative on Friday. The two new cases came from Kurnool Urban (City) and Atmakur town in the district. Meanwhile, lockdown in the district was being implemented stringently and Superintendent of Police Fakkerappa Kaginelli visited Nandyal on Friday to oversee the implementation of red zone containment activity. More than 50% of Kurnool city had become out of bounds for the citizens and the district administration meanwhile, arranged 72 mobile vegetable kiosks and people have been asked not to assemble in large numbers at the rythu bazaars. Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangham district secretary on Friday visited a couple of villages near Bastipadu in the district and urged the district administration to make arrangements for sale of jasmine flowers for the growers as they were unable to sell their produce at a time when the production was very good.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-primary-contacts-of-delhi-returnees-test-positive/article31314474.ece
11 April 2020||Mangaluru/Mandya,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social media posts land 6 in trouble in Karnataka||The Dakshina Kannada police have registered five cases against six persons for their alleged social media hate posts relating to the Muslim community. While three cases by the Bantwal Town police have been registered against Santosh Gowda of Nandavara, a case has been registered by the Dharmastala police against Muralidhar and three others of Ujire. The four cases were registered on Monday. A case was registered by the Bellare police on April 4 against Kusumadhara. Stringent action In a statement, Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad said stringent action would be taken against those who try to create communal hatred. In another development, two persons at Ankanahalli in Ramanagaram district have been booked for asking villagers to prevent the entry of Muslims, blaming the community members for the spread of COVID-19. It is said that a member of Kailancha Gram Panchayat had hired an elderly man to alert the villagers against allowing Muslims to enter the village. This was videographed by a person and the clip was shared on social media. Local police have registered a case against two persons. Tahsildar draws ire Meanwhile, K.R. Pet tahsildar M. Shivamurthy has drawn the ire of social activists for stating that three people who were roaming around with quarantine seals on their hands were Muslims, while they did not belong to the community. Activist had called Mandya Superintendent of Police K. Parashuram seeking action against Mr. Shivamurthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-media-posts-land-6-in-trouble-in-karnataka/article31313949.ece
11 April 2020||NIZAMABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Concern over my son’s safety made me ride 1,400 kilometres’||At first thought it sounds like a mission impossible. But the 1,400-km long distance did not deter the doting mother Rajia Begum to travel on her scooter to bring back her younger son Nizamuddin, stranded in Rahamatnagar in Nellore city following lockdown. He had gone to Nellore on March 12 to drop his friend from a NEET coaching institute in Hyderabad and got stuck there. Fearing she would be dissuaded from her mission if she revealed her idea, Ms. Rajia Begum set out with a pack of rotis and a five-litre petrol can without informing anyone on the morning of April 6 and reached Nellore the following day. She travelled all alone even at night via Kamareddy, Gajwel, Nalgonda, Addanki and Ongole. Concern for the safety of her son overtook her fear of loneliness on NH-44, SH-2, and the six-lane NH-16. She was the lone rider all the way barring a few trucks and transport vehicles. Ms. Rajia Begum’s daily drive of 25 km to and from the Mandal Parishad Primary School in Salampad for several years made the teacher a seasoned rider. Armed with a letter from ACP Jaipal Reddy and a Google map she hit the highway. “I had to undergo problems en route as food was not available with hotels and dhabas closed. I took only fruits and relaxed for a few minutes intermittently. I managed to reach Nellore early on April 7. On the return, I dared to travel at night as my son was with me. So, we started our journey at 4 p.m. and reached Bodhan on Wednesday around 3 p.m.,” she said. “My travel has gone viral on social media after one of my colleagues posted it on WhatsApp. On the way back mediapersons at Kamareddy hosted lunch for us,” she said, praising the police for their help. “Everyone has a loving heart,” Ms. Rajia Begum added appealing to people to stay indoors to combat COVID-19. A resident of BT Nagar in Bodhan, she had faced hardships in life in raising her two sons Yasar and Nizamuddin, and daughter Ayesha after her husband Mohammed Waliuddin — also a government teacher — died in 2006 after prolonged illness. Yasar has completed his B.Tech and Ayesha graduation, and are searching for jobs. A few years ago, 16-year old mountaineer Malavath Poorna, also from the same district, conquered Mount Everest. Now, brave Rajia Begum with her ‘rescue mission’, has done the district proud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/concern-over-my-sons-safety-made-me-ride-1400-kilometres/article31313948.ece
11 April 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good Friday observed in isolation||Good Friday was observed without social gathering in view of lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Believers read psalms and the gospel and sang hymns confining themselves to their homes avoiding huge congregations in churches associated with the ceremony to commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus and his death at Calvary. It was for the first time in the 154-year-old history of the Jewett Memorial Baptist church in Ongole, mother of Baptist churches in these parts, en masse prayers were not organised. So was the case with the 150-odd denomination of churches in Ongole. The Stations of the Cross' procession bearing the holy cross was done away in the wake of spurt in COVID-19 positive cases. Live streaming Live streaming of the special prayers was put on the social media platforms by among other churches Manna Ministries, Jesus Ministries and RM Ministries for the benefit of the faithful who were confined to their homes. The believers remembered suffering of Jesus by watching masses and religious shows telecast by TV channels as religious heads gave the message of hope to people affected by coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-friday-observed-in-isolation/article31314479.ece
11 April 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more cases emerge in Prakasam||Two more persons tested positive for coronavirus in Prakasam district on Friday One patient hailed from Islampet in Ongole, which has emerged as COVID-19 hotspot. Another patient is from Markapur town in western Prakasam which reported the first positive case. With this, 40 persons contracted the dreaded disease in the district, COVID-19 Nodal Officer John Richards said. A student from the United Kingdom infected by the disease has so far recovered A majority of the infected persons had either attended the Tablighi Jammat meeting or their family members. Roads sealed The health authorities identified as ‘red zones’ 30 clusters in Nellore and 11 in Prakasam with a view to implementing the containment action plan with more vigour and prevent the spread of the disease. All roads to Islampeta were sealed by the police, who ensured that none of the 7,000 families in the area stirred out of their homes. The district administration set up a quarantine centre in the RISE engineering college to move the primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons. Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said criminal cases would be registered against those organising distribution of food, medical kits and essential commodities to people without getting the approval of the district administration. Review Meanwhile, State Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav, after reviewing the health situation along with his Cabinet colleague M. Goutham Reddy and officials in Nellore, said COVID-19 rapid testing kits would be provided to all mandals shortly in the wake of increase in the number of positive cases. These kits provide test results within an hour. Disinfection tunnel A ‘disinfection tunnel’ was put by the civic body in the sprawling P.V.R.M high school grounds, where a large number of people gather to purchase vegetables and other essential commodities during lockdown relaxation period every day. As people walked through the ‘disinfection tunnel’ by raising their hands, sprayers overhead sprinkled disinfectant liquid. People should still need to wash their hands and wear masks to maintain personal hygiene, Municipal Commissioner P. Niranjan Reddy said. More such tunnels would be put in place in other places in phases, he said after overseeing the third phase resurvey by health workers in Islampeta. Members of the Indian Red Cross Society arranged water and soaps for the visitors at the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-more-cases-emerge-in-prakasam/article31314481.ece
11 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kondru seeks partial lockdown relaxation||Former Minister for Medical and Health Kondru Muralimohan urged the Union government to announce partial relaxation on the lockdown instead of extending it indefinitely to control the COVID-19 pandemic. He said that thousands of people would be starved to death due to lack of food and opportunity to earn their livelihood with further extension of the lockout. He said the restriction on movement of people could be confined to red zones and free movement should be allowed in other places. “Indian economy would collapse and more than 20 crore people would lose their jobs within no time as COVID-19 and lockdown had cascading affect on every sector,” said Mr. Muralimohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kondru-seeks-partial-lockdown-relaxation/article31314485.ece
11 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU seeks financial package for unorganised workers||CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao urged the State government to announce a special financial package to ensure at least Rs. 10,000 to each worker’s family in the State as many managements had failed to pay wages due to the lockdown imposed to control the spread of coronavirus. He said that lives of 50,000 workers of unorganised sector were miserable with the non-payment of salaries and wages for work done in March. Along with CITU district president P. Tejeswara Rao, he distributed essential commodities and masks to workers and their family members in Pydibhimavaram of Srikakulam district. Mr. Govinda Rao urged the managements of various factories not to remove anyone from services. He has also sought the Labour Department’s involvement to protect the interests of the workers in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-seeks-financial-package-for-unorganised-workers/article31314483.ece
11 April 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paddy procurement begins at 271 centres in East Godavari||The paddy procurement has commenced through 271 centres in the East Godavari district on Friday. Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha inspected the harvesting activity and procurement exercise on Friday, assuring all means of logistic and transportation facilities. Mr. Lakshmisha has said, “The estimated total paddy production in the rabi season in the district is 13.78 lakh metric tonnes. The total extent of cultivated area under paddy is above 1.65 lakh hectares. The harvesting has just begun in the first week of April.” ‘Register crop details’ The farmers have been told to register their crop details with the Village Secretariat for the procurement by the government by offering the Minimum Support Price Rs. 1,835 per quintal for Grade A and Rs. 1,815 for normal grade. “The district authorities have geared up for the paddy procurement. The lorry transportation charges are being monitored. A special check-post has also been set up at Chintooru to prevent the entry of paddy from other States,” said Mr. Lakshmisha. The district authorities are ensuring the availability of crop harvesting machines in the wake of the non-availability of sufficient agriculture workers for the activity in the wake of lockdown observed. The grievances pertaining to paddy procurement can be registered by dialling 1902.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paddy-procurement-begins-at-271-centres-in-east-godavari/article31314477.ece
11 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tougher norms likely for public transportation||Restricting the number of persons travelling in cars, buses, and on bikes and increasing the working hours, five-day week, and odd-even system to restrict vehicles have been spelled out in a protocol chalked out for public transportation post-lockdown in the State. The protocol also calls for developing an app or a software to track the movement of inter-State rail and bus commuters. Motorcycle travel will be limited to one, private cars for three, and one per seat in other vehicles. Family members will be allowed in cars and motorcyclists will have to use full-face helmet with visor. No standing travel will be allowed in public transport modes, which will be applicable to educational institution buses too. Commuters will have to enter the bus through the rear door and leave via the front door. Those having cold, fever, and symptoms of other diseases will not be allowed to travel in public transport modes. Hand-washing facility There will be facilities to wash hands at bus stops. Kiosks to make available masks and provide safety tips to travellers will be there. Social distancing will have to be ensured in public places and identity card/passes issued by the police will be needed for travelling. All vehicles used for public transport, including taxies and autorickshaws, will have to be sanitised. Drivers falling under the high risk category will have to use face masks. The protocol, worked out by the Motor Vehicles Department, awaiting approval, has suggested ban on linen and food in inter-State buses. Window curtains will have to be removed and air-conditioner switched off. Face masks and sanitiser will have to be made available free of cost.  Commuters to be briefed Commuters using public transport will be briefed of the norms as done in flights. Those flouting the rules will be fined and termination of the journey will also be considered. Schoolchildren should wear mask while stepping out of homes and carry sanitiser in the school bag. The bus crew will provide sanitiser at doorstep before allowing them in. Local bodies will have to take the lead in sanitising goods vehicles at the 19 check-posts of the MVD and issue guidelines to drivers. Autorickshaws, taxies, and public transport vehicles will have to display the norms for safe travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tougher-norms-likely-for-public-transportation/article31313954.ece
11 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram/HYDERABAD/Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Southern States focus on containment||On a day when a team of medical experts recommended that Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami extend the lockdown by 14 days beyond April 14, the State recorded a further 77 cases of COVID-19. Briefing reporters after a meeting with the Chief Minister, Dr. Prabhdeep Kaur of ICMR National Institute of Epidemiology said: “Despite all the efforts taken by the government, cases have been increasing... All the experts feel that it will be good if the lockdown is extended for 14 more days. This is the recommendation of the committee.” The Cabinet, which is meeting on Saturday, may take a call on the issue. On Friday, Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases surged to 911, with the addition of 77 cases. A woman, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment at Thoothukudi, died, taking the total number of deaths to nine.  Seven more in Kerala Seven more cases were reported in Kerala on Friday, taking the State total to 364. Three were from Kasaragod, and two cases each were from Kannur and Malappuram. The Malappuram cases are linked to the Nizammuddin meet, while the rest are contacts of imported cases. On Friday, 27 persons under treatment tested negative. So far, 124 patients have tested negative and been discharged. These include eight foreign nationals touring Kerala. They were admitted to Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram Medical College hospitals. There are 238 people under treatment.  16 more Telangana cases The number of people testing positive for coronavirus in Telangana was less than 20 for the second consecutive day on Friday, giving the State government a breather. The State registered 16 cases on Friday, against 18 on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases to 430. Also, 45 people were discharged and the death toll stood unchanged at 12. Nizamabad, with 49 cases including two reported on Friday, stood next to Hyderabad (179) followed by Rangareddy (27), Warangal Urban (23) and Medchal (21). The case load was up in Nirmal district, with 15 and Jogulamba Gadwal district (19) while 10 cases each were reported from Mahbubnagar and Kamareddy districts. Public Health and Family Welfare Director, G. Srinivas Rao, said there was no evidence of community transmission in the State and the government had identified 101 hotspots. Containment activity was taken up in all districts with cases.  16 more in A.P. The addition of 16 new COVID-19 positive cases raised Andhra Pradesh’s total to 381. Fresh cases emerged after day-long testing on Friday. Guntur reported seven cases, East Godavari five and Kurnool and Prakasam districts, two each. Ten individuals were discharged after recovery, and six succumbed to the virus (two each in Anantapur and Krishna and one each in Guntur and Kurnool districts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/southern-states-focus-on-containment/article31313959.ece
11 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Illegal sand dump found near Tirupati||A whopping 13,050 tonnes of sand illegally dumped at Padipeta village under Tiruchanur police limits was seized by the Tirupati Urban police, accompanied by the revenue and the mining officials on Friday. Even as the lockdown is in place, the accused identified as Narayana Reddy, Tirumalayya, Suresh and Mallikarjun were allegedly resorting to illegal sand mining and transportation. When the issue came to the notice of Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy, he verified it from the Village Revenue Officer T. Ramesh Babu and led a team comprising Deputy Superintendent of Police (Tirupati East division) T. Muralikrishna, Tiruchanur Circle Inspector T. Chiranjeevi Rao, Rural Tahsildar Kiran Kumar and Mines Officer D. Nagabhushana Reddy to the spot, where huge mounds of sand was stored. The value of the seized stock was estimated to be Rs. 80 lakh.  PD Act Mr. Ramesh Reddy issued a warning to the perpetrators that PD Act would be invoked, if need be, on the violators of sand rules and criminal cases would be filed against those transporting sand from the reaches without permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/illegal-sand-dump-found-near-tirupati/article31314491.ece
11 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati MLA plays role of sanitary worker||Even as sanitary workers are trying to sterilise the areas marked as ‘red zone’ and shifting garbage out of the city, local MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy joined them in the task on Friday. Mr. Reddy, dressed in khaki attire and a face mask, got down to shifting garbage by pulling trolleys loaded with trash bins at various localities in the city. He assisted workers in spraying disinfectants into the drains and on the roadside. “It is the time at least now to shun social differences and reach out to the frontline warriors to collectively stamp out the virus”, he said. He also moved swiftly to three or four localities across the constituency to help the sanitary workers tackle the increased workload. On the change in his attire, Mr. Reddy explained that his appearance in a white shirt would only distance the workers from him and hence the khaki. “The virus knows no difference between an MLA and a health worker. Everyone has to follow safety precautions and maintain hygiene,” he said. In the short gaps between helping the workers, the MLA donated groceries, vegetables, food packets, milk sachets to the shelterless and poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-mla-plays-role-of-sanitary-worker/article31314501.ece
11 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Help A.P. fishermen, Naidu urges Rupani||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, urging him to provide shelter, food, water, medical and other facilities to the A.P. fishermen stranded in that State. In a letter on Friday, Mr. Naidu informed Mr. Rupani that around 4,000 fishermen hailing from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts of Andhra Pradesh were stranded at Veraval in Gir Somanath district of Gujarat. “Their families, relatives and well-wishers are deeply worried about their safety and well-being. I request your government to provide them shelter, food, water, medical aid and other essential commodities till the lockdown is lifted,” Mr. Naidu said. Lauding the “innovative efforts” the Government of Gujarat had put in place to fight COVID-19, Mr. Naidu said, “In these tough times, please be assured that we all express our solidarity with you and the people of Gujarat.” In another letter, Mr. Naidu urged Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla to take appropriate steps to bring the stranded fishermen back to Andhra Pradesh, or provide them necessary facilities in Gujarat if the Centre opines that it was better to retain them in that State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/help-ap-fishermen-naidu-urges-rupani/article31314494.ece
11 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A vicious design to remove incumbent SEC’||With the State government reportedly issuing an ordinance on Friday reducing the tenure of the State Election Commissioner (SEC), TDP national president and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly N. Chandrababu Naidu wrote a letter to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, urging him to intervene to “uphold the rule of law and democratic values.” In the letter, Mr. Naidu alleged that the YSRCP government had amended Section 200 of the AP PR Act, 1994, with a “vicious design to remove the present SEC.” “Elections to the local bodies in the State have been postponed mid-way due to the threat posed by COVID-19. Thus, the election process is still under way. In such circumstances, where is the necessity to bring an amendment through the back-door (in the form of an ordinance) to change the term and eligibility of the SEC?” Mr. Naidu asked. The present SEC, N. Ramesh Kumar, had been appointed by the Governor on January 30, 2016, for a period of five years in exercise of the powers conferred under Article 243 (k) of the Constitution, read with Sub-Section (2) of Section 200 of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994, Mr. Naidu said. “In this backdrop, to make amendments to the term and eligibility is illegal. Further, to apply the amendment now when the SEC is in office is unethical and against law,” Mr. Naidu observed in his letter. “The amendment is applicable only after the present SEC’s term is completed,” he said, adding, “Therefore, we strongly urge your intervention to uphold the rule of law and democratic values. ‘Mockery of democracy’ Earlier, TDP Polit Bureau member and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, in a statement, urged the Governor not to give his assent to the ordinance as it was “unconstitutional.” “Except Parliament, none has the power to remove the SEC,” he said. The State government had no power to bring an ordinance on an issue that was not in its jurisdiction, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said, adding, “It will not stand in a court of law.” “Where is the scope for a free election in the State? The YSRCP government is making a mockery of democracy,” he observed. Cong. to move court The PCC condemned the reported removal Mr. Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner. In a statement here, its president S. Sailajanath said the Congress party would lodge a complaint with the Governor and challenge it in the court. Only Parliament had the power to remove the SEC, he said. It was an act of retribution as the government could not tolerate the postponement of the local body elections by the SEC, Mr Sailajanath said.  Amending the AP PR Act, 1994, to change the term and eligibility of the SEC is illegal. To apply it when the SEC is in office is unethical N. Chandrababu Naidu TDP national president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-vicious-design-to-remove-incumbent-sec/article31313956.ece
11 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials put massive paddy procurement plan in place||Officials of the Agriculture, Civil Supplies and Markfed have made arrangements to procure 32.71 lakh tonnes paddy harvested during the rabi season. In the wake of COVID-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown, the government is taking all measures to procure the stocks directly. Officials and police should allow labourers to taking part in harvesting, packing and transport activities but at the same time ensure they they wear masks and follow the social social distancing norm. Special Commissioner (Agriculture) H. Arun Kumar told The Hindu that to overcome the shortage of labour, the department has planned to arrange about 3,000 harvesting machines across the State. “According to reports, paddy was raised in about 8.04 lakh hectares and maize in 1.78 lakh hectares. About 47 % paddy harvesting has been completed as of April 7 and in the case of maize, it is 54.54 % ,” said Mr. Arun Kumar. Civil Supplies Corporation Managing Director A. Surya Kumari said the government is planning to procure 32.71 lakh tonnes paddy by setting up 1,280 procurement centres across the State. “We have alerted all 11,000 Village Agriculture Assistants. We are expecting 14.50 lakh tonnes of maize and 4.84 lakh tonnes of bengal gram production. In inaccessible areas and small pockets, manual harvesting is being done,” Mr. Arun Kumar said. The government has fixed Rs. 1, 900 as rent for harvesting machine per hour. It would be Rs. 2,000 per hour in some districts depending on the demand. If any owner demands more than the prescribed rent, farmers may dial ‘1902’, the Special Commissioner said. Two categories The produce has been divided into two categories — perishable and non-perishable. All precautions would be taken while collecting and transporting the produce. It would be stored properly, Mr. Arun Kumar said. “We urge the farmers not to panic and sell produce below MSP. Severe action would taken against middlemen if they try to take advantage of the situation,” Mr. Arun Kumar warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-put-massive-paddy-procurement-plan-in-place/article31313994.ece
11 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood banks run dry hitting thalassemia patients||Blood banks are running dry for want of donors. The lockdown necessitated by the outbreak of COVID-19 has stopped blood donation camps and flow of free blood from donors to these banks. The worst hit by the hindrance in the cycle is people suffering from thalassemia. The inherited blood disorder leaves less oxygen-carrying protein (haemoglobin) and fewer red blood cells in the body and the patients need regular blood transfusions. Eighteen-year-old Zaiba has inherited this disorder and needs blood transfusion every fortnight. This time, it took 25 days for her father to find blood. “The empanelled blood banks that regularly supply blood to the patients have no stocks and I had to shell out Rs. 1,700 from my pocket for it,” rues Zaiba’s father who works for a scrap dealer. “I am only hoping that the lockdown will end soon. Otherwise, with my meagre income, it will be very difficult to procure blood for my daughter,” he says with concern, and explains how Zaiba starts showing symptoms of dizziness, shortness of breath and fast heart beat if there is a delay in blood transfusion. Drugs not available Vivek is all of seven years and has inherited this ailment. In normal days, Vivek’s grandfather, Srinivasa Rao, a lorry driver from Pamidimukkala mandal near Vuyyuru, gets free supply of blood from the Nagarjuna Hospital. “This time, the hospital did not have fresh stocks of blood as there are no donors. My child needs blood transfusion by April 20. I can only pray for the lockdown to be lifted by then,” says Mr. Rao. With great difficulty, he could reach Vijayawada to buy medicines for the boy but the medical stores had no stocks of the medicine he was looking for, he says. The government medical facilities are very limited for regular treatment of this condition. A stem cell transplant is the only treatment that can cure thalassemia but only a small number of people are able to find a good donor match and have the risky procedure. Ray of hope Sarath Babu Voggu is one such fortunate person who could find a donor for his daughter who suffered this condition, in 2005. Subsequently, he established SAPTHA Foundation (Support and Awareness for People with Thalassemia) and a hospital called Thalassemia Daycare Transfusion Therapy Centre on Dornakal Road. The patients get their blood transfusion done at this centre. “The lockdown has wreaked havoc with thalassemia patients who are unable to undergo this process needed for their survival,” says Mr. Sarath Babu, informing that he is in talks with the District Medical and Health Officer for permission to allow him to engage a vehicle to pick up and drop the patients of thalassemia for blood transfusion during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blood-banks-run-dry-hitting-thalassemia-patients/article31313983.ece
11 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s vindictive: Pawan||JSP president Pawan Kalyan has alleged that by reportedly removing the SEC, the government has once again proved its “vindictive and cynical attitude.” The decisions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on key issues were always undemocratic, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said on Friday. Though the government had received strictures from the High Court on key issues, it was continuing with its adamant attitude, he added. “Is this the time for removal of the SEC? The government must channel all its energies to protecting people from COVID-19,” he said. People would have been exposed to risk had local body polls been held because of the spread of the disease, he said. “The JSP has been maintaining restraint and not politicising issues as the country is passing through a critical situation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-vindictive-pawan/article31314505.ece
11 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Permit farmers to use own transport, govt. urged||The Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) has demanded that the State government permit horticulture farmers to transport their produce to the market. PCC president S. Sailajanath, in a statement here on Friday, said that farmers were badly hit by the lockdown. There was no manpower to harvest the rabi crop and none to buy the kharif crop. Horticulture farmers were the worst hit because their produce was perishable with very short shelf life. The PCC chief said the best course for the government would be to purchase fruits and vegetables at the garden itself, otherwise it should permit farmers to use their own transport. The untimely rain had dampened even the produce in warehouses and all this would be damaged if the government did not act swiftly, the PCC chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/permit-farmers-to-use-own-transport-govt-urged/article31313989.ece
11 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lohani is APTDC honorary chairman||The government appointed Ashwani Lohani, former CMD of Air India, as honorary chairman of A.P. Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) with Cabinet rank for a period of one year, according to GO RT No. 668 issued by Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney on Thursday. The honorarium to Mr. Lohani, who was also ex-Chairman of Railway Board and former CMD of India Tourism Development Corporation, will be paid as per the policy of the APTDC, which will provide logistic support during his visit to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lohani-is-aptdc-honorary-chairman/article31313984.ece
11 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NABARD extends aid for study on joginis||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), Andhra Pradesh Regional Office, has provided a financial assistance for a study on ‘Joginis and women affected by trafficking in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh’ being conducted by the Administrative Staff College of India, Hyderabad. NABARD Chief General Manager S. Selvaraj, in a press release, said that the aim of the study was to assess the socio-economic impact of the customs of the joginis and to explore alternative livelihood for them. Another study on 'Strengthening the value chain of Wadi – tribal development projects in Andhra Pradesh' was also conducted by the ASCI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nabard-extends-aid-for-study-on-joginis/article31313985.ece
11 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway staff prepare sanitisers, masks||Employees of South Central Railway (SCR) electric loco shed (ELS) have prepared 1,600 litres of sanitisers and distributed it to various departments. The staff under the guidance of Senior Divisional Electrical Engineer (ELS) Dinesh Reddy, have prepared 8,000 face masks and supplied them to the staff deployed on COVID-19 duties, said Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas. Parcel trains The South Central Railway is operating both freight and parcel trains to ensure transportation of essential commodities and necessary items to all parts of the country. SCR has been running 32 parcel express trains including two doodh duronto specials. The trains include: daily parcel express trains between Kakinada Town and Secunderabad via., Rajahmundry, Nidadavolu, Bhimavaram Town, Gudivada, Vijayawada, Kazipet, Renigunta, Secunderabad and other stations, the railway officials said. Arogya Setu App “Officers of various wings in SCR are asked to track the health of the staff through Arogya Setu App. All the employees are requested to install the App,” Mr. Srinivas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railway-staff-prepare-sanitisers-masks/article31313995.ece
11 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||LT consumers to pay March bill amount in April||The Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) has agreed to the request made by the Discoms to issue the electricity bills in April provisionally, as per the bill generated in March (for February consumption) for all low tension (LT) consumers. In a statement on Friday, the APERC said the APSPDCL, APEPDCL and APCPDCL had requested that they were unable to deploy meter readers to take the readings as stipulated in the regulations due to the lockdown. APERC chairman Justice C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy held talks with the members of the Commission T. Rama Singh and P. Rajagopal Reddy and gave permission to issue the bill in April provisionally as per the bill generated in March, keeping the the extraordinary situation in view. The Commission made it clear that the acceptance is, however, subject to further orders .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lt-consumers-to-pay-march-bill-amount-in-april/article31314502.ece
11 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Donations pour in||My Home Industries Pvt. Limited MD J. Ranjith Rao handed over a cheque for Rs. 3 crore to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday to take up relief measures in view of COVID-19. Medicover Group of Hospitals chairman Anil Krishna gave Rs. 1 crore, while Rainbow Hospitals CMD K. Ramesh donated Rs. 1 crore to the CM’s Relief Fund. Navayuga Engineering Company Limited MD C. Sridhar donated Rs. 1 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/donations-pour-in/article31314503.ece
11 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Provide PPEs to sanitary staff’||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana requested Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to provide personal protection equipment (PPE) to all the sanitary workers who are combating the COVID-19. In a letter to the CM on Friday, Mr. Lakshminarayana said devoid of protection, the sanitary workers could be carriers of the coronavirus and might become victims themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/provide-ppes-to-sanitary-staff/article31313990.ece
11 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will ensure supply of commodities in containment zones, says Minister||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Friday said that those living in containment zones in the district will not face any inconvenience as there would be no disruption in supply of essential commodities and services. Mr. Kannababu, who is also the in-charge Minister of Visakhapatnam district, held a high-level review meeting on the COVID-19 situation at the VUDA Children’s Arena in the city, with Rajya Sabha MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, Lok Sabha MPs M.V.V. Satyanarayana and B.V. Satyavathi (Anakapalle), Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana and Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and Collector V. Vinay Chand in attendance. Addressing the media after the meeting, Mr. Kannababu said that there are seven containment zones in the district. There were 2.6 lakh families and a total population of seven lakh in these zones. Five emergency numbers have been displayed prominently within the respective zones to enable residents to contact in case of medical emergencies other than COVID-19 and for essential commodities. Those supplying essential commodities to those areas would be issued passes, he said. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that there were 1.47 crore cardholders in the district and ration was already supplied to 92% of them. The remaining cardholders would also be given ration in due course, he said. People from other States, who were stranded in the city, were accommodated at the shelters provided by the GVMC, which was also serving them food. Those who do not possess ration cards could go to the shelters. A few of them, who had reservations about going to the shelters, would be provided essential commodities through NGOs. A total of 4,800 such persons were identified in the district, he said. The industries in the city and district have contributed a total of Rs. 6.52 crore towards the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund, Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and the District Collector’s Relief Fund for undertaking COVID-19 relief works, he said. Replying to queries, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that the Central Government has issued clear guidelines for implementation of the lockdown in the containment zones. “If we allow free movement of people, the disease will spread to other areas,” he said. The Collector clarified that the idea of containment zones was to contain the virus in that particular area and not allow it to spread to other areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-ensure-supply-of-commodities-in-containment-zones-says-minister/article31314519.ece
11 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many from city book bus tickets for April 15||Even as uncertainty looms large over the lifting of lockdown on April 14, people in the city have started booking bus tickets for various destinations from April 15. According to sources, a majority of the seats in APSRTC services bound to Vijayawada, Rajamahendravaram, Guntur, Eluru and other places in the State and Hyderabad in Telangana have already been booked online for April 15. However, there has been no official confirmation that the lockdown will be lifted. A few days ago, the APSRTC made bus tickets available for online booking and people started booking the tickets. Among them, many are said to be those who work in other places or are stuck in the city due to the lockdown.  ‘Utter confusion’ However, some passenger say that their tickets booked for the journey dates after April 15 have been cancelled and they have got the refunds. “I came to my mother’s house in the city and have got stuck due to the lockdown. I booked tickets in bus, train and flight. However, the tickets have been cancelled and money refunded. I do not understand what this means. As the portals are opened for booking, I was under the impression that the lockdown would be lifted on April 14. But with the cancellation of tickets, the suspense continues,” says T. Swathi, a resident of Hyderabad. APSRTC responds APSRTC Regional Manager M.Y. Danam says that the bookings are open, but plying of buses depends on the lifting of lockdown. “We are waiting for the government’s decision on lockdown. If the lockdown is extended, the ticket money will be refunded to the passengers,” the Regional Manager adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-from-city-book-bus-tickets-for-april-15/article31314512.ece
11 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navy donates critical oxygen equipment||The Naval Dockyard handed over five Multi-feed Oxygen Manifold (MOM) units to the District Collector in Visakhapatnam. The units, developed by the personnel of the Naval Dockyard, will enable hospital staff to supply oxygen from one cylinder simultaneously to six patients, thereby improving critical care management for a larger number of COVID-19 patients by using limited resources. The entire setup was made operational by the manufacture of a ‘fine adjustment reducer’ and specific adapters of requisite dimensions for connecting the oxygen cylinder and the portable MOM. “The existing facilities are inadequate to cater to such large requirements. A need was therefore felt to design a suitable portable arrangement that could provide oxygen through masks to several needy patients using a single cylinder during emergencies which is the need of the hour,” said Rear Admiral Sreekumar Nair, Admiral Superintendent of the Naval Dockyard who handed over the equipment to the Collector. Trials conducted The preliminary trials of the entire assembly were conducted at the MI Room of the Naval Dockyard, which was followed by rapid trials at the Naval Hospital INHS Kalyani, where the portable MOM was successfully set up in half an hour. After successful trials, Naval Dockyard commenced the manufacture of portable MOM with two six-way radial headers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navy-donates-critical-oxygen-equipment/article31314514.ece
11 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Set up sanitisation cabins in industrial units: CITU leader||Sanitisation cabins need to be installed on a priority basis at major industries across the State where thousands of workers are working in close proximity to each other, CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao said. “Major industries like Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), HPCL and NTPC Simhadri are functioning despite the lockdown. Thousands of workers are employed at these industries. They have to inevitably work in close proximity at work spots or at staff canteens, which is why sanitisation cabins should be provided at the entrance of these industries as a precautionary measure to avoid a possible spread of COVID-19,” Mr. Narasinga Rao said, adding that district administrations should issue orders to the industry managements in this regard. Mr. Narasinga Rao alleged that ration was not being given to migrant workers employed at the industries in Visakhapatnam. Neither the State nor the Central governments were extending any relief to these migrant workers, he said. Full-body chambers Meanwhile, NTPC Simhadri installed full-body sanitization chambers on its premises. The chambers were made at NTPC Simhadri’s CHP Department and the mist was prepared at the chemistry department. The chambers, installed at the plant’s alternate gate and at the Deepanjalinagar Township gate, were inaugurated on Friday by Chief General Manager V. Sudarshan Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/set-up-sanitisation-cabins-in-industrial-units-citu-leader/article31314516.ece
11 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC drawing up contingency plan to manage its finances||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is drawing up a contingency plan to meet its financial commitments as it continues to provide essential services to citizens during the lockdown. The civic body is incurring expenditure on several essential services such as sanitation, water supply, street-lighting and sanitising measures which are being accorded top priority. Major outflows Among major outflows are the salaries of outsourced workers, electricity bills, petrol and diesel bills and expenses on sanitation vehicles. Salaries of workers alone total around Rs. 10 crore. Of the electricity bill of Rs. 6 crore, water supply pumping alone costs between Rs. 3.5 to Rs. 4.5 crore. Besides, the COVID-19 related expenditure on chemicals and other materials is expected to cost Rs. 2 crore. The GVMC needs another Rs. 4 crore for debt-servicing. Sources say that the monthly expenditure comes to around Rs. 40 to Rs. 45 crore. Payments under several important heads made to GVMC are channelled via the Comprehensive Financial Management System of the State Government. Funds crunch On an average, GVMC earns a revenue of around Rs. 50 crore a month, including payments made for building plan approvals, Building Penalisation Scheme, stamps and registration and other online payments, say sources. The civic body can continue to manage its resources if at least Rs. 20 crore of its share comes from the State Government, sources said. Businesses have come to a halt owing to the lockdown, and the revenue to come from the State is unlikely to materialise at least for the next three months, necessitating the drawing up of a financial contingency plan, sources said. Hence, the corporation is now heavily dependent upon the bulk and semi-bulk water charges of around Rs. 15 crore paid to it every month. Early bird rebate Besides, using the 5% early bird rebate on property tax if paid for the entire 2020-21 financial year, the corporation wants to mop up at least Rs. 10 crore to Rs. 15 crore, sources said. Economising on expenditure is also on the cards, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-drawing-up-contingency-plan-to-manage-its-finances/article31314520.ece
11 April 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||MSP will be paid to farmers, says Minister||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu has said the government is keen on ensuring that the farmers do not suffer losses as a result of the lockdown imposed following COVID-19 outbreak. “The farmers will be paid Minimum Support Price (MSP), and those having complaints can dial 1902 or 1907 for remedial action,” Mr. Kannababu said while addressing the media here along with YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Friday. Mr. Kannababu, who is also in-charge Minister for the district, admitted that there were certain problems in the procurement of bengal gram and pigeon pea. While the Centre wanted that the MSP be at 25%, we are seeking 50%. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy is pursuing the matter with the Union Government in this regard, the Minister added. Central assistance was sought for procurement of maize and corn. Measures were being taken to prevent middlemen from exploiting tribal farmers by procuring produce at cheap rates. The Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC) was being given special powers in this regard. He said there were 778 paddy purchase centres in the State. Referring to the crop damage in some districts due to recent rain, Mr. Kannababu said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, in a review meeting, sought a report on the extent of damages. He said that based on preliminary information, principal crops such as rice were destroyed in 13,548 hectares and horticulture crops such as banana in 1733.88 hectares. Referring to the problem of procurement of the produce, he said the government would bear the transportation cost of tomatoes, bananas and other crops to the markets||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/msp-will-be-paid-to-farmers-says-minister/article31314507.ece
11 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social outfits rise to the occasion||Botta Narsinga Rao Foundation, with the support of Reliance Foundation, provided provisions worth Rs. 2.5 lakh to 200 families affected by the COVID-19 lockdown at Kancharapalem on Friday. Deputy Collector, Civil Defence, K. Bhavani gave away the provisions in the presence of trust members Botta Eswaramma and G. Suryachandra Rao. The Association for Urban and Tribal Development, with the support of Kolkata-based Indian PAC Consulting Private Limited, is arranging meals for 10 days at Botta Narsinga Rao Nagar. On the first day on Friday, 600 packets of food were distributed in the presence of representatives of BNR Colony Association. Meanwhile, Collector V. Vinay Chand distributed masks, sanitisers and gloves to the staff of Panchayat Raj Department, Health Department and GVMC on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-outfits-rise-to-the-occasion/article31314521.ece
11 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Diesel Loco Shed builds sanitisation tunnel||The Diesel Loco Shed (DLS), Visakhapatnam, has developed a prototype of a ‘sanitisation tunnel’, as part of preventive measures to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The prototype was designed in-house by DLS for the first time in East Coast Railway (ECoR). The fabrication was also done with available in-house resources. The sanitisation tunnel is equipped with a sensor at the entry point, marked with a pedestal, connected to two valves (control devices), which are activated through interception of sensor. The two valves, one filled with chemical water and other with compressed air, discharge or spray mixture of chemical mist for five seconds and stop automatically. It again gets activated when the next person stands on the pedestal after intercepting the sensor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/diesel-loco-shed-builds-sanitisation-tunnel/article31314513.ece
11 April 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay wages to workers, demands CITU||Workers in several departments have not been paid wages ranging from one to six months and are facing severe hardships during the lockdown, CITU district president R. Sankara Rao and general secretary G. Koteswara Rao said. Particularly affected are sanitation workers in some panchayats, Anganwadi, ASHA and community health and midday meal workers and village organising assistants of the Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty, the CITU leaders said in a memorandum to Collector V. Vinay Chand. The claims of construction workers pending with the Welfare Board should be settled and immediate assistance of Rs. 10,000 should be given to them, the leaders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-wages-to-workers-demands-citu/article31314522.ece
11 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple serving food for 2,000 persons a day||At a time when a lot of charitable organisations, NGOs and Samaritans are coming forward to serve the needy during the lockdown, the Panchamukha Anjaneya Swamy temple in Vizianagaram is preparing food for around 2,000 people per day. With the suggestions from Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy, members of Vizianagaram Chamber of Commerce and others, the temple authorities have agreed to prepare the food which is distributed not only to the destitute, orphans and the other needy people, but also to the frontline workers such as on-duty police personnel, hospital staff and employees of Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation. The temple authorities use the donations ranging between Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 1.5 lakh for the purpose, and use around 80 kg of rice and 100 kg of vegetables to prepare food. According to temple secretary Pentapati Kamaraju, food is being suplied from the temple kitchen in the night too. Sivva Jagan, a representative of the temple administration, said volunteers were working relentlessly to supervise the distribution of food packets in a systematic manner. He hoped that more people would join the charitable activity as the lockdown might extend after April 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temple-serving-food-for-2000-persons-a-day/article31314487.ece
11 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Online classes mandatory for JNTU students’||JNTU Engineering College- Vizianagaram issued orders making online classes mandatory for all 1,700 students, according to the college principal G. Swami Naidu. He said that the all the faculty members were directed to utilise online platforms and relevant apps to make students to attend classes each and everyday. Dr. Swami Naidu said that the students were supposed to take the online tests and the results would be forwarded to JNTU Kakinada on the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-classes-mandatory-for-jntu-students/article31314486.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The hand that serves||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-hand-that-serves/article31314524.ece
11 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Homage at Indervelli to be a subdued affair||The homage to victims of the infamous Indervelli police firing on April 20, one of the most important annual events for Adivasis in these parts, will be a subdued affair this year thanks to the restrictions enforced by the COVID-19 threat. Adivasi elders have resolved so at a meeting with Utnoor division police chaired by DSP N. Uday Reddy on April 3 and at a meeting of Adivasi Hakkula Porata Samithi or Tudum Debba, their key organisation, chaired by its president Soyam Bapu Rao, who represents Adilabad in Lok Sabha, on April 9. The word is being spread in aboriginal habitations asking people not to assemble at the Indervelli martyrs memorial column on that day. Customary puja Only a handful of locals will pay the customary divve niruswal or lighting the lamp to pay homage and respect to the ethnic people who were killed in the firing on that fateful day in 1981. This will be a low-key affair for the first time since the government started permitting the Adivasis to assemble and pay homage at the martyrs column which was first built in 1983, was demolished two years later, and constructed again in 1986. It was in 1995 that the late Sidam Shambhu, founder of Tudum Debba, began the trend of performing customary puja at the martyrs column which continued as a simple ceremony until 2004 when Mr. Bapu Rao won as MLA from Boath (ST) constituency. Big event In 2005, the present MP had the then government permitting the homage as a much bigger event. About 150 to 200 Adivasis used to attend the ceremonies which included customary goat sacrifice followed by feasting. As the Indervelli police firing has its roots in the naxalite movement in this area, the police had always been alert to the involvement of the extremists in the April 20 event at Indervelli mandal headquarters village which is located midway between Gudihatnoor on the NH 44 and Utnoor, the headquarters of all tribal activity. Police curbs Every year since the divve niruswal ceremony began to be held at the martyrs column, police used to impose prohibitory orders along the road between Gudihatnoor and Utnoor a couple of days ahead of the event. The weakening of extremist movement in 2004 helped the government ease restrictions and allow more number of aboriginal people to take part in the homage ceremonies. The police, however, never relaxed its vigil so far as Maoist involvement is considered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homage-at-indervelli-to-be-a-subdued-affair/article31314335.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||People urged to cooperate in effectively enforcing lockdown||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has sought people’s cooperation with same spirit in enforcing the ongoing lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) in the State. The Chief Minister’s remarks, made during a meeting with senior officials to review the measures taken to check the spread of the virus and impact of lockdown, assume significance as Mr. Rao has been among the first to advocate extension of the lockdown by at least two weeks to completely check the virus impact. The remarks come ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video-conference with chief ministers scheduled on Saturday. The Chief Minister during a recent press conference appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the lockdown as it is the only way the country could escape from the ill-effects of the pandemic that is fast gripping different parts of the country. The government initiated several measures, including providing effective treatment to people tested positive to COVID-19, besides taking measures to tracking and tracing the contacts of the affected people. He instructed the officials concerned to ensure that there was no shortage of supply of essential commodities to the people while steps should be taken to ensure that harvesting of paddy and its procurement was not impacted by the lockdown. At the same time, steps should be taken to enforce the lockdown without giving scope for people to come out. ‘Not alarming’ Mr. Rao said the spread of the pandemic was not alarming in the country and the State as compared with other countries and the people should realise the fact and cooperate with the government in effectively enforcing the lockdown. The government on its part should take steps to ensure that there was no interruption in the supply of essentials like vegetables, milk and others to the people maintaining the social distancing norms at the outlets. He wanted the people’s cooperation in ensuring supply of rice free-of-cost to them and they should come to the fair price shops at the specific time slot allotted to them. The government had initiated the process for depositing Rs. 1,500 each in the accounts of cardholders and crediting of the amount started on Friday.  Procurement centres Officials concerned should take steps to ensure that procurement centres were set up in all the villages and steps should be taken to ensure that paddy was procured from all the farmers. Farmers on their part should come to the procurement centres at the time allotted to them. The meeting discussed about the issues that should be raised during the video-conference with the Prime Minister on Saturday as well as the issues that should figure in the meeting of the State Cabinet scheduled after the Prime Minister’s video-conference. Officials informed the Chief Minister that 16 new corona positive cases were reported from across the State on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/people-urged-to-cooperate-in-effectively-enforcing-lockdown/article31314330.ece
11 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Another shield by DRDO against COVID||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which has been making several products such as personal protective suits and sanitisers, has come out with yet another product against COVID-19 called ‘Enclosure for Intubation Procedure - Aerosol Containment Box’ on Friday. Its premier labs — Research Centre Imarat (RCI) in Hyderabad and Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory in Chandigarh — have designed the product using Acrylic and Perspex materials, respectively. It consists of a transparent cube which covers patient’s head up to the chest and acts as a safety barrier against transmitting droplets from patients to the healthcare workers while giving treatment. The two circular ports allow the health worker’s hands to pass and perform the airway procedures. The acrylic/perspex material used here is 50% lighter thermoplastic compared to glass making it easy to handle. The enclosure for aerosol containment is useful while taking samples from a suspected patient, during intubation, observation or during treatment to completely avoid droplets and aerosols emanating from them due to cough and sneeze, said an official spokesman. Two sizes Two sizes of these Aerosol Containment Boxes have been designed and developed by DRDO for use by adult and child patients. The use of the enclosure could safeguard against spread of viral contamination of COVID-19 to reach on gown, gloves, face mask, eye shield, shoes and also on the floor of the hospitals effectively. RCI Hyderabad has manufactured the prototype units at the local industry partners here and a demonstration has also been carried out by a team of doctors at ESI Medical College, Erragadda, upon which the design has been validated and accepted. Similarly, the design of TBRL has been tested and qualified at PGIMER, Chandigarh. Required quantities of this latest innovation from the DRDO labs were being produced both in Hyderabad and Chandigarh, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/another-shield-by-drdo-against-covid/article31314297.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Good Friday service live streamed||The Good Friday service across Telangana on Friday to recall the crucifixion of Jesus Christ live streamed through social media platforms and religious television channels had special prayers for COVID-19 patients, healthcare professionals in the frontline and Union and State government employees working overtime during the lockdown. Special prayers Instructions were passed on to all the churches that special prayers be held for COVID-19 patients. Expressing serious concern at the pandemic ravaging the world, preachers made passionate prayers to heal the sick and give the much-needed strength to healthcare professionals to tackle the spread of the virus. Church of South India, Diocese of Medak Bishop, A.C. Solomon Raj told The Hindu that special prayers were offered in all the churches where the service was held on Friday without the congregation as per the directions of the government to suspend religious services. “Every day at 5 a.m., all pastors working in 112 pastorates of the Diocese come together to specifically pray for the COVID-19 patients so that the world be healed of coronavirus,” the Bishop said. Online service Hundreds of Christians across Telangana were glued to their television sets, smartphones and laptops, as the most important Good Prayer service was beamed live through Facebook and YouTube and religious channels. With the Sunday mass also going live, Catholic and Protestants’ churches besides independent ones decided to webcast the Good Friday service. Accordingly, the CSI Wesley Church and SPG St. Thomas Telugu Church at Secunderabad live streamed the service through Youtube and Facebook which was viewed by 5600 persons while the CSI Wesley Church at Musheerabad had as many as 7,854 views. Seven last words The three-hour service beamed live by all churches began at 12 noon with the preachers recalling the seven last words attributed to Jesus Christ during his crucifixion. Over 160-year old CSI All Saints Church at Trimulgherry had pre-recorded Good Friday meditation service, which was available on social media platforms from noon, according to Fredrick Michael, Steward of the Church. Archbishop of Hyderabad Thumma Bala participated in the Good Friday service at St. Mary’s Basilica at Secunderabad, which was live streamed by CatholicHUBTV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/good-friday-service-live-streamed/article31314283.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Resistance to quarantine not a new phenomenon||As the COVID-19 pandemic sweeps the globe, killing tens of thousands, India is facing a centuries-old problem. A problem where suspected patients and carriers of the disease hide or are concealed by family members and society. In many parts of the country, health workers and doctors were chased away, attacked, abused and heckled when they tried to inquire about people suspected of being infected with the killer virus. “The resistance to quarantine and isolation is nothing new. People see it as a stigma and resist it. That’s human psychology. The patients and their families see it as an unwelcome branding,” says Johnsey Thomas, a psychologist, explaining the rationale of people’s behaviour. Though the link between patients with the disease infecting others is clearly established, there is great resistance to getting tested or going into self-quarantine. “I think it is due to the fear factor where people are not using logical reasoning. Officials are reaching out to patients and suspected carriers for treatment but the reactions have been wholly illogical,” says Afshan Jabeen, a clinical psychologist. “It is a paradox. People know that they will be saved by the doctors and hospitals but they resort to this irrational behaviour. One explanation is that the information about the disease is a grey area. So many theories are floating about online and that might be triggering the state of distress,” says Ms. Jabeen. “When police officials came to enquire about a suspected patient in the neighbourhood, there was curiosity but no fear. But things have changed. Earlier, children would play outside that house. Not any more. Even when people are out for grocery shopping they walk on the other side of the road near that house,” says a resident of Anandbagh Colony, where a person was taken for testing as part of contact-tracing. The person tested negative. “The removal of the sick and segregation of the contacts has led to the concealment of cases because people do not like the idea of being removed from their houses and from their friends and relatives. The contacts also do not like to leave their houses to be taken to camp, nor do they like the disinfection of their houses. This has led to concealment of cases,” said D.A. Choksi, Chief Plague Officer in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/resistance-to-quarantine-not-a-new-phenomenon/article31314289.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, artisans from Bihar in dire straits||First, it was daily wage earners from other States who found themselves in dire straits after the lockdown was announced. Now, 18 days into the lockdown, migrant artisans – those who execute intricate designs on wedding attire – too are contemplating going back. Twnety-six-year-old Mohammed Saddam arrived in the city from Begusarai in Bihar five years ago. He specialises in zardozi work and was also involved in making masnads, cushions on which the bride and groom usually sit during the nikah. Orders were coming, but with the lockdown, work has dried up as city-based designers and boutiques have stopped commissioning work. “I live in Murad Nagar with four of my artisans who are also Biharis. I have a three-year-old son and wife who stay in the same house. Before the curfew, I used to receive orders from seven or eight designers. Now, for more than 20 days, there is no order. I am really worried. I am afraid that I will have to go back to Begusarai, but I don’t think police will allow me to go back,” he says. The range of order usually varies between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 5,000, he says. “I then have to pay my four workers and then pay Rs. 5,000 rent, which the landlord wants to increase. There is little margin,” he says. Saddam is one of several hundred Bihari artisans and skilled workers who have made Hyderabad their home. The case is similar with Sanju who hails from Kolkata. An expert in kaamdani work, he too narrates a similar story. “I live near Habeeb Nagar. My father is a painter. But now he is getting old and gets tired easily. I have to send money back home. Because of corona, neither he, nor I can work. I hope the government will help us to go back,” he says. Sohail, also from Bihar, takes machine-embroidery orders and has been involved in the business for several years. However, he left for his hometown three days before the lockdown and could not return to his place of work in Hyderabad. “How can I feed my family when there is no work? I had to request, through the phone, one of the designers to transfer some money for ration ,” he said in a telephonic conversation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/now-artisans-from-bihar-in-dire-straits/article31314308.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IIPH to offer support to govt. to battle coronavirus||The TS Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare has drafted the Indian Institute of Public Health in Hyderabad (IIPH) to provide support in implementing the containment plan of COVID-19, even as it has stepped up efforts to strengthen surveillance and other control measures. A team of 42 students pursuing Masters in Public Health had volunteered to take active part in the programme with senior academic registrar Jayaram as the coordinator of field support activities in various districts. In 11 districts Currently, the faculty and students are working closely with District Medical and Health Officers (DMHOs) in 11 different districts. These include Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal, Suryapet, Bhupalapalli, Jogulamba Gadwal, Nagarakurnool, Karimnagar, Warangal Urban, Peddapally, Mancherial and Vikarabad. Fever survey The volunteer team is involved in fever survey, epidemiological mapping, assistance in data entry and analysis of epidemiological data being collected at the field, monitoring of community based sanitation and other tasks as assigned by the respective DMHOs. Some students are also part of the special task force at the collector’s office of Rangareddy district. Student teams participate in regular debriefing of DMHOs with District Collectors and the Chief Secretary on various programmes underway to tackle coronavirus. In addition to the field level support, a faculty team under the leadership of a professor, GVS Murthy, is providing technical assistance to neighbouring states of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, apart from Telangana, towards handling the COVD-19 pandemic. IIPH faculty members are also making citizens aware on various aspects associated with COVID-19 such as needs of the people with disability, social distancing, mental health concerns, community engagement, role of social media, and elderly care, among others, through various fora, said an official spokesman in a press release on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iiph-to-offer-support-to-govt-to-battle-coronavirus/article31314285.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mass production of masks||In view of the latest ‘MaskOn’ advisory by the State government, mask production by self help groups across the State may be scaled up. Government might consider taking a policy decision to distribute stitched cloth masks to general public at affordable prices, considering their scarcity in medical shops, officials say. As of now, cloth masks are being stitched by self help groups across the State, for distribution to frontline staff such as sanitation workers, garbage collectors and policemen. The work is being coordinated by the respective Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) upon instructions from the Municipal Administration and Urban Development department. As on Friday, the SHGs have kept a total of 3.95 lakh double-layered cloth masks ready for use mainly by sanitation workers. A total of 492 SHGs have been involved in their production. Twenty SHGs of Khammam district are far ahead in the production, by readying close to a lakh masks, while 27 SHGs from Karimnagar produced the next highest at over 35,000 masks. As per standing instructions from the Director of Municipal Administration N. Satyanarayana, the masks should be procured by the 139 municipalities and municipal corporations other than GHMC, at prices between Rs. 10 and Rs. 14. GHMC, through its Urban Community Development (UCD) wing, has undertaken to produce a total of 60,000 masks, for distribution among its sanitation workers and garbage collectors. While masks were purchased and distributed earlier to the sanitation workers, they were not conducive to their work in the hot climate, officials say. The new masks stitched with cotton cloth will be comfortable and heat/sweat absorbent. They will be distributed to over 20,000 sanitation workers, and 2,500 garbage collectors across the GHMC area. In view of the lockdown, GHMC has coordinated with cloth merchants to facilitate purchase of required material, for mass production. “Each sanitation worker will be given two masks, and two each will be given to the SAT (Swachh Auto Tipper) vehicle driver and helper,” an official explained. About 200 SHGs have been on the job since April 8, and able to stitch 20,000 masks up to Friday. Within two more days, the target of 60,000 masks will be achieved, officials said. Priced at Rs. 12 each, the masks are reusable after wash, and effective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mass-production-of-masks/article31314291.ece
11 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Enforcing lockdown, against odds||Policemen in Telangana seem to be jeopardising their careers by losing their temper during their face-off with troublesome citizens who defy the lockdown norm. At least four recent incidents occurred in Khammam, Wanaparthy and in Moula Ali here, exposing this vulnerability. An ACP rank officer in Khammam was attached to the DGP office here for assaulting a lady doctor, and Mudigonda SI Satish Kumar was attached to Armed Reserved Headquarters for thrashing a few gamblers outside their houses, which evoked criticism. While in Wanaparthy an on-duty constable got punished with suspension for assaulting a man, his counterpart in Malkajgiri received a show-cause notice for using filthy language against a woman and her son, who abused him. Similarly, there are many cases where doctors, mediamen and essential services delivery staff complained of police brutality and harassment ever since the lockdown was announced, but no action was taken against any cop. Policemen caught on camera beating people and finding themselves in viral videos are ending up with disciplinary action. However, the other side of the story, where people misbehave with policemen, often goes unreported. On April 1, Murali Krishna, a private employee on his bike, was stopped by police in Wanaparthy for violating the lockdown norm. When the police tried to seize his bike for having over 10 pending challans, Murali Krishna picked up an argument and attacked constable Ashok Kumar, which provoked the latter to overpower him and push him down. Ashok was placed under suspension for his ‘unruly’ act, while a case under relevant sections of IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act was registered against Murali Krishna. Similarly, in Moula Ali the next day, a woman and her son abused and assaulted traffic police personnel for taking a photograph for their traffic violation. They were riding triple on a bike. When Yousuf Khan and his mother attacked cops with lathi, a constable Damodar Reddy used filthy language to stop her. While the mother-son duo were arrested, a show-cause notice was issued to Mr. Reddy. “In these testing times, we should not lose temper. Our job is to enforce the law, not take it into our hands and behave like goons. In both cases the officers could have put them behind bars, instead of street brawl,” a senior police officer said. He said that such behaviour by police would send a wrong message. “In four cases, action was taken against the police officers and in two of the cases — Moula Ali and Wanaparthy — against the accused.” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/enforcing-lockdown-against-odds/article31314306.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Government directed not to inundate two villages||Some villagers of Bahilampur and Mamidyala in Siddipet district got a relief with Telangana High Court instructing the government not to release water resulting in inundation of their localities under Kondapochamma Reservoir. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T. Amarnath Goud, passing the interim direction, said the order would continue till Monday when it resumes hearing on the matter. A notice was issued to Advocate General B.S. Prasad, after hearing a batch of writ petitions filed by residents of the two villages coming under Mulugu mandal of Siddipet district. Kondapochamma Reservoir, being constructed as part of Kaleshwaram project, is nearing completion. While majority of the people, who were losing their houses and lands under the project due to submergence, accepted the compensation provided by the government. However, some residents of the two villagers moved the HC alleging that they did not secure the compensation as per the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act-2013. They requested the court to ensure that the government did not take possession of their houses and lands till the negotiation process as per the 2013 Act was complied with by the authorities. While hearing of the petitions was in progress, the petitioners filed an interim application seeking a direction to government not to take any coercive steps resulting in inundation and submergence of their houses and lands in the two villages. When the matter came up for hearing, the AG received the notice. He sought time to reply to the notice. The bench instructed him to file the reply on or before Sunday and said all the pleas on the matter would be heard on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/government-directed-not-to-inundate-two-villages/article31314332.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Discharged DSP tests positive again||The COVID positive Bhadradri Kothagudem Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), who was admitted at the Government General Chest Hospital, was discharged before his second test results came out. The patient, who went back home in the district on Thursday, was called back after the results that were positive for coronavirus were received. He was under home quarantine and re-admitted at the hospital on Friday morning. Health officials have launched an enquiry into the lapse to know why he was discharged before receiving the test results. The DSP tested positive for coronavirus on March 24. He was isolated at Chest Hospital. As per guidelines, tests are conducted to check if patients have recovered. They are discharged only if they test negative twice consecutively. In case of the DSP, he was tested negative after admission at the hospital, but the second consecutive test results of samples collected from him were awaited. “He was discharged on Thursday afternoon. After receiving the results in the evening, he was called back. The patient under home quarantine was readmitted on Friday morning. An inquiry into the issue is being conducted,” officials said. The mode of transport used to take him home, and whether anyone came in contact with him were being rechecked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/discharged-dsp-tests-positive-again/article31314280.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Teams for protocol adherence in containment areas||Teams will be constituted at zonal level, with zonal commissioner as nodal officer to monitor and ensure adherence to protocol in the containment clusters identified as hotspots of COVID-19. The teams, with members drawn from officials of GHMC, Police department, Health, Revenue and other line departments, would ensure sanitation of the area, disinfectant spraying, supply of essential items, and regular visit of medical teams. Control room A round-the-clock control room would be set up at the zonal commissioner’s office to monitor the situation. Medical teams would visit each home on a daily basis as part of fever surveillance, and identify persons with COVID-19 symptoms, if any. A total of 12 containment clusters with a high number of COVID-19 cases were identified across the city. The clusters are Ramgopalpet, Shaikpet, Red Hills, Malakpet-Santhosh Nagar, Chandrayangutta, Alwal, Moosapet, Kukatpally, Qutbullahpur-Gajularamaram, Mayuri Nagar, Yusufguda and Chandanagar, a note from GHMC had said. All entry and exit points of these clusters were heavily barricaded, and people in these areas were advised not to venture outside. No outsider would be allowed to step into these areas. Mobile vans are being organised to supply essential commodities to affected areas, and officials would be a call away for residents in case of emergency, officials said. A round-the-clock control room would be set up at the zonal commissioners’ offices to monitor the situation.  Review meet Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration, Arvind Kumar on Thursday reviewed the arrangements as part of the COVID-19 containment action plan. He asked the officials to ensure proper protocol in areas where positive cases were identified. He also directed for pamphlets to be printed in Urdu and Telugu and distributed in containment clusters, with information on the disease control protocol and phone numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teams-for-protocol-adherence-in-containment-areas/article31314304.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State plans to deploy 14,850 machines to harvest paddy||With labour shortage staring rabi paddy harvesting season badly in the wake of the lockdown being implemented to contain the spread of coronavirus, the State government is planning to overcome related problems, particularly shortage of farmhands in harvesting the paddy cultivated on a record 15.77 lakh hectares this rabi season with the help of harvesters. Swinging into action to enumerate the availability of harvesters in the State following Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s directions on March 29, the Agriculture department has taken up listing number of harvesters available in the State. According to Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy, 14,095 harvesters are owned by persons and firms across the State. An additional 753 harvesters from Tamil Nadu have already been positioned in the State, mostly in Suryapet, Khammam , Kamareddy and a few other districts. The department has also estimated the paddy production at one crore tonnes this season and the Civil Supplies department is planning to procure the major crop by going to almost 8,500 villages. Officials stated that shortage of labourers had increased owing to the farmhands’ unwillingness to go to the field in the wake of coronavirus spread. The Agriculture department has also asked the harvester manufacturing companies to supply spares and arrange for express servicing facilities in the event of breakdown by setting up 24×7 call centres, company-wise. “Irrespective of the COVID-19-linked labourer shortage, the need for harvesters this season was felt from the beginning as paddy has been cultivated to an unprecedented extent, higher than in the kharif and rabi seasons together during the past, this rabi season. The demand for harvesters for crops such as maize, groundnut, bengalgram is also high this season,” a senior official involved in the exercise said. Meanwhile, the State government permitted the Civil Supplies Corporation to avail itself of an additional loan of Rs. 25,000 crore with the government guarantee for procurement of paddy produced in the State. The corporation has already been allowed to borrow Rs. 20,000 crore for the purpose. However, given a consideration that it would not be sufficient for the purpose, the government has allowed it to go for an additional Rs. 25,000 crore borrowing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-plans-to-deploy-14850-machines-to-harvest-paddy/article31314322.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown hits poultry farmers||It is a double whammy for the poultry industry as well as small farmers. First the sector was hit by rumours in social media linking consumption of chicken to coronavirus pandemic. Now when those misconceptions have been allayed to some extent after awareness campaigns were launched by the industry as well as government, the poultry farmers suffer another blow on account of lockdown. The poultry industry representatives and farmers have urged the State and Central governments to announce some relief and subsidies to the small poultry farmers who suffered huge losses and also ensure supplies of chicken and eggs to every nook and corner of country by easing the transport restrictions under lockdown and help improve immunity of people to fight COVID-19. In the red Though the market recovered in the last couple of weeks from about Rs. 40 a kg of live chicken in February to Rs. 80 a kg of live bird now, and eggs are priced at Rs. 5 each, poultry industry representatives say that the industry continues to be in the red across the country. The magnitude of loss suffered by the poultry farmers was so high in that one-and-a-half month that it will take a while for them to recoup the losses, said senior vice-president of Vetphage Pharmaceuticals Ramdas Kambale. The Union Minister of Animal Husbandry, Dairy and Fisheries admitted that the poultry industry is losing Rs. 1,500 crore to Rs. 2,000 crore daily. All the allied industries that supply equipment and feed to the poultry industry also reported drop in sales. Compound Livestock Feed Manufacturers Association (CLFMA) chairman S.V. Bhave said that the poultry demand and consumption is generally high in the period before and after Holi and farmers prepare accordingly raising more chickens than usual. However, due to the coronavirus crisis, the demand fell significantly and farmers had themselves removed the chicks. MD of Sneha Farms D. Ram Reddy, a member of Broilers Coordination Committee, says that now farmers themselves cut down the broiler chicken productionfrom 1.1crore per day across the country to about 30 lakhs to 40 lakhs per day in view of restricted movement of feed, and villages barricading themselves as part of lockdown. The egg production also being calibrated as there is not enough demand due to movement restrictions. About 60% to 70% eggs produced in Telugu States go to other States which is not possible now due to lockdown issues, he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-hits-poultry-farmers/article31314324.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Distribute stocks in FCI godowns among poor, demands Owaisi||All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi release excess stock stored in Food Corporation of India godowns to States for distribution to the poor. Mr Owaisi was speaking at the online public meeting on the eve of Shab-e-Baraat on Thursday. “There are 77 million tons with the FCI. Release this, Mr Prime Minister. For what day is this kept? It is for this day. With the rabi crop, the reserves will increase. Give it to all States,” he said as he described the lockdown as ‘unplanned’. He said that in case the lockdown is extended, it will be successful only if the poor are given financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 each. “Print currency if you have to. Exhaust this budget and come up with a fresh one,” he said. Mr Owaisi touched upon the several instances of disinformation targeting the Muslim community. He said that those indulging in spreading fake news are enemies of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/distribute-stocks-in-fci-godowns-among-poor-demands-owaisi/article31314339.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to take steps to support to industry: KTR||Telangana Industries Minister K.T.Rama Rao on Friday said the State government will take positive initiatives to strengthen the industry in the wake of COVID-19. The Minister said when a delegation from the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry met him and handed over a cheque for Rs. 42.3 lakhs towards the Chief Minister Relief Fund (CMRF), a release from FTCCI said. FTCCI president Karunendra S.Jasti, who led the delegation, said office bearers, managing committee members, past presidents, members and employees of FTCCI have contributed towards the CMRF to help fight coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-take-steps-to-support-to-industry-ktr/article31314326.ece
11 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||1st case in Vemulawada||Telangana heaved a sigh of relief with the number of COVID-19 cases showing a steep dip on Friday. Rajanna-Sircilla administration sounded high alert following the detection of the first COVID-19 positive case in Vemulawada. Four Delhi-returnees, who were on quarantine from March 31, had initially tested negative. However, tests conducted on Thursday found that one was COVID-positive sans symptoms. The authorities shifted him to Gandhi Hospital early on Friday. The district authorities sounded a high alert and opened a 24x7 control room at the municipal office. They opened four check-posts at all entry points into the district at Jillela, Peddamma stage, Venkatraopalli and Rudrangi. Nirmal authorities on Friday collected as many as 106 samples of blood of primary contacts of 15 persons who tested positive. The samples were sent to Hyderabad for tests. Another 800 primary and secondary contacts have been identified in erstwhile Nizamabad district. Medical personnel have so far collected samples of 225 persons. ASHA activists are conducting tests of those under home quarantine, twice a day. With as many as 57 positive cases recorded, highest in the State after Hyderabad, a high alert has been sounded and lockdown conditions are strictly being monitored in Nizamabad.  (With inputs from our correspondents in Karimnagar, Adilabad and Nizamabad).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1st-case-in-vemulawada/article31314292.ece
11 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Chiranjeevi lauds police personnel||Amidst compliments and praise from various sections of society, the Telangana police received kudos from film actor Chiranjeevi for their hard work during the COVID-19 outbreak. The actor took to Twitter to express appreciation for the tireless hard work done and sacrifices made by the police force. “Due to their effective work, lockdown is successful in Hyderabad, and as a result, the spread of coronavirus is controlled at a great extent,” Mr. Chiranjeevi said in a video message. He further appealed to people to cooperate with the police to curb the virus. Calling himself a police officer’s son, the 64-year-old actor saluted the police personnel. Meanwhile, actor Akkineni Naga Chaitanya in a video message posted on Twitter also thanked the police department for their service. Replying to this, Hyderabad East Zone DCP M Ramesh tweeted “Thankyou@chay_akkinenifor the inspiring video that you sent to appreciate and encourage all the#CoronaWarriors.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chiranjeevi-lauds-police-personnel/article31314300.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two special AI flights ‘evacuate’ US nationals||GMR’s Hyderabad International Airport handled two more special passenger charter flights of Air India to evacuate 168 US nationals in two separate flights on Friday. The first special flight of Air India , an airbus A320 aircraft, landed at 1.52 p.m. from Mumbai and departed with 70 US-bound passengers (69 adults and one infant) at 3.03 p.m. for Mumbai. The second special flight , an airbus A320 aircraft, landed at 3.12 p.m. from Mumbai and departed with 98 US-bound passengers (96 adults and two infants) at 4.24 p.m. for Mumbai. Both flights were purely domestic and operated from the main passenger terminal building and, as per the flight itinerary, the passengers were to be further connected with Delta Airlines from Mumbai to their final destination in the US, said an official spokesman. The US-bound passengers started to reach the airport between 12 noon and 2 p.m. from different parts of the twin cities in coordination with the US Consulate and the Telangana government. Special screening and safety measures were in place during the flight’s handling to protect against the COVID-19 threat, including thermal screening prior to terminal entry, mandatory social distancing enforced through special queuing arrangements at all passenger processing points. To meet this emergency requirement, a select group of personnel from GHIAL Terminal Operations, Airside Operations, Airport Operations & Control Center, Air Traffic Control, IT Team, Central Industrial Security Force and others were available to ensure safe and seamless departure of the passengers, he said. On Tuesday, 99 passengers had flown to the US from here via Mumbai by another special AI flight and before that on March 31, a group of 38 German citizens, a few of them sourced from Chennai too, had flown to Frankfurt also via Mumbai. Another special medical evacuation flight of IndiGo had dropped eight crew members here and departed for Chennai with five other crew members on March 28, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-special-ai-flights-evacuate-us-nationals/article31314299.ece
11 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Option to change JEE Main centre||The National Testing Agency is now allowing candidates to change their centre for JEE Main 2020. It can be done in the Online Application till April 14 on the website jeemain.nta.nic in. A statement posted on the website said NTA would make efforts to allot the city as per the choice given but it would depend on the availability of the city and the centres in that particular city. In case additional fee payment is required depending on the changes in the form, the final updates would be reflected after the payment. The candidates can also contact 8287471852, 8178359845, 9650173668, 9599676953, 8882356803 for clarification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/option-to-change-jee-main-centre/article31314303.ece
11 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vinod Kumar briefs Venkaiah||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu called up State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar on Friday to enquire the steps being taken by the State government to combat coronavirus. A press release said that Mr. Vinod Kumar explained in detail the steps taken to help the poor in this hour of crisis, apart from the corona situation in hospitals, and the various measures initiated by the government to keep the epidemic in control. Mr. Vinod Kumar brought to the notice of the Vice President how ration and food material is being supplied to poor people and those stranded in the State due to lockdown. He explained how shelters were opened and officials are reaching out to provide them with food, and also to people in the residential areas to supply ration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vinod-kumar-briefs-venkaiah/article31314333.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flipkart, Spencers Retail tie up||E-commerce firm Flipkart has announced a pilot project with retail chain store Spencers Retail to introduce hyper-local delivery of groceries and essentials in Hyderabad. The partnership will leverage synergies between the companies to help enable deliveries of essential products to consumers and thereby promote social distancing in the backdrop of COVID-19 outbreak. Under the project, consumers will be able to order groceries starting this month from Spencers store on Flipkart app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flipkart-spencers-retail-tie-up/article31314284.ece
11 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Food items supplied||Priests of several temples in the city affected by closure of temples during the lockdown were given rice and other essential commodities by former Uppal MLA and senior BJP leader NVSS Prabhakar, benefiting about 300 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/food-items-supplied/article31314293.ece
11 April 2020||KANDI,TELANGANA||Akshaya Patra does its bit||It’s an area spread on about seven acres on the outskirts of this mandal headquarters town. While every office premises is locked down, here people are busy running against time. They have to complete their work by the time vehicles start from the premises. In addition to employees hired by the organisation, there are more than 50 volunteers packing food items from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. every day. The Akshaya Patra Foundation, which used to supply mid-day meals to students, is now supplying food items to the needy as the lockdown has impacted many families across the State. Every day about 50 volunteers are coming here from neighbouring areas to pack grocery. Each grocery packet contains five kg rice, one kg red gram, two kg potato, 200 gms of tamarind, half litre oil and red chilly powder. It was estimated that this would be sufficient to meet the needs of a small family for two weeks. The activity was undertaken on April 5. Akshaya Patra is also supplying dinner for about 21,000 persons every day. The food is being cooked in the afternoon and as many as 12 vehicles start here between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. and reach the destination by evening. The distribution of food commences at 6 p.m. at the designated centres. Patancheru, Hafizpet, Gatchibowli, Masabtank, Rasoolpura, Goshamahal, Secunderabad and ECIL are among the places covered by the teams of Akshaya Patra. Food supply is also extended to about 500 persons at the government hospital located at the district headquarters. “One of the founders of Infosys N. R. Narayana Murthy donated Rs. 10 crore for this activity pan-India. Other philanthropists are also supporting the activity,” A. Vinay Kumar, in-charge of the operations, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/akshaya-patra-does-its-bit/article31314315.ece
11 April 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||e-services launched for residents of Nalgonda||Banking on technology to enhance public convenience as the mantra, Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy on Friday introduced a range of e-services for residents of Nalgonda. From the convenience of home, during the ongoing crisis, residents of Nalgonda municipality can now visit https://www.covid19.egovindia.in/nalgonda, place an order for groceries and be assured of free delivery within an hour. They can also volunteer to help. The latest development should further discourage people to come on to the roads for essential services, officials say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/e-services-launched-for-residents-of-nalgonda/article31314313.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Milk van driver booked for spitting on road||The hawkish eye of a police officer at Hayathnagar check post fell on an involuntary spitting by a youth landing him in trouble on Friday. It was only two days ago that the State government issued a notification stating that spitting in public places and institutions is banned with immediate effect, as part of efforts to check the spread of COVID-19. The hapless youth who landed in police net was Md. Abdul Muzed (24), a resident of Almagal Colony, Hayatnagar. By a strange coincidence, he is a milk van driver, a service categorised as essential and exempt from lockdown restrictions. Saroornagar Sub-inspector K Sanjeeva Reddy said that around 10.50 a.m. a team conducting vehicle checking near a hotel in Champapet, found Mr. Muzed spitting on the road and the act was photographed. "Immediately, the accused was taken into custody and a case was registered for violating the norm," he said. In a notification issued on Wednesday, Special Chief Secretary (Health) A Santhi Kumari said that there was utmost need to impose restrictions on unhealthy practices of people that might potentially lead to the spread of viruses like COVID-19 and several other infections. She said that spitting in public places posed a serious threat and can lead to spread of such infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/milk-van-driver-booked-for-spitting-on-road/article31314302.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Prayer time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prayer-time/article31314320.ece
11 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Life in containment zone tough for residents of rural areas, slums||Distribution of essential goods in containment zones of Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad that were sealed on Thursday improved on the second day but gaps remained, particularly in slums and rural areas. While residents of high-rise societies got security guards to collect vegetables and milk, residents of slums and rural areas kept waiting for the supplies to reach them. Abhay Kumar, a resident of a slum in Noida Sector 8, said he did not approach the police out of fear. “There is no milk to feed the children and the ration shop has not opened for some time. I came to know that the vegetable vendor had come in the morning but I am afraid of venturing out,” said Mr. Kumar, who is from Sitamarhi in Bihar and works in a factory in the area. Mohd. Salman, a vegetable vendor appointed by the district administration for Sectors 5, 8 and 62, said he sent two trucks to the slum areas in Sectors 5 and 8. ‘Fear of getting infected’ “There was hardly any sale as the police did not allow people to come out and my workers refused to go inside. They feared getting infected. In Sector 62 housing society, things went about smoothly,” he added. In the official list of sector magistrates appointed for Sectors 5 and 8, the phone numbers of two are not mentioned and the third could not be reached despite repeated attempts. The sector magistrates are still coming to terms with their new duties. One of them was unable to tell the number of COVID 19 patients in the village under his charge. “We are used to election duty,” he said, while requesting anonymity. “A person from a family that work as sweepers died in the area. I called up senior officials to arrange for an ambulance. We sent four people with the body,” he added, underlining his achievement of the day. Another one said that he was in enforcement during the day and is now being asked to serve as a magistrate in Greater Noida: “It will become a 24-hour job but we have to do it.” In Masuri, Ghaziabad, a resident of a containment zone said there was no door-to-door delivery. “The vegetables are at least Rs. 10 more than market price. If we still have to queue, what is the difference between lockdown and sealing?,” he said, adding: “This is a rural area where we can share with each other. For many, it is beneath their dignity to line up for ration. We will survive somehow.” Superintendent of Police (Rural) Neeraj Jadaun admitted that door-to-door delivery in an area like Masuri was not practically possible. “According to the 2011 census, it has a population of around 25,000. It must have doubled by now. What we have done is passed on numbers of vendors to the residents so if they need milk or vegetables they can call them. We usually get calls for animal fodder and permission to go into fields, which we consider on a case-by-case basis.”  There is no milk to feed the children and the ration shop has not opened for some time... I am afraid of venturing out Abhay Kumar Resident of a slum in Noida Sector 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/life-in-containment-zone-tough-for-residents-of-rural-areas-slums/article31314226.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. plans for pan-city containment||Two deaths and 183 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Friday, taking the toll to 14 and total cases to 903. This is the largest single-day jump in cases since April 2 when 141 cases were reported. Meanwhile, sources said that the Delhi government is working on a plan to enforce pan-city containment in case there is community spread of COVID-19. According to the Delhi government, the city is still seeing local infections. Thirty zones In the evening, the Delhi government added eight more areas to the list of containment zones, including Zakir Nagar, Nabi Karim and Chandni Mahal. There are now a total of 30 such zones in the Capital.     Chief Secretary Vijay Dev on Friday reviewed the situation at 22 containment zones, including stretches in Malviya Nagar, Nizamuddin, Dwarka, Jahangirpuri, Moti Bagh and Bengali Market.  “Multiple agencies are involved in the containment process and a standard operating procedure is being chalked out for several possibilities revolving around the epidemic and community spreading – both in parts of the city as well as all across the Capital,” said a government source. According to the government, Delhi Police has been directed to ensure containment in the areas through adequate barricading and deployment to prevent any “unauthorised movement of persons.” The police are also being assisted by Civil Defence volunteers. Surveillance of these containment zones will be carried out by a dedicated team with the help of the Surveillance App, which has been developed for real-time monitoring of residents. A dedicated helpline for grievance redressal is also being set up. Officials from the Department of Food and Supply have been mandated to ensure smooth supply of essential goods and services to the residents while the civic bodies have been asked to undertake cleaning and sanitisation of the entire area. The Chief District Medical Officer of the area has been directed to enforce medical regulations, check residents as per protocol, conduct medical tests, quarantine suspected people and carry out house-to-house surveillance of suspected cases, according to the office of the Chief Secretary. The containment plan will be reviewed based on experience and field inputs, officials from Mr. Dev’s office said. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has prohibited all gatherings and processions, especially religious ones, during festivals in April to curb outbreak of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-plans-for-pan-city-containment/article31314229.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||FIR against man for violating quarantine||The police have registered an FIR against a man who allegedly attended a religious gathering in the city last month and hid his travel history. The village in west Delhi where he stays has been declared a containment zone, officials said on Friday. The man, his wife and son have been hospitalised after testing positive for COVID-19, officials said, adding that the man was a former councillor while his wife is a councillor. During physical verification of home-quarantined people, a man who was supposed to keep ato his house was not present at his residence, said officials.  Went to religious event A senior police officer said that upon further questioning and analysing call details it was discovered that he had visited a religious event. Even during repeated medical and police enquiry, he withheld this fact and did not disclose it to the authorities, he added. The man jeopardised the health of his local community and family members. Due to this, the village has been declared a containment zone. A case under Sections 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code, and relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act has been registered at the Chhawla police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fir-against-man-for-violating-quarantine/article31314236.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||IYC turns headquarters into kitchen||The Indian Youth Congress (IYC) has turned it’s headquarters on Raisina Road into a community kitchen and 24x7 food bank to help the underprivileged as the country fights against COVID-19 pandemic. The IYC has installed an automatic chapati machine, which can make around 1,000 chapatis in under an hour, to provide food to people outside its headquarters as well as deliver it to different parts of the city. IYC pesident Srinivas B.V. said all volunteers were following social distancing guidelines while preparing and delivering the food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/iyc-turns-headquarters-into-kitchen/article31314237.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||Two foreigners held for supplying drugs||Two foreign nationals were arrested for allegedly supplying drugs in the city from Mohan Garden area, the police said on Friday. The accused — Kingsley Izunna Owuamanam (28) and Fabrice Dallo (35) — are both from Nigeria. A total 920 gram of Amphetamine worth Rs. 10 crore in international market has been recovered from their possession, they said. After a brief chase On Thursday, the police found the duo in a suspicious condition on a scooter in Mohan Garden. They were then asked to stop but started running, an officer said, adding that they were nabbed after a brief chase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-foreigners-held-for-supplying-drugs/article31314239.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 victims to get Waqf Board graveyard||The Delhi Waqf Board on Thursday designated one of its graveyards to bury those who die from COVID-19. The Board’s Chief Executive Officer, SM Ali, wrote to the Delhi government in this regard. According to the Board, the Jadeed Qurustaan graveyard near Millennium Park has been earmarked for burying COVID-19 patients which has been designated the “COVID-19 graveyard”. ‘A hard time’ “As you are aware that we are facing a hard time due to the spread of COVID 19 and its effects…one major problem faced by the public is to pay the last rights if COVID victims. It has been reported that due to the lack of information the general public is not allowing to burial the victim of Corona in graveyards of Delhi, which is unfortunate [sic],” he wrote. “In order to facilitate the last right of COVID victim the office of DWB is pleased to designate one of its graveyard as ‘COVID19 graveyard’ [SIC],” he ADDED. According to government sources, however, no such arrangements have been made for, or at, cremation grounds so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-victims-to-get-waqf-board-graveyard/article31314241.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. releases Rs. 3.6 crore for construction workers||The Delhi government has released assistance of Rs. 5,000 for 7,242 construction workers engaged in the city, who had applied for registration but their applications were pending with the Delhi Labour Welfare Board in the second phase, it said on Friday. In this regard, the government claimed to have released Rs. 3.6 crore. A week ago, it had given the assistance amount to 32,358 registered construction workers. The money is being transferred directly to the account of these labourers. Amid the surge in cases of the COVID-19 in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced several measures, including doubling pension under various pension schemes of the government, free ration for 71 lakh beneficiaries and free food in the night shelters across the city. ‘Double the pension’ The government has also decided to double the pension under the widow pension scheme for 2.5 lakh beneficiaries, the old-age pension scheme for 5 lakh beneficiaries and disability pension scheme for 1 lakh beneficiaries. The beneficiarieshave already started getting the amount that is their due, the government added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-releases-rs-36-crore-for-construction-workers/article31314238.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||In Old Delhi, policemen use drones with speakers to remind people to wear masks||Residents of Old Delhi on Thursday were witness to an rather unusual sight — a number of drones hovering in the sky. These unmanned aerial vehicles came with speakers reminding people to wear their masks before stepping out as it is mandatory now. It also told them to inform the police if they know of someone who could possibly by infected with COVID-19. Unlike other times where the police use the Public Address (PA) System fitted in their jeeps for such public messages, they attached the speakers to the drones. “The speaker from the PA system was attached to the drone and it was then released in the area. The official on the ground made announcements while controlling the drone. This is the first time for a drone to fly fitted with a PA system,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia, adding that he also had a feed of the video. Five drones from Zomato The DCP also said the five drones, which were being used in the area for surveillance and ensuring that lockdown is adhered to, were given by online food delivery firm Zomato, as a part of its Corporate Social Responsibility. “The response from people was overwhelming on Shab-e-baraat. No one stepped out of their houses. The drones will be used as and when required for surveillance. In congested areas, the drones can reach where eyes can’t,” the DCP said. In Shahdara district, DCP D.K. Gupta said three drones were used in five sealed areas, including Pratap Khand, Dilshad Garden and GTB Enclave, for surveillance and to ensure that residents don’t step out without a mask or roam around. “ Koi bhi shaks bina kisi zaroorat ke apne gharon se bahar na nikle kyunki ye poori colony seal kardi gai hai… agar koi bahar nazar aaya to uske khilaaf sakt se sakt karwahi ki jaegi [No one should step out of their house because the colony has been sealed. If anyone steps out, strict action will be taken],” the drones announced “In all these areas, 12 persons were found to have tested positive for COVID-19. Ten teams are working round the clock to ensure people follow sealing guidelines and 12 pickets have also been put up. In the district, FIRs have been registered against 14 people for roaming around and not wearing masks,” Mr. Gupta said. In other districts In other districts of Delhi as well, drones were used for surveillance and police said a total of 137 cases were registered against persons for not wearing masks in different districts and only one case was registered against a person in connection with Shab-e-baraat in South Delhi’s Mehrauli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/in-old-delhi-policemen-use-drones-with-speakers-to-remind-people-to-wear-masks/article31314232.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||HC tells govt. to release undertrial prisoners||The Delhi High Court has ordered the city government to release undertrial prisoners (UTPs), who are unable to furnish surety bond, on their furnishing a personal bond to decongest jails during COVID-19 lockdown. An HC Bench gave the order taking into consideration recommendation of a High Powered Committee (HPC). The D.G. (Prisons) had apprised the HPC that there are large number of UTPs who have been granted bail by different Sessions Courts and Courts of Magistrates, but they are still in jail, for want of sureties owing to the restriction in movement due to the lockdown. “In consonance with the recommendation of the HPC, we further clarify that this order should not be construed as changing any other condition if any imposed in the bail orders aforesaid passed by this Court or by any Court subordinate to it,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-tells-govt-to-release-undertrial-prisoners/article31314223.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA has tough time maintaining parks in city||With the nationwide lockdown having been imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) said it was having certain issues with maintenance of parks as only the gardeners and security staff living in close proximity to the parks were able to carry out the work. While access to all parks under the urban body have been closed in a bid to prevent people from gathering there, senior DDA officials said that the threat of plants dying continued as all were not being taken care of regularly. “The security guards and a couple of gardeners stay in close proximity to some of the parks. So they are the ones who are looking after the parks these days. No deployment as such has been done for this purpose,” said a senior DDA official. The official added that restrictions on transport was resulting in several of the staff not being able to reach the designated parks. “The gardeners, who were trying to reach the parks, have been stopped by policemen on several occasions. Then we arranged for letters which mentioned they are associated with essential services, under relevant clauses. We are also not forcing anyone to come. All payments will be made. The plants, however, will be at a risk of dying, if not maintained regularly,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dda-has-tough-time-maintaining-parks-in-city/article31314224.ece
11 April 2020||New DELHI,||Over face masks||Two persons, who were wanted in 12 criminal cases, including murder and armed robbery, have been arrested after an exchange of fire in Outer Delhi’s Narela on Thursday night, the police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Dr. A. Koan said the accused have been identified as Pankaj Dabas alias Chitta (25) and Ajeet alias Mota (30).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-face-masks/article31314230.ece
11 April 2020||Bhopal,||‘Not all soldiers carry weapons, some carry stethoscopes’||Just before entering the COVID-19 ward, Gaurav Jain double checks his personal protective equipment (PPE) — the mask is set, check. The gloves are in place, check. The face shield is intact, check. “Of course at some level we are scared too,” said Dr. Jain, a second-year junior resident of the Department of Respiratory Medicine at the Sri Aurobindo Medical College and Postgraduate Institute, Indore, one of the COVID-19 hospitals treating 125 patients. “Doctors may run out of equipment, but we are never going to run out of love and compassion we are receiving from everyone now.” When the stream of cases trickled in around March-end, the department’s doctors, including junior residents, were caught unawares. “We didn’t expect it. Many of us don’t have that kind of skill. We are learning every day,” said Dr. Jain, who belongs to Gwalior district. He felt insecure: “We didn’t know how to handle it. ” The junior most resident, Jyoti Jaiswal, 26, was thrilled to take on a greater responsibility of being at the frontline. “Seniors have my back. They’ve said if I have doubts during night duty, when there are no consultants, I could call them any time,” said Dr. Jaiswal. Eventually, as different departments of the hospital teamed up and divided responsibilities, it eased some pressure. Others can screen patients, start treatment based on the protocol and check oxygen levels. “Whereas we can guide treatment. Even miniscule contributions count. It's teamwork after all. Not all soldiers carry weapons, some carry stethoscope,” said Dr. Jain. “Dealing with COVID-19 has brought back the nobility of the profession which was clouded in professionalism. It has given back the profession its lost charm. We are getting to fulfil our dream of serving humanity,” said Ravi Dosi, 39, who heads the department, and is faced with an employee refusing to return to hospital fearing infection these days.  ‘Scared for our families’ Dr. Dosi admitted not a single day went by when he wasn’t scared, but not for himself. “We are more scared for our families. At times, you see patients pass away on ventilators in seconds and have nightmares of the same happening to you. How devastating it will be for our families. But we have to remain optimistic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/not-all-soldiers-carry-weapons-some-carry-stethoscopes/article31314222.ece
11 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to scale up testing||Odisha is all set to scale up COVID-19 testing with the Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), Bhubaneswar, readying an advanced testing facility to test about 1,000 samples a day. The machine – Cobas 6800 – is a high-throughput machine having automated platform to carry out faster and effective testing of samples to detect COVID-19, according to Sanghamitra Pati, Director of RMRC. “RMRC, Bhubaneswar, is one of the two centres in the country to have this testing equipment. With this, we can increase our testing capacity from current 300 to 1,000 samples per day by next week,” Dr. Pati said on Friday. With the Cobas 6800 set to be used for testing, the Odisha government has announced it will screen about two lakh people, including a large number of migrant labourers who would return to the State in future, said State Director of Medical Education and Training C.B.K. Mohanty.  Migrant workers “We are concerned about the migrant workers who are under tremendous mental stress to reach their homes. The government wants them to be with their families instead of sending them to quarantine facilities,” said Dr. Mohanty. “The faster screening will dispel mistrust in the mind of their fellow villagers. Those who will be found negative in testing will be allowed to enter their villages,” he added. The government was strictly following the guidelines specified by the Indian Council of Medical Research to enhance COVID-19 testing, clarified Sanjay Kumar Singh, Secretary, Information & Public Relations Department. At present, RMRC, Bhubaneswar, AIIMS Bhubaneswar and SCB Medical College & Hospital at Cuttack are carrying put COVID-190 tests. MKCG Medical College & Hospital, Berhampur. and Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar. have already been authorised to commence testing soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-to-scale-up-testing/article31314213.ece
11 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||COVID-19 toll rises to 11 in Punjab||One more COVID-19 patient died in Punjab on Friday, taking the tally to 11, according to a State government statement. The health department said one patient, hailing from Jalandhar, who tested positive, died on April 10. As many as 21 new cases were reported from the State, taking the total of COVID-19 positive cases to 151, it added. The government, meanwhile, has made it mandatory for the people to wear masks in public places to check the spread of the virus. Health Director Avneet Kaur said anyone coming out of their homes for official or other essential work would have to wear a cloth or triple-layer mask, violation of which would be punishable under the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-toll-rises-to-11-in-punjab/article31314217.ece
11 April 2020||CUTTACK,||HC order on vehicle use partially modified||In a partial modification of its Thursday’s order on the use of two-wheelers during the ongoing nationwide lockdown, the Orissa High Court on Friday made it clear that only “senior citizens” and “handicapped persons” are allowed to use their vehicles to go to marketplaces for the purchase of essential items like vegetables, fruits, grocery items and medicines. “The police authorities shall also give relaxation in mobility of doctors and health workers on production of their identification and certificates,” said a Division Bench of the High Court comprising acting Chief Justice Kumari Sanju Panda and Justice Biswanath Rath on Friday following an appeal made by the State government seeking a clarification on the High Court’s Thursday order. The High Court on Thursday had diluted the government’s blanket ban on use of vehicles, saying that the government should first come out with a composite plan on availability of essential commodities locally before imposing a ban on the use of vehicles. The court had also restrained the police from collecting fines from vehicle users until the third count of default.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-order-on-vehicle-use-partially-modified/article31314218.ece
11 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan announces financial assistance for ‘corona warriors’||In a major decision to help out “corona warriors”, the Congress government in Rajasthan on Friday announced a financial assistance of Rs. 50 lakh to the next of kin on the death of an employee performing the duties for controlling the COVID-19 pandemic. The Centre had earlier announced a Rs. 50 lakh insurance cover solely for the frontline health workers. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said the State government had expanded the purview of assistance to include regular and contractual employees as well as those getting honorarium for their work. The provision will cover all municipal and health workers, home guards, civil defence staff, Anganwadi centre workers and accredited social health activists. Mr. Gehlot said at a videoconferencing with trade and industry representatives here that the State government would take an “appropriate decision” on lifting the lockdown while taking into account the issue of saving people’s lives. He said traders were playing an important role in maintaining the supply chain of essential commodities. The State government also imposed a ban on spitting at public places after chewing of betel leaf, gutka and tobacco products to contain the spread of COVID-19. A notification of Medical & Health Department stated that this act would invite penal action under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical & Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said police officers performing duty in the curfew-bound areas, where COVID-19 positive cases had been detected, would be given measured doses of hydroxychloroquine for protection against infection. This had been recommended by the National Task Force for COVID-19, he said. The number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State soared to 520 on Friday with 57 more cases detected in eight districts as well the Army's facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-announces-financial-assistance-for-corona-warriors/article31314215.ece
11 April 2020||Kolkata,||Institutions offer emotional support to youngsters||Recognising that the lockdown due to COVID-19 could be taking an emotional toll on youngsters and children, institutions in West Bengal are coming up with helpline facilities so that the affected can reach out to experts. The University of Calcutta, West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights and Maheshtala College are some of the institutions that have roped in mental health professionals and counsellors to address problems of the young in the face of an unprecedented global crisis. “My students and their parents are extremely anxious about the future. They come from economically disadvantaged background and they are unable to comprehend what’s going on. One girl asked me the other day, ‘Ma’am, are we all going to die?’ Another girl asked me, ‘Will life ever be normal again for us?’ They are undergoing immense stress and it is important we talk to them,” said Dr. Rumpa Das, principal of Maheshtala College. The college has not only formed a core team to counsel students, parents and non-teaching staff but has also tied up with an organisation called Samabyathi Emotional Support Group to extend help to the needy. On Wednesday, the University of Calcutta also issued a notification that the departments of psychology and applied psychology would provide free counselling services to all students of the university. It listed the names and numbers of the professors who could be reached at a specified time in a day or week. But it is the children that are probably among the worst-hit by the nationwide lockdown, unable to comprehend why their routines have suddenly been disrupted and why there is restriction on going out of home. The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights has offered helpline numbers so that parents can reach out to experts about guidance on how to deal with children undergoing stress due to the lockdown. Last week, it circulated a list of 17 experts — including psychiatrists, paediatricians and counsellors — who can be reached at specified times of the day. “Small children are unable to understand what exactly is the matter — why are they not going to school, why they cannot go out to play? They can sense something is the matter but they don’t know what exactly it is. In such situations children can turn cranky and need attention,” said Dr. Nilanjana Sanyal, a practising psychoanalyst who is on the panel of experts. “Normally, this time of the year adults can be overheard planning holidays, but this year there is no such planning — everything looks uncertain. This is likely to add to the stress,” said Dr. Sanyal. “The idea behind the helpline numbers,” she said, “is to create awareness among parents. First of all, they must take [the lockdown] as an opportunity to spend more time with their children, which many are unable to otherwise. This is a good time for mental bonding.”  ‘Engage children’ “Secondly, parents should accommodate them and engage them. These two things are very important. Suppose a mother is cooking, she can always make the child participate in the process in a small way. If nothing else, she can lift the child and get it to stir [an under-preparation dish] with a ladle. The child will feel it is contributing [to the cooking],” Dr. Sanyal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/institutions-offer-emotional-support-to-youngsters/article31314212.ece
11 April 2020||Srinagar,||Virus halts J&K’s ‘Durbar move’ for the first time in 144 years||For the first time in 144 years, the J&K administration has decided to halt the annual shifting of the capital, called ‘Durbar move’, from Jammu to Srinagar in J&K due to the ongoing COVID-19 crisis, as 23 fresh positive cases pushed the total in the Union Territory to 207. “In view of the extraordinary circumstances due to COVID-19 pandemic, the Civil Secretariat at Jammu shall continue to remain functional and the ‘Durbar move’ employees shall work on ‘as is where is’ basis. It will allow Kashmir-based staff to work from Srinagar and Jammu-based staff shall work from Jammu,” said an order issued by the General Administration Department in Jammu. Introduced by Dogra monarch Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1872, the ‘Durbar move’ would see shifting of the Civil Secretariat in summers from Jammu to Srinagar and in winters from Srinagar to Jammu. In January 1987, the then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi had asked then Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah to stop the practice. However, the ‘Durbar move’ was continued to allow it to at as a bridge between two diverse cultures of the Kashmir Valley and the Jammu region.  Sanitation drive Meanwhile, the Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) has been directed to carry out extensive sanitation and fumigation drives in the Civil Secretariat in Srinagar, where the offices will open after six month break on May 4. The J&K administration decision to halt the ‘Durbar Move’ comes as COVID-19 cases shows an upward trend in the Union Territory. Jammu & Kashmir on Friday crossed the 200 mark, with 23 more samples testing positive. “The total positive cases in J&K is 207, as 23 more cases were reported. Jammu has 39 and Kashmir 168 such cases,” said J&K government spokesperson Rohit Kansal. Among the fresh cases are seven non-local members of the Tabligi Jamaat, who were in touch with a Chattabal man who has already tested positive for COVID-19. Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said that detection of eight more positive cases in Srinagar should not panic locals. “This is a classic tracing success story,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/virus-halts-jks-durbar-move-for-the-first-time-in-144-years/article31314216.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||With the passing of Shanti Hiranand, the Begum Akhtar era is formally over||With the passing of singer Shanti Hiranand (1932-2020), early on Friday morning after a brief illness, an era, first shaken to its core by the passing of Begum Akhtar in 1974, finally comes to an end. For nearly five decades, almost single-handedly Shanti Hiranand kept the music of her legendary Ustad alive. With her gone, so has our last tangible link to Begum Akhtar. For nearly five decades Shantiji performed and recorded ghazals, dadras and thumris in the tradition of Begum Akhtar but also diligently taught it to many who wanted to be a part of the great singer’s tradition. Shantiji taught music almost until the last months of her life. Shantiji was born in Lucknow into a forward-looking business family which encouraged education and did not frown on her interest in music and even enrolled her in Bhatkhande Music Institute at the age of six or seven. She moved to Lahore briefly with her parents where she first recorded for radio. After Partition, she returned to Lucknow and continued to sing for the radio. Around this time Begum Akhtar, after her brief retirement from music, had formally returned to recording for All India Radio. In 1952, an official at the radio station suggested to the young Shanti that perhaps she could learn from Begum Akhtar. In her memoir Begum Akhtar: The Story of My Ammi , Shantiji recalls this first meeting. Without an appointment, she had taken a rickshaw and turned up at Begum Akhtar’s house and after a brief wait was granted an audience where a harmonium was forwarded towards her for an impromptu audition. She sang a bhajan in raag pilu. She admits, “I had no idea what raag pilu was. I had just learnt the bhajan as one would learn any filmi song. Since I was performing on the radio at the time, I was used to the radio station sending me a song set to a particular tune and I would just go and record them. I also did a lot of choral singing. I had a high-pitched voice and I could sing loudly.” Begum Akhtar complimented her and asked her what she wanted to learn from her. Shanti didn’t know what to say because as she admits, “I had no idea about her music or what I wanted to learn from her.” This fortuitous meeting led to classes from the next day onwards. Soon she had practically moved in with her teacher because Begum Akhtar, whimsical as she was, would teach only when she was in the mood. Soon Shanti was an appendage of the family. She was joined by another student, Anjali Banerji, and Begum Akhtar did what no other female artiste has done before – marked them as formal students and herself as a formal Ustad by conducting a ganda-bandh ceremony. Begum Akhtar, being the tempestuous person she was, tested this guru-shishya relationship hard and it goes to Shantiji’s credit that she was never found wanting and stayed unquestionably loyal to her Ammi till her end. She never said a word that could be considered disrespectful of her Ustad though there is still today an audience hungry for salacious details of her Ustad’s life, and many egged her to tell tales. She went even beyond keeping her mouth shut. She saw to it that the place which is the final resting place of her guru lived up, even if minimally, to the stature of the artiste she was. Along with keeping Begum Akhtar’s music alive, this will be to the eternal credit of Shanti Hiranand. The Begum Akhtar era is formally over. As Shanti sang in her first recording, a Shakeel Badayuni ghazal:  Fasana e shab e gham khatm hone wala hai  ‘ Shakeel’ chand sitaron men ji nahin lagta.  (The story of the night of grief is about to end ‘Shakeel’, the heart is no longer distracted by the moon or the stars.)  Saleem Kidwai is a Lucknow-based historian and author.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/with-the-passing-of-shanti-hiranand-the-begum-akhtar-era-is-formally-over/article31314220.ece
11 April 2020||London/Rome,||British PM Boris Johnson out of intensive care||Prime Minister Boris Johnson was recovering in a hospital ward on Friday after ending three days in intensive care for COVID-19. The 55-year-old leader left intensive care at London’s St. Thomas’ Hospital on Thursday evening and will now be monitored closely during what Downing Street called “the early phase of his recovery”. “He is in extremely good spirits,” a No. 10 spokesman said. Mr. Johnson’s improving condition came as the government continues to impose an unprecedented nationwide lockdown to try to stem the spread of the deadly coronavirus. It announced another 980 deaths in the past 24 hours, the highest daily toll yet, taking the U.K. total to nearly 8,000, with more than 65,000 cases so far confirmed. Hundreds of millions of people around the world will spend the Easter holiday at home as lockdown measures intensify to combat the coronavirus pandemic, with the global death toll rapidly approaching 1,00,000. The U.S. is now emerging as the global hotspot of the virus. More than 1,700 people died on Thursday from almost 5,00,000 cases, bringing its total death toll to the second highest in the world after Italy. It also has the largest number of cases anywhere in the world by far. More than 1.6 million infections have been recorded globally, according to an AFP tally. Europe remains the hardest-hit continent in terms of cases, with 826,389 and 67,247 deaths. Italy has the highest death toll at 18,279 followed by Spain with 15,843. Improving figures However, across Europe and the United States, officials sought solace in slightly improving figures. Spain, the third hardest-hit country, saw its lowest day toll in 17 days, and Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said on Thursday the “fire started by the pandemic is starting to come under control”. France also reported that fewer people were in intensive care for COVID-19, the first fall since the pandemic broke out. Anthony Fauci, the U.S. government’s top pandemic expert, said the United States was “going in the right direction” after a slight drop in the daily death rate from Wednesday’s record toll of 1,973. In New York, the epicentre of the virus in the United States, the rate of hospital admissions fell on Thursday and Governor Andrew Cuomo said the actions taken in the state were “flattening the curve”, referring to attempts to stabilise the death rate. Easter pilgrimage sites across Europe and Asia stood empty on Friday, shorn of the customary Easter holiday hustle. Even such hallowed traditions as the pope’s Easter message are being revamped — Pope Francis will live-stream from the seclusion of his private library. “We have to respond to our confinement with all our creativity,” the pontiff said. “We can either get depressed and alienated... or we can get creative.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/british-pm-boris-johnson-out-of-intensive-care/article31313872.ece
11 April 2020||WASHINGTON,||Russia probe was started ‘without basis’||Attorney-General William Barr believes the Russia investigation that shadowed President Donald Trump for the first two years of his administration was started without any basis and amounted to an effort to “sabotage the presidency”. Mr. Barr offered no support for his assertion that the FBI lacked a basis for opening the investigation and made no mention of the fact that the bureau began its probe after a Trump campaign adviser purported to have early knowledge that Russia had dirt on Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton. Mr. Barr, who has appointed a U.S. attorney to lead an investigation into the origins of the Russia probe, said the Justice Department has evidence there was “something far more troubling” than just mistakes during the investigation that eventually morphed into special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe. “I think the President has every right to be frustrated, because I think what happened to him was one of the greatest travesties in American history,” Mr. Barr said in the interview with Fox News. The Attorney-General said the FBI launched its counter-intelligence investigation into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia “without any basis.” “Even more concerning, actually, is what happened after the campaign, a whole pattern of events while he was President,” Mr. Barr said. “To sabotage the presidency, and I think that — or at least have the effect of sabotaging the presidency.” Security threat The Justice Department’s Inspector General found the FBI was justified in opening an investigation into ties between the Trump presidential campaign and Russia — to protect against a national security threat — and found the bureau didn’t act with political bias. Mr. Trump and his supporters are counting on different conclusions from the separate investigation led by John Durham, the U.S. attorney Mr. Barr selected to examine the early days of the Russia probe. Mr. Durham’s investigation is going on. Mr. Barr has been a loyal supporter of Mr. Trump since becoming Attorney-General, though their positive relationship showed signs of fraying earlier this year when Mr. Barr said in an interview that Mr. Trump’s tweets about ongoing Justice Department cases made it “impossible” for him to do his job. Mr. Mueller concluded that the Russian government interfered in the 2016 poll, but his probe didn’t find sufficient evidence to establish a criminal conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-probe-was-started-without-basis/article31313876.ece
11 April 2020||SEOUL,||S. Korea goes to the polls despite virus||They came wearing masks and stood in line at 3-foot intervals. They were required to have their body temperatures taken, to rub their hands with sanitiser and to put on disposable plastic gloves handed out by officials. Then they entered the booths and voted, as South Korea pressed ahead with its first election in a time of epidemic. The coronavirus pandemic is disrupting political calendars around the world, causing delays and triggering electoral chaos in the U.S. It has provoked voter ire in Wisconsin, where many absentee ballots failed to arrive in time and voters were afraid to put their health at risk by going out to cast their ballots. In South Korea, the parliamentary election is proceeding relatively seamlessly so far. The government is trying to assure its 44 million eligible voters that it is safe to leave their homes to go to the polls. To make the voting run smoothly, South Korea has mobilised armies of public servants. They have disinfected 14,000 voting stations across the country. South Koreans were also allowed to vote in advance on Friday and Saturday at any of the 3,500 balloting stations opened for that purpose. Anyone showing temperature readings higher than 37.5 Celsius (99.5 Fahrenheit) would be stopped at the gates of polling stations and escorted to a separate area to vote. The voter would then be sent for testing and the voting booth disinfected. Officially, the election for South Korea’s 300-member National Assembly is scheduled to take place Wednesday. But nearly 5 million people cast ballots on Friday and more were expected to vote on Saturday. The advance voting system, introduced in 2013, is serving as a dress rehearsal of sorts for the extraordinary plan disease-control officials have designed for an epidemic-era election.NYTimes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-korea-goes-to-the-polls-despite-virus/article31313881.ece
11 April 2020||Bangui,||Angry crowd destroys UN base in Central Africa||Villagers in Central African Republic attacked a forward base used by UN peacekeepers after a civilian was killed in a road accident, the UN force said Friday. The incident happened on Thursday in Beboura, in the northwest of the troubled country, said Vladimir Monteiro, spokesman for MINUSCA, the UN mission in the CAR. “There was an accident involving a UN vehicle which led to the death of an individual. Local people then decided to attack the forward military post,” he said. “Between 10 and 20 (UN) troops were there at the time. We evacuated them. Two were injured,” he said. “While we regret this accidental death, which we will investigate thoroughly, we condemn this reaction. It's not by destroying this base that people will be protected,” Mr. Monteiro said. Incidents of this kind involving MINUSCA, which deployed in the CAR in 2014, are rare, although the force is facing criticism from some politicians and the public at a time when the country is struggling to implement a February 2019 peace deal. Deeply impoverished despite mineral wealth, the CAR has been in the grip of violence since 2013. More than two-thirds of the former French colony lies in the hands of armed groups, who typically claim ethnic or religious affiliations and often fight over resources. According to the UN, 1.6 million people out of a population of 4.7 million are “extremely vulnerable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/angry-crowd-destroys-un-base-in-central-africa/article31313869.ece
11 April 2020||Washington,||EU strikes €500 billion rescue deal||After weeks of wrangling, EU member states on Thursday buried their differences and agreed to a 500-billion-euro ($550 billion) emergency plan for a European economy knocked to its knees by the coronavirus outbreak. EU Finance Ministers agreed in late-night talks to the rescue package aimed at reducing pain across the 27-nation bloc, especially hardest-hit Italy and Spain. “Europe has decided and is ready to meet the gravity of the crisis,” French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire tweeted after the talks. He warned earlier in the day that France’s economy is expected to shrink 6% this year, even with the country’s own 100-billion-euro relief plan. Ministers put aside proposals by France and Italy for pooled borrowing. The Netherlands relented and let the deal come through after pushing hard for Italy and other affected countries to undertake economic reforms. “Today we answered our citizens’ call for a Europe that protects,” Eurogroup chief Mario Centeno said. “This response contains bold and ambitious proposals that didn’t seem possible just weeks ago,” added Mr. Centeno, who is also the Portuguese Finance Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-strikes-500-billion-rescue-deal/article31313873.ece
11 April 2020||Dubai,||War-torn Yemen reports its first case||Yemen reported its first case of COVID-19 on Friday in a southern government-controlled province, raising fears of an outbreak in the war-torn country as air strikes blamed on the Saudi-led coalition tested a unilateral truce. The announcement came on the second day of the two-week ceasefire declared by the military coalition supporting the government in what it said was a move to help fight the pandemic. “The first confirmed case of coronavirus has been reported in Hadramawt province,” Yemen’s supreme national emergency committee for COVID-19 said on Twitter.   Broken system Aid groups have warned that when the coronavirus hits Yemen’s broken healthcare system, the impact is likely to be catastrophic for a country already in the grip of what the UN calls the world’s worst humanitarian crisis. “This is a moment we all feared, and were hoping to avoid, because Yemen is critically under-equipped to face this virus,” said Xavier Joubert, country director for Save the Children in Yemen. “Only half of Yemen's health facilities are still fully functional. There are 700 intensive care unit beds, including 60 for children, and 500 ventilators for a population of about 30 million.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/war-torn-yemen-reports-its-first-case/article31313874.ece
11 April 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. seeks extradition of IS leader from Afghanistan||Pakistan has asked Afghanistan to extradite a leader in the local Islamic State group affiliate who was arrested in southern Afghanistan earlier this month. Aslam Farooqi, whose real name is Abdullah Orakzai, is a Pakistani national wanted in connection with attacks claimed by the IS in Pakistan. The Afghan government accuses Farooqi of involvement in last month’s attack in Kabul on a Sikh house of worship that killed 25 worshipers.  In a statement late on Thursday, Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry said the Afghan Ambassador to Pakistan, Atif Mashal, had been summoned and told of Pakistan’s worries about the activities of the Islamic State affiliate, known as the IS-Khorazan, headquartered in eastern Afghanistan. “Since Aslam Farooqi was involved in anti-Pakistan activities in Afghanistan, he should be handed-over to Pakistan for further investigations,” the Ministry statement said Farooqi was arrested last weekend along with 19 other IS operatives, according to Afghanistan’s intelligence agency. The upstart Islamic State affiliate has taken credit for attacks in Pakistan, including one in January in the southwestern Baluchistan provincial capital of Quetta that killed 15 worshipers. In recent months, Afghan and American officials claim the IS has been weakened as a result of relentless U.S. bombing raids in eastern Afghanistan as well as military operations by the Afghan National Security Forces and attacks by their rivals, Taliban insurgents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-seeks-extradition-of-is-leader-from-afghanistan/article31313877.ece
11 April 2020||Islamabad,||Pakistan extends ban on flight operations||Pakistan on Friday extended the ban on domestic and international flight operations up to April 21 as the country stepped up efforts to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected more than 4,500 people in the country, authorities said. The total number of cases in Pakistan has sharply increased to 4,601, with more than 280 fresh infections, while the death toll reached 66, Health officials said on Friday.  The government has announced various measures to meet the challenge of COVID-19 pandemic, including cash payments to the most needy, which started on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-extends-ban-on-flight-operations/article31313884.ece
11 April 2020||Washington,||Wear masks, Melania urges Americans||In a message on Twitter accompanied by a picture of her face partly covered by a medical mask, Melania Trump, the First Lady, urged Americans on Thursday to protect themselves from the coronavirus by wearing face coverings in public, an image all the more striking because it contrasted with her husband’s mixed messages on the subject. “As the CDC continues to study the spread of the COVID-19, they’re recommending people wear cloth face coverings in public settings where social distancing measures can be difficult to maintain,” she said in an accompanying video, referring to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. After a slow start to acknowledge the virus, the First Lady has since issued a string of public service videos meant to echo guidelines on social distancing and hand-washing. But in his news briefings, President Donald Trump offers his own interpretation of the rules: he has told reporters that he would not be interested in wearing a mask unless he deemed it important. Instead, everyone who comes into close contact with Mr. Trump must now be tested for the virus, including journalists in the White House briefing room. “I don’t know, somehow sitting in the Oval Office behind that beautiful Resolute Desk,” the President told reporters, “I think wearing a face mask as I greet Presidents, Prime Ministers, dictators, kings, queens, I don’t know — somehow, I don’t see it for myself. I just — I just don’t. Maybe I’ll change my mind, but this will pass, and hopefully it’ll pass very quickly.”Ny times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/wear-masks-melania-urges-americans/article31313883.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Alone in prayer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/alone-in-prayer/article31313879.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The story of India’s largest COVID-19 cluster||It was a letter that arrived sometime on March 25 evening that announced the beginning of a nightmare. The letter, which confirmed the Delhi authorities’ worst fears, landed at New Delhi’s South-East district administration from the district administration of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. It stated that all the six patients who had tested positive for novel coronavirus in the islands had one thing in common: they had all returned from a gathering at the Markaz (Centre), the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, a conservative Islamic organisation, in New Delhi. The six of them had attended a large convention with more than 4,500 people from the world over. The nightmare for the authorities was that all the attendees and their contacts had to now be traced and quarantined to prevent further spread of the deadly virus. Until this information came, India’s efforts in combating the COVID-19 pandemic were confined to screening travellers who had come from abroad. Chalking out a plan The Delhi police, the district administration, and the Delhi government’s Health Department quickly huddled together for a meeting. Their agenda was to chalk out a plan to trace everyone who had attended the convention at the Markaz between March 12 and March 22. The attendees at the congregation had been divided into several groups. Each group had attended a two-three day workshop. Many of them had left, but many of them continued to stay at the Markaz. This was because a day-long Janata Curfew on March 22 and the 21-day national lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi beginning March 24 had made it virtually impossible for the Jamaat members to leave the Markaz. So, quickly evacuating the premises, sanitising the building and placing the attendees in quarantine was also on the team’s agenda.  The occupants at the Markaz, all in close proximity in the building in the crowded area of Nizamuddin in the capital, were perhaps unaware of the presence of the invisible, malevolent virus in their midst. The immediate plan was this: for five days, from March 26 to March 30, a team supervised by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Defence Colony, Vinod Kumar Yadav, would inspect the building. The team, in its report to the Deputy Commissioner of South-East Delhi, Harleen Kaur, flagged several concerns. It reported that there was no social (physical) distancing being maintained between the members of the Jamaat. They were not wearing face masks. And there were no sanitisers on the premises. By the time the evacuation process started on March 29, some members of the Jamaat were already coughing and complaining of having a headache and a fever. The fear was becoming real: they were all showing signs of SARS-CoV-2. On March 29 night, at about 9 p.m., 34 people were immediately shifted to hospitals from the premises. A medical camp was established outside the building for screening purposes. Process of evacuation With many members still inside, on March 30 morning, a white canopy tent was erected outside the Markaz. The evacuation process started with the help of the local police. They barricaded the entire area to prevent others in the neighbourhood from coming into contact with those emerging from the Markaz. The Health Department set up a help desk at the tent. Each person coming out of the Markaz was thermally screened. Their names, addresses and their duration of stay at the Markaz were noted. After their thermal screening was completed, attendees were asked to walk with their luggage towards the main road, about 50 metres away, through a barricaded corridor erected by the police to prevent the spread of infection in the locality. About 70 buses were arranged to transport the attendees from the Markaz to various hospitals or quarantine centres in the city. Bus drivers of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) were provided hazmat suits and other protective gear that covered their faces. Each bus accommodated about 30 persons.  An officer with the Health Department said that the process of shifting the Jamaat members to hospitals and quarantine centres was an onerous task. “We had to save our own men from getting infected. We noted down the details of the attendees. We erected a tent outside the building and sanitised the entire area with the help of the Delhi Police. The DTC bus drivers also played an exemplary role in shifting people to the hospital. We did all this to the best of our ability,” he said. Even as these efforts were being taken, news broke late on the night on March 30 that six people who had returned from the Markaz at Nizamuddin had died after testing positive for COVID-19 in Telangana. Hearing this, the team in Delhi charged with evacuation developed cold feet, but nevertheless continued with their duty. They evacuated 2,361 people from the Markaz. When the last batch shuffled out of the premises on April 1, the team heaved a big sigh of relief. Violating orders As members of the Jamaat were being evacuated, questions piled up. How had so many people gathered at the Markaz when warnings had been issued about the serious threat posed by the deadly virus across the world? The recklessness of the Tablighi Jamaat aside, how had the Ministry of External Affairs granted visas to foreigners to attend the meeting? The gathering had included people from Indonesia, Malaysia, Nepal, Afghanistan, France, Italy, Myanmar, Algeria, Kyrgyzstan, Ukraine, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, the U.K., Singapore, Belgium, Tunisia, the U.S. and Kuwait. At the time, some of these countries were already witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases. And how did the Delhi Police, under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Home Affairs, fail to detect the presence of such a large gathering? Did this not amount to a huge intelligence failure?  The Delhi government had passed two orders restricting the size of gatherings. The first order, passed on March 13, prohibited more than 200 people from assembling at one place. Another on March 16 prohibited gatherings of more than 50 people. Both orders were violated by the Jamaat members. The police too failed to enforce the orders. When the Delhi Police were asked about their correspondence with the Jamaat, a senior official told The Hindu that the Delhi Police verbally informed the members about the Delhi government’s order. “The Markaz is a huge building. It has five floors and two basements. The police never go inside it,” he said. The police officer said the police had sent out letters to the office-bearers of the Markaz on March 19 and 24 asking them to come to the Nizamuddin Police Station on March 24 to meet with the SHO, Mukesh Walia. At the meeting, Walia asked them to clear the building at the earliest, he said. A video of the meeting was released by the Delhi Police after questions were raised over the role of the local police in allowing the gathering. Maulana Yousuf from the Markaz wrote to the police on March 25 stating that they had vacated 1,500 people. However, 1,000 people remained in the premises, he said. “We still have more than 1,000 people from different States in the building. As per your direction, we contacted [the respective]  SDMs [Sub-Divisional Magistrates] for vehicle passes so that we can send the remaining people to their respective places,” the letter said. “You [the police] are therefore requested to kindly approach the SDM for early action. We are ready to comply [with] all your directions.” In the March 25 letter, Yousuf also informed the area SHO that they were trying to shut down the Markaz as directed by him the previous day. On March 28, the Assistant Commissioner of Police (Lajpat Nagar), Atul Kumar, wrote to the Tablighi Jamaat that despite the lockdown, “many persons have gathered at the centre in Nizamuddin”. He warned of legal action. In another letter to the police on March 29, Yousuf said that further efforts to vacate the premises had been stopped due to the lockdown announced by the Prime Minister. On March 30, the  Delhi government asked the Delhi Police to register an FIR against Maulana Mohammed Saad, the Delhi head of the Markaz. A Delhi Police officer said that the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz had applied for passes for only 12 vehicles, and all public transport to the Markaz had been banned. How could they evacuate 1,500 people using only 12 vehicles, he asked. On March 31, the Delhi Police registered an FIR against Maulana Mohammed Saad and six other office-bearers charging them with “deliberately and wilfully” allowing a huge gathering on the premises, an act that posed a threat to many lives. In his complaint, the SHO of Nizamuddin Police Station said that on March 21, the Delhi Police contacted the authorities of the Markaz and reminded them about the Delhi government’s March 16 order. The Jamaat was directed to send the foreign delegates back to their respective countries, and the Indians to their respective cities and towns. On March 24, a meeting was held at the Hazrat Nizamuddin Police Station between the SHO and the officer-bearers of Tablighi Jamaat, the FIR stated. The FIR also referred to an alleged audio recording, purportedly of Maulana Saad, in circulation on WhatsApp on March 21, in which the speaker is heard asking his followers to defy “the lockdown” and social distancing and instead attend religious gatherings of the organisation. A Delhi government official, who was part of the evacuation team, said, “If you put 2,000 people in a closed building, everyone is bound to test positive. It was bad timing for faith and a pandemic to clash.” In order to decongest the Markaz, many of the occupants were shifted to various mosques in the National Capital Region. In a joint operation, the Delhi Police, Special Branch, and the Delhi government quarantined 275 foreign nationals in various mosques. All of them had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event. How were they given visas? A senior officer with the Foreigner Regional Registration Office said that most of the foreign nationals visiting India as a part of Tablighi Jamaat team had come on the strength of the tourist visa. Any person entering the country on a tourist visa cannot indulge in any missionary activity and the Ministry of Home Affairs had already issued guidelines on this, he said. “There is a separate visa category for missionary activities which allows overseas missionaries to work long-term in the country if they are associated with a registered organisation,” said the officer. Besides the 275 foreign nationals, 1,744 asymptomatic people were moved to quarantine centres in Narela, Wazirabad, Dwarka, Jharoda Kalan and other places, and were closely monitored. Delhi’s Education Minister and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia requested all those who attended the Markaz in March to report to the authorities. “If you do not come forward or if you are ill and are hiding it, then action will be taken against you,” he said. In Tamil Nadu, the Health Secretary issued a humanitarian appeal as the number of those testing positive for COVID-19 and had attended the event in March began to spiral in the State. “You are patients and we will treat you like that. Please voluntarily report,” she said. Many came forward. Preventing spread of the virus On April 2, the Nizamuddin area was declared as a containment zone, after many positive cases of COVID-19 were found. In order to prevent further spread of the virus, movement restrictions were put in place. To prevent infection, 12 policemen of the Nizamuddin Police Station, who were part of the evacuation operation, said they shaved their heads. A policeman said that this was their attempt to keep themselves safe as they were closely involved in the evacuation operation. Every corner of the police station was sanitised by a team of the Delhi Fire Services (DFS) and the 50-metre passage used by the occupants of the Markaz was washed with disinfectant. A day after a team of the DFS went inside the Markaz and disinfected the premises, a team of the Health Department inspected it. “The Markaz teaches to obey the rule and law made by the government of the state. It [the gathering] was never intentional but it is unfortunate that this happened,” said a Maulana who did not wish to be named. A Delhi Police officer said extensive data mining has been carried out to identify each individual who attended the religious congregation or stayed in the building. “We are preparing lists of their contacts. We are preparing the profile of each individual and sharing it with the concerned State police. Most of the people who attended the congregation went back either by bus or train,” said the officer. In a press release issued on March 31, the Tablighi Jamaat said that the programme at the Nizamuddin Markaz was discontinued immediately after the Prime Minister announced a Janata Curfew to be held on March 22. “However, due to the sudden cancellation of rail services across the country on March 21, 2020, a large group of visitors who had to depart by way of railways got stuck on the Markaz premises,” it said. A communal colour Away from the Delhi hotspot, and spread across half-a-dozen districts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the Mewat region, predominantly inhabited by Meo Muslims, is the birthplace of the Tablighi Jamaat. The region has been divided into 18 blocks for the purpose of the activities of the 94-year-old religious organisation. While Mewat has lost its pre-eminent stature to Delhi, Sadar Shura Majlis Ilaka Mewat, Mufti Mohammad Zahid Hussain, told The Hindu that the region was preferred to other regions for hosting the congregation of the Jamaat workers, known as “Jod”. The last Jod was held from December 21 to 23 at the Nuh Idgah. It saw the participation of several thousand workers. “Only dedicated Jamaatis with more than four months of association with the organisation are allowed to participate in the Jod,” said Hussain. He said that the Jod held in Mewat and other regions was separate from the Jamaat programmes held at the Nizamuddin Markaz all through the year. About 1,000-1,500 Jamaatis from across the world are present at Markaz to participate in various programmes at any given point in time, he said. “Hundreds of delegates keep visiting the Markaz all through the year. The problem was that this time they were stuck there due to the cancellation of trains and flights because of the Janata Curfew and the sudden announcement of the lockdown. The embassies were duly informed about their visit, so it is wrong to say that the Markaz violated the lockdown,” said Hussain. There are reports from across the country on the number of Jamaatis infected, but why is all the emphasis on the Jamaatis and their contacts, he asked. “If samples of only Jamaatis are collected, of course only they will test positive,” he said. Following the identification of the cluster, Tablighi Jamaat members have become an easy target on social media. They have been accused of “spreading the virus” and being “careless”. With social media and some TV channels fuelling hatred against Muslims, the Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Kerala and Maharashtra have warned people against communalising the issue and painting one community as the perpetrator. Hussain agreed. “It is an injustice to give this event a communal colour. It is against democracy,” he said. With inputs from Ashok Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-story-of-indias-largest-covid-19-cluster/article31313868.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Against Trump, and the Democratic machine||At 11.30 on Monday morning, there was a queue of cars, two vehicles deep and several miles long, for the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank in Duquesne, Pennsylvania, waiting for the two boxes of food offered when it opens at noon. Every week the lines get longer. Two days later, Bernie Sanders, the left-wing challenger for the Democratic presidential nomination, withdrew from the race and vowed to back the presumptive nominee, former Vice-President Joe Biden. America on the edge The coronavirus has made the case for universal health care, a welfare state and tackling inequalities in a manner that Mr. Sanders was unable to. Even before the pandemic struck, a significant portion of the country was on the brink: four in ten American adults could not withstand an unexpected $400 expense. Now they have been pushed over the edge. The trouble, for Mr. Sanders, is the lesson came too late and too few people believed that he was either capable of defeating President Donald Trump or getting his agenda through Congress or both. Put bluntly, in a moment when progressives believe American democracy is in peril at the hands of an egomaniacal right-wing demagogue, too many liberals thought it was too great a risk to stand a septuagenarian Jewish socialist from Vermont who had a heart attack six months earlier. That concern was not entirely justified. Throughout February, Mr. Sanders led Mr. Trump in every poll by between 2% and 8%. The early States he performed well in — Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada — were all the kind of swing States Democrats need to win in November. But the more he won among Democrats and threatened to break the mould the more those who had been set in that mould, insisted he would lose against Mr. Trump. The confidence in his unelectability sat somewhere between a script and an incantation, recited dutifully and earnestly by the media and political establishments, most of whom had insisted that Mr. Trump could never win the presidency. If he won the nomination not only would he be running against Mr. Trump but the Democratic machine. After he won Nevada and it looked like no clear contender had yet emerged, Matt Bennett, of the moderate group, Third Way, told Politico : “It’s this incredible sense that we’re hurtling to the abyss. I also think we could lose the House. And if we do, there would be absolutely no way to stop [Trump]. Today is the most depressed I’ve ever been in politics.” Cornerstone constituency There was no justification for this bed-wetting. But concerns about his electability were not entirely unjustified either. Despite considerable and concerted efforts, he failed to convince African Americans that his candidacy was viable. That is no small thing. African Americans are the cornerstone of the Democratic coalition: the party has only won the presidency with the white vote alone once — in 1964 — since the Second World War. It was not his programme they did not like. African Americans were more likely to support universal health care and free college tuition than any other ethnic groups. It was either him or his capacity to achieve those goals, they were unconvinced by. “I think African Americans, particularly older ones, have learned not to expect too much from Democratic politicians,” explains Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor, a Princeton professor in African American studies. “Because that’s what they usually get.” His other key vulnerability was younger voters, who did back him — including, it should be noted, younger African Americans — but did not turn up in sufficient numbers to make a difference. Mr. Sanders had predicated his potential on his ability to change the electorate by galvanising non-voters. If they were not going to show up then a crucial part of his coalition would be missing. In this sense, Mr. Sanders’ precarity was, at its root, similar to that of his counterpart in the United Kingdom, the former left-wing leader of the Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn. Their ascent was disorganic. They did not emerge from a deeper movement seeking electoral representation that could sustain them, but were, instead, the product of a broad, amorphous, alienated sentiment that sought electoral remedy through them but had no infrastructure to make that happen. Given his agenda, Mr. Sanders’ appeal was considerable: but it did not take sufficient root beyond his base. His prospects went south when the voting went South. The first state in the former Confederacy to vote, South Carolina, was the first in which the African American vote was decisive. Mr. Biden won handily. Democratic grandees would have settled for anyone but Mr. Sanders. The trouble is, until South Carolina, they did not have anyone. As Mr. Biden rose, other centrist candidates — some of whom had been outperforming him — pulled out and endorsed him. After Super Tuesday, when, apart from the big prize of California, Mr. Sanders won little else, his candidacy was effectively over. But the political questions it raised are more pertinent than ever. That line in Duquesne, which is more than five times bigger than it was at the start of the pandemic, illustrates the transformative nature of this crisis. The day after Mr. Sanders withdrew, unemployment rose by 6.6 million bringing the number who have lost their jobs in the last three weeks to 16 million. Recovering from the global economic depression, we are about to experience demands of a thoroughgoing structural alternative to neo-liberalism. That is what Mr. Sanders was suggesting: that is why the establishment was so desperate for him to lose. On Biden Clearly, that alternative is by no means the only scenario; Mr. Trump could win and things can get even worse. But a Biden candidacy is by no means a risk-free proposition. Far from it. There is a reason why South Carolina was the first State he has won in the three times he has run for the presidency in 32 years (1988, 2008, 2020). At the best of times he is a terrible candidate. On the stump he rambles hopelessly, losing himself midsentence, wandering into rhetorical cul-de-sacs and is overly tactile with women. He told a crowd in Houston he was looking forward to Super Thursday and once confused his wife and his sister, who were both on the stage with him. And these are not the best of times. The trouble is not just his performance but his politics. He was an enthusiastic backer of the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Iraq war, deregulation and social security freezes, which does not leave him with much to take on Mr. Trump with. And so it is that after three-and-a-half years that have seen the largest demonstrations in U.S. history, including two women’s marches and a youth-led protest against gun control, we end up with a 77-year-old man who is to the right of Hillary Clinton. Mr. Biden won the nomination by not being Sanders; but not being Trump may not be enough to seal the deal in November. A poll two weeks ago showed he attracted the lowest recorded amount of ‘strong enthusiasm’ among his own supporters for any Democratic presidential hopeful in the 20 years of polling. Mr. Trump’s base remains fired up. Coronavirus has made a volatile electorate and a fragile political culture even more unpredictable. Anything could happen. Both Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders represented a risk. But Mr. Sanders was a risk worth taking; Mr. Biden is the risk we are now stuck with. Gary Younge is a professor of Sociology at Manchester University and the former U.S. correspondent for The Guardian||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/against-trump-and-the-democratic-machine/article31313862.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Team India and winning the pandemic battle||When will we move COVID-19 from a tense present to past tense? That question hangs perplexingly and lies posed before an embattled world and an anxious India. As we look to the possible end of the 21-day national lockdown, what next? Is there an early timeline for return to normalcy or will we have to wait for years to regain the vigour and the vitality of life as before in a reconnected world? Self-reliance is the way India has to chart its own strategy, whether it is in planning a staged release from the lockdown or in developing domestic capacity for medical equipment. There will be a need for scientific and economic cooperation with the rest of the world, but self-reliance is the rudder that must steer our ship as we sail through these rough seas. Globalisation lies shredded as we read of French and German officials protesting at the Americans seizing shipments of masks that they had ordered from China, in what is being called “guerre des masques” (war of the masks). For charting our course ahead, we have to answer several questions. Did the lockdown benefit us and will we gain further by extending it fully or partially? Will we be in a position to gear up the capacity of our health system for effective public health and health-care responses across the country within the next few weeks if there is a surge in cases? How can we triage our response strategies to best use our limited resources? Are there favourable factors which suggest that India will have a less extensive spread or a milder manifestation of illness? What kind of partnerships need to be mobilised in the country to develop and deliver an effective response? Moving forward The impact of a three-week lockdown on reducing infectivity cannot be gauged well till the third week because the virus has an incubation period that can extend up to 14 days, though the vast majority of cases clinically emerge by 11 days. Whether there are already infected cases that will spread outdoors after the lockdown will be gauged by clinical criteria (syndromic surveillance) and testing (using viral or antibody tests as indicated). House-to-house surveillance being implemented in Andhra Pradesh, even during the lockdown, involves accredited village and block level volunteers partnering front line health workers to identify symptomatic persons for later visits by medical teams. The involvement of designated volunteers and community-based organisations can greatly enhance case detection, isolation, counselling, severity-based care and social support. Potentially favourable factors for India are the younger age profile and a higher rural proportion of our population compared to China, Europe, the United States or other highly affected countries whose populations are older, urban and highly mobile. However, this enjoins us to energetically protect the elderly and rural segments of our population. Restricting urban to rural movement to essential goods and essential needs, for at least six weeks after the lockdown ends, will help. The health, nutrition and financial security of the poor must be ensured. Elderly persons too should observe social distancing and limit visits outside home for this period. Essential economic activity can be resumed in stages. We would be entering June by this time. By then, we should have a better picture of the spread and severity of the epidemic in different parts of the country. That would need a greater level of testing to detect both asymptomatic and symptomatic persons who have been infected, through random population sampling in different parts of the country. We should quickly gear up our testing capacity to meet this mapping mandate. Hotspots should be identified, based on numbers of self-referred symptomatic cases, persons identified on home visits and population survey results. These should be ring fenced, with intense search for contacts and active spreaders, with further localised lockdown as needed. The height of summer in June may also give us some respite, if not full relief. There is some evidence that this virus too, like other coronaviruses, is likely to wane in hot weather. Other suggestions, of protection from malaria endemicity and past BCG vaccination, are speculative and based on correlation studies which do not qualify for inference of causation. Crowded living conditions and propensity to have myriad mass gatherings, for political, religious or social reasons, can be our undoing if we do not enforce discipline. Even if some factors favour us, our ability to quell the epidemic will depend on how well political will and professional skill can shape a coherent, countrywide multi-sectoral response. Think of it as a game of cricket. Even if the pitch conditions favour us, we still have to play well to win. If COVID-19 is the batsman scoring freely, the health system is the bowler trying to tie him down and get him out. Full support is needed from the other sections of the government who form the close-in field and the citizens who are guarding the out-field. Everyone has to be on their toes, avoiding a poor health system response (loose balls), supply chain delays (dropped catches) and social distancing violations (misfields). No huddles please! Focus on health services We also need to make sure that our health-care system provides timely and competent care to all who need. Primary health-care facilities, district hospitals, public and private tertiary care institutions have to gear up with equipment and augment human resources drawn both from trainees and retirees. Considering the higher risk to older health-care providers, the first line of care should be formed by younger staff members who will have milder effects even if infected. The older staff members can provide supervisory support. This will prevent attrition of the health workforce due to exhaustion or illness. Temporary hospitals for treatment and isolation facilities for persons on quarantine may need to be set up at short notice. Industry must produce essential medical equipment and drugs to meet our needs and, if capacity permits, assist other countries. This has to be our game plan, with flexibility to change the field settings and bowling options as we reassess the situation periodically. Let us get going, to win this match as Team India. Dr. K. Srinath Reddy is President, Public Health Foundation of India. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/team-india-and-winning-the-pandemic-battle/article31313865.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Stage fright||Even after the Health Ministry on March 28 acknowledged on its website that there was “limited community transmission”, India’s national taskforce for COVID-19 continues to deny it. Now, a paper in the Indian Journal of Medical Research ,  by ICMR and Health Ministry researchers , provides evidence of community transmission in 36 districts in 15 States. The study is based on sentinel surveillance undertaken by the task force among severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) patients who have been hospitalised in public sector institutions to identify the spread and the extent of transmission of COVID-19 disease in the community. If there were 1.9% (two of 106) SARI cases positive for the SARS-CoV-2 virus by the end of March third week, the number increased to 104 by April 2. Of the 102 coronavirus positive SARI cases tested between March 22 and April 2, 40 (39%) had no travel history or contact with a positive case; data on exposure were not available for 59 (58%) cases. If more than 1% of SARI patients tested positive for the virus in 15 States, at 21 (3.8%), Maharashtra had the most number of coronavirus positive SARI cases in eight districts followed by Delhi (14 cases; 5.1%), Gujarat (13 cases; 1.6%), and West Bengal (9 cases; 3.5%). Kerala had just one SARI patient testing positive. The authors point out that antibody-based testing carried out in those testing negative for molecular test could have helped identify more positive cases. With community transmission, or the third stage, now being confirmed in 36 districts, an expansion and change in testing strategy has become imperative in the high focus areas for the lockdown to be more meaningful. Though the taskforce has not openly declared community transmission, it is reassuring to note that the ICMR has already initiated changes in the testing strategy in response to the change in the pattern of community spread. On April 9, the ICMR revised the testing strategy for hotspots/clusters and large migration gatherings/evacuees centres. While the criteria for testing across India remain the same, the testing norms for the high focus areas will now include people with influenza-like illness (ILI) with certain symptoms. Antibody testing should be carried out whenever molecular tests on these patients turn out negative. It is important to include antibody testing along with molecular testing when necessary in the high focus areas. Together with containment measures, this approach will help in snapping the transmission chain. Syndromic surveillance of all SARI and ILI patients along with quick and effective tracing, quarantining and testing of their contacts should be the way forward now. How well India responds now will determine whether the spread is contained quickly or leads to more cases and deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/stage-fright/article31313856.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Lives and livelihoods||The government is in the process of applying its mind on whether it should extend or lift in phases the 21-day lockdown that ends next week. The choice for Prime Minister Narendra Modi now, as when he decided to impose the lockdown on March 24, is the same — between saving lives and ensuring livelihoods. He rightly privileged the former over the latter then. But as India nears the end of the lockdown period, the serious damage to the economy and livelihoods is beginning to make itself apparent. There is tremendous pressure from industry bodies to opt for a nuanced policy that will help economic activity to restart as they fear a collapse if activity is stopped for another fortnight. Lives could be lost to hunger and livelihoods sacrificed in the lockdown. One way to sidestep this existential dilemma is by bringing on a second round of an economic relief package that goes well beyond the first both in terms of the financial commitment and the spread. Out-of-the-box ideas for delivering support and also for raising the required funds might be required. For starters, it is clear that the government should consign fiscal conservatism to the cupboard for now and go all out to spend and support the economy. Economists are unanimous that there is little option now but to print money and spend. That is exactly what the developed countries are doing. The Rs. 1.7-lakh crore package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26 was a good start but barely accounted for 1% of GDP. India should spend at least 5% of GDP for now — about Rs. 10-lakh crore. The cash transfers to the poor should be hiked to at least Rs. 3,000 a month for the next three months. This should be in addition to free rations and cooking gas, as was announced earlier. In the harvest season, farmers need logistical support for moving their produce to markets. Lenders, including NBFCs, should be granted freedom to reschedule their loan accounts so that borrowers are not under pressure to repay for fear of turning delinquent. A credit guarantee fund that will support non-delinquent borrowers for the next six months will be a good option. Such a fund can be financed through a domestic bond offering. The bankruptcy code should be suspended for the next six months, at least for MSMEs. And why not a GST holiday for the next three months? The loss of revenue will be Rs. 3-lakh crore at worst, but in reality will be much lower than that because economic activity is at a standstill now. Such a move will ease cash flows for business and also obviate the need for statutory compliances at a time when the focus will have to be on getting businesses back on track. The crisis now is without precedent and the solutions cannot be conservative. Generous support from the government, and quickly delivered, is the need of the hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lives-and-livelihoods/article31313857.ece
11 April 2020||Tokyo,||Olympics in doubt even in 2021: Tokyo CEO||As the coronavirus spreads in Japan, the chief executive of the Tokyo Games said on Friday he wouldn’t be able to guarantee that the postponed Olympics will be staged next year — even with a 16-month delay. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe issued an emergency declaration this week to battle the virus, putting the country under restrictions after it couldn’t avoid the spread. “I don’t think anyone would be able to say if it is going to be possible to get it under control by next July or not,” Tokyo organising committee CEO Toshiro Muto said, speaking through an interpreter at a news conference conducted remotely. “We certainly are not in a position to give you a clear answer.” The Olympics was postponed last month with a new opening set for July 23, 2021, followed by the Paralympics on Aug. 24. “We have made the decision to postpone the games by one year,” said Muto. “So this means that all we can do is work hard to prepare for the Games. We sincerely hope that come next year, mankind will manage to overcome the coronavirus crisis.” Muto was asked several times about the added costs of postponing, which has been estimated by Japanese media at between $2 billion-$6 billion. He said it was too soon to know the price tag and who would pay. He also revealed that the Tokyo organisers had taken insurance policies. “Tokyo 2020 has taken out several insurance policies,” said Muto. “But whether the postponement of the Games qualifies as an event that is covered is not clear yet.” The flame He was also asked about the Olympic flame, which was taken off public display this week in Fukushima prefecture. Muto had an away-from-the-microphone talk with Tokyo spokesman Masa Takaya before talking about the flame. “After the Olympic torch relay was cancelled, the Olympic flame was put under the management of Tokyo 2020,” Muto said. There are suggestions the International Olympic Committee is thinking of taking the flame on a world tour, hoping to use it as a symbol of the battle against the virus. However, any tour would be impossible until travel restrictions are lifted. Taking the flame away from Japan could also upset the hosts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympics-in-doubt-even-in-2021-tokyo-ceo/article31314019.ece
11 April 2020||Melbourne,||Idea was to win back fans: Pat Cummins||The Australian cricket team’s low-key aggression against India during the 2018-19 Test series was more about winning back fans rather than protecting their IPL contracts, said pace spearhead Pat Cummins, rejecting former skipper Michael Clarke’s contentious claims. Overall criticism The India series was only the second Test series after the ball-tampering controversy that led to Steve Smith and David Warner’s suspensions and an overall criticism of their ‘win at all cost’ mentality. “I think probably a bigger factor was six months before leading into that Indian series, the media and everyone commentating on the Aussie cricket team were pretty clear in their direction in the way they wanted the Aussies team to go.  “And that was playing a little bit less aggressively out on the field,” Cummins, who was supposed to be IPL’s highest paid overseas player at Rs. 15.5 crore, told the BBC. However, he didn’t rule out that some players might have harboured thoughts about Clarke’s assumption that they went soft on Indian skipper Virat Kohli in fear of losing out on IPL pay-checks. “I’d say that would have been a bigger factor than trying to win or lose friends out on the cricket field. But you never know, that might have been a factor for some players.” Australia skipper Tim Paine had also rubbished Clarke’s claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/idea-was-to-win-back-fans-pat-cummins/article31314001.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Online blitz event raises nearly Rs. 2.40 lakh||The online-friendly nature of chess played its part perfectly as Chessbase India organised a one-day event that helped raise Rs. 2,39,742 towards PM-CARES fund. Titled, “Let’s Fight Corona Together”, this online blitz chess event attracted 180 players including 17 GMs, with India No. 2 Vidit Gujrathi being the top seed. For the record, Kerala’s rising star Nihal Sarin won the title, ahead of Aravindh Chithambaram and Vidit. The trio tallied eight points each from nine rounds but Nihal was adjudged champion on superior tie-break score. There was no entry fee, but each participant was expected to donate a minimum of Rs. 100 and a maximum of whatever he/she was comfortable with. Live streaming Interestingly, Vidit also did live streaming of his games that raised Rs. 37,028 in two hours. Out of this, a donation of Rs. 25,000 came from a generous Coimbatore-based chess lover, C. Vinith. Among players, notable was the contribution of 16-year-old GM Arjun Erigasi who gave Rs. 25,000 a day before the event. Seasoned GMs Dibyendu Barua, K. Sasikiran and Neelotpal Das contributed Rs. 20,000 each. Nihal, the eventual champion who was a last-minute entry, pitched in with Rs. 7,500. GMs Magesh Chandran, Arun Prasad, M.S. Thej Kumar, N. Srinath and Ankit Rajpara contributed Rs. 5,000 each. GM R.R. Laxman not only chipped in with Rs. 4,500, but also encouraged many to play the event. GM Diptayan Ghosh donated Rs. 3,000. Interestingly, Sasikiran, Arun and Thej were among those who contributed without playing the fund-raiser. Likewise, the trio of S. Vijayalakshmi, Sriram Jha and S. Meenakshi donated Rs. 7000. Unknown contributor Shiv Shome, 13, chose to shell out Rs. 2,500 while an unknown contributor, who did not play, donated Rs. 10,000. IM Sagar Shah and FIDE instructor Niklesh Jain are holding online classes since the beginning of the lockdown to raise funds. Shah, also the co-founder and CEO of Chessbase India, said, “We have raised an additional Rs. 74,179 in the last 16 days through online classes. More importantly every day close to 500 people learn chess live.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/online-blitz-event-raises-nearly-rs-240-lakh/article31314020.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I want to play in next Candidates’||Vidit Gujrathi may be pardoned if he thought he wouldn’t be too busy after the coronavirus crisis forced him to cancel his flight tickets to Europe and the United States. But,the strongest Indian chess player after Viswanathan Anand (World No. 15), Vidit (No. 23) has been playing one online event after the other from his home in Nashik. Fund-raiser On Saturday, the 25-year-old will take on around 20 players from across the world, at the same time on chess.com , in a fund-raising programme for India’s fight against the virus. Anand, P. Harikrishna, B. Adhiban, Koneru Humpy and D. Harika will also be making their moves. The donations from the participants will go to the PM-CARES fund. “I am really looking forward to the event and it is the first time I am giving a simultaneous exhibition online,” Vidit told The Hindu . “I have been part of such events physically, though. Two years ago, I had played against 60 in Rajasthan, and won all the games.” His career in chess had begun in a simultaneous display by a Grandmaster. “I was seven when I played that event against Abhijit Kunte,” he said. “I had drawn that game and Kunte went on to become my coach.” He said he was happy to be part of the chess.com event. “It is great that all the top six Indian players are joining for this noble cause,” he said. “I am told the response from the chess fans has been excellent.” Dual role “I enjoyed it as well; I was giving commentary on my own live games,” he said. “I was also part of the commentary team for the recent Candidates tournament in Russia.” Vidit’s aim is to be a participant in the next Candidates tournament. Given his consistency and age, he is probably India’s best bet to qualify for the Candidates, the winner of which will earn the right to challenge the World champion. “That is my aim now; I think I will be peaking as a player in two years when the Candidates is held,” he said. “I also want to break into the world’s top 10.”  I think I will be peaking as a player in two years when the Candidates is held   On Saturday, Vidit will take on around 20 players simultaneously, on chess.com , in a fund-raising event for India’s fight against the virus V. Anand, P. Harikrishna, B. Adhiban, Koneru Humpy and D. Harika will also be making their moves||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-want-to-play-in-next-candidates/article31314022.ece
11 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Lockdown more challenging than injury recovery: Tirkey||For the first time in his life, Dilip Tirkey could not go to church on Good Friday. He knows that will be the case even on Easter Sunday. Confined to his home in Bhubaneswar during the lockdown, the former India hockey captain — and recently turned professional golfer — is missing golf and public life. But the ex-Member of Parliament understands his responsibility. “As a player, captain, and political leader, I have performed my responsibilities. Now, I am performing my responsibilities as a citizen and obeying the government order to stay at home and contribute in the fight against coronavirus,” Tirkey told The Hindu on Friday. Tirkey is spending time doing exercises, watching news programmes, reading, and playing hockey and ludo with son Jayesh. He doesn’t remember when he last stayed at home for such a long period. “Once, my ankle injury took a long time to heal. But when you are recovering from an injury, the mindset is different. Now, it’s more challenging.” Tirkey feels bad for the boys and girls who have been sent home from different hockey academies in his home district Sundargarh because of the lockdown. ‘Tough for trainees’ “It’s tough for these young players. Even though they are safe at home, they get a lot of facilities at a hostel. Their daily training schedule is stopped. Some of them belong to poor families and their parents are daily wage earners. It is the most difficult phase for those kids.” Tirkey, who has been named chairman of the newly formed Odisha Hockey Promotion Council (OHPC), hoped that the organisation will begin work for the overall development of the sport in the State once the lockdown ends. Right now, Tirkey misses his new love: golf. He finds himself addicted to the sport, having teed off at the Golconda Masters (Hyderabad) and PGTI Players’ Championship (Bengaluru) in February. “I am missing golf. It’s early in my career, but I am enjoying it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lockdown-more-challenging-than-injury-recovery-tirkey/article31314171.ece
11 April 2020||Chennai,||Srinivasan has reinvented himself to stay relevant||In the kaleidoscope that cricket is, careers of various hues appear and disappear creating radiant patterns that only last momentarily. In this turbulent world, K. Srinivasan deserves credit for staying relevant by evolving and reinventing himself. A cricketer, a coach and an umpire, Srinivasan, younger brother of all-rounder K. Barathan, has seen it all. Prolific in local league A brief career for Tamil Nadu in the one-dayers in 1993-94 notwithstanding, the No. 3 strokemaker and off-spinner continued to be a force in first division league with 25 hundreds including a double against Globe Trotters. And in 2000, a heroic Srinivasan, representing SICAL, ambushed the fancied Jolly Rovers with an eight-wicket innings haul followed by 179. Asked to promote Young Stars from second to first division in 2003-04 — the team belonged to Kalpathi Aghoram with whom he has played for CromBest and was looked after by another friend R. Rangarajan — Srinivasan was successful. Never idle, Srinivasan had by then cleared the NCA Level II coaching course. And he coached the Tripura Ranji Trophy team in 2003-04. Gaining in stature Passing umpiring exams, he began standing in Ranji games from 2001; talk about wearing different hats. Gradually, Srinivasan began gaining in stature as an umpire, officiating in Ranji semifinals, tour games, matches between ‘A’ sides and in the IPL in various roles. For the last seven years, he was the chairman of the TNCA umpire’s sub-committee. Last season, he was second in BCCI’s rankings for domestic umpires. Now 54, Srinivasan will retire next year unless he stands in an international game. “Even if I officiate in a Twenty20 international, my retirement age becomes 58. And if I stand in a Test, it is 60.” Srinivasan said, “Instead, why not have medical tests for umpires every year?” Tendulkar’s humility Among his memorable moments as umpire is when Sachin Tendulkar stopped him from tying his shoe-lace — a normal practice for umpires — out of respect in a practice game between the Indian probables in Chennai. “He has so much humility.” And Srinivasan believes players considered tough to handle are great to deal with “if you communicate with them in a direct and honest manner.” Srinivasan is a survivor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srinivasan-has-reinvented-himself-to-stay-relevant/article31314080.ece
11 April 2020||Minsk,||Mannequins in the stands!||They don’t chant, they don’t move, and they mostly wear the wrong colours. They’re not even real! Defending Belarusian league champion Dynamo Brest has started boosting its home crowds with mannequins in soccer shirts and adorned with the faces of virtual fans who bought tickets online. Belarus is the last country in Europe still hosting professional sports in front of spectators amid the coronavirus pandemic, but attendances are shrinking as fans feel the stadium is too risky. Fan boycotts have been announced at 10 of the 16 clubs in the top division. That includes Dynamo Brest and Champions League regular BATE Borisov.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mannequins-in-the-stands/article31314139.ece
11 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||No change in routine for Aruna||For B. Aruna Reddy, India’s first World Cup medal (bronze) winner in gymnastics in February 2018, the lockdown is a blessing in disguise. Aruna is at present undergoing a one-year rehab programme, monitored by South African physical conditioning expert Heath Mathews (working with Reliance Foundation in Mumbai) and her national coach Manoj Rana. In high spirits Aruna had a second surgery for a right knee ligament tear during the Olympics qualification trials in Stuttgart in October last but her spirit is still high. “Frankly, this lockdown doesn’t make any difference to me. Thanks to online, seven-hour daily training sessions in the mornings and evenings, I don’t find any change in my daily routine,” said the 24-year-old Aruna in a chat with The Hindu on Friday. “The only thing which I miss is training on the equipment as well as some weight training,” she said. Aruna said fortunately there are no major events scheduled for her this year and she will re-chart her training and competition schedule after November when the rehab ends. “In fact, my coach is guiding all the national campers across India during this lockdown,” added Aruna. The Hyderabad-based girl is now hoping for two positive developments — to see the job offer from Income Tax materialise and the renewal of the tie-up with Go Sports Foundation. Aruna also acknowledged the support she is getting from Aurobindo Pharma during the rehab. “Right now, the focus is on physical conditioning, with emphasis on upper body strengthening. Only after seven months will I be able to know how it will be when I perform on the apparatus,” said Aruna. This indefatigable gymnast is now solely focused on a phase-wise chase of realising her ultimate goal — to make it to the 2024 Olympics.  The only thing which I miss is training on the equipment as well as some weight training   Right now, the focus is on physical conditioning, with emphasis on upper body strengthening||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-change-in-routine-for-aruna/article31314273.ece
11 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||KCA begins online training for umpires||The Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) has started its online training programme for umpires. The programme is being conducted to prepare its umpires for the BCCI’s Level I test. There are 165 umpires from across the State attending the programme, conducted by Tony Ematty, a BCCI Level II umpire. A whatsapp group of the umpires was formed and audio clips containing the detailed interpretation of the latest edition of MCC laws was provided to them. Former international umpire Tony Kurishinkal and former national panel umpire Ajith Kumar are monitoring the classes. An evaluation test would be conducted at the end of the programme. The KCA had earlier planned to hold regular classes this month, but due to the COVID-19 lockdown, it was forced to switch to online training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kca-begins-online-training-for-umpires/article31314340.ece
11 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Change of plans for Gurpreet||India international footballer Gurpreet Singh Sandhu realised the magnitude of the COVID-19 outbreak when he had to swiftly make arrangements to leave earlier than planned for Sydney, Australia, last month. “I had to change my flight tickets two-three times to come here. I had planned to fly out much later,” Gurpreet said from his home in the New South Wales capital, where he stays with his girlfriend. “I was surprised at that. Four or five days since I landed here, all these matches (the National Rugby League, the A-League and the Australia Football League) were still taking place. I felt it should have been suspended earlier. When something like this happens, sports does not matter as much. As the FA (English Football Association) chief (Greg Clarke) was saying in an interview this week, it’s not about football any more, it’s about human life,” Gurpreet told Sportstar . While the lockdown was enforced in Sydney only on April 3, the Bengaluru FC goalkeeper feels the situation is now under control. “It’s not as bad as other countries. The curve has slowed since the time I have been here. It’s a partial lockdown in Sydney, wherein you can go out to get your essential items. People here realise that we are in a pandemic and can’t go out without good reason while social distancing is being maintained,” he said. An avid gamer, Gurpreet is making the most of his downtime after a hard-fought ISL. “Right now, I am holding on to my Nintendo Switch controller. I play FIFA on Nintendo and Grand Theft Auto on PlayStation.” The two-time ISL Golden Glove winner appealed to everyone in India to stay indoors to help fight the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/change-of-plans-for-gurpreet-sandhu/article31314005.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||BCCI clears contracted players’ dues||The BCCI has cleared the quarterly dues of all its centrally-contracted cricketers and vowed not to let anyone suffer despite the uncertainty triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. Major cricket boards like those of England and Australia have indicated that players will have to take pay cuts. “When the lockdown was announced on March 24, the BCCI was ready for any eventuality. The Board clears quarterly instalments of central contract payments to its players,” a BCCI official told PTI. “Plus the match fees of all those who played for India and India-A during this period, all these dues were cleared at the end of the financial year,” he said. The England and Australian players have admitted openly that they are bracing up for pay cuts. The announcement of central contracts has been postponed in Australia, while England skipper Joe Root has applied for furlough along with his Yorkshire teammates. Under the furlough scheme, the British government pays 80 per cent of wages — up to £2,500 — per month. A BCCI official said the Board’s financial stability helps in testing times when some of the other boards are struggling to even pay their domestic players. “Neither our international nor our domestic cricketers will suffer,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-clears-contracted-players-dues/article31313999.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Grand gesture||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/grand-gesture/article31313997.ece
11 April 2020||New delhi,||AIFF and FIFA to finalise new dates: Patel||The All India Football Federation is in discussion with world body FIFA to retain the original age criteria of the participating players and finalise new dates for the U-17 Women’s World Cup, AIFF president Praful Patel said on Friday. Scheduled to be held in India in November, the event was postponed by FIFA last week. “I am happy to share that we are working with FIFA to choose a new and earliest possible timeline to host the U-17 Women’s World Cup. The LOC [Local Organising Committee] and FIFA are working to finalise new dates keeping health and safety a priority,” Patel tweeted. “We are also in discussions with #FIFA to keep the age criteria of U-17 Women’s World Cup the same, so that all the players who have been working very hard to prepare for the tournament, do not miss an opportunity to play due to the postponement,” Patel added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aiff-and-fifa-to-finalise-new-dates-says-patel/article31313998.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||HNZ cancels India tour||After the suspension of matches in the Europe leg of the Pro League, the Indian men’s hockey team’s home games against New Zealand have also been cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The New Zealand men were scheduled to play back-to-back games on May 23 and 24 in Bhubaneswar. “Following the New Zealand government’s travel restrictions and lockdown, combined with the medical advice of team doctors and in the interests of the health, safety and well-being of our players and support staff, the decision has been made by Hockey New Zealand to cancel our tour of India (men) and China (women) at this present time,” HNZ chief executive Ian Francis said in a statement. While expressing disappointment, Hockey India accepted that the situation was not conducive. “It is disappointing that the matches need to be cancelled, but these are unavoidable circumstances and we support Hockey New Zealand’s decision. Safety of players and their support staff is a top priority. We hope to host them again soon once the situation improves,” HI CEO Elena Norman said, adding that tickets already bought for the same will be refunded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hnz-cancels-india-tour/article31314006.ece
11 April 2020||TIRUCHI:,||Kalaiselvan, Sanjeethwaran scalp six each||M. Kalaiselvan took six for 25 as Kailasapuram registered a 108-run win over Saranathan CE in the Tiruchi DCA second division league. In the third division, S. Sanjeethwaran's six-wicket haul set up UDC’s seven-wicket win over Ponnagar.  The scores: II div.: Kailasapuram 240 in 43.1 overs (M. Karthick 65, P. Santhosh Kumar 61, R. Kishore Kumar 4/28) bt Saranathan CE 132 in 29 overs (M. Madhan Kumar 31, M. Kalaiselvan 6/25).   III div.: Ponnagar 121 in 25.2 overs (J. Rajesh Kumar 41, S. Sanjeethwaran 6/15, S. Madu Balan 4/35) lost to UDC 122/3 in 22.1 overs (D. Dineshkumar 76 n.o.).   Pudukottai RC 149/9 in 44 overs (S. Henry Baskar 34, Barathraj 30, M. Vignesh 4/35) lost to KK Nagar 155/3 in 28.1 overs (M. Saravanan 44 n.o., V. Hanoosh Vijayan 35).   IV div.: Manapparai 135/8 in 30 overs (P. Sakthivel 49, V. Surya 25, T. Balachander 3/24) lost to Golden Chariot-A 139/4 in 27.2 overs (S. Sriramulu 37, T. Balachander 27 n.o, R. Seventhilingam 3/29).   V div.: Desert Rose 149/7 in 27 overs (R. Karthik 37, R. Manikandan 30) bt Golden Chariot-B 148/8 in 27 overs (R. Karuppiah 73).   Dolphin 141/9 in 30 overs (G. Subbash 55) bt Krish 128 in 28.5 overs (R. Suresh 4/20, R. Raghul 4/29).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kalaiselvan-sanjeethwaran-scalp-six-each/article31314138.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Narasimha praised||One of the names by which Lord Mahavishnu is praised in the Vishnu Sahasranama is Sandhaata. This is a reference to His avatara as Narasimha, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. As Narasimha, He calls out to devotees like Prahlada, and keeps them beside Him. The next nama is Sandhimaan. This means that not only does He draw His bhaktas to His side, but He also ensures that they are beside Him always, and are not separated from Him. Narasimha is Sthirah, which means that even if those who are with Him should err, while they are with Him, He willingly forgives them and overlooks their errors. He is Ajah. This means that His birth is unusual. He suddenly sprang from a pillar. Vedanta Desika says that because of the Narasimha avatara, a pillar became Brahma’s grandmother! Vishnu is the father of Brahma, and since Vishnu as Narasimha, appeared from a pillar, naturally, the pillar becomes Brahma’s grandmother! Narasimha is Durmarshanah, because enemies cannot face Him. He is Saasta, because He punished the wicked in a way they deserved. He is Visrudaatma. This indicates that the story of Narasimha is one that should be heard by everyone. He is Suraarihaa, because He tore up the enemy of the celestials, namely Hiranyakasipu. Ramanujacharya appointed 74 Simhasanadipathis to carry forward the Visishtadvaita philosophy, and for every one of them, Narasimha was the Aradhana murthi. Nammazhvar asks, will anyone study about anyone but Rama, for by association with Him, even blades of grass were liberated? In the following verse, Nammazhvar extols the Krishna avatara. But he finally says knowledgeable persons will not want to learn anything except the glories of the Narasimha avatara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/narasimha-praised/article31313932.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 07:38 IST,||Sudoku - April 11, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-11-2020/article31314885.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Revisiting a Bengali meal||My mother — as I have often said — couldn’t (or perhaps wouldn’t) boil an egg. But she had friends who could not just boil eggs, but also turn them into various kinds of Bengali delicacies. One aunt, in particular, wielded magic in the kitchen. Sakti Mashi’s food was something to die for. Her vegetable dishes, cooked with just a sprinkling of spices, or her fish, with tangy mustard, would leave us licking our fingers. I am reminded of her every time someone serves me good Bengali food. I developed a taste for the cuisine rather late in my life, but now I am a lifetime member of the Bengali food lovers’ club. I remember the time when you didn’t get Bengali food anywhere outside of Bengali homes in Delhi. The few places that were there — such as Basu Lodge in Gole Market — were like pice hotels, serving wholesome but basic dishes. With the Internet, all that has changed. There are Bengali takeaways and Bengali chefs who deliver on order. I had food delivered from one such outfit a few days ago. The food was outstanding, but first let me tell you about the platform that brings regional cuisine and patrons together. It’s called homefoodi (Homefoodi.com; telephone no: 9560107937). This site and app opens up the world of Indian regional food. Homefoodi has enlisted an army of home cooks who offer all kinds of delicious regional delicacies — Bengali, Maharashtrian, Rajasthani, Tamil, among others. A team from Homefoodi tests out the chefs, taking particular interest in the cleanliness measures adopted by them. Right now, they only deliver to areas in Noida, Greater Noida and Indirapuram. My food came from an outlet known as Kimbodonti Rannaghar, run by a formidable chef called Sharmila Maity. These are trying times, for not every ingredient is easily available. Fresh fish is a problem, so I had a Bengali meal without any kind of fish. Instead, there was a dish of bottle gourd and shrimps, called lau chingri (Rs. 150). I had asked for chholar dal , or chana dal (Rs. 60) and shukto — a delicate dish of mixed vegetables (Rs. 75). The chef sent me a steamed egg curry, fried pumpkin flower fritters, and a dessert that I am greatly fond of, bhapa doi (steamed, sweetened and flavoured hung curd; Rs. 90). We had a great Bong meal, indeed. First the dal . The Bengali chholar dal is mildly sweet, a taste that I have grown to like. It also has bits of fried coconut in it, which I love. I had that with some rice, and then ate the shukto — brinjal, drumsticks, broad beans, radish, bitter gourd, and other such veggies, cooked with fried dal balls in a light, mildly bitter sauce. This was excellent, and set the tone for the next dish, the lau chingri . The lau chingri in our house is rather nice, but this was different, and equally tasty, I thought. I had a feeling the bottle gourd had been cooked in a bit of milk, which gave it a creamy consistency. The egg dish — steamed omelette pieces in a tomato gravy — was interesting, and I ended the very satisfactory meal with a delicious bowl of bhapa doi . It was different from my mother-in-law’s memorable version, but I enjoyed it. I thought it was almost like a cheesecake. The meal opened up the floodgates of memory. I finished the last bit of the bhapa doi , and remembered the aunts. They are up there somewhere, tempering food with panch phoron . And I guess my mother is looking at a boiled egg with considerable interest. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/revisiting-a-bengali-meal/article31314190.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Canvas of a forbidden romance||If one were to describe Portrait of a Lady on Fire (streaming on Mubi) in a very consciously poetic way, however cheesy it may sound, it would be a cinematic painting rife with a palette full of emotions. There’s something overwhelmingly heartfelt about the love story between Heloise and Marianne, yet a certain artistic formalism and restraint which only multiplies its appeal. Set in the 18th-century, on the island of Brittany in France, the film is about aristocrat Heloise (Adele Haenel) and painter Marianne (Noemie Merlant). The latter is commissioned by the Countess, to make Heloise's portrait on the sly, while pretending to be a companion during walks to the sea. Heloise is set to be married off to a nobleman in Milan. The sexual frisson and tension between Heloise and Marianne is evident from the first frame itself. One unbending and haughty, the other limpid. It’s a slow and steady discovery of each other, a gradual peeling, layer by layer. Both enamoured by each other, mysteries and puzzles waiting to be solved, enigmas in need of being understood. Celine Sciamma’s world is one that is entirely populated by women as well as owned by them. So is the gaze an overtly feminine one. A woman painter looking at the object who also happens to be a woman and the object in turn looking back at her. “If you look at me, who do I look at?” Heloise asks Marianne rhetorically. And a web of intimacies and longing is spun between the observer and the observed in that one moment. Add to that another layer; that both of them, in turn, are being looked at by a woman filmmaker from behind the camera. The film flows langorously within these womanly ways of seeing. Forbidden desires brim over and passions surge like the choppy seas or scalding flames but Sciamma frames them with her uniquely gentle and graceful eye. She renders something impeccable and measured yet profound to the feelings. The protocols of love are gently negotiated. Away from the trap of marriage, is freedom in being alone. But then, as Heloise states, in a most disarming and honest expression of love: “In solitariness, I feel liberty but I also feel your absence.” There are many such moments of tenderness that are held in time, to pause and ponder on. Above it all, looms the story of Orpheus and Eurydice and the significance of the former turning around. It’s a film about being caught between being brave and docile, between resisting and giving in. How far is it possible to go? There’s something oddly uplifting in the heartbreaking finale and the camera lingering on, on Haenel’s face forever and ever. A moment when the actor gives it her all to bring out the boundless pain of the forbidden and deep unfulfilled desires. Portrait of a Lady on Fire is drenched in romance, in the possibilities and impossibilities, the aches and pains and the pleasures and glory of glorious love.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/canvas-of-a-forbidden-romance/article31314203.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Never better||It was when I had watched the clip of Malaika Arora’s recipe for besan laddu for the 23rd time that my wife may have decided. Actually, it was just after, I think, when I began trawling YouTube for Helen’s recipes for akkaravadisal . ‘I think you need to talk to a professional,’ she said. ‘Like Arusuvai Arasu or Mountbatten Mani Iyer, you mean?’ I said. My besan laddu had come out so-so. When I was made to throw it out, a squirrel suffered a concussion and had to be rushed to hospital. ‘No, a mental health professional,’ she said. Then she said something else under her breath. The poor thing has been doing that of late. ‘Me?’ I said, somewhat taken aback. ‘I’ll have you know I’m in the finest mental health I have ever been.’ ‘I know. And that’s not a good thing,’ she said, giving me a card. ‘Here, call her.’ “Dr Mythili Kurkuresh: When You Are Down, There is Nowhere To Go But Up” said her card. She was right, I suppose. Unless there was a basement. And a secret bunker under the basement. And a long tunnel beneath that led to Patala , aka T Nagar. ‘Can I call her after I check out Alia Bhatt’s recipe for hot water?’ I said. ‘You must see it. The same water can be used to make boiled eggs. It’s brilliant, I tell you.’ ‘Now!’ she said. So I did. ‘Hello,’ I said. ‘O my dear doctor ...’ ‘What is the matter?’ said Dr Kurkuresh, as if expecting me. ‘ Sugam illey , Doctor,’ I said. ‘ Nalla puriyidu matter,’ she responded. I wondered why our conversation sounded familiar. ‘My wife thinks I should talk to you, Doctor. She is under the impression I’m not handling things too well.’ ‘Oh,’ she said. ‘It’s about you . Everyone is so needy. It’s always me-me-me-me. All day. Like I have nothing else to do.’ ‘That’s pretty selfish of them, Doc,’ I said. ‘People are so inconsiderate. Tell me, what’s up with you?’ ‘My husband is a numskull. As for the kids, don’t ask. Other than that everything is shipshape.’ ‘Are you allowed to use words like numskull?’ I asked hesitantly. ‘I am. You’re not,’ she said. ‘Doesn’t... er... your husband help with the cooking?’ I said. ‘Not in the least,’ she said. ‘And he wants samosas , cashew pakora , and peanut masala (exactly like they make it at the club) every night. To go with his drinks, he says.’ ‘There is a simple masala pattani recipe that Disha Patani has posted. Tiger Shroff has endorsed it with several heart emojis. Perhaps you could show it to him.’ ‘How’s that going to help me?’ she said. ‘Do you have any videos of John Abraham breaking people’s necks with minimum fuss?’ ‘Er... no, but you know what, Doc,’ I said attempting to change the subject. ‘Ambujam Mami from next door is still continuing with her Bharatanatyam practice. She is planning something called an Aruvadaam Arangetram for coming Margazhi.’ ‘Really?’ she said. ‘And this poet friend of mine, she wants to stand on the highway and read select verse about longing from her latest collection to the migrants.’ ‘Tell me more,’ said the doc. ‘I have this NRI cousin who clanged his plate from his terrace in Palo Alto, California. The cops took him away as he kept screaming “ Thali hai to mumkin hai ” or some such thing.’ ‘Business is going to be outstanding, I tell you,’ said the doc. ‘Same time tomorrow, okay. I’ll give you special lockdown discount.’ Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/never-better/article31313829.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Postpone, don’t cancel: how to save your favourite boutique hotel||You are at home, into the 18th day of lockdown, looking at a future devoid of getaway plans. Meanwhile, your favourite resort has called to let you know that your booking has been rescheduled and that you can either cancel or let them keep the advance for later. As it turns out, the latter is one of the ways that you, the guest, can help a brand to stay afloat during these troubling times. The tourist season differs across the country. The hill stations in the East, North, West and South have a great run in the summer, with the beach resorts picking up at the fag end (and when the Southwest monsoon sets in). While the future is unclear, there’s an immediate crisis for smaller resorts that don’t have huge cash reserves to dip into to support their eco-system: drivers, guides, cooks, cleaning staff. Most have disbursed salaries for March, but April is going to be a long haul.  How are resorts coping?  From running a full house at the beginning of the season to sliding to zero income, properties across the country have taken a huge hit. “We are in the same position as those stranded in the desert with just a bottle of water,” says Jose Dominic, co-founder and former CEO of Kerala-based CGH Earth. “Sharing is the only way we can tide over this and survive. We’ve paid our March salaries, and in the hospitality industry salaries form 1/5th of our outlay. Going forward, we’ll ensure every employee has food on the table and can sustain his/her family. This is a global phenomenon, so we all are in this together.”  Make an advance payment  If you’ve already paid for a holiday, request to defer it (unless you’re badly off too and need a refund). At The Ibnii Coorg, a deferred credit note has been given to guests. “We are looking at offering guests an advance booking window of six months that they can use [to book at prevailing rates] for future use,” says Shreya Krishnan, CSR and Marketing Advisor. At present, the staff are drying turmeric and making paper bags and our home-made fig-based face packs and scrubs. Ibnii also has the advantage of being “a three-six-hour driving distance” from cities such as Mysuru, Bengaluru and Mangaluru. SerendipityO runs three resorts in the Nilgiris, including 180 McIver Villa, where much of the Karan Johar-produced film, Kapoor & Sons , was shot. Owner Ambareen Junaid says that most of their guests are regulars. “They’ve been kind and told us to keep the advance because they will return sometime,” she says, adding, “Resorts can’t be abandoned. Someone has to stay back to oversee things. We cannot cut our staff; we are mutually dependant. For those who pre-book, we are looking at showing them our thanks in the form of giftables like high-grade tea and coffee or homemade jams.”  Shift in guest profile  Dominic of CGH Earth, which manages close to 20 resorts, knows first-hand the impact of the lockdown. The tourist who jumped quarantine at a Munnar resort and boarded an Emirates flight to Dubai from Kochi had initially stayed at a CGH property. “We sanitised the premises and our staff was quarantined. We took care of them,” he says. In fact, resorts in Kerala faced the initial brunt, as the State was an early actor and clamped down on foreign tourist arrivals. The CHG Earth Group handles about 300 rooms on an average, across its properties in Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. In some resorts, more than 60% of its bookings are by foreigners. “Our Marari Beach Resort is one such. It is almost like an alumni meet every year, with so many guests returning. But we will have to rethink our strategy whenever we open for business again. Of course, there will be fantastic deals offered. And we expect a paradigm shift in the way people see travel — I expect a lot more Indian guests than before.”  What the future holds  Helene Menezes of The Secret Garden, a quirky three-room ancestral homestay in Saligao, Goa, says she has not returned deposits, but has made them all redeemable for future use. She receives a mix of Indian and foreign tourists. Will deals be part of their future packages? “I don’t see the benefit of slashing rates; our standards, including our staff, would inevitably suffer. It would not attract like-minded clientele who are in tune with our philosophy. However, offers for long-stays or midweek stays will definitely be on offer once things return to normal.”  During the lockdown, we would like our regular guests to still speak about their experience at The Ibnii — post pictures and reviews. Everything counts, and by writing about the experience, you can also mentally travel back in time to a happier space — Shreya Krishnan, The Ibnii Coorg   After lockdown is lifted, guests can help us recover by travelling again. Also, they should not expect heavy discounts — we are all bleeding. At the same time, resorts should not over charge either. And we hopes guests will order our plantation coffee, pepper, cardamom, and our popular strawberry jam — Ambareen Junaid, SerendipityO||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/postpone-dont-cancel-how-to-save-your-favourite-boutique-hotel/article31313803.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Blinding corona to death||So what were you doing at 9 pm last Sunday? I was standing on the terrace with my whole family and we all lit candles and arranged them on a row along the parapet. They looked beautiful. But it was somehow not quite satisfying enough. So, we all switched on our mobile phone torches and waved them about. People on the opposite terrace waved back. About four minutes had passed by and there were still five minutes to go — surely, we could do something a bit more dramatic? Before I could say Sivakasi, my neighbour lit a flowerpot and it went up splendidly in a shower of colours and lots of smoke. Not to be left behind, the family on our left burst a chocolate bomb. We were getting into the spirit of things. After all, we were fighting as a nation to keep the darkness away. It is what we had been asked to do and we were determined to do it well. Sonia who lives in Indira Nagar called to say that they were not lagging behind either. Inspired by some TV visuals, they had decided to take out a small candle-light procession. Sonia said that had she been in her native Daryaganj she could have easily arranged for some flaming torches, but Chennai is a bit unimaginative that way and they had to be satisfied with candles. It looks romantic, she said. What about social distancing, I asked? Hadn’t we been asked to stay indoors? Don’t be silly, she exclaimed. It is important to take this outdoors, otherwise the photos do not look good and what will I post on Facebook? She had used the magic word — photograph. We have been seeing so many visuals of Italians singing from balconies and the Spanish clapping hands and the French being French that we were beginning to feel distinctly left out of the pandemic photo essay. Finally, we were getting our chance. And I must say we did it better than anyone else because the very next day my college classmate posted a NASA photo that showed India glowing like a jewel on the world map. And UNESCO has also issued a certificate that our lockdown is the best in the world. Fighting the coronavirus has not been easy. Staying indoors, standing in disciplined queues, not crowding, wearing masks — it has all been very taxing. The most taxing thing, of course, is the housework. I had to tell my cook and my gardener and my top worker and Sunday masseuse not to come and it is all proving too much for me. I read about this really clever lady in Bengaluru who apparently smuggles her cook into the building by making her hide under a blanket in the legroom of the car. Sadly, my cook is too healthy to fit there, so that option too is not available for me.  Rajasthan Patrika has reported that many families, suffering without cooks, are taking home food from the kitchens set up for the poor. I tried to do that, but the food was not great and anyway now Swiggy is back. Thankfully, I have stock-piled 15 bottles of sanitiser, so I disinfect the gate, the latch, food cartons, paper napkins, sanitiser bottle, everything. There is nothing like being too safe. Last night, my friend Shalini called from Thrissur. She says the Kerala CM’s 6 pm press meet has become the most popular TV show there. He updates them about COVID-19, the steps he is taking, the relief measures, etc. Frankly, I think it is too much info. Why confuse ordinary people with all these details? Shalini says information can help us fight the pandemic. Well, each to her own. I personally think these clever Sunday tasks are far more effective. It gives people a chance to fight for the country with whatever they have — plates, pans, flowerpot,chakra. That is the way to include citizens and make them feel contented. In fact, there was such a festive air in the city that evening that I wanted to take my husband’s gun and fire some shots in the air. After all, what is a celebration without some noise. Sadly, he has sent it away for cleaning. In UP, however, BJP leader Manju Tiwari did fire in the air. Maybe I will get a chance next Sunday to take a pot-shot at Corona. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/blinding-corona-to-death/article31313817.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Hello, hoarders||We are living through desperate times. On the one hand, millions of displaced people are dying of hunger and malnutrition, while on the other, the more fortunate are hoarding, preparing for a doomsday scenario. Noble Jones’ The Tomorrow Man , a 2018 film that premièred at Sundance, now seems eerily prescient. John Lithgow plays a sexagenarian retired systems analyst in small town America, who enters into a relationship with the quirky Blythe Danner, who is in the same age bracket as him. They both have secrets, but it is Lithgow’s that is germane to this column. I’m not giving anything away by revealing it, because the trailer, which you’ll no doubt watch, features it too. Their relationship matures to the point where Lithgow feels confident enough to show her his secret. A fancy magnetic key opens the door to his garage. And what’s inside would put any of today’s supermarkets to shame. It is packed to the rafters with all manners of tinned goods, including soup, tomatoes, marmite, tuna, you name it, enough to ride out the apocalypse. This memory of The Tomorrow Man led me to check if there are any other examples of films about hoarding, and sure enough, there are. Christian Trumble’s Obsessive Compulsive Hoarder , a 2012 documentary from UK broadcaster Channel 4 followed chronic hoarder Richard Wallace, who was so out of control that his own life was in danger. A pile of paper and packaging filled his home floor to ceiling, and alarmingly, around the gas cooker where he made his frugal repast of boiled eggs and toast. The residents of his village shunned him, until landscape gardener Andy steps in to help. The National Health Service checks in to see the state of Richard’s mental health. In the 2018 BBC programme, My Hoarder Mum & Me , television presenter Jasmine Harman tried to help her extreme hoarder mother to clear clutter accumulated over 30 years, so that her 12-year-old brother can return home to live there. David C Coffin’s 2019 documentary, Beyond Hoarding, also looks at the practice as a psychiatric disorder. It follows those with the affliction, with mental health experts weighing in with their opinions. Likewise, Lucy Leveugle’s 2007 documentary World of Compulsive Hoarders treats hoarding as a mental condition and follows the lives of four hoarders. Meanwhile, a horror film called Possessions has been announced. It is supposed to be the first in a trilogy that looks at the reasons behind hoarding. Personally I support only one form of hoarding, stockpiling movies. The lockdown day will come when we run out of streaming choices, and, in an extreme scenario, the internet will cease to function. In such a bleak world, assuming there is electricity, no one can come between my teetering piles of Blu-rays and DVDs and me.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/hello-hoarders/article31313832.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Let’s call it a Day||Sunday? Or is it Wednesday? I can’t tell. When you have been indoors this long, the concept of time just seems to become meaningless. Let’s just get rid of the letters before ‘-day’. So, it’s a Day. It’s been a Day for two months now. During the initial Days, I was able to spend time in absolute bliss. I primarily work from home, I prefer being at home rather than going out, and I have cancelled countless plans to enjoy my time in my room and in bed, whiling away time. Cut to toDay, I am still in my room, and in bed, whiling away time. But there’s this gnawing feeling that refuses to go away. I look for solace online, but everyone else is going through the same thing as I am. Some have it even worse. So I decide to make Dalgona coffee. It takes forever to make and it tastes like wasted effort. So I go online again, to find something to watch. We didn’t think about it before, because normal life was all-consuming, but it is only now you realise the sheer amount of things that exist for us to see. So, what should you pick? If you pop on to Instagram, thousands of influencers are going online at the same time, doing live streams of themselves dancing, singing, or just staring blankly at the screen, maybe in the hope that they might find some meaning to this madness. Some are exercising, but I haven’t reached that state of despair yet. I should, but naps are better, in my opinion. I’ve started learning Korean. It’s actually fun, and makes me feel like I’ve actually done something productive. I’m watching a lot of TV shows and movies. Tiger King is worth the hype, I haven’t had the motivation to watch Money Heist yet and Taarak Mehta ka Ooltah Chashma is comforting, so when I feel too overwhelmed, I watch old episodes and get nostalgic. Also, because I’m in the lockdown with three adults, I am inadvertently also watching Ramayana , which is simulcast on two television screens in my house. I started reading Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy again. All this while we thought this book was a piece of fiction, when Douglas Adams was actually trying to tell us our future. These are unforeseen times, you’ve got to do, what you’ve got to do to keep your mind engaged. Maybe I’ll bake banana bread today. Supriya Joshi is a writer, stand-up comedian and an expert in washing dishes and dusting. Watch her special,Love Hurts, on Netflix||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lets-call-it-a-day/article31313837.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Quarantined monologues||Conan O’Brien’s giant forehead is like a topographical map of Mars, all red and craggy. Also, Stephen Colbert thinks the extraterrestrial undulations on his face are only heightened, courtesy the local morgue’s lighting. The two late night veterans are firing jabs aplenty on YouTube whilst socially distanced. Ever since production has halted, stars of late night television have been forced to develop stripped-down DIY adaptations of their regular offering. Sans studio lighting, live bands and a full-house audience to applaud and chortle at jokes, they’ve also thrown glamour out the window. Instead, they are the new ‘it’ YouTubers. In complying with ‘the show must go on’ adage, these hosts with the most(s) have taken the challenge head on, whether it is to raise funds to fight the virus or simply just brighten someone’s day. Peers and politics While some late night heroes have outwitted their obstacles, others have buckled under the pressure. For instance, long before he swallowed Colbert’s scathing remarks like a champ, O’Brien proved himself to be the king of web exclusive content, even branching out into the incredibly popular podcast,Conan O’Brien Needs a Friend. While, Team Coco’s (his YouTube channel) videos get a few lakh views soon after release, it is his after-show that cruises into the millions. His latest shenanigan, shot by himself, includes checking in on staff member Jordan Schlansky, who is often accused by O’Brien of being a robot. This time it is Schlansky’s alternatives to toilet paper that earns his boss’ ridicule. Spoiler alert: Indians do it all the time! Plus, it sparked an intellectually stimulating debate on post-ablution cleanliness in the comments, with gems like “shower gel or soap and just wash it like you would your underarms...”. Those that rely on political humour to snag those ratings continue with the usual monologue – these days it is mostly about a certain Cheeto’s inability to handle a crisis. Colbert, who is high up on the political humour ranking, pulls out all the stops: submerging himself suit-clad in a bathtub, and getting his kids to do his make-up as he cracks the jokes. Of course, now he’s upped the game with a satellite truck and a minimal production crew, much to the envy of both O’Brien and Last Week Tonight ’s John Oliver. Pursuit of happiness Meanwhile, Trevor Noah, now known as sweatshirt king, continues with his commentary on political affairs on the rechristened, The Daily Social Distancing Show . But he has also introduced something called ‘Ray of Sunshine’. Good news in these dark times could include the clear sky New Delhi is enjoying, almost like a makeover courtesy Queer Eye ’s Fab Five. With 17,31,475 views, it is safe to say he’s doing something right. Following suit is the ever-so-charming Seth Meyers, whose own ‘The Kind of Story We Need Right Now’ premiered the tale of The Industrious Spirit Company in Rhode Island. Their noble efforts include manufacturing and giving away hand sanitiser for free while continuing their production of vodka. “I’m so psyched... we do need both,” quips Meyers. In the deep sea of testosterone that rules late night television, Samantha Bee represents team oestrogen. Her Little Show in the Big Woods — yes, she’s so rich her backyard looks like a forest — is filmed by the safe minimal crew of her husband. Bee makes sure to tackle women’s issues during the pandemic, like domestic abuse, abortion rights and mental labour. And finds time to chop wood and hunt animated bears with toilet paper. Family ties Comedy and celebrity voyeurism, it seems, trumps information and politics. Humour, after all, is a balm in crisis. But a peek into the lives of the rich and famous seems to be the clear winner of the quarantine culture war. The Jimmys of late night, who rely mostly on guests and games, now rope in their family to grab eyeballs. It is working and how. When Fallon’s adorable girls aren’t interrupting his show wanting gummy bears, he’s telling the world about falling in love with his wife. Or he is whooshing down an indoor slide, artwork in hand, in lieu of opening credits. Kimmel opts to play Who Wants to Be a Millionaire — which he will host very soon — with his daughter Jane and son Billy. The questions are ridiculously cute: which animal eats a banana and what does an elephant have on its trunk. Meanwhile, guests like Ellen Degeneres (who stirred up controversy for comparing quarantine in her $27 million mansion to being in jail) and the cast of Modern Family ahead of their series finale, rake in views totalling more than a lakh mere hours after release. Not to be left behind, Hasan Minhaj and his newly-christened Hasan from a Distance, with his wife as camera person, has a book club with his daughter and cuddles with his newborn son. With no definitive end to the lockdown in sight, the new normal, it seems, is taking on a very homemade flavour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/quarantined-monologues/article31313827.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Books to the rescue||Our socials are filled with people rediscovering books. Today, Roli Books is hosting History Hour with Moin Mir and William Dalrymple. They will be talking about Indo-European love stories in the 18th and 19th centuries. At 5.30 pm on @rolibooks. For kids, actor Steve Carell readsThe Circus Shipon @savewithstories, an initiative by Amy Adams and Jennifer Garner. And country singer Dolly Parton has launched a 10-week series of children's book readings calledGoodnight With Dollyon imaginationlibrary.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/books-to-the-rescue/article31313841.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||A Bocelli Easter||Most churchgoers won’t be able to enter a place of worship this Easter Sunday. Except Italian opera singer Andrea Bocelli. Accompanied only by cathedral organist Emanuele Vianelli, the tenor will perform at the historic Duomo Cathedral in Milan, Italy — to empty pews, of course. Sacred pieces on the set list for the show, titledBocelli: Music for Hope,include ‘Ave Maria’ and Mascagni’s ‘Sancta Maria.’ Watch it live on his YouTube channel at 10.30 pm IST on Sunday, April 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-bocelli-easter/article31313843.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Cooking in quarantine||A running joke during the lockdown is that everyone is either baking bread or becoming a masterchef. Isolation Cooks on Instagram is documenting recipes shared by followers to get an insight into how people are using cooking to cope with stress. And if you are just getting acquainted with the kitchen, join the Facebook open group ‘Simple recipes for complicated times’. Seasoned cooks and newbies are sharing their daily recipes via posts, encouraging each other to try new dishes and reinvent old ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cooking-in-quarantine/article31313845.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Carnatic escape||Social media is the new concert stage, and Aalaap, the Chennai-based arts management company, has a lineup of artistes ready to keep the classics alive. Today, from 4 pm, vocalist Bharathi Ramasubban will explore the “landscape of language” with voice andthambura. @aalaap_concepts Meanwhile, the YouTube channel, First Edition Arts, is a storehouse of Hindustani and Carnatic performances by stalwarts including TM Krishna, Rama Ravi, Poornima Kulkarni, Apoorva Gokhale and Raghunandan Panshikar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/carnatic-escape/article31313847.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Continuing a series of Instagram Live sessions this weekend, we will be joined by Jishnu Dasgupta, bass guitarist of folk-fusion band Swarathma. He will talk about their new single, ‘Mushkil Mein Jeena’, a gentle reminder of how to deal with difficulties. At 6 pm today. On April 15, Dr Sheela Nambiar, obstetrician and gynaecologist, will have an interactive session for expectant mothers. Send in your questions to weekend@thehindu.co.in and tune in at 6 pm on Wednesday @thehinduweekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lockdownwithweekend/article31313849.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Lego and Covid-19||What started as a photo project activity for Zippora Madhukar’s two sons, aged 10 and five, in Chennai, has turned into an awareness building exercise on Instagram. Using Lego characters and other toys as props, the images feature Spiderman doing a home workout, while Batman delivers groceries using a drone. More poignant topics — doctors who cannot be with their children right now, scientists who are trying to find a cure and the migrant worker exodus — are also covered. Follow @zipporamadhukar for more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lego-and-covid-19/article31313851.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Girl power||Girls' Night In, a self-care community and weekly newsletter, has put together a virtual social distancing care package called Stay Home, Take Care. Depending on what you want to do — feel comforted, be entertained, connect with others — there are many options. The Letter Project allows women to write letters to young girls who are going through a hard time. Dance Church offers a fun and inclusive approach to dancing, with a 90-minute live class on Wednesdays and Saturdays. On stayhometakecare.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/girl-power/article31313853.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||One World: Together At Home: Lady Gaga brings artistes together for advocacy organisation, Global Citizen. The TV special, featuring Paul McCartney, Stevie Wonder and Billie Eilish, is set to raise funds to help combat the spread of the coronavirus. Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Shah Rukh Khan, among others, are also on the list. Wonder who is going to go most viral from this show! On April 18. Stream live on YouTube, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article31313855.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Keukenhof Flower Exhibit: Last Easter weekend, Holland's "tulip belt" welcomed about 17 million tourists. In the rush to get the perfect picture for Instagram, too many people trampled the tulips. With the gardens closed till June this year, the flowers get a break. But we can still enjoy them from afar: the gardeners take us to their favourite spots in videos shared on their timeline. Follow @visitkeukenhof||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article31313839.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Postpone, don’t cancel: how to save your favourite boutique hotel||You are at home, into the 18th day of lockdown, looking at a future devoid of getaway plans. Meanwhile, your favourite resort has called to let you know that your booking has been rescheduled and that you can either cancel or let them keep the advance for later. As it turns out, the latter is one of the ways that you, the guest, can help a brand to stay afloat during these troubling times. The tourist season differs across the country. The hill stations in the East, North, West and South have a great run in the summer, with the beach resorts picking up at the fag end (and when the Southwest monsoon sets in). While the future is unclear, there’s an immediate crisis for smaller resorts that don’t have huge cash reserves to dip into to support their eco-system: drivers, guides, cooks, cleaning staff. Most have disbursed salaries for March, but April is going to be a long haul.  How are resorts coping?  From running a full house at the beginning of the season to sliding to zero income, properties across the country have taken a huge hit. “We are in the same position as those stranded in the desert with just a bottle of water,” says Jose Dominic, co-founder and former CEO of Kerala-based CGH Earth. “Sharing is the only way we can tide over this and survive. We’ve paid our March salaries, and in the hospitality industry salaries form 1/5th of our outlay. Going forward, we’ll ensure every employee has food on the table and can sustain his/her family. This is a global phenomenon, so we all are in this together.”  Make an advance payment  If you’ve already paid for a holiday, request to defer it (unless you’re badly off too and need a refund). At The Ibnii Coorg, a deferred credit note has been given to guests. “We are looking at offering guests an advance booking window of six months that they can use [to book at prevailing rates] for future use,” says Shreya Krishnan, CSR and Marketing Advisor. At present, the staff are drying turmeric and making paper bags and our home-made fig-based face packs and scrubs. Ibnii also has the advantage of being “a three-six-hour driving distance” from cities such as Mysuru, Bengaluru and Mangaluru. SerendipityO runs three resorts in the Nilgiris, including 180 McIver Villa, where much of the Karan Johar-produced film, Kapoor & Sons , was shot. Owner Ambareen Junaid says that most of their guests are regulars. “They’ve been kind and told us to keep the advance because they will return sometime,” she says, adding, “Resorts can’t be abandoned. Someone has to stay back to oversee things. We cannot cut our staff; we are mutually dependant. For those who pre-book, we are looking at showing them our thanks in the form of giftables like high-grade tea and coffee or homemade jams.”  Shift in guest profile  Dominic of CGH Earth, which manages close to 20 resorts, knows first-hand the impact of the lockdown. The tourist who jumped quarantine at a Munnar resort and boarded an Emirates flight to Dubai from Kochi had initially stayed at a CGH property. “We sanitised the premises and our staff was quarantined. We took care of them,” he says. In fact, resorts in Kerala faced the initial brunt, as the State was an early actor and clamped down on foreign tourist arrivals. The CHG Earth Group handles about 300 rooms on an average, across its properties in Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. In some resorts, more than 60% of its bookings are by foreigners. “Our Marari Beach Resort is one such. It is almost like an alumni meet every year, with so many guests returning. But we will have to rethink our strategy whenever we open for business again. Of course, there will be fantastic deals offered. And we expect a paradigm shift in the way people see travel — I expect a lot more Indian guests than before.”  What the future holds  Helene Menezes of The Secret Garden, a quirky three-room ancestral homestay in Saligao, Goa, says she has not returned deposits, but has made them all redeemable for future use. She receives a mix of Indian and foreign tourists. Will deals be part of their future packages? “I don’t see the benefit of slashing rates; our standards, including our staff, would inevitably suffer. It would not attract like-minded clientele who are in tune with our philosophy. However, offers for long-stays or midweek stays will definitely be on offer once things return to normal.”  During the lockdown, we would like our regular guests to still speak about their experience at The Ibnii — post pictures and reviews. Everything counts, and by writing about the experience, you can also mentally travel back in time to a happier space — Shreya Krishnan, The Ibnii Coorg   After lockdown is lifted, guests can help us recover by travelling again. Also, they should not expect heavy discounts — we are all bleeding. At the same time, resorts should not over charge either. And we hopes guests will order our plantation coffee, pepper, cardamom, and our popular strawberry jam — Ambareen Junaid, SerendipityO||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/postpone-dont-cancel-how-to-save-your-favourite-boutique-hotel/article31314201.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Quarantined monologues||Conan O’Brien’s giant forehead is like a topographical map of Mars, all red and craggy. Also, Stephen Colbert thinks the extraterrestrial undulations on his face are only heightened, courtesy the local morgue’s lighting. The two late night veterans are firing jabs aplenty on YouTube whilst socially distanced. Ever since production has halted, stars of late night television have been forced to develop stripped-down DIY adaptations of their regular offering. Sans studio lighting, live bands and a full-house audience to applaud and chortle at jokes, they’ve also thrown glamour out the window. Instead, they are the new ‘it’ YouTubers. In complying with ‘the show must go on’ adage, these hosts with the most(s) have taken the challenge head on, whether it is to raise funds to fight the virus or simply just brighten someone’s day. Peers and politics While some late night heroes have outwitted their obstacles, others have buckled under the pressure. For instance, long before he swallowed Colbert’s scathing remarks like a champ, O’Brien proved himself to be the king of web exclusive content, even branching out into the incredibly popular podcast,Conan O’Brien Needs a Friend. While, Team Coco’s (his YouTube channel) videos get a few lakh views soon after release, it is his after-show that cruises into the millions. His latest shenanigan, shot by himself, includes checking in on staff member Jordan Schlansky, who is often accused by O’Brien of being a robot. This time it is Schlansky’s alternatives to toilet paper that earns his boss’ ridicule. Spoiler alert: Indians do it all the time! Plus, it sparked an intellectually stimulating debate on post-ablution cleanliness in the comments, with gems like “shower gel or soap and just wash it like you would your underarms...”. Those that rely on political humour to snag those ratings continue with the usual monologue – these days it is mostly about a certain Cheeto’s inability to handle a crisis. Colbert, who is high up on the political humour ranking, pulls out all the stops: submerging himself suit-clad in a bathtub, and getting his kids to do his make-up as he cracks the jokes. Of course, now he’s upped the game with a satellite truck and a minimal production crew, much to the envy of both O’Brien and Last Week Tonight ’s John Oliver. Pursuit of happiness Meanwhile, Trevor Noah, now known as sweatshirt king, continues with his commentary on political affairs on the rechristened, The Daily Social Distancing Show . But he has also introduced something called ‘Ray of Sunshine’. Good news in these dark times could include the clear sky New Delhi is enjoying, almost like a makeover courtesy Queer Eye ’s Fab Five. With 17,31,475 views, it is safe to say he’s doing something right. Following suit is the ever-so-charming Seth Meyers, whose own ‘The Kind of Story We Need Right Now’ premiered the tale of The Industrious Spirit Company in Rhode Island. Their noble efforts include manufacturing and giving away hand sanitiser for free while continuing their production of vodka. “I’m so psyched... we do need both,” quips Meyers. In the deep sea of testosterone that rules late night television, Samantha Bee represents team oestrogen. Her Little Show in the Big Woods — yes, she’s so rich her backyard looks like a forest — is filmed by the safe minimal crew of her husband. Bee makes sure to tackle women’s issues during the pandemic, like domestic abuse, abortion rights and mental labour. And finds time to chop wood and hunt animated bears with toilet paper. Family ties Comedy and celebrity voyeurism, it seems, trumps information and politics. Humour, after all, is a balm in crisis. But a peek into the lives of the rich and famous seems to be the clear winner of the quarantine culture war. The Jimmys of late night, who rely mostly on guests and games, now rope in their family to grab eyeballs. It is working and how. When Fallon’s adorable girls aren’t interrupting his show wanting gummy bears, he’s telling the world about falling in love with his wife. Or he is whooshing down an indoor slide, artwork in hand, in lieu of opening credits. Kimmel opts to play Who Wants to Be a Millionaire — which he will host very soon — with his daughter Jane and son Billy. The questions are ridiculously cute: which animal eats a banana and what does an elephant have on its trunk. Meanwhile, guests like Ellen Degeneres (who stirred up controversy for comparing quarantine in her $27 million mansion to being in jail) and the cast of Modern Family ahead of their series finale, rake in views totalling more than a lakh mere hours after release. Not to be left behind, Hasan Minhaj and his newly-christened Hasan from a Distance, with his wife as camera person, has a book club with his daughter and cuddles with his newborn son. With no definitive end to the lockdown in sight, the new normal, it seems, is taking on a very homemade flavour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/quarantined-monologues/article31314191.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The Raikars, for slow-watching||Over the years, many show creators in the West like Joss Whedon ( Buffy the Vampire Slayer , Firefly ) have talked about binging and how it takes away from the viewing experience. Closer home, actor Neil Bhoopalam echoes the thought. “I feel you miss the nuances of a show, especially if it is a drama. My favourite TV watching memories are of waiting a week for the next episode of Doogie Howser MD and The Wonder Years . I cannot binge-watch anything; it is an overload for my brain. I’d much rather take the time to mull over an episode before moving on to the next,” says the actor, whose latest outing, The Raikar Case , might be the perfect series to slow-watch. The show is set in Goa and revolves around a joint family that, on the surface, seems to be perfect, but dark secrets unravel after the youngest member takes his own life — and blames his family for it. Helmed by Aditya Sarpotdar, the show stars Atul Kulkarni, Ashvini Bhave, Parul Gulati and Kunal Karan Kapoor along with Bhoopalam. While Kulkarni plays the family patriarch, Bhoopalam is the cop investigating the case. “My character is the only outsider in the whole story,” says the actor, who will next be seen in season two of Four More Shots Please .  Mastering mysteries  When Bhoopalam got a call from Bodhi Tree Productions about the show, he was immediately hooked. “I was reading Jack Reacher books at the time, so when I got a call about a whodunit that is also a family drama, I was interested.” Among his recent favourites in the genre is last year’s Agatha Christie-esque Knives Out by Rian Johnson, with Daniel Craig, Jamie Lee Curtis. His co-star Kulkarni’s taste in murder mysteries veers towards classics like Hitchcock films and Sidney Sheldon’s books. “This is a genre that I gravitate towards as a viewer. I love Hitchcock’s films because even though you knew who did it right at the beginning, he still kept the audience engaged till the last frame. Among books, one of my early favourites was Gurunath Naik, a Marathi novelist. His mysteries were very popular in the 70s.” A significant portion of the show was shot in Goa. A long outdoor schedule in the sunny State gave most of the cast — who had not worked with each other before — a chance to bond. “When we were not shooting, we were either talking about what we had eaten or what we were going to eat! Everyone was on the hunt for the best food. Aditya knew of these little restaurants that few knew about,” says Kulkarni. Quarantine content Shooting on palm-lined lanes and eating in restaurants are a thing of the past with the country in the third week of lockdown. At home with wife Nandini Shrikent, a casting director, and two-and-a-half-year-old son Fateh, Bhoopalam is spending quality time with his family and catching up on shows like The Modern Family , The Twilight Zone (2019) and the classic, Star Trek Voyager . His co-star, meanwhile, is spending the time at his country home in Sonale, a village couple of hours from Mumbai. “This is where my NGO, Quality Education Support Trust operates from. We have over 3,000 teachers who work with around 95,000 children across Maharashtra. As their classes have stopped, teachers are conducting daily video meetings,” says Kulkarni. The Rang De Basanti  actor is also working on his farm, spending time in his gym, and playing with his pets.   Season 1 of The Raikar Case is now airing on Voot Select    I cannot binge-watch anything; it is an overload for my brain. I’d much rather take the time to mull over an episode before moving on to the nextNeil Bhoopalam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-raikars-for-slow-watching/article31314199.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Online delivery platforms go on a hiring spree to meet rising demand||Online grocery delivery platforms, Grofers and BigBasket, are ramping up their workforce as demand went “off the charts” during the 21-day nation-wide lockdown. The two companies together plan to hire about 15,000 people for delivery as well as for working at their warehouses. “The last three weeks have been hectic for all of us here at Grofers. For starters, we saw demand go off the charts. We are very proud that over the last three weeks we have been able to deliver essential groceries to over 1 million households in 22 cities,” Albinder Dhindsa, CEO at Grofers said in a blog. While the company has already hired about 2,000 people from industries that have been impacted by the current crisis such as textile, manufacturing, and services, Mr. Dhindsa said they are looking to hire 5,000 more people over the next two weeks. Likewise, BigBasket is looking to hire about 10,000 more people as delivery executives and to work at their warehouses. “BigBasket continues to see a large increase in demand. However, the company is facing a shortage of warehouse and delivery staff to service this demand. Therefore, BigBasket is stepping up its recruiting efforts for delivery executives and warehouse staff so that it can serve more customers while also providing employment to people,” it said. Employment to needy Tanuja Tewari, Vice President-Human Resources, BigBasket, pointed out, “...with many workers staying home or going back to their villages and towns, we now require people to service this demand. This is why we are hiring delivery and warehouse personnel, and this will work two ways. We will be able to service more customers and also provide employment to those who need it the most at the moment.” As per Mr. Dhindsa, online grocery is only about 0.2% of the overall retail market and by the end of this crisis will probably reach 0.5%, but that is still an insignificant share. “While we will try our hardest, I don’t think we will be able to serve 100 million urban households in the immediate future,” he said. He added that everyday Grofers application is seeing over 1.5 million people trying to order. However, given the constraints, they are able to serve one out of eight customers.  While we will try our hardest, I don’t think we will be able to serve 100 million urban households in the immediate future  Albinder Dhindsa  CEO at Grofers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/online-delivery-platforms-go-on-a-hiring-spree-to-meet-rising-demand/article31314186.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||2 sanitisation tunnels installed at gates of Azadpur Mandi||The Delhi government on Friday installed two sanitisation tunnels at the gates of Azadpur Mandi, Asia’s largest wholesale market, to contain the spread of COVID-19. Every person entering the market will have to go through the tunnel and get sanitised in the process. Development Minister Gopal Rai said such machines would be installed at all the mandis of Delhi depending on the success of the system at Azadpur. “The Azadpur Mandi is functional as it supplies essential items to the entire Delhi. The Delhi government has installed two full-body sanitisation machines at the gates of the mandi . Every person entering and exiting the mandi will have to pass through these machines. This will protect the people from COVID-19 infection,” Mr. Rai said. “The machines have been developed by IIT-Delhi. I have instructed traders to maintain and ensure social distancing. The government has also marked circles in front of the shops for this purpose,” he said. Other measures Mr. Rai said that special attention will be given to cleanliness at the market apart from ensuring that those visiting the mandi or employed there wore masks. Measures were also being put in place to educate and sensitise people at the market and to ensure that they are not hungry. “I have instructed all labourers and traders to wear masks. The Delhi government is distributing masks among people here. To sensitise the workers here, we are distributing pamphlets and disinfectants are being sprayed at the mandi daily. We are also providing morning and evening meals to the drivers and labourers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2-sanitisation-tunnels-installed-at-gates-of-azadpur-mandi/article31314180.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||DU asks colleges to prepare for admissions||Principals of Delhi University colleges were on Thursday called upon to make preparations for admissions to the academic year 2020-21, with a focus on efforts to make the process entirely online, given the current situation. In a letter to principals, the admissions branch noted that it was working towards ensuring the smooth conduct of the common entrance examination, DUET-2020, and for student-friendly merit-based admissions in the university. Colleges were called upon to make various preparations, including, uploading all necessary information pertaining to the college, on its website, constituting a “strong admission team”, to come out with a comprehensive list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) related to the college and various courses offered by it, along with a list of general electives made available and to form a team of student volunteers who could remain available during the admissions to help answer queries pertaining to it. The letter also highlighted that the university had implemented the first phase of expansion on account of 10% reservation for EWS seats in the academic session 2019-2020 and that the second phase of this would be carried out in the upcoming academic session. To cater to this, the university has asked colleges to declare the category-wise seats in each course on its website. While the university has attempted to minimise student visits for verification of documents during admissions, it said that in the current scenario, efforts had to be made to have the complete admission process take place online. Meanwhile, on Thursday, DU postponed all university exams, including theory and practicals for students of Regular Colleges, School of Open Learning, Non-Collegiate Women Education Board and Ex-Students, until further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-asks-colleges-to-prepare-for-admissions/article31314182.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sports off his mind, world no. 3 para-shuttler is busy containing virus||Sportspersons across the world are trying to stay fit in uncertain times. Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj, though, has no time to think about the Olympics. The world no. 3 para-shuttler in SL4 category has his hands full as the newly-appointed District Magistrate (DM) of Gautam Buddha (GB) Nagar, a hotspot of COVID-19 and comprising areas including Noida, Greater Noida and Dadri, many of which have now been sealed. “You can say energy and enthusiasm are common factors in my two roles but sports is not even in the remotest corner of my mind. Right now, I am only concentrating on what I need to do for the people of GB Nagar. I have my priorities — to implement the containment process and give best facilities to those who have been identified as positive and quarantined,” Mr. Suhas told The Hindu . Also drawing from his sporting experience is the fighting spirit and never give up attitude, though he insists non-sportspersons also have it in their own fields. Bronze medallist at the 2018 Asian Para Games and two-time defending champion at the Turkish Open, Mr. Suhas has done enough on court to assert his credentials. Off it, though, the 2007-batch officer has been trying to put his other achievements — a B.Tech in Computer Engineering — to use. Tech-savvy “I was not much into social media but being tech-savvy is important. It is important to communicate to people not only information but also efforts that all officers put in. We now have over 600 beds available even though the cases are not that high. We also have a dedicated call centre in association with HCL, probably the best in any district across the country — with 30 hunting lines and trained professionals. There is a dedicated team for containment and awareness. I am planning to get my personal twitter handle for the first time today for better communication,” he revealed. There are other experiences he has been drawing from, including the Kumbh Mela last year. As then DM of Prayagraj, Mr. Suhas had come in for praise from all quarters for handling the massive exercise. “To be honest, that experience actually helps a lot. The only difference is that we had time then, now time is not on our side. But in terms of scale, preparing for disaster management and decisions we have to take on the go — the Kumbh Mela has given a lot of learning points. “You are working amidst unpredictability which is same in Kumbh Mela and here. Although we wish and hope everything will be fine, we don’t know what will happen tomorrow. The situation is always fluid. There also you had to get work done from the team, here also. Most importantly, just like Kumbh Mela is not only hosted by the administration but is a people-centric event, here also the fight is not by the DM but has to be fought by every single citizen. “Then again, every challenge is unique. Wisdom is to know what you don’t know. Every day is a new match and needs to be handled as such,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sports-off-his-mind-world-no-3-para-shuttler-is-busy-containing-virus/article31314185.ece
11 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||AICCTU getting over a dozen calls on job loss||Just a little over two weeks in lockdown due to Coronavirus scare, the All-India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) office at Delhi has been getting more than a dozen calls on job losses daily. Most of the calls are related to the Information Technology (IT) and IT-enabled companies located in Delhi, Gurugram, Noida, Bangalore and Chennai. National Council member, AICCTU, Surya Prakash, told The Hindu that in an indication of the economic impact of Coronavirus scare, he had been receiving 10-15 calls per day from people across the country, mostly the National Capital Region, regarding higher-paying white collar job losses. He said these calls were besides the large number of calls about job loss at the lower level. “I got calls from Chennai and Noida on Friday. There was another call from a man sacked from a company in Gurugram’s Udyog Vihar. He had been working with the company for almost ten years ,” said Mr. Prakash, adding the employees were being terminated in tens and hundreds. He said that State units of the AICCTU had also been receiving similar calls. Saying that it could just be a tip of the iceberg, Mr. Prakash, an advocate, said that in most of the cases the employees were being forced to tender resignations with the threat of poor remarks in their relieving letters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aicctu-getting-over-a-dozen-calls-on-job-loss/article31314173.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||13 out of 37 ration shops found closed: DRAA report||A report published by the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan on Friday said that 13 out of 37 ration shops inspected by volunteers were found closed during working hours while six of the shops claimed to have run out of stock. “Around 35% of the ration shops were closed when we visited during the working hours. Only 18 out of the 24 shops which were open were found to be distributing grains to ration cardholders. The remaining shops stated that they had finished their stock,” the DRAA said in its report. Stating that the issue of shops claiming that stocks are over needed investigation by the Food Department, the report said, “For some of the shops which stated that stocks were over, we could locate cardholders who had not yet received their ration even though the online website shows their ration had been dispatched to the shops.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/13-out-of-37-ration-shops-found-closed-draa-report/article31314172.ece
11 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Containment zone order: residents call for review||Less than 24 hours after the district administration declared nine places as ‘containment zones’ here, the Nirvana Country Resident Welfare Association (RWA) has sought the review of the order, saying the township had no fresh case since almost three weeks. “Two persons had tested positive for COVID-19 before March 19 in the apartments and both have now recovered. There have been no fresh cases since then. So the decision to declare the township a ‘containment zone’ came as a surprise . We have approached the offices of Deputy Commissioner and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram Commissioner to seek review,” said Nirvana Country RWA president Alok Bansal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/containment-zone-order-residents-call-for-review/article31314175.ece
11 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jamia forms panel on mental health||Vice-Chancellor of Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) Najma Akhtar has constituted a Mental Health and Counselling Committee (MHCC) to facilitate the mental health and well-being of students. The committee will provide psycho-social support to the students staying on campus or outside during and after COVID-19 outbreak. The 13-member panel will meet for weekly face-to-face or online consultation till the COVID-19 threat persists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jamia-forms-panel-on-mental-health/article31314177.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Last Easter weekend, Holland's "tulip belt" welcomed about 17 million tourists. In the rush to get the perfect picture for Instagram, too many people trampled the tulips. With the gardens closed till June this year, the flowers get a break. But we can still enjoy them from afar: the gardeners take us to their favourite spots in videos shared on their timeline. Follow @visitkeukenhof||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article31314193.ece
11 April 2020||April 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Lady Gaga brings artistes together for advocacy organisation, Global Citizen. The TV special, featuring Paul McCartney, Stevie Wonder and Billie Eilish, is set to raise funds to help combat the spread of the coronavirus. Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Shah Rukh Khan, among others, are also on the list. Wonder who is going to go most viral from this show! On April 18. Stream live on YouTube, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article31314195.ece
11 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Ashok- Fareportal||In response to a report by The Hindu on retrenchment of hundreds of its employees in India, Fareportal, a New York-based online travel agency, on Friday said the company had suffered huge losses due to COVID-19 that led to lay-offs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ashok-fareportal/article31314174.ece
11 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- Traders||Traders’ body CAIT on Friday called for the need for coordination among stakeholders of essential commodities to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential goods. It said that a broad-base effort with the participation of stakeholders like wholesale traders, retailers, manufacturers, transporters, raw material producers and other intermediaries is crucial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sidharth-traders/article31314183.ece
