11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India reports 128 more deaths, 3,277 fresh cases in 24 hours||India reported 3,277 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours and an additional 128 deaths, taking the total tally to 62,939 and 2,109 deaths on Sunday. During this period, 1,511 patients were discharged after treatment, which takes the total recovery rate to 30.76%, according to the data released by the Union Health Ministry. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that so far a total of 16,09,037 samples have been tested. Data released by the Ministry noted that in 10 States/Union Territories no COVID-19 cases have been reported in the past 24 hours. State Health Departments reported a total of 66, 918 positive cases nationwide, with 43,888 active ones. The death toll stood at 2,200. West Bengal reported 14 more deaths, taking the toll in the State to 113. Of the 14 deaths, Kolkata alone accounted for 10. The State also reported 153 new cases, the highest in a day so far. Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with Chief Ministers on Monday, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba chaired a video conference with the Chief Secretaries and the Health Secretaries of all States and Union Territories to review the status of COVID-19 management. Mr. Gauba noted that more than 350 Shramik Special trains have been run by the Railways carrying 3.5 lakh migrant workers and requested State governments to cooperate with the Railways in running of more such trains. Safe passage for doctors Mr. Gauba emphasised that the movement of doctors, nurses and paramedics should be totally unhindered and all steps should be taken to facilitate and protect the corona warriors. The Chief Secretaries said while protection is required from those infected with COVID-19, economic activities also need to be stepped up in a calibrated manner, a government release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-reports-128-more-deaths-3277-fresh-cases-in-24-hours/article31553508.ece
11 May 2020||Bhopal,||Truck carrying migrant workers overturns, 5 killed||Five migrant workers were killed and 13 others injured when a truck in which they were travelling overturned on a highway in Narsinghpur district of Madhya Pradesh on Saturday night. District officials said 15 migrant workers were travelling in the Agra-bound truck laden with mangoes coming from Hyderabad. “They were headed towards Jhansi and Etah districts of Uttar Pradesh,” said Rahul Wasnik, Assistant Director, Narsinghpur administration. Around 11.30 p.m. on Saturday, the truck, with a driver, a co-driver and a cleaner in the driver’s cabin, overturned on National Highway-44 near Mungwani, 30 km from Narsingpur, he said. ‘Speeding suspected’ “The deceased were crushed under the truck. Prima facie , speeding appears to be the reason for the accident. We are inquiring into it,” he said. Eleven of the injured were admitted to the District Hospital, while two critically injured people were shifted to the Medical College in Jabalpur, some 100 km away. Their identities are yet to be ascertained. Condoling the deaths, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “Senior officials of the government are on the spot to ensure complete treatment for the injured. I pray for their speedy recovery and strength to the families of the deceased.” On May 8, 16 migrant workers, who were trying to return to their home State Madhya Pradesh on foot, were killed when a goods train ran over them between Jalna and Aurangabad districts of Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/truck-carrying-migrant-workers-overturns-five-killed/article31553510.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||15 pairs of trains to run from tomorrow||The Indian Railways on Sunday said it planned to restart passenger services in a phased manner — initially with 15 pairs of trains — from Tuesday onwards, almost 50 days after the services were stopped amid COVID-19 lockdown. The announcement comes even as the Centre has extended the lockdown till May 17 to contain the spread of the virus. To begin with, the 15 pairs of trains, meaning a total of 30 return journeys, would be run as special trains from the New Delhi station connecting Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi. Following this, the Railways would start more special services on new routes, “based on the available coaches after reserving 20,000 coaches for COVID-19 care centres and adequate number of coaches being reserved to enable operation of up to 300 trains every day as ‘Shramik Specials’ for stranded migrants,” said an official statement. The reservation for these trains would start on May 11 from 4 p.m. and would be available only on the IRCTC website. “Only passengers with valid confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the stations,” the railways said. It would be mandatory for passengers to wear face cover and undergo screening at departure. “Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the train,” it said. AC coaches A Railway spokesperson said only AC coaches would be run and the fares would be equal to that of equivalent Rajdhani trains. Details of the train schedule along with more details would be issued to due course. In a separate release, the Railways said it had run a total of 366 ‘Shramik Special’ trains till Sunday afternoon. These trains had ferried migrants to Tiruchirappalli, Titlagarh, Barauni, Khandwa, Jagannathpur, Khurda Road, Prayagraj, Chhapra, Balia, Gaya, Purnia, Varanasi, Darbhanga, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Jaunpur, Hatia, Basti, Katihar, Danapur, Muzzaffarpur and Saharsa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/15-pairs-of-trains-to-run-from-tomorrow/article31553512.ece
11 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Thirty plus COVID 19 cases one more day||Telangana reported 30 plus coronavirus positive cases for the second consecutive day on Sunday, taking the total positive cases in the State so far to 1,196. The State saw number of coronavirus positive patients in single digits for some days till Saturday when suddenly their figure went up to 31 with Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits alone contributing 30 of them. Again on Sunday, the tally went up to 33 with GHMC’s share being 26. There were no deaths reported on Sunday while there was one fatality on Saturday. Relaxation of norms The State government has attributed the spurt in the cases in the last two days to the relaxation of norms in lockdown and the arrival of migrant workers in a big way from high intensity States. Significantly, among the cases reported on Sunday were seven migrant workers who included four from Yadadri which was declared a green zone as not a single person had tested positive in the district so far. Three other migrant workers also tested positive in Mancherial district which was also not reporting any such cases for the past two weeks. The active positive cases in the State were 415 while 751 others were cured/discharged till date. As many as 30 persons died, according to the bulletin issued by the State government. All the seven migrant workers who tested positive on Sunday had returned from Mumbai. Three of them hailed from Pallerla village in Atmakur (M) mandal and one from Jangaon village of Sansthan Narayanpur village in Yadadri district. They were among 10 migrant workers from the two villages to arrive from Mumbai on May 5 and shifted to Bibinagar campus of All India Institute of Medical Sciences for quarantine. At Rapelli village in Hajipur mandal of Mancherial district, three persons of a family tested positive on Sunday. At Rapelli village in Hajipur mandal of Mancherial district, three persons of a family tested positive on Sunday and they had also returned from Mumbai on May 5. After home quarantine initially, police shifted them for isolation at Bellampally as they developed symptoms of the virus. Their samples were collected which revealed three of them had contracted the virus. They were referred to Gandhi Hospital here. Mancherial like Yadadri was free of the dreaded virus after a woman who died at Mutharaopalli village in Chennur mandal was found positive post-mortem two weeks ago. All her primary contacts tested negative upon examination. Panic mounted among the villagers after the latest cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/thirty-plus-covid-19-cases-one-more-day/article31553760.ece
11 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State inching closer to the 2,000-mark; toll touches 45||There was one more COVID-19 death and, after testing 8,666 samples, 50 new positive cases were reported from nine districts during the last 24 hours in the State. With this, while the toll went up to 45, the cases tally reached close to the 2,000-mark and stood at 1,980. The number of active cases stand at 1,010. With the discharge of 38 patients, a total of 925 recovered till date, putting the recovery rate at 46.7%. The mortality rate was 2.2% as 12 deaths had been reported during the past six days. Kurnool continued to be the worst-hit as it clocked not only the highest number of positive cases but also highest number of deaths, which was 16 till date. Kurnool was followed by Krishna (13 deaths) and Guntur (8), which together account for 82% of the total deaths. Krishna has a death rate of 3.83% while Kurnool and Guntur have only 2.82% and 2.09% respectively. Of the new cases, 16 were reported in Chittoor, 13 in Kurnool, six in Guntur, five each in Anantapur and Nellore, two in Prakasam and one each in Kadapa, Krishna and Visakhapatnam. Meanwhile, Visakhapatnam witnessed a steep rise in the number of cases with their number doubling in the last one week. The district-wise break-up was as follows: Kurnool (566), Guntur (382), Krishna (339), Nellore (101), Chittoor (112), Anantapur (107), Kadapa (97), West Godavari (68), Prakasam (63), Visakhapatnam (63), East Godavari (46), Srikakulam (5), Vizianagaram (4), and other States (27). Word of caution Meanwhile, the Department of Health on Sunday cautioned people about the likely spread of COVID-19 in three districts in A.P. because of their proximity to the Koyembedu market cluster in Vellore district of Tamil Nadu. In a release, it stated that 16 new cases reported in Chittoor district, located adjacent to Vellore, were related to persons who had been to Koyembedu market. Similarly, in Kurnool and Nellore districts too fresh cases had links to the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-inching-closer-to-the-2000-mark-toll-touches-45/article31553505.ece
11 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||COVID-19 cases make slow climb in State||The State is experiencing a slow climb in COVID-19 cases again, with seven persons, including three expatriates, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Three of the cases are from Wayanad, two from Thrissur and one each from Malappuram and Ernakulam. Two of the cases from Thrissur and one from Malappuram are expatriates who had come by flight from Abu Dhabi on May 7. The case in Ernakulam has a history of travel from Chennai. Two cases in Wayanad had developed the disease through contact, while the third case had come to the State from Chennai. Four persons who were under treatment have been declared cured. Of the 512 COVID-19 cases reported in the State so far, 489 have been cured. At present, there are only 20 persons undergoing treatment. A total of 37,464 samples have been sent for testing, of which 36,464 samples yielded a negative result. Of the sentinel surveillance samples collected from front-line health workers and other priority groups, 3,525 have been negative. New cases in Wayanad The new cases in Wayanad are from Cheeral on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border, Meenangadi and Kammana, near Mananthavady, R. Renuka, District Medical Officer, said. The case at Cheeral is a 25-year-old salesman at Koyambedu wholesale market in Tamil Nadu. He was under observation since his return from Tamil Nadu on May 7, Dr. Renuka said. The Meenangadi case is a 45-year-old woman who had a secondary contact with a truck driver. The driver had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 after his recent visit to Chennai. A 20-year-old youth under the Porunnannur Primary Health Centre limits is also a secondary contact with the son of a truck cleaner, who is undergoing treatment. The patients were shifted to the COVID Hospital at Mananthavady. The route maps of the duo were being prepared, she said. Of the 10 cases reported in the district so far, three had been discharged. As many as 1,752 people are under observation in the district.  (With inputs from Kalpetta)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-make-slow-climb-in-state/article31553815.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,||669 cases in T.N., 509 in Chennai||As many as 669 tested positive for COVID-19 infection in the State on Sunday, with Chennai accounting for 509 cases. Meanwhile, three more patients succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll to 47. A 74-year-old man from Agaram in Selaiyur died within six hours of admission to the Chengalpattu medical college hospital around 12.20 p.m on Friday. The hospital authorities said he was a known cardiac patient. The hospital managed to do an ECG test and also a throat swab, as is the protocol. But his condition worsened and efforts to resuscitate him failed. Doctors said he died of pulmonary oedema. The results of the COVID-19 tests returned positive after his death. A 59-year-old man, who was admitted to the Government Stanley Hospital in the city on May 7, died on Sunday around 2.30 a.m. Hospital authorities said the patient, who had type 2 diabetes, was also suffering from coronary artery disease. He was stable until around 1.30 a.m. on Sunday but “suddenly developed breathlessness and we lost him,” an official said. A 55-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who suffered from chronic kidney disease, was admitted to Government Kilpauk Hospital on May 4. The man too had type 2 diabetes and high BP. He tested positive for novel coronavirus infection and died around 1.20 a.m. on Saturday.    The bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health on Sunday said 13,376 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested till date to 2,43,037. The testing of 676 samples is under process. As many as 10,669 samples are repeat samples. Among those who tested positive are as many as 29 children. Nearly half a dozen of them are aged below five years. On Sunday, 135 persons were discharged from various hospitals in the State, taking the total number of those discharged till date to 1,959 persons. As many as 4,305 individuals, suspected to have the infection, are in isolation wards. Of the 7,204* positive cases in the State, Chennai accounts for 3,171 cases. So far, 639 persons have been discharged from various hospitals in the city. The State now has 5,195 active cases, officials said. ( *Two deaths have been cross notified to other states. *One patient died after turning negative for infection. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/669-cases-in-tn-509-in-chennai/article31553609.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Four more deaths in Delhi, CM says toll ‘very less’||The Capital recorded four deaths and 381 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 6,923 and the toll to 73. According to the Delhi government’s health bulletin, a total of 2,069 people have recovered and there were 4,781 active cases in the city. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the number of deaths was “very less” and of the 6,923 cases, only 1,476 were in hospitals. “Of these 1,476 cases, 91 are in ICU, 27 are on ventilator; around 75% are asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms,” he added. In accordance with the directions of the Centre, Mr. Kejriwal said asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms were being treated at home after a medical team conducted an inspection and was satisfied that self-isolation could be practised. “There is no cure for the virus, patients have to just get better and our teams stay in contact with the infected. Patients who cannot self-isolate are shifted to COVID Care Centres or COVID Health Centres,” he said. “Instances of patients waiting for hours for a government ambulance has been brought to my notice and we have requisitioned private ambulances for government service,” added Mr. Kejriwal. Appeal to migrants The Chief Minister also appealed to stranded migrant workers not to leave the city on foot as “it was not safe”. “This lockdown is going to end soon and everything will be back on track. You will get employed again as everything will start running again. Please do not leave Delhi. We are here to take care of you,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He, however, added that the government was arranging for mores trains for people who wanted to get back home. He added that 150 migrants were sent back to Punjab by his government on Sunday, and that two trains to Bihar and Madhya Pradesh have already left. Appealing to the leaders of the Opposition party who have been critical of the government’s efforts to control the outbreak, the Chief Minister said this was “not the time to do politics but to work collectively for the people and the nation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-more-deaths-in-delhi-cm-says-toll-very-less/article31553701.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Worker cycling to Bihar from Delhi run over||A migrant worker who was cycling back home to his village in Bihar from Delhi died after being hit by a speeding car in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. Identified as Sagheer Ansari, 26, the victim was cycling to East Champaran district along with seven others when the accident took place on Saturday. Sagheer, who worked as a tailor in Delhi, started his journey on May 5. He is survived by wife and three young sons. A case has been registered against the driver.Page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/worker-cycling-to-bihar-from-delhi-run-over/article31553543.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Norms issued for restart of industrial units||The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has issued a series of guidelines for restarting manufacturing industries after the lockdown period. Certain economic activities have already been allowed on gradual lifting of restrictions in some zones. Instructions have been issued for safekeeping of hazardous and flammable materials. Guidelines also pertain to chemical disasters, management of chemical (terrorism) disasters, and strengthening of safety and security for transport of petroleum, oil and lubricants (POL) tankers. The State governments have been told to ensure, through the district officials concerned, that the off-site disaster management plan of the respective major accident hazard (MAH) units are up to date. “While restarting the unit, consider the first week as the trial or test run period; ensure all safety protocols; and try not to achieve high production targets,” said the order, adding that employees should be sensitised to the need for identifying abnormalities such as strange sounds or smell, exposed wires, vibrations, leaks, smoke, abnormal wobbling, irregular grinding or other potentially hazardous signs. All lockout and tagout procedures should be in place on a daily basis (not applicable for units running 24 hours). The equipment are to be inspected as per safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/norms-issued-for-restart-of-industrial-units/article31553509.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian, Chinese troops face off in Ladakh, Sikkim||Two incidents of face-off occurred between Indian and Chinese troops last week, resulting in injuries to several soldiers on both sides, Army sources confirmed. The first incident occurred in eastern Ladakh on May 5 and the second at Naku La, Sikkim, on May 9. The issues were resolved locally. “An incident of face-off took place between the troops and, as a result of aggressive behaviour, minor injuries were caused to both sides. Troops disengaged after dialogue and interaction at the local level,” Army sources said on Sunday, speaking about the incident in the Naku La sector, ahead of Muguthang, at an altitude of over 16,000 feet. A large number of troops were present, and at least four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were reportedly injured. Sources said the face-off in Ladakh occurred on the intervening night of May 5 and 6 near Pangong Tso lake, a major part of which China holds. Several soldiers were injured in a scuffle. “The issue was resolved locally by the morning of May 6,” the sources said. Pangong Tso has witnessed such incidents in the past, including in 2017 and 2019. Temporary and brief face-offs occur because the boundary is undemarcated, and troops resolve such issues as per the established protocols, the sources said. “Such an incident occurred after a long time,” the sources said, commenting on the Naku La incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indian-chinese-troops-face-off-in-ladakh-sikkim/article31553513.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Delayed harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tense-moments/article31553545.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Back home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/back-home/article31553809.ece
11 May 2020||KOCHI,||Follow norms for State entry: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Sunday approved of various guidelines and restrictions, including the passes for travels issued by the State and Centre governments, holding that the attempts of the governments were to contain the spread of the pandemic to uncontrollable level and to protect the interest of the public as well as the nation.Page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/follow-norms-for-state-entry-hc/article31553814.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Standalone shops to reopen today||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday announced a list of standalone shops offering various services that can resume operations from May 11, as part of measures aimed at easing the COVID-19 lockdown. The government has asked these establishments not to operate air conditioners, ensure that employees and customers maintain physical distancing and wear masks, and make provision for hand sanitisers. The shop owners must regularly disinfect their premises. Salons, beauty parlours and spas are not allowed to function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/standalone-shops-to-reopen-today/article31553607.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka reports 54 new cases, highest in a day so far||A total of 72 percent of the 54 new positive cases of COVID-19 that were reported in the State on Sunday had a travel history to Ahmedabad or Ajmer. This is the highest number of cases reported in a single day in the State. With this, the total number of cases stand at 848. Jawaid Akthar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said that all the 39 patients who were tested positive had a travel history to Ahmedabad and Ajmer. He said that all of them were stranded tourists. “As they had travel history to States with high positive cases of COVID-19, they were all placed under quarantine and were made to take tests. The number of cases tested positive is high, but we are glad that they were under quarantine,” he said. Another death Meanwhile, another death was reported in the State, taking the toll 31. The patient was a 56-year-old woman who passed away on May 7 and the test later confirmed that she tested positive for COVID-19. The patient who had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) was admitted to a private hospital on May 4 and later shifted to another hospital on May 7. Meanwhile, of the 54 new cases reported on Sunday 22 are from Belagavi, eight each from Bagalkot and Shivamogga, seven from Uttara Kannada, four from Kalaburagi, three from Bengaluru Urban, and one each from Chickballapur and Davangere districts. Of the total 848 positive cases, 422 patients have been discharged. The eight persons who tested positive for COVID-19 from Shivamogga are those who boarded a train on March 5 from Davangere to attend a religious conference. But they were stranded in Ahmedabad due to lockdown. Karnataka has completed over one lakh tests. The State has ramped up its testing facility to a great extent in the last month. Over a month ago, Karnataka was conducting 182.3 tests per million. As on May 7, the number of tests per million stood at 1,344.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-reports-54-new-cases-highest-in-a-day-so-far/article31553546.ece
11 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Gas leak: Central experts submit preliminary report||Two experts deputed by the Central government to study the causes that led to the gas leak at LG Polymers, which killed 12 persons and affected over 300, submitted their preliminary report to the Central and State governments on Sunday. The team members, who were flown to the city by a special aircraft from New Delhi and Mumbai on Saturday, visited the site of the accident and interacted with the officials and various stakeholders, and submitted their findings. In their report, they also recommended the measures required to be taken to prevent a recurrence of such accidents. The team members were Dr. Anjan Ray, Director, Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun, and Dr. Shantanu Geete, styrene expert from Supreme Industries Ltd., Mumbai. Remedial measures Seeking anonymity, one of the team members told The Hindu that they had completed their task, and it was up to the State authorities to take remedial measures. Immediately after the leakage of the hazardous gas in vapour form in the early hours of May 7, there was a hue and cry all over the country over the safety lapse on the part of LG Polymers. Immediately after the incident, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and promised him all help, including the deputing of experts to study the reasons for the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-experts-submit-report-on-ap-gas-leak/article31553494.ece
11 May 2020||COIMBATORE,||Fish market in Ukkadam closed||The Coimbatore Corporation had to forcibly close the wholesale fish market in Lorrypet, Ukkadam, and the police had to use mild force on Sunday, as the traders were found working beyond the permitted time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fish-market-in-ukkadam-closed/article31553647.ece
11 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana announces steps to revive MSMEs||In view of the role of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in economic and industrial development, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal has announced several measures to bring these industries back on track, including a redress centre for bank-related issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-announces-steps-to-revive-msmes/article31553699.ece
11 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana police file fraud case against six||Almost two years after around a dozen people came forward claiming a Rs. 400 crore compensation for a plot of land in Narshingpur off the National Highway-48 here acquired by the Haryana government, the police have now registered an FIR against six to investigate their claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-police-file-fraud-case-against-six/article31553698.ece
11 May 2020||NEw delhi,||Delhi govt. issues SOP on reporting virus deaths||After being accused of not reporting the actual number of deaths in the city due to COVID-19, the Delhi government on Sunday issued an order along with a standard operating procedure to all hospitals to email a death report to the authorities daily by 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-issues-sop-on-reporting-virus-deaths/article31553697.ece
11 May 2020||BENGALURU,||Farmers look beyond traditional markets||The COVID-19 crisis might have hit the farmers hard, but the silver lining is that several enterprising farmers have begun to look beyond conventional markets by connecting directly with consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-look-beyond-traditional-markets/article31553551.ece
11 May 2020||DHARWAD,||Stranded girls reunited with parents in Rajasthan||Two girls from Rajasthan, who were separated from their parents because of the lockdown, were reunited with them after Dharwad district officials facilitated their travel. The children had to remain with their house owner’s family in Hubballi for nearly 50 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stranded-girls-reunited-with-parents-in-rajasthan/article31553550.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Discarded masks cause concern among workers||Waste pickers running Dry Waste Collection Centres are worried, as the waste arriving at their centres is flooded with used and discarded masks. As they are forced to segregate waste and pick these masks, waste-pickers are exposed to the risk of contracting the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/discarded-masks-cause-concern-among-workers/article31553549.ece
11 May 2020||MANGALURU,||Migrant workers board two special trains||Two Shramik Special trains ferrying migrant workers left Mangaluru Junction Railway Station for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/migrant-workers-board-two-special-trains/article31553735.ece
11 May 2020||Chennai,||Cases likely to go up in Chennai: Radhakrishnan||The number of cases is likely to increase for another five or six days in the city and testing in hotspot clusters in areas such as Thiruvanmiyur will be increased, Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J. Radhakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-likely-to-go-up-in-chennai-radhakrishnan/article31553603.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,||1 lakh migrant workers to head home soon||At least one lakh migrant workers stranded across the State will soon be heading home, police sources said on Sunday. The State government has made a request to Southern Railway to operate trains, mostly to Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1-lakh-migrant-workers-to-head-home-soon/article31553605.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Two T.N. centres chosen for randomised trial||Tamil Nadu has been co-opted into a multi-centric, randomised, emergency ‘Solidarity Trial’ to help identify treatment options for COVID-19 patients. Two centres — the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Omandurar Estate, and the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital — have been chosen for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-tn-centres-chosen-for-randomised-trial/article31553604.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM, CMs to interact again today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with all Chief Ministers through a videoconference on Monday afternoon, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a tweet on Sunday. With exactly a week to go before the third phase of the lockdown ends on the midnight of May 17, Mr. Modi will be meeting the Chief Ministers for the fifth time. Exit policy Apart from discussing a possible exit policy, the meeting will also discuss the lockdown’s impact on the economy. “PM @narendramodi to hold the 5th meeting via video-conference with state Chief Ministers tomorrow afternoon at 3 PM,” said a tweet of the PMO. The Centre is yet to spell out its plans post May 17, but is expected to announce further easing of restrictions to restart economic activities. The announcement came after Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba reviewed the status and management of the novel coronavirus pandemic in different States with the Chief Secretaries via video-conferencing. Monday’s meeting is expected to be a long one, broken into two sessions, as the Prime Minister is expected to hear the views of all the CMs before deciding on the next move. At the last meeting on April 27, only nine CMs got an opportunity to speak while a few others gave their views in writing. In the past couple of days, a few Congress CMs wrote to the Prime Minister urging the Centre to let the States decide on designating affected zones — green, orange and red — which will be the basis of restarting economic activities. “We need to decentralise power in dealing with the virus. If we keep this fight in PMO, we will lose. The PM must devolve power... trust chief ministers and chief ministers (CMs) have to trust district magistrates,” former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said last Friday at an online press meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-cms-to-interact-again-today/article31553458.ece
11 May 2020||KOCHI,||Naval ship brings back 698 from Male||Naval ship INS Jalashwa carrying 698 Indians from the Maldives arrived at Kochi port a little after 9 a.m. on Sunday. Part of Operation Samudra Setu, the mission brought the first group of Indian evacuees by sea after an international lockdown of all modes of transport took effect about two months ago against the COVID-19 pandemic. The ship berthed around 10 a.m. at the international cruise terminal of the port, which was ready to receive the evacuees, comprising 595 male and 103 female passengers. Among them were 14 children below the age of 10 and 19 pregnant women. 440 from Kerala Of the arrivals, 440 are from Kerala. The rest are from Tamil Nadu and 18 other States and Union Territories. Sources in the district administration said that two passengers with fever were shifted to the Karuvelippady taluk hospital near the port area. They will now be tested for COVID-19. The Kochi city police supervised the clearance and onward transportation of those who arrived according to a protocol for the operation, overseen by District Police Chief Vijay Sakhare. Passengers who showed even mild COVID-19 symptoms and those with other health problems were taken care of separately. The passengers had embarked on the evacuation trip after preliminary screening for COVID-19. However, those with symptoms on arrival were isolated. Health, Police and Department of Immigration personnel in personal protection equipment (PPE) handled their papers. Thermal screening of the passengers was carried out by the Port Health Organisation. Their luggage was disinfected by personnel from the Fire and Rescue Department. Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses took the passengers to their destinations. Specially arranged taxis were available for those who needed them. Those moving out of the district were escorted to the border from where they were further followed to their homes by personnel from the respective districts. Two-day voyage  INS Jalashwa set sail from the Maldives on Friday. The naval vessel, based in Visakhapatnam, is manned by a trained medical team and has been engaged in the past in evacuation operations, said a communication from Press Information Bureau.  INS Magar , another naval vessel, is set to start its Kochi voyage as part of Operation Samudra Setu. The vessel is scheduled to bring 250 Indians. While embarkation of evacuees has begun, inclement weather was posing a problem, said sources. The ship would depart either on Sunday night or at first light on Monday, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naval-ship-brings-back-698-from-male/article31553460.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,||NIV develops test to detect antibodies||The National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, has developed an immunological assay — enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) — to detect antibodies that the body develops in response to infection by the SARS-CoV-2 novel coronavirus, an official source told The Hindu . The test will detect antibodies in blood samples. ELISA is routinely used for detecting HIV infection. “This kit was validated at two sites in Mumbai and has high sensitivity and accuracy. Besides, it has the advantage of testing 90 samples together in a single run of 2.5 hours,” Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan tweeted. He also tweeted to say that NIV had transferred the technology to Zydus Cadila for mass-scale production. The Drug Controller General had granted commercial production and marketing permission to Zydus Cadila, he said. This is the first time India has developed an indigenous ELISA test for coronavirus. While ELISA tests for coronavirus are already available in other countries, procuring them in large numbers may be a challenge, particularly during a pandemic. In contrast, availability will be a non-issue when a locally developed test is manufactured in India. The company that has been licensed to manufacture the ELISA test kit will have about a month to make the tests available as collection of 30,000 blood samples taken randomly from the general population in the 75 hotspot districts will begin by the third week of May. Balram Bhargava, Director-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research, could not be reached for comments. Of significance The ELISA test developed by NIV gains significance as the rapid antibody tests imported from China were found to be unreliable and hence the States were instructed not to use them for detecting previous novel coronavirus infection. The ELISA test will be used to screen 30,000 samples from 75 hotspot districts to understand the extent of spread of the virus in the community. India has thus far maintained that there is no community transmission despite there being over 63,500 cases so far from across the country. Since the ELISA test is based on detection of antibodies, it can only help in knowing if the person has been previously infected by coronavirus. Since it detects antibodies, even people who have remained symptom-free (asymptomatic) during the entire course of the infection will test positive.  While the RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test, which detects the RNA of the coronavirus, enables detection of current infection, it will not be useful if the testing is carried out days after the infection clears as the virus will no longer be present. However, antibodies developed in response to the coronavirus infection will be present in the blood for a longer duration and hence the ELISA test can help detect past infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/niv-develops-test-to-detect-antibodies/article31553477.ece
11 May 2020||Mumbai,||Five Air India pilots test positive||Five of the 77 Air India crew members who took COVID-19 tests to enable them to operate Vande Bharat Mission repatriation flights have tested positive. The five, all Mumbai-based pilots, had operated cargo flights between Guangzhou and Delhi carrying medical supplies and equipment in April. Four of them had been rostered together, two pilots for each sector to China. The four flew together and returned from China within hours, not once leaving the cockpit, airline sources said. All the five operate the Boeing 787 Dreamliner. While an official statement from Air India is awaited, informed sources said all the five were asymptomatic and had been home quarantined as per guidelines. “Though these Mumbai-based pilots had operated cargo flights between Guangzhou and Delhi, officials said it was unlikely that they had gotten exposed to the virus on duty since it had been close to 20 days since the flight,” one of their fellow pilots said. Two of the five pilots had operated flights on April 18, while the others flew even earlier. Air India has been operating through the lockdown period, initially rescuing Indians stranded in coronavirus-affected nations, including Italy and Iran. Two test positive Meanwhile, officials said two staff members of the Air India Engineering Services Limited (AIESL) had tested positive on May 7. These two, a technician and a driver, had gone to the hangar of a private jet operator, some of whose private aircraft are maintained by AIESL engineers within Mumbai airport premises. The tests were conducted by the corporate house. The firm has asked its staff to self quarantine following the development. The two AIESL staff too are asymptomatic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-air-india-pilots-test-positive/article31553472.ece
11 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Let States identify COVID-19 zones’||If one person tests positive for COVID-19 in an area, the entire neighbourhood should not be sealed for 28 days, Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Sunday. His comments come just a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to meet the Chief Ministers for a review of the lockdown. “For one person who has been affected by the disease, is it fair to turn the entire neighbourhood into a containment zone?” Mr. Narayanasamy asked, speaking to The Hindu over the phone. “In Sundar Nagar of Ariyankuppam, there was one COVID positive case who recovered after being hospitalised. But for 28 days, nearly 5,000 families were locked up. How will they earn their livelihood?” he asked. On May 7, the Puducherry Chief Minister wrote to Mr. Modi and asked the Centre to leave it to the States to designate red, orange and green zones. ‘Paralysing economy’ In his letter to the Prime Minister, he argued that for a small Union Territory like Puducherry, “it is impossible to create more containment zones and paralyse the economy”. “In the name of COVID-19 and lockdown, the state machinery should not be brought to a grinding halt, including the closure of industries and businesses that are a source of employment and revenue for the States. Therefore, the Government of India may spell out an exit policy so that the States can prepare themselves,” he said in his letter to the Prime Minister.  Other Chief Ministers of Congress-ruled States, like Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh, in a written communication to the Prime Minister, made a similar point about letting the State governments decide on opening up specific areas for economic activity. Stringent norms The current norms for the marking of the zones are quite stringent. While falling under a red zone effectively means 100% lockdown with only essential services allowed, in orange zones, some very limited activities are allowed. In green zones, most of the recent relaxations with regard to economic activities are allowed. But the moment a COVID-19 positive case is found in an area, it becomes a red zone. It turns orange if no fresh case is reported for 14 days — the incubation cycle of the virus — in a particular area. The zone becomes green only after no fresh cases is reported for 28 days. “Our administration is doing aggressive screening, where a team of doctors and nurses look for symptoms of COVID-19. Those who show even mild symptoms are further tested. In this way, we can manage the disease,” Mr. Narayanasamy said when asked about the risk of spreading the virus if affected areas were not strictly contained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-states-identify-covid-19-zones/article31553452.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Why has PM CARES been kept in quarantine: Congress||Instead of presiding over the plight of migrant workers, the Union government should use the PM CARES Fund to help them, the Congress said on Sunday. At an online press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the latest wave of migrant exodus is “the greatest human tragedy of our times, and the government should show more empathy”. “Why has the PM CARES Fund been put in quarantine instead of the money being used for those who are most adversely impacted? How much has been collected in the fund and when will it be used? It’s time this insensitive government wakes up to the plight of migrant labour and decisively acts to protect them,” she said. Ms. Shrinate alleged that the ruling BJP was trying to block the assistance provided by the Congress and, together with the Railway Ministry, was resorting to petty politics.  Proper measures The Congress spokesperson said no transport was being given to people to reach railway stations. “We urge the government to earnestly announce proper rescue and relief measures for migrant labourers,” she said. Every human being wants to be at home in times of a crisis, and the migrant labourers were denied this benefit, Ms. Shrinate said. “Most of them had lost their jobs,” she said. “There were millions of migrant workers who were left stranded all across the country, no measures were taken to rescue or protect them. And even today, we see many of them walking home. How can we, Indians, be fine with the worst human tragedy unfolding right before our eyes? On the last count till May 8, as many as 42 migrant workers had lost their lives. Who is responsible for this,” she asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-has-pm-cares-been-kept-in-quarantine-congress/article31553456.ece
11 May 2020||KOCHI,||Evacuation posed unique challenges, says Vice-Admiral||With the Navy embarking on a seaborne evacuation of Indians stranded overseas following the COVID-19 pandemic, Vice-Admiral G. Ashok Kumar, Vice-Chief of the Naval Staff, has said that the force is ready to bring back more people from abroad or help the movement of stranded islanders within the country on orders from the Union government. “The Navy is fully geared up to undertake any such requirements. The scope of Op [Operation] Samudra Setu [which the mission is called] will depend on the number of our citizens requiring evacuation. This is being worked out by various organs of the government. We are ready to deploy more ships and also undertake a number of trips as the situation demands. While we continue to hope for the best, we are ready for the worst,” Vice- Admiral Kumar told The Hindu in an interview done over the phone and e-mail.  INS Magar entered Male on Sunday for continuing the evacuation from the island nation hours after 698 Indians were brought to Kochi by INS Jalashwa . ‘Different this time’ While the Navy had carried out some massive evacuations in the past, it was altogether different this time around thanks to the specific requirements for COVID-19, Vice-Admiral Kumar said. “We had to ensure safety of the crew as well as the evacuees. Since our operational deployments are on fully, the commands had implemented numerous steps to ensure crew safety. The crew remains as a unit for 14 days in harbour before the ship is deployed and proper screening is done,” he said. “The fact that we have not had a single case [of infection] on board any ship is a credit to these measures. For the safety of the evacuees, relevant areas onboard the ships have been sanitised, additional medical gear and personnel — including women officers and Military Nursing Service personnel — and isolation facilities created on board. Crew rationalisation was done in view of safety measures like social distancing. The additional paramedic training conducted for our personnel will come in handy in an emergency.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/evacuation-posed-unique-challenges-says-vice-admiral/article31553462.ece
11 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Hopes run high as migrants return to western Odisha||As a special train carrying 1,200 people pulled in at the Titlagarh Railway Station in Balangir district on Sunday, it raised hopes that other distressed migrant workers in poverty-stricken western Odisha would also return. Thousands of migrant workers from the region — comprising of Balangir, Kalahandi, Nuapada, Subaranpur and Bargarh districts — which is infamous for its poverty and distress migration, are stranded in different parts of the country. The arrival of the train from Mumbai to Titlagarh marked the first formal return of migrants from other States to the region. Workers from 21 of 30 different districts of Odisha got down at Titlagarh, from where about 50 buses took them in different directions after thermal screening at the station. However, these five districts are yet to receive their own native men and women. Paltry wages Every year, about 3 lakh people comprising women and children migrate to work in brick kilns and in the construction sector in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka at paltry wages. With little by way of financial reserves, these hapless people, mostly landless and marginal farmers, take wage advances through unscrupulous labour agents every year. Between October and December, they are trafficked to other States to repay the wage advance paid beforehand by the agents. “These labourers migrate in semi-bonded conditions due to lack of sustainable livelihood options in their native soil. This is further compounded because of exploitative practices of moneylenders who take advantage of this situation and charge high rates of interest,” said Umi Daniel, a noted migration expert. Although workers face physical and mental harassment in workplaces, they knowingly jump out of the frying pan into the fire, Mr. Daniel said, adding that the never-ending cycle of debt forces them to accept meagre advances before every annual migration. “We have failed our own people. Neither people’s representatives nor government officials have vociferously raised the plight of people who have migrated from the region... ,” said Prashant Kumar Nayak, who heads Palli Alok Pathagar, a Balangir-based social organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hopes-run-high-as-migrants-return-to-western-odisha/article31553465.ece
11 May 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra adds 1000 plus cases again||Maharashtra reported its highest, single-day surge in new COVID-19 cases as well as fatalities on Sunday as the cumulative tally rose to 22,171 cases; 53 fatalities took the State’s total death toll to 832. More than 1,000 cases were added for the third consecutive day. As per the State Health Department, while 1,278 cases were reported during the day, a backlog of 665 cases were updated in the final tally as per the ICMR list. These were not part of the day’s tally. The State’s overall numbers thus rose by 1,943. Of the 53 fatalities, 19 were from Mumbai, taking the city’s death toll to 508. Malegaon in Nashik, a virus hotspot in north Maharashtra, reported 14 deaths to take its death toll to 34. Pune district reported six fatalities to take its death toll to 155, while five deaths from Jalgaon city took the district’s toll to 19. “75% of the deaths reported today had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. As many as 399 persons were discharged, taking the cumulative discharged till date to 4,199, said Dr. Awate. Mumbai city reported 875 new cases, recording a total of 13,739 cases. The tally for Pune district rose to 2,689 with more than 95 new cases. Malegaon reported 90 new cases, with a total tally of 562.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-adds-1000-plus-cases-again/article31553467.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGOs warn of spurt in unwanted pregnancies||A temporary ban on family planning services at government facilities and poor access to over-the-counter contraceptives, such as oral pills and condoms, during the nationwide lockdown will result in lakhs of unwanted pregnancies, leading to a spurt in unsafe abortions and maternal deaths, experts have warned. An analysis, conducted by the Foundation for Reproductive Health Services (FRHS) India, estimates that nearly 2.56 crore couples may not be able to access contraception services during the period after the lockdown and until the return of normalcy by September. This will lead to a loss of 6.9 lakh sterilisation services, 9.7 lakh intra-uterine contraceptive devices (IUCDs) and 40.59 crore condoms, among other forms of contraception. As a result, there will be an additional 23 lakh unintended pregnancies, 6.79 lakh child births, 14.5 lakh abortions (including 8.34 lakh unsafe abortions) and 1,743 maternal deaths. The numbers will be higher if there is a longer lockdown period and a slower resumption of family planning services after the restrictions are lifted. “Footfall at OPDs [outpatient departments] and community health care centres has gone down. Private clinics have stopped providing general medical services. While chemist shops are open, restrictions on mobility mean people’s access to condoms, oral pills and emergency contraceptives is compromised. The purchase pattern behaviour of buyers is that most don’t buy contraceptives from neighbourhood shops but from a shop away from their home to maintain anonymity,” says V.S. Chandrashekar, chief executive officer, FRHS India. “At the same time, as the lockdown continues there are likely to be more pregnancies. Many will continue these pregnancies to term, either out of choice or because of inability to access clinical and medical abortion at the right time.” A lack of access to family planning services also results in the loss of women’s agency in child birth, claims Poonam Muttreja, Executive Director, Population Foundation of India. Ms. Muttreja was referring to a study by the Population Council, which records that 10 lakh women undergo sterilisation or accept IUCDs or an injectable in March alone. This demand declines by 2-3 lakhs per month in April and May when men return to work. These numbers are likely to be higher during CoVID-19-related lockdown as men return home in large numbers and spend more time at home in situations of high stress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngos-warn-of-spurt-in-unwanted-pregnancies/article31553481.ece
11 May 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 claims life of historian||One of the foremost scholars of Bengal, Harishankar Vasudevan, a professional historian who was a specialist in Russian and European history, and Indo-Russian relations, died here on Sunday after contracting COVID-19. He was 68. Son of an aeronautical engineer at the Defence Science Organisation (later Defence Research and Development Organisation) Methil Vasudevan and Sreekumari Menon, Professor Vasudevan — “Hari” to all — grew up in many places in India, Europe and Africa. After completing studies at Cambridge University in the early 1970s, Prof. Vasudevan settled in Kolkata as a Reader in European History at Calcutta University. He set up the Central Asia programme at Jamia Millia Islamia and worked as the chief of the Textbook Development Committee for the Social Sciences at the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). He was involved in projects on Indo-Russian relations, and the Radiating Globalities project initiated by Gayatri Spivak of Columbia University. At the Observer Research Foundation, he was evaluating the overlap between the ‘Look East’ and ‘Look Far East’ policies of India, and the relationship between the Greater Eurasia ideas of the Russian establishment and the Chinese establishment. One of Prof. Vasudevan’s latest engagements was to initiate a process so that a museum-cum-research centre could be developed at the spacious south Kolkata residence of another early 20th century historian Ramesh Chandra (R.C.) Majumdar. He has seminal works on Indo-Russian trade and military cooperation to his credit, and his works range from early European and 15th century Russian trader Afanasy Nikitin’s journey in India to the recent, as yet unpublished memoir of his mother titled Memoirs of a Malabar Lady .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-claims-life-of-historian/article31553484.ece
11 May 2020||New Delhi,||BPRD scraps online manual on identifying fake news||A day after it published a step-by-step guide for law enforcement agencies to identify ‘fake news’ and communally sensitive posts in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) removed the manual from its website. On Sunday, after The Hindu carried the report, several Twitter users objected to the inclusion of certain portals on an indicative list of websites that could be accessed for fact check, includingwww.thehindu.com,pib.gov.inandreporterlabs.organd others. The report, ‘Fake News & Disinformation: A Guide for LEAs - How to spot and investigate,’ was prepared by the Modernisation division of the think tank under the Union Home Ministry. ‘Technical errors’ Asked why the report was taken down, a senior BPRD official said, “There were some technical errors. The report is being corrected and will be published soon again.” A tweet from the official handle of the BPRD posted at 4.34 p.m. on May 8, where it announced the publication of the manual, was also deleted on Sunday. The detailed manual had said “digital news has brought back and increased the usage of fake news or yellow journalism” usually “published with the intent to damage an agency, entity or a person and gain financially or politically often using sensationalist, dishonest or outright fabricated headlines to increase readership.” To explain the communal aspect, the guidelines included a screenshot of a fake video which accused people belonging to a particular community of licking cleaned plates and spoons to “transfer the virus to people at large”. It also attached a clip where miscreants used fake URLs to mislead people who wanted to donate to PM-CARES Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bprd-scraps-online-manual-on-identifying-fake-news/article31553486.ece
11 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||398 new cases, 21 deaths in Gujarat||Gujarat on Sunday recorded 398 cases and 21 deaths, bringing its tally to 8,195 infections and 493 deaths due to COVID-19 so far. For the last ten days, the State has been recording over 300 cases and 20 plus deaths as a sharp spike in infections continues in Gujarat. Ahmedabad continues to remain the largest cluster, accounting for over 70% of the cases and deaths. Even on Sunday, out of 398 cases, 278 were reported from Ahmedabad, while 18 out of 21 deaths occurred in the city. Ahmedabad’s cumulative numbers as on Sunday are: 5,818 cases and 381 deaths. After Ahmedabad, Surat is the second largest cluster, with 895 cases and 39 deaths so far. On Sunday, Surat reported 41 cases and one death. So far, seven deaths each have occurred in Bhavnagar and Anand. Meanwhile, 454 patients were discharged on Sunday as per the new guidelines on discharge of patients that require no retesting of asymptomatic patients or patients with mild symptoms after ten days of treatment in hospital. This is the biggest single day jump in the discharge of patients. So far, 2,525 patients have been discharged after recovery, which is likely to increase after the new guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/398-new-cases-21-deaths-in-gujarat/article31553470.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal to beef up border security||Nepal will increase the number of security outposts and deploy more armed personnel in the border with India, Foreign Minister Pradeep Gyawali told The Hindu on Sunday. The senior Minister said Kathmandu expects India to avoid any unilateral measures in the Kalapani region and remain committed to the ‘fixed border’ principle as agreed during the past official talks. The Kalapani region is claimed by Nepal but India has been maintaining that the new political map of 2019 has shown the territory “accurately” as part of Uttarakhand. Nepal’s decision follows protests in Kathmandu on Saturday after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday inaugurated a link road to Lipulekh pass that will reduce the travel time for pilgrims to the Kailash Mansarovar region. “The number of border posts on our side is less when compared to the security arrangement on the Indian side. We have approximately 120 border posts at present and are planning to increase the numbers in the future,” said Mr. Gyawali over the phone from Kathmandu. In a strongly worded statement, Nepal’s Foreign Ministry had said the decision to build the road through territory that it claims is a breach of an agreement reached between the two countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-to-beef-up-border-security/article31553445.ece
11 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Massive revamp of Forest Ministry units||A proposal from “various VIPs” in Himachal Pradesh last year to change the jurisdiction of the Dehradun regional office of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) to Chandigarh has triggered a massive restructuring plan. The reorganisation plan entails merging the 10 regional offices of the MoEF&CC and 19 centres of the Forest Survey of India (FSI), National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) and Central Zoo Authority (CZA) into just 19 regional offices of the Ministry. The stated objective of merging regional offices with the NTCA, WCCB, CZA and FSI centres is improving efficiency and ensuring better coordination. However, environment and wildlife activists see the push for restructuring during the COVID-19 lockdown as a design to make these key conservation wings of the Ministry toothless. A meeting with the heads of all regional offices and specialised wings was held on May 2 under the chairmanship of the Director-General of Forests and Special Secretary through a video-conference.  The Hindu had on May 5 sent a questionnaire to the authorities concerned, including Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar. There have been no replies from any of them till date. Different objectives “These important organisations have very different objectives ... Increasing efficiency and transparency is a must, but I am not sure this is going to be achieved by merging such very different bodies together. In fact, it could well weaken India’s efforts to protect the environment... ” said Belinda Wright of the Wildlife Protection Society of India. N.K. Vasu, former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests in Assam, differed. “Granted that the specialised wings have some independence but they end up reporting to the same boss. The Ministry has been working on putting everything under one umbrella, which makes sense for sanctioning various schemes,” he said. According to the plan, all 10 existing regional offices will be headed by Deputy Inspector-General of Forests level officers. There is, however, no plan to reduce staff strength in restructuring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/massive-revamp-of-forest-ministry-units/article31553448.ece
11 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Car runs over migrant on his way home to Bihar by cycle||A migrant worker who was cycling back home to his village in Bihar from Delhi died after being hit by an SUV in Lucknow on Saturday. Sagheer Ansari, 26, was cycling to his home in East Champaran district along with seven colleagues when the accident took place. A case of rash driving, causing death by negligence not amounting to culpable homicide and mischief, was lodged against the car driver, according to the FIR at the Sushant Golf City police station. Sagheer, who worked as a tailor in Delhi, started cycling back home on May 5. Around 10 a.m. on Saturday, the group sat on a divider on the Shaheed Path, a major road on the outskirts of the city, to have food. “We were hungry and were eating chura [flattened rice]. We were not getting anything else to eat,” Sahib Ansari, his cousin, told The Hindu . A car rammed Sagheer who was sitting next to a brick enclosure meant for plants on the divider, he said. Sagheer was declared dead at the medical college in Lucknow two hours later. The migrant workers belong to Palanwa in East Champaran. Due to the lockdown, they were left without work and with shrinking supplies. Hence, they decided to head back home. The victim is survived by his wife and three young sons. Raj Kumar Shukla, ACP Mohanlalganj, said the car was seized and investigation is on. Arrest will be made soon , he said. “ Prima facie , the car had a burst tyre due to which it lost balance and hit the person sitting on the divider,” said the officer. The car carried a Lucknow number plate. The body was handed over to the victim’s colleagues after post mortem. Mr. Ansari said they were trying to collect Rs. 14,000 to transport the body home after the administration had granted them permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/car-runs-over-migrant-on-his-way-home-to-bihar-by-cycle/article31553450.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||India reports 128 more deaths, 3,277 new cases||“Based on the active COVID-19 confirmed cases being treated currently, we have noticed that only 2.48% of these COVID cases have required ICU facility, only 1.94% of them have required oxygen support while 0.40% have required ventilator support,” the Health Ministry said in its release. Giving more details, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said India’s doubling rate now stands at 12.0 — over a 3-day window, 10.1 over a 7-day window and 11.0 when measured over a 14-day window. He added that 20 countries of the world where maximum cases have been reported, have total population which is almost equal to the population of India i.e. 135 crore and they have collectively till date reported almost 84 times the number of cases in India. “In case of mortality, these top 20 countries have reported 200 times the number of deaths reported in India,” he said. “The central government has sent 72 lakh N-95 face masks and 36 lakh PPE kits to the States so far,” Mr. Vardhan said, adding that the Railways has converted 5,231 coaches into COVID Care Centres. The Minister was speaking to reporters after inspecting a COVID-19 care centre in the Mandoli area in the national capital. The Health Ministry also said the procurement of a high throughput machine as per the recommendations of the Empowered Group-2 has been approved for the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). “Presently the testing capacity at NCDC is about 300-350 tests per day. With Cobas 6800, which is a high throughput machine with the capacity to test around 1,200 samples in 24 hours, the testing capacity for COVID-19 at NCDC has been significantly enhanced,” noted a release. The Health Ministry has now directed all States and Union Territories to upload the details of three types of COVID- dedicated facilities on their websites for public information. “So far 7,740 facilities in 483 districts have been identified in all the States/UTs that include hospitals and facilities of the State/UT Govts as well as the Central Government. There are 65, 6,769 isolation beds, 30,5,567 beds for confirmed cases, 35,1,204 beds for suspected cases, 99,492 oxygen supported beds, 1,696 facilities with oxygen manifold and 34,076 ICU beds,” noted the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-reports-128-more-deaths-3277-new-cases/article31553439.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Indian, Chinese troops face off in Ladakh, Sikkim||A defence source said that at Muguthang, the road on the Chinese side is motorable, and on the Indian side, it is a remote area. Due to this, they can bring in a large number of troops if need be, the source added. Both countries have differing perceptions owing to the non-demarcated boundary, which lead to transgressions and face-offs, as each side patrols up to the areas they claim along the 3,448-km Line of Actual Control (LAC). Any such issue is resolved through the mechanisms put in place to maintain peace and tranquillity on the border. In September 2019, a scuffle broke out between the patrol teams of both sides near Pangong Tso. The issue was resolved in a few hours after a delegation-level meeting at the Border Personnel Meeting (BPM) point at Chushul. In August 2017, a video surfaced, showing several hundred soldiers hurling stones at each other. In January 2020, Army Chief Gen. Manoj Naravane said that after the Wuhan summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping in April 2018, differences over the border were being settled at the lowest level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-chinese-troops-face-off-in-ladakh-sikkim/article31553443.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Norms issued for restart of industrial units||The units should approach local district administration for specific assistance. “District Magistrates may be instructed to ensure that in such instances, the industrial unit may be facilitated to run their end-to-end operations, in the overall interests of industrial security,” the order said. Storage facilities have to be inspected for any signs of spills, wear and tear. “Check for already opened storage vessels, containers, bags or silos for possible oxidation/chemical reaction/rusting/ rotting etc. HAZMAT chemicals in the storage need to be checked for chemical stability before using for any processes,” said the order. Before entering the storage areas, proper ventilation and lighting has to be ensured. They should be examined for any sign of damage. Complete safety audit The owners should get done a complete safety audit of the entire unit, clean pipelines, equipment and discharge lines as per set procedure, run rotatory equipment under supervision, and check boilers, furnaces or heat exchangers for lining and signs of wear and tear. All pressure and temperature gauges should be functional. “Ensure the arrangement for round-the-clock emergency crews/professional technical teams provided with MAH and cluster of MAH should have an extended coverage of 200 km to reach transport accident spots for help,” it said. 24-hour sanitisation The employers should provide hand santisers, masks, face protection shields and PPEs, ensure 24-hour sanitisation of the factory premises, accommodation of workers should also be sanitised regularly, and their temperature checked twice a day. Those showing symptoms should not report to work. The staff should be educated on COVID-19 health and prevention, quarantine measures for supply and storage of goods, isolation and sanitisation of finished goods and delivery of goods in shifts. Barriers should be created to ensure the physical distance within the work floor and dining facilities. Work should be in shifts. The factories operating round-the-clock at full production capacity should consider one-hour gap between shifts, except for units requiring continuous operations. Managerial and administrative staff should work one shift at 33% capacity. The employees should not share tools or workstations to the extent possible. Factories have to prepare accommodation to isolate workers, if needed. The HR has to help manage the whole process for the individual. All travelling employees have to undergo 14-day quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/norms-issued-for-restart-of-industrial-units/article31553442.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Manmohan Singh admitted to AIIMS||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, 87, has been admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here on Sunday evening with a complaint of chest pain. He is under observation at the cardio-thoracic ward, a hospital source said. The source said Dr. Singh was brought around 8.45 p.m., and is stable. The two-time Prime Minister has previously undergone two heart bypass surgeries. Till date, Dr. Singh has maintained an active life, and recently addressed a press conference with Congress president Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manmohan-singh-admitted-to-aiims/article31553441.ece
11 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||KNP digs trench for boars as swine fever toll rises||Kaziranga National Park (KNP) authorities have dug a six-foot deep and 2-km-long trench to prevent intermingling of wild boars with domesticated pigs in villages as the African swine fever (ASF) killed more than 13,000 pigs by Sunday afternoon. Officials said ASF had spread to nine districts in Assam. Over 7 lakh people in the State are dependent on piggery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/knp-digs-trench-for-boars-as-swine-fever-toll-rises/article31553446.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Petitioner accuses Arnab of misleading SC||An application has been filed by a lawyer against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, accusing him of misleading the Supreme Court. Advocate Reepak Kansal asked the top court to order perjury proceedings against Mr. Goswami for providing “misleading information” in his plea to quash the FIRs registered against him for spreading hate in connection with his coverage of the Palghar lynching incident. Mr. Goswami has staunchly denied the charges and termed them “politically motivated”. On April 25, the Supreme Court had granted him interim protection from arrest and transferred the case from Nagpur to Mumbai. Mr. Goswami has already accused the Mumbai Police of bias in their investigation. The police have, in turn, accused Mr. Goswami of trying to intimidate the investigating officers. The case is scheduled for hearing on May 11 before a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petitioner-accuses-arnab-of-misleading-sc/article31553475.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC raises query on loan interest during moratorium||The Supreme Court has sought a response from the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on a petition against charging interest on loans even during the three-month moratorium period declared amid COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. The petitioner, Gajendra Sharma, said the accrual of interest, to be paid in bulk or on a monthly basis after the lifting of the three-month embargo on May 31, was akin to taking away with one hand what was given by the other hand. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, to justify in the next weeks why the government and the RBI seemed to think that natural justice was not violated when “the government on one hand ceased the working of individuals and on the other hand is asking to pay the loan interest during moratorium”. According to the petitioner, “the interest charged during the moratorium would be added up into the EMIs at the end of three-month forbearance. It will have to be paid in one go or be equally divided in all future EMIs. The monthly bill for customers will increase ... it will defeat the very purpose of permitting moratorium on loans.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-raises-query-on-loan-interest-during-moratorium/article31553482.ece
11 May 2020||PATNA,||60-year-old among six dead in Bihar||Bihar on Sunday reported the sixth COVID-19 death. Among the deceased is a 60-year-old migrant worker, who had returned from Delhi and. “He had suffered from the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and died of cardiorespiratory arrest,” Principal Health Secretary Sanjay Kumar. Earlier, five patients had died in Munger, Sasaram, East Champaran, Sitamarhi and Vaishali districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/60-year-old-among-six-dead-in-bihar/article31553463.ece
11 May 2020||Berhampur,||Odisha man attacks doctor, bites ear off||A man attacked physicians on duty and bit off a portion of an ear of a doctor at the obstetrics and gynaecology (O&G) department of the MKCG medical college and hospital in Odisha’s Berhampur on Sunday. Police took Tarini Prasad Mohapatra into custody for allegedly trying to force entry into the labour room, where his wife was admitted for delivery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-man-attacks-doctor-bites-ear-off/article31553468.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon session may not be delayed||The monsoon session of Parliament, which normally begins in the last week of June or in the first week of July, may still be held on time, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Sunday, amid concerns that the coronavirus pandemic may delay its start. Last year, the monsoon session ran between June 20 and August 7. The Speaker underlined that it was a testing time due to the COVID-19 crisis, but expressed hope that the session could be held as per normal schedule. “Despite COVID-19 crisis, I am hopeful that the session can be held on time. But it will also depend on the situation prevailing at that time,” Mr. Birla said. Asked whether it would be possible to hold the session with strict social distancing norms still in place in June-July, Mr. Birla said a way out could be found when that situation comes. Mr. Birla, on whose initiative a control room was set up in Lok Sabha and State Assemblies for better coordination between States in helping people, said this experiment turned out to be very successful. “MPs cutting across party lines reached out to people and helped them during this pandemic-forced lockdown. They should be praised.”  In the wake of thepandemic, the Budget session had to be ended prematurely on March 23, over 10 days ahead of its last scheduled sitting on April 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monsoon-session-may-not-be-delayed/article31553474.ece
11 May 2020||Mumbai,||26 new cases, two more deaths in Dharavi||Dharavi reported 26 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 859. The area reported two deaths, totalling 29 fatalities so far. After a spike in the past two weeks, the number of cases seems to have stabilised. After reporting 50 new cases on May 7, it reported 25 new cases on May 8, another 25 on May 9 and 26 on Sunday. Some areas that reported cases include Transit camp, Matunga labour camp, Kumbharwada, Baliga Nagar. Among the new cases is a 13-year-old boy from Nehru chawl. About 222 people have recovered. Mahim reported seven new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/26-new-cases-two-more-deaths-in-dharavi/article31553473.ece
11 May 2020||RAIPUR,||Ajit Jogi slips into a coma, says doctor||Former Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Ajit Jogi, who was admitted to a private hospital here on Saturday afternoon after suffering a cardiac arrest, has slipped into a coma, a senior doctor attending on him said on Sunday. His neurological activity is “almost nil” and he is on ventilator, the doctor said. The 74-year-old leader of the Janta Congress Chhattisgarh (J) was admitted to Shree Narayana Hospital after he fell unconscious at his residence here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ajit-jogi-slips-into-a-coma-says-doctor/article31553478.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. part of ‘Solidarity Trial’ to test treatment options||Tamil Nadu has been co-opted into a multi-centric, randomised, emergency ‘Solidarity Trial’ to help identify treatment options for COVID-19 patients. Two centres — the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Omandurar Estate, and the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital — have been chosen for the purpose. The study has four treatment arms, including Remdesivir, Hydroxychloroquine, Lopinavir with Ritonavir (anti-retrovirals), and Lopinavir with Ritonavir and Interferon Beta 1a, according to a letter written to the State government by Sheela Godbole, national co-ordinator, Solidarity-India. The trial programme has been developed to “fast-track the generation of quality global data to help identify treatment options for the COVID-19 disease”. The drugs would be administered to critical patients, according to sources in the Health Department. The drugs are not meant for asymptomatic patients, according to a source, and there are certain prescriptions that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has specified, which will be followed by the principal investigators of the study in Chennai. Remdesivir and Interferon will be shipped from the ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute, while the State will have to procure the other drugs. The principal investigators and co-investigators in the two chosen institutions to co-ordinate the trial have also been identified, it is learnt. “We are ready to start as soon as the drugs arrive, possibly in a week’s time,” a Health Department official told The Hindu . The criteria for patient enrolment on the Clinical Trials Registry of India (CTRI) are adults aged 18 or above; those not receiving any of the study drugs already; and people without known allergy or contraindications to any of the study drugs. They should not be transferred from the hospital to a non-study hospital within 72 hours. Patients with chronic liver or heart disease or any kind of concurrent medication, pregnant women and those who do not wish to participate in the study cannot be recruited. “There are currently no available vaccines or treatments for COVID-19. Although there have been some suggestions for untested treatments that could be added to the usual care in hospitals, none has been known to help. The World Health Organisation is, therefore, organising a study in many countries, in which some of these untested treatments are compared with each other to discover whether any [of them] do help. The study treatments are Remdesivir, Hydroxychloroquine, Lopinavir plus Ritonavir, and Interferon-beta. Some are given as daily pills, and some as daily injections,” according to the CTRI website. Meanwhile, the State is also scheduled to start a trial to determine the effectiveness of using convalescent plasma in the treatment of COVID-19. Four institutes — the Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Omandurar Estate, and the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai, and the government hospitals in Tirunelveli and Madurai — will be the centres for the trial, sources in the Health Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-part-of-solidarity-trial-to-test-treatment-options/article31553645.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High turnout of workers despite virus threat||The COVID-19 pandemic does not seem to have deterred the landless workers of Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur, both falling under the Cavuery delta, from reporting to work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), this month. The numbers are greater than what the two districts saw a year ago, in May 2019. There is one more district — undivided Tirunelveli in the south — which has, so far, recorded a higher turnout of workers compared to the situation a year ago. According to the data available with the State Rural Development and Panchyat Raj Directorate, on Friday, Nagapattinam registered the highest turnout of 57,136 workers, whereas the daily average turnout in May 2019 was 53,423. In Tiruvarur, the figure was 25,330, against the previous year’s average of about 24,690, and in Tirunelveli, the figures were 26,964 and 26,298 respectively. All other districts have experienced much less than what they had a year ago. Of them, only Villupuram, Dharmapuri and Madurai have been able to get at least one half of what they had in May 2019. The percentage of turnout this time with reference to the previous year hovers between 80% and 63% in these these districts. There are three districts – Tiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai and Ariyalur – which have seen the single-digit figures. The State-wide figure of attendance is around 3.61 lakh workers, whereas the average daily figure was 11.6 lakh in May 2019. What is to be kept in mind is that not more than one-third of the required workers is permitted to work at sites of the MGNREGS, as per the State government’s order of April 23. Explaining why Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam differ from most of the districts in the State, S. Ranganathan, a Mannargudi-based leader of farmers, says the presence of a large number of landless workers is the primary reason. This category constitutes 40% of the population in the districts. During off-season, the MGNREGS provides a great source of livelihood opportunities to workers, who get paid Rs. 256 per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-turnout-of-workers-despite-virus-threat/article31553629.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ritchie Street traders seek permission to open shops||Traders, who have been running business for decades at Chennai’s Ritchie Street, the electronics hub, have appealed to the State government to permit them to resume operations immediately. Ritchie Street is the second largest market for electronics in India after Nehru Palace in New Delhi and covers Narasingapuram Street, Wallers Street, Meeran Sahib Street, Mohammed Hussain Sahib Street and Guruappa Road employing close to 8,000 people. “We closed down the market when the lockdown announcement came. Even though now the government has ordered all electronic, mobile and computer peripherals shops to open in Chennai, our market has not received permission to open shops,” said R. Chandalia, secretary, Chennai Electronics and Infotech Traders’ Association, Ritchie Street. “We request the State government to help us open shops and we assure that we will adhere to all precaution and safety measures issued to us,” he said. Livelihood hit The livelihood of several casual workers, daily wage earners, tricycle rickshaw pullers, courier staff and others dependent on daily income for their family were most affected, Mr. Chandala said. Traders here said that businesses here started falling since the outbreak of COVID-19 in China. “Shops here depend on the Chinese market for their consignments. There has been a huge supply shortage since January here,” said a trader. “The shop owners here have tried their best to support their staff, but are struggling with no assistance from government; many establishments are on the verge of closing down,” he added. Traders here pointed out that if the lockdown continued, the entire business would go to neighbouring States like Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka as their electronic markets had opened leading to trade and revenue loss of GST collection. “Some manufacturers are approaching neighbouring States to procure electronic parts and other accessories and this will kill our businesses,” Mr. Chandalia said. This electronics hub, which is off Anna Salai, sells TV sets, laptops, home theatre systems, mobile phones, instruments, LED panels and lights. Components such as capacitors and integrated circuits and cables which are used by various manufacturing units are also available in this market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ritchie-street-traders-seek-permission-to-open-shops/article31553618.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One lakh stranded migrant labourers set to go back home||At least one lakh stranded migrant labourers, currently out of work and under quarantine in shelters across Tamil Nadu as the State battles COVID-19, will soon be heading home, police sources said on Sunday. The State government has sought the Southern Railway’s nod for operating dozens of trains, mostly to Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar. Of the two lakh migrant workers who have registered themselves with the authorities, over one lakh have expressed their desire to go back to their native places, while the rest have opted to stay back, hoping that they could return to work soon as industries resume operations. Though the State government had made arrangements for food and shelter for the migrants by coordinating with their respective employers across the State, the workers grew restless when the lockdown was extended further on May 3, and they came across media reports of their counterparts in neighbouring States going home on Shramik Special trains. While the two lakh migrant workers, mostly engaged in the textile, construction, brick kiln and manufacturing industries, had registered themselves with the city/district nodal officers, seeking support, there is no data on an equal number of people, employed in the unorganised sector, particularly restaurants, salons and resorts, since they haven’t contacted the officials yet. “When a State-wide survey was done a fortnight ago to determine how many migrant workers wanted to go home, many opted to leave as early as possible. Though food was not a problem, they were concerned about their families. In terms of transport, priority is being given to daily-wage workers and those who are really poor,” an official said. A senior IAS official has been nominated as the nodal officer in each State for the workers belonging to those States (and working in Tamil Nadu) to contact with regard to registration and travel. The railways will arrange trains after getting written consent from both the State of origin and destination. Additional Chief Secretary Atulya Misra and Additional Director-General of Police (Operations) Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal were coordinating with the District Collectors/Superintendents of Police to monitor the movement of migrant workers, sources said.  When a State-wide survey was done a fortnight ago to determine how many migrant workers wanted to go home, many opted to leave as early as possible||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-lakh-stranded-migrant-labourers-set-to-go-back-home/article31553641.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industrialists want better representation in committee||Industrialists from across Tamil Nadu have expressed concerns that the high-level committee formed by the State government to assess the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic does not have sufficient representation from all sectors. Several industrialists have requested Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to reconstitute the committee with the “right mixture” of representatives of various fields like finance, human resources, operations, exports, banking and economics, who are in direct touch with trade and industry. “We are happy that the Tamil Nadu government has formed this committee. But they could have included more members from various sectors and also roped in heads of various countries that have operations in the State,” said the managing director of a manufacturing firm in the Sriperumbudur belt. IT firms on OMR felt that a representative of their industry should have found a place in the panel. “COVID-19 has changed the way the IT industry functions, and more changes would come in over the next few months. Having a member from one of the State-based firms would have been more appropriate,” said the chief financial officer of an IT firm. The IT industry in Tamil Nadu is approaching USD 20 billion in exports and employs over 4,00,000 people directly and over a million indirectly. K.E. Raghunathan, former national president, All India Manufacturers’ Organisation, said, “The MSME sector representatives feel the formation of an expert committee is not a right move at this time. Today, what MSMEs need is urgent announcements and support in order to survive.” . K.V. Kanakambaram, president, The Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, said industrial estates had been badly hit by the lockdown, and demanded representation for the sector. “Having a country-specific representation will help the State. It will also help us understand what global investors are saying about Tamil Nadu,” the head of a Chamber of Commerce said. Representatives of the MSME, agriculture, textile and fisheries sectors and members of parties that have representation in the Assembly must be included in the panel, DMK president M.K. Stalin said. “Though the committee has 24 members, barring the chairman, who is an economist, and some industrial representatives, all others are officials. Is this fair?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrialists-want-better-representation-in-committee/article31553637.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. making up for lost momentum by testing at higher rate||Though Tamil Nadu refrained from testing aggressively in the initial stages of the COVID-19 outbreak, with only a few hundred persons being tested every day until mid-April, the State has now considerably ramped up testing. In the last one week, over 10,000 persons have been tested every day, on an average. Tamil Nadu, which is among the top seven States that account for more than 80% of the cases in the country, is testing at a significantly higher rate than other States. Overall, it has tested almost the same number of persons as Maharashtra, which held the top position for testing until recently, though the latter’s population is around 35% higher than Tamil Nadu’s. The overall testing to positive rate remains around 3% in Tamil Nadu. For the past one week, it has exceeded 4%, indicating that testing is being carried out in a more targeted manner due to the emergence of the Koyambedu market cluster. Around 2,000 cases are estimated to be linked to this cluster, at this stage. A similar trend was observed when more persons from among the attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat conference and their contacts were testing positive. The rate shot up drastically to over 25% during that time. It may be noted that the overall number of tests performed by the State was considerably low then. For instance, as per the data provided on April 1, 2020, while 372 persons were tested that day, roughly every third person tested positive (110 cases). While Tamil Nadu is testing at a higher rate now, it is unclear how the testing is being distributed across the State, as a majority of the tests are believed to be carried out in Chennai. Unlike Gujarat, Tamil Nadu has not been providing district-level test data as part of its regular bulletins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-making-up-for-lost-momentum-by-testing-at-higher-rate/article31553642.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bad weather delays fishers’ return trip||A cyclonic system near the Andamans has put off the return journey of fishers from Tamil Nadu who were stuck there. Of the 260 fishers, 125 were to be brought back home on May 6 by a ship. But now that has been postponed. The fishers have no place to go and are staying on their boats. “It has been raining here and since there is no water in the well, we bathed in the rain. Now many of us have caught cold and some seem worse,” said Selvam, a fisherman from Cuddalore. The fishers from Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Kanniyakumari, Ramanathapuram and Rameswaram had gone to work on boats belonging to owners in the Andamans. “Only seven are boats from Kanniyakumari. We have been stuck in the boats for 45 days now without work. If the administration and owners fail to help us, we will end up dying of hunger,” said P. Veeramani of Adhiramapattinam. An official in the Fisheries Department of Andamans and Nicobar said that only 125 persons had opted to go back home. “We had to reschedule the ship slated to leave on May 6 due to some cyclonic activity near Andamans,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bad-weather-delays-fishers-return-trip/article31553616.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner urges migrants to stay calm||Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan on Sunday assured migrant workers of facilitating their return to their home States. Accompanied by senior police officials, Mr. Viswanathan visited a shed where migrant workers were staying on Old Trunk Road, Pallavaram, and heard their grievances. Addressing them, Mr. Viswanathan said the workers had to face certain inconvenience because of lockdown. “Hopefully from Monday, you can leave for your native places. Arrangements are on. So stay calm until then. You can reach home within three or four days,” he said asking them not create any problem till then. The Commissioner also visited the Armed Police constables at an isolation camp in St. Thomas Mount and heard their grievances. They had been isolated after they came in contact with positive patients. “Every policeman is very important in this time of crisis. We are all working hard and have earned good name among public. About 70 policemen have had COVID-19 so far. Stay safe,” he told them. Later, he inspected arrangements at COVID care centre in Chennai Trade Centre and the isolation centre in IIT-Madras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-urges-migrants-to-stay-calm/article31553615.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Second Shramik train leaves Chennai||The second special train for migrants from the city left for Manipur on Sunday. The train, carrying migrants from various States, including Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam and Manipur, was operated from the Dr. MGR Chennai Central railway station. The labourers and other stranded people were brought to the station in chartered MTC buses. Based on the request of the Tamil Nadu government and with the list of passengers, the routes were identified in coordination with different railway zones, said an official of Southern Railway. As many as 1,148 passengers, majority of them from Manipur and fishermen from Andhra Pradesh, were being sent in the Shramik special train on Sunday following physical distancing norms, a civic official said. Over 900 fishermen from Odisha and Andhra Pradesh were stranded at the Kasimedu fishing harbour. On Sunday, 685 fishermen would be sent to Srikakulam and Kakinada in the special train, he said. The government had made all the arrangements for bringing the passengers to the railway station. They were allowed to board the train after temperature screening and verification of records. The City Police had made elaborate security arrangements to prevent other migrant workers stranded here from entering the railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-shramik-train-leaves-chennai/article31553643.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deceased pharmacist had COVID-19: police||The pharmacist who died on Thursday in T. Nagar here after drinking a chemical preparation he reportedly formulated for tackling COVID-19 tested positive for the virus, the police said. K. Sivanesan, 47, of Perungudi, was working with a Chennai-based Ayurvedic and herbal products company in its plant at Kashipur, Uttarakhand. He had devised formulas of various products and used to visit his managing director Dr. Rajkumar at his residence in T. Nagar. On Thursday, he procured a chemical from the market and gave it to Dr. Rajkumar, who fainted. Even as his boss was being resuscitated, Sivanesan drank the chemical. A police officer said, “The samples collected from him showed that he was positive for COVID-19. We also subjected the police personnel and others who took him to the hospital for test.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deceased-pharmacist-had-covid-19-police/article31553620.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Homebuyers need incentives, say developers||Real-estate developers have sought incentives for homebuyers since they have been struggling with issues like salary cuts due to the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. “Existing homebuyers are spending sleepless nights and are worried about EMI payments on housing loans after facing salary and job cuts. The government should give interest-free moratorium on home loans for a period of six months or so,” said Padam Dugar, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI)- Chennai Chapter, and vice-chairman and managing director of Dugar Housing Limited. The focus of the government should be on putting more money into the hands of the people and reducing fees and levies like stamp duty, he said. Arun Mn, founder and managing director of Casagrand, said there were 5,000 customers in ongoing projects, and he had not heard anything from them on cancellation of bookings. However, he admitted that there might be issues in the coming months when customers face salary cuts or job loss and may withdraw from projects. “If interest rates of home loans are brought down and a moratorium of 9-12 months is guaranteed, we can tide over the crisis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/homebuyers-need-incentives-say-developers/article31553638.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna University alumni seek swift action on IoE status||The alumni associations of Anna University have written to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to take swift action to enable the institution achieve the Institute of Eminence status. The Alumni Association of CEG (AACEG) and CEG Alumni Association of North America (CEGAANA) have written to the Chief Minister urging him to expedite the issue of Letter of Commitment and take forward the process for grant of IoE status. “The four campuses of Anna University (CEG, ACTech, SAP, and MIT) are the crown jewels that have created many generations of technical, business, social, cultural, and political leaders who have made an immense impact in their respective fields of specialisation. Such a positive impact was possible due to their focus on two strengths: excellence and integrity,” the letter said. The members have pointed out that more skilled jobs would be possible with increased investment in improving the quality of higher education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-university-alumni-seek-swift-action-on-ioe-status/article31553622.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-service man arrested for domestic violence||The All Women Police, Avadi, on Saturday arrested a 56-year-old ex-serviceman for torturing his wife and subjecting her to cruelty during lockdown. The police said Rajesh Kumar Pandey settled in IAF quarters in Muthapudupet after his retirement. He was living with his 52-year-old wife, a lawyer and they had three grown up children. His wife had approached the police thrice in the past and the police had issued receipts after making an entry in community service register (CSR). During lockdown, he allegedly tortured his wife and subjected her to cruelty in front of their children. Hence his wife preferred a complaint demanding action against him. Police inspector Latha arrested him. He has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-service-man-arrested-for-domestic-violence/article31553613.ece
11 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two ‘released prisoners’ held near Vizag||Two inmates of the Puzhal central prison who were released “inadvertently” were located in Visakhapatnam district in Andhra Pradesh and brought back. Despite travel restrictions due to COVID-19, prison and police officials managed to zero in on the duo in a remote village. According to police sources, the Narcotics Control Bureau had arrested S. Rama Siva and G. Vanthala Murali on charges of being in possession of 187 kg of ganja in Tiruvallur district in October. They were booked under the provisions of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and lodged in Puzhal Central Prison-II. The NCB opposed their bail application when it came in the Special Court for Essential Commodities and NDPS cases on May 4. Subsequently, the court rejected their plea for bail. However, the prison authorities released the two thinking that they were granted bail. Director-General of Police (Prisons) Sunil Kumar Singh directed the jailer to locate the prisoners and take them into custody. Preliminary enquiry revealed that the accused were located at Chintapalli in Visakhapatnam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-released-prisoners-held-near-vizag/article31553619.ece
11 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||15 workers return to Coimbatore||As many as 15 workers of Tamil Nadu, who were stranded in Maharashtra because of the nationwide lockdown, have returned to Coimbatore. Another 22 workers are expected to come back shortly. According to a health department official, four workers returned five days ago. They were screened at the border, kept in facility quarantine for five days, and were tested for COVID-19. All of them tested negative. Another 11 workers returned on Sunday. They were screened at the border, given medicines to boost their immunity system, and are kept under 14 days home quarantine as they did not have any symptom of COVID-19. The workers had returned from Maharashtra to Tiruchi or Salem and from there to Coimbatore. They will be tested if they show any symptom, the official said. Another 22 workers are expected to arrive here in a day or two from Maharashtra. The workers are all from different parts of Coimbatore district and were employed in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-workers-return-to-coimbatore/article31553665.ece
11 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Labour Department asks registered workers to provide account details||Workers, who have registered with the Tamil Nadu construction, unorganised, and autorickshaw and taxi drivers welfare boards in the district and have not given their bank account details to the Labour Department to get the relief amount announced by the Chief Minister, can share the numbers of private bank account, post bank account, or cooperative bank account. This account will be used only to make the relief payment. A press release from the Labour Department said workers should send the details to kovaicovid19@gmail.com or WhatsApp to 9445398752, 9943324449 or 9566281410. They can also take print out of the information (photocopies of the front page of the bank passbook, welfare board card, and mobile number) and put it in the drop boxes kept at the Labour Department offices in Coimbatore (Ramanathapuram), Pollachi or Mettupalayam, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/labour-department-asks-registered-workers-to-provide-account-details/article31553666.ece
11 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for poisoning woman to death||The Vellakoil police in Tiruppur district on Sunday booked a 28-year-old man on charges of murdering a woman with whom he was allegedly in a relationship. T. Vivek, a resident of Kodumudi Road near Muthur, was booked for allegedly poisoning to death Y. Sangeetha (33) of Perumalputhur late on Saturday. According to the police, the accused had some issues with Sangeetha and he trespassed into her house at 10 p.m. on Saturday. After pushing Sangeetha’s husband outside, Vivek locked the house from inside and forcibly fed her poisonous tablets. He also consumed the pills. Though Sangeetha’s husband and relatives managed to enter the house by breaking open the rear door, she died on the spot. Vivek was admitted to the Government Hospital in Kangeyam. His condition was said to be stable. Vellakoil inspector Manoharan said that investigation was on to find out the motive for the murder.  Man fined for attempt to hunt hare The Forest Department staff slapped a fine of Rs. 10,000 on a man who attempted to hunt hare within the limits of Periyanaickenpalayam forest range on Saturday. Officials said that a patrol team of the Department found Michael alias Murugesan (33) of Rayaroothupathi attempting to trap hare in the early hours of Saturday, following which the fine was collected from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-booked-for-poisoning-woman-to-death/article31553681.ece
11 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special cover released||The Department of Posts, Coimbatore Division, has released COVID-19 themed meter die cancellation covers in presentation pack. According to a press release, each pack has a Rs. 5 commercially-used postal envelope and Rs. 5 commemorative stamp on Mahatma Gandhi and cancelled by the stamp impression of RS Puram head post office dated May 8 (World Red Cross Day). All the envelopes in the pack have the from address as Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore and addressed to the Postmaster General, Western Region. The slogan used on the meter die cancellation is “To Stop COVID-19, Flatten the Curve”. Sheuli Burman, the PMG of Western Region released the pack here recently, according to a press release from Sudhir Gopal Jakhere, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-cover-released/article31553649.ece
11 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore records a week without fresh COVID-19 cases||Health Department and the district administration were in a sigh of relief as Coimbatore district did not witness any new case of COVID-19 for a week and only four patients were remaining under treatment in Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here. The four persons -- three of a family from Velandipalayam and a 31-year-old woman from Karumbukadai -- tested positive for the disease on May 3, after which no fresh case was reported. The condition of four patients was stable as on Sunday.  Test for newborn Authorities of ESI Hospital were planning to conduct COVID-19 test for the three-day-old male child of the 31-year-old woman. The woman gave birth to the baby on Friday and hospital administration decided to conduct COVID-19 test after three days. “The mother and child are healthy. We are planning to conduct the test for the baby on Monday,” said ESI Hospital’s Dean A. Nirmala. According to Dr. Nirmala, the woman was already taking treatment for diabetes and it was being continued along with COVID-19 management. Sources with the Health Department said that regular COVID-19 management activities were to be continued in the district even though fresh cases were not reported for a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-records-a-week-without-fresh-covid-19-cases/article31553679.ece
11 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||54 TN repatriates from Maldives brought to Coimbatore||A batch of 54 people from Tamil Nadu, who were among the 698 Indians repatriated from the Maldives as part of Central Government's ‘Operation Samudra Setu’ evacuation, reached Coimbatore on Sunday evening. The 54 repatriates were accommodated in a school and a hotel here where they will remain in institutional quarantine for a specific period. Health Department staff collected their swab and blood samples for COVID-19 test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/54-tn-repatriates-from-maldives-brought-to-coimbatore/article31553680.ece
11 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNAU revamps website||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has revamped its website,www.tnau.ac.in. A release from the University said the website had the latest information of activities on its campuses, including research stations and KVKs (Krishi Vigyan Kendras). Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar launched the website in the presence of B. Shridar, Dean, Agricultural Engineering College and Research Institute, who explained the salient features of the website. The Vice-Chancellor congratulated the Department of Physical Sciences and Information Technology for revamping the website.     A special SpiceJet flight carried a little more than 16 tonnes of cargo to Sharjah from Coimbatore on Sunday. The flight carried vegetables, fruits, oil, etc. This is the second consignment sent from Coimbatore to an international destination during the nation-wide lockdown. The first one was also to Sharjah and was sent last week. The SpiceJet flight reached Coimbatore on Saturday with about three tonnes of domestic cargo. Sources said domestic cargo movement by flight to and from Coimbatore is gaining momentum.    Opening of savings accounts with India Post Payments Bank is made easy as the service is now available at the doorsteps. A release said that the department continues to serve the people during the lockdown and various steps are being taken to ensure that subsidy provided by both the Central and State governments reach the people without difficulty. The department has introduced a new facility by which people without bank or postal account can open new IPPB account with the postman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-revamps-website/article31553648.ece
11 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Rajasthani associations and individuals in Coimbatore have jointly donated Rs. 51,26,555 towards the Chief Minister’s relief fund to fight COVID-19 spread. They handed over the money to Minister SP Velumani. The Jain International Trade Organisation members and representatives of various Rajasthani associations met the Minister.   ICICI Bank has deployed a mobile ATM to take banking services to the door step of the residents of Coimbatore. The ATM van will be stationed at different locations from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. for 10 days and the public can withdraw cash, transfer funds to registered payees, and book fixed deposits. Federal Bank has also deployed mobile ATM facility in Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article31553663.ece
11 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Add to briefly||Ganga Hospital has donated Rs. 20 lakh to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister COVID- 19 relief fund. Director of Ganga Hospital D. Rajasekaran handed over a cheque to Municipal Administration Minister SP Velumani for the amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/add-to-briefly/article31553667.ece
11 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Alm-seekers, homeless persons get jobs||The nationwide lockdown turned out to be a blessing for 40 alm-seekers and homeless persons in the district to begin life afresh. After the announcement of the lockdown, non-governmental organisations (NGO) were permitted to provide food and shelter to homeless persons, alm-seekers, and workers on the premises of the corporation schools in the city. Atchayam Trust, an NGO involved in rehabilitating alm-seekers, accommodated 80 persons at the Corporation Primary School and Elementary School at Railway Colony, near Kalaimadu Statue. Out of the 80 persons, four were below 30 years, 11 below 60 years and the rest in the age category of 30 to 59. Most of them were from other districts. Except 20 migrant workers, others were living on the streets all these years. All were provided food, clothing, and other essentials. Counselling was provided to many to give up smoking and liquor. Yoga and meditation rejuvenated them. “They wanted to lead their own life and expressed their wish to us,” said P. Naveenkumar, founder of the trust. Job interest varied for each person and hence we listed out their areas and approached many companies, he added. On Saturday, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan in the presence of S.K.M. Sivakumar, Managing Director of SKM Egg Products, Makkal G. Rajan, Chairman of Sri Rajiv Gandhi Polytechnic College, K. Sudhakar, founder and convener of Erodai, handed over bicycles to two persons to sell flowers and tea, pushcarts to two persons to sell sweets. Others were provided jobs in private companies and institutions as loadmen, security men and in a few other job categories. As many as 20 persons who served as cooks will be provided jobs after the lockdown ends. “I can now earn Rs. 300 a day by selling tea,” said a confident Venkatraman, who wanted to lead a new life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alm-seekers-homeless-persons-get-jobs/article31553662.ece
11 May 2020||KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rainfall||Widespread rain across the coastal district over the last 10 to 14 days has resulted in dip in mercury level and increase in storage level at Pechiparai reservoir. PWD officials said on Sunday that Pechiparai had a rainfall of 40 mm, Chitrar I: 24, Kaliyal:10, Kuzhuthurai:16, Perunchani:10, Thuckalay: 16, Colachel:12, Palamore:19, Maapazha Thuraivu: 20, Kozhiporvilai: 15,Adaiyamadai: 25, Mullankinavilai: 13 and Anaikidangu record 17 mm rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rainfall/article31553880.ece
11 May 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||24 from Kerala injured in accident||Twenty four persons from Kottayam in Kerala suffered injuries when a bus in which they were travelling hit a lorry near Kongu College here on Salem Highway on Sunday. According to sources, the accident occurred when the lorry was taking U-turn on the highway. The bus was proceeding to Kottayam from Bengaluru with 27 persons. On information, the police rushed to the spot and sent the injured to three private hospitals in Karur. All of them were said to be out of danger. As a special gesture, Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabaskar, who visited the spot, came forward to bear the cost of treatment of those injured. In addition to it, he arranged a special bus from the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation for them to proceed on their journey. After getting a special pass for inter-State transportation in view of the curfew, the Minister sent them off to Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-from-kerala-injured-in-accident/article31553924.ece
11 May 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri reports 10 positive cases||As many as 10 positive cases have been in Krishnagiri on Sunday. The patients, including three male, are all from Shoolagiri and have contracted the disease from previous cases from the same place. The patients reported on Sunday, includes a 11-year-old boy and 14-year-old girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnagiri-reports-10-positive-cases/article31553672.ece
11 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown norms relaxed further||As per the direction of the State government, additional relaxation of lockdown restrictions will begin outside COVID-19 containment zones in Madurai district on Monday. Shops selling essential commodities like vegetables and groceries can function between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. Petrol bunks can function between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. Petrol bunks located on State and national highways can function all through the 24 hours. All offices can function between 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. with 33% staff. With some restrictions, standalone and neighbourhood shops can function between 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. Tea shops, bakeries and restaurants can only provide takeaway service. Shops selling construction materials, automobile spare parts, cement, hardware, household appliances, furniture shops, pushcarts, courier and parcel services can function between the prescribed hours. Shops selling and servicing mobile phones, computers, opticals, electrical appliances, and showrooms selling and servicing two-wheelers and four-wheelers are allowed to remain open between 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. Apart from this, certain additional activities are allowed in Madurai Corporation area. Operation of notebook manufacturing units, borewell units, photo studios, shops selling vessels, books and stationery items and wholesale paper sales are allowed. All employees and customers of these establishments must wear face masks, maintain personal distancing and regularly disinfect their premises, said a release from the district administration. They must not use air conditioners, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-norms-relaxed-further/article31553895.ece
11 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale textile merchants seek nod to resume business||Textile merchants, who have their business establishments in and around the containment zone near Vilakkuthoon area in Madurai, have petitioned the Collector to allow them to reopen their shops. In a petition, Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants’ Association secretary Asraf Tayub said there were around 1,000 shops in Vilalkuthoon area, spread over South Masi street, East Masi Street, Panthadi and the by-lanes. With several by-lanes near East Masi Street having been cordoned off due to a reported case of COVID-19, all shops in the containment zone remain closed. “Madurai being the hub for south Tamil Nadu, traders from Tiruchi to Kanniyakumari and parts of Kerala buy materials from us. With the lockdown relaxation taking place, the textile sector in this area should not be left out from resuming business,” he said. Customers need not come in person as orders could be taken over phone and shipped. Much of the fabric essential in treatment of COVID-19 - hospital linen, bedsheets, pillow cases and masks - were available with the merchants in abundance. “By opening the lines of trade, we will be aiding in COVID-19 prevention,” Mr. Asraf said and added that the shops will follow physical distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wholesale-textile-merchants-seek-nod-to-resume-business/article31553905.ece
11 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Health of poor students hangs in the balance||For the past six weeks of lockdown, 17-year-old Anaga’s (name changed) diet mainly comprised cooked rice with diluted tamarind concentrate. The Class 12 student of a Madurai Corporation school says sometimes her mother could offer her only a cup of gruel and pickle. Her mother, who worked as a sanitary worker at a theatre and her father, who polished vessels in an aluminium vessel manufacturing unit, have not been able to work now. With no source of income, they find it very difficult to buy vegetables, fruits or even milk, she says. “During my last monthly period, I had bled profusely. Nowadays I feel tired and find it difficult to concentrate while studying,” Anaga says. Hers is not an isolated case. For many students of government-run schools, who are from underprivileged families, having nutritious meal has become almost impossible. When government-run schools were open many children had access to mid-day meal with eggs and a weekly ration of iron-folic tablets. But now, these children are suffering from ‘hidden hunger’ – the deficiency of micronutrients. This issue is more pronounced for children from urban areas, where vegetables and groceries are dearer. Unavailability of nutritious food affects immunity of children, says D. Rajkumar, a professor at the Department of Pediatrics, Government Rajaji Hospital. “Having a good immune system is important, especially during the COVID-19 crisis, as those with a good immunity can fight the virus,” he says. “Insufficient intake of iron-rich food can make adolescent girls anaemic, disrupting their menstrual cycle. Undernutrition can affect the growth prospects and cognitive development of these children in the long term,” he says. K. Saravanan, the headmaster of Dr. T. Thirugnanam Primary School, an aided institution, says the government can ensure distribution of rations and eggs to children in place of mid-day meal.“Usually, during April-May, schools are closed and mid-day meal is not provided. But, the current period can be an exception. Mid-day meal is a major factor for many students to attend school,” he says. Fruits and vegetables can also be distributed through ration shops depending on the number of children in a family, he adds. A Public Health Department official suggests that iron-folic acid tablets can be distributed to students through field-level workers of primary health centres. Currently, twice the regular amount of commodities are distributed through ration shops, says Collector T.G. Vinay. “Those who have not collected their supplies in the first week of May can collect it in the next fortnight,” he says. He also says a plan on distribution of eggs and iron-folic acid tablets to students will be made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-of-poor-students-hangs-in-the-balance/article31553881.ece
11 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Online course||Ramco Institute of Technology, Rajapalayam, will conduct a three-day online course for school students under the topic ‘Fun with electric circuits’. The course will be held between 11 a.m. and 12.30 pm from May 11-13. Faculty members of the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering will be resource persons, said a press release from the institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-course/article31553888.ece
11 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||50 kg of meat, fish destroyed||Madurai Corporation officials destroyed 50 kilograms of meat and fish seized from street vendors at three locations on Sunday morning. The street vendors were found selling meat and fish at Vellalar Cross Street (ward 10), Anthoniyar Kovil Street (ward 13) and Manjal Medu Colony (ward 14). “Despite a directive from the Collector and repeated appeals from the civic body through public address system against the practice, street vendors were involved in selling meat and fish on Sunday. Two weeks back, we had destroyed around 350 kg of meat confiscated from shops in wards 13 and 14. Though, the number of vendors has come down, a few vendors still undertook sales,” said an official. He said they had bought the meat a few days back and stored it in ice boxes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-kg-of-meat-fish-destroyed/article31553892.ece
11 May 2020||MADURAI/THENI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Madurai registers four fresh cases, Theni three and Virudhunagar two||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in Madurai district reached 117 with the addition of four cases on Sunday. Madurai continues to have the highest number of cases in southern Tamil Nadu. The patients who tested positive on Sunday are aged between 20 and 29. They are residents of Goripalayam, Vilangudi, Kathakinaru and Samayanallur. Three of the four patients did not show any symptoms. While two of them travelled to containment areas, one was a primary contact of a previously tested COVID-19 positive patient. One patient displayed signs of fever, cough and cold for two days. As per the State medical bulletin, three persons were discharged from Government Rajaji Hospital on Sunday. However, the district administration allowed their discharge on Saturday. They were residents of Narasingampatti, Indira Nagar and Karisalkulam. Theni With three more persons testing positive in Theni district, officials cordoned off areas in Kadamalaikundu, Uthamapalayam and Veerapandi, said Collector M. Pallavi Baldev. She inspected an isolation centre, established at a private engineering college, where 101 migrants from the district who had returned from Maharashtra were kept. Fifty eight of them were discharged recently. The district, which had opened up three check posts for screening outsiders at Lower Camp, Andipatti and Devadanapatti, had 81 persons screened. The Collector said samples of 23 relatives and contacts of the three fresh patients were taken. Two more positive cases – a man and a woman from Chennai – were reported in Virudhunagar district. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district touched 39. Eight of them are active cases as 31 patients have been discharged. The man, who returned from Chennai, had been to Koyambedu and when he returned to his village, the villagers stopped his entry and alerted officials on Saturday. He tested positive. Meanwhile, the woman, who had accompanied the body of her husband from Chennai, too tested positive, Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said. Many of the positive cases reported in the district in the last few days have returned from Chennai or other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-registers-four-fresh-cases-theni-three-and-virudhunagar-two/article31553891.ece
11 May 2020||PALAKKAD,TAMIL NADU||More detained at Walayar||The Walayar checkpost at the district’s border from Tamil Nadu witnessed confusion and tension on Sunday as well when dozens of people seeking entry into Kerala were detained there for having no pass issued by the District Collector. A team of students, teachers, and parents from a Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Haryana were detained at the border for several hours as they had no e-pass. The team was travelling in a bus to Thiruvananathapuram. The team had got sanction from the District Collector before they started their journey. However, the e-pass system had not been introduced when they began their journey. The team was allowed entry into Kerala after five hours. About three dozen people who reached Kerala border from other States without proper e-passes too were detained on Sunday. Following the intervention of the High Court, the government decided to sanction entry for those stuck at the border. However, their entry will be ensured only after strict medical examination, said district officials. “We will clear all of them. From tomorrow onwards, we are going to be stricter. We can’t afford to sanction everyone who comes on their own. Everybody has the responsibility. It is not an emotional situation. People should understand and respond practically,” District Collector D. Balamurali told The Hindu . Over 170 people detained at the border on Saturday were shifted to a temporary camp at Coimbatore with the help of the Coimbatore authorities. They too were being given e-passes. Kerala has reportedly communicated to Tamil Nadu to stop and return those heading towards State borders without proper Kerala passes. Tamil Nadu police will now be looking for Kerala passes too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-detained-at-walayar/article31553682.ece
11 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Action on liquor traders unauthorised: Narayanasamy||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Sunday said due process was not followed in the way the police had cracked down on liquor traders on the grounds of investigating complaints of illegal sales during the lockdown. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Narayanasamy accused the police of serving the diktat of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi by filing false cases against liquor dealers on the basis of complaints given by those indulging in blackmarket activities. The “unauthorised and highhanded” way in which the crackdown was carried out at the instance of the Lt. Governor had virtually choked the flow of revenue to the fund-starved territorial administration. While stating the Government in no way condoned illegal liquor sale, Mr. Narayanasamy said the police department filed cases against liquor merchants on flimsy grounds, without giving traders opportunity to respond or time to produce records.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-on-liquor-traders-unauthorised-narayanasamy/article31553636.ece
11 May 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Testing to be intensified in Karaikal||The Health Department will step up testing in Karaikal, which after reporting a case of COVID-19 has turned from a green to an orange zone. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said at a press conference that he had directed health officials to do at least 50 tests a day in Karaikal, which reported a fresh case after remaining a green zone for 47 days. Officials are engaged in contact tracing of the affected person, who was arrested by the police in a case relating to the torching of a house. He had tested positive before being taken to jail. He has been sent to an isolation facility at the government hospital in Karaikal, Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/testing-to-be-intensified-in-karaikal/article31553630.ece
11 May 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. working to contain COVID-19’||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday said that all government departments were working in a coordinated manner and with a sense of dedication in containing COVID-19 pandemic in the State. Comprehensive treatment to COVID-19 patients was yielding positive results, Mr. Vijayabaskar told reporters here. Stating that there were 22 COVID-19 government hospitals functioning across the State, the Health Minister said facilities had been improved in other hospitals at the district level. The State government’s COVID-19 containment measures had been appreciated by the Central government and medical experts, he said. The Minister who earlier reviewed the measures taken in Pudukottai district said the COVID-19 containment measures were being effectively carried out by the district administration. Measures had been intensified in the five containment zones in the district, he said, adding that frontline warriors involved in checking the spread of the viral disease were being given zinc and multi-vitamin tablets besides kabasura kudineer to improve their immunity level. Collector P. Uma Maheswari and officials of various government departments participated in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-working-to-contain-covid-19/article31553925.ece
11 May 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Without workers, sugarcane cutting yet to start||Sugarcane farmers in Rajapalayam-Srivilliputtur belt are worried over a delay in cutting of canes, raised over 5,000 acres, due to non-availability of labour. The canes that were cultivated from March to May should be cut within 12 months. However, after the COVID-19 lockdown was announced, the cutting has not started and is getting delayed. “Every farmer has invested at least Rs. 50,000 per acre and is anxiously waiting for Dharani Sugars to cut the cane. But the factory says it cannot ferry workers without a permit when lockdown is in force,” president of Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam N.A. Ramachandra Raja said. The farmers have sought the district administration’s intervention in bringing the workers. “Almost 80% of the workforce for cutting the cane has to be brought from other districts such as Villupuram and Cuddalore. We require clearance from the State government to bring a huge workforce as cutting the cane in the entire area in Srivilliputtur, Watrap, Seithur and Rajapalayam is not possible with local manpower,” said a representative of Dharani Sugars. The cutting exercise was at least one month behind schedule, he said. An agriculture official said that with all the three districts of Villupuram, Cuddalore and Virudhunagar classified under Red Zone for COVID-19 infection, there were some practical difficulties. “Bringing around 500 workers from the Red Zone at this juncture will be a great risk. Besides, those workers are not willing to undergo quarantine in Virudhunagar district,” he pointed out. With Rajapalayam registering many positive cases in recent days, the administration was treading cautiously on the issue. The factory official said that the sugar mill was running with only around 20% capacity due to lack of cane. Mr. Ramachandra Raja appealed to the State government to take a favourable decision on the issue at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/without-workers-sugarcane-cutting-yet-to-start/article31553887.ece
11 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CITU stages protest||Members of CITU staged protests here on Sunday condemning various State governments for suggesting increasing of working hours for labourers. The protesters condemned the move by the governments to revise working hours from eight hours a day to 12 hours and said this would severely affect the labourers. The members demanded that the Centre should take steps to protect the rights of labourers post lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citu-stages-protest/article31553671.ece
11 May 2020||Special Correspondent CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘City will see spike in COVID-19 cases for a few more days’||As many as 119 of the 200 wards in Chennai Corporation have reported less than 10 COVID-19 positive cases, said Greater Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J. Radhakrishnan. Mr. Radhakrishnan told mediapersons on Sunday that just two wards in the city registered more than 200 cases. As many as 60 wards reported positive cases in the range of 10 to 30 in the city, he said. “The number of cases is likely to increase for another five or six days in the city. Testing in hotspot clusters in areas such as Thiruvanmiyur will be increased,” he said. Stressing the need for aggressive testing, Mr. Radhakrishnan said targeted testing in clusters such as north Chennai had to be carried out for the last nine days to contain the spread of the disease among relatives of COVID-19 patients. Death rate dips “We are testing 3,500 persons with 19 additional teams. Many people have a question about the rising trend of positive cases in Chennai. We cannot stop testing contacts of those who tested positive. The number of persons who tested for COVID-19 is high in Tamil Nadu and Chennai has the largest number of testing centres,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan. “The death rate has dipped in the city to 0.68%. We are focusing containment measures on emerging hotspots. As many as 32 COVID-19 care centres with 500 beds have been readied in the city,” he said. “NGOs have been roped in to create behavioural changes among residents. Awareness of testing of vulnerable population is also important,” he added. “This is a war against a pandemic. And all of us have to be sepoys. Many residents do not wear mask. They do not maintain social distancing. More than 30% of residents do not wear mask. They can reduce the spread of COVID-19 by wearing a mask and by maintaining social distancing,” he said. Koyambedu cluster “Koyambedu cluster has stabilised. We have identified more than 2,000 persons from Koyambedu market who have tested positive for COVID-19. The district administration in various districts have traced such persons who have visited Koyambedu,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan. Pointing to steps taken to screen people who return from abroad, he said: “All those who have returned from foreign countries to Chennai in the past few days have tested negative for COVID-19. We have quarantined all of them.” Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said they had started sending stranded persons to States such as Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar by train. “We have not received clearance from West Bengal to send stranded persons,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-will-see-spike-in-covid-19-cases-for-a-few-more-days/article31553612.ece
11 May 2020||Staff Reporter Salem,TAMIL NADU||Stranded T.N. migrant labourers from Maharashtra reach Salem||Migrant labourers from Tamil Nadu, who were stuck in Maharashtra due to nationwide lockdown, reached Salem on Saturday and Sunday. According to officials, about 479 labourers from various parts of the State including Erode, Namakkal, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Nagapattinam and others reached Salem in 16 buses from Maharashtra on Saturday night. District Collector S.A. Raman and other senior officials received them at Government Engineering College in Karuppur. The workers were screened and were sent to their respective districts in 12 Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation buses. Among them, 27 persons were from Salem and they were quarantined at the Engineering College. Mr. Raman said that swab tests were conducted for them and if the results are negative, they would be advised home quarantine here. Mr. Raman said that 173 migrant workers from Maharashtra, who were working at various industries in Salem, were sent home in the buses from Maharashtra. On Sunday, in a Shramik train operated from Sholapur in Maharashtra to Tiruchi 49 labourers from Salem were brought to the district in government buses and they were quarantined at the Engineering College. Their swab samples have been collected for tests, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stranded-tn-migrant-labourers-from-maharashtra-reach-salem/article31553673.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||As traders blink, farmers eye a share in Kallikudi Market||The renewed interest shown by a group of farmers to market their produce at Kallikudi, where the new Integrated Market for Vegetables, Flowers and Fruits is located, has raised the hope of utilisation of the facility for the desired purpose. It was with the aim of relocating the Gandhi Market that the State government had constructed the new market at Kallikudi on Madurai-Chennai Highway on the outskirts of the city. However, citing its distant location, at about 10 km from the city, the Gandhi Market traders have been refusing to shift to Kallikudi. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated the market in September, 2017, and it was practically opened for traders to begin commercial operation on 30.6.2018. But, it just lasted for a few days as the traders refused to continue their trade, citing poor patronage. The market, constructed at a cost of Rs. 77 crore with assistance from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has remained unused. The market hogged the limelight in recent months after the visit of Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam to find a way to utilise the facility. After a series of internal discussions, an idea was floated to rent out a portion of shops to farmer groups. Based on it a group of farmers in Tiruchi has shown interest to sell their produce in Kallikudi market. Some of them brought vegetables to Kallikudi and sold them to consumers a few days ago. Former Minister K. P. Krishnan too sent a representation to the State Government, demanding the allocation of shops to the interested farmers. The development has raised the hope for utilisation of at least a portion of shops for the desired purpose. The Agricultural Marketing and Agricultural Business Department has floated an Expression of Interest, inviting applications from eligible farmer groups for allotment of shops at Kallikudi. A senior official told The Hindu that four out of 19 blocks had been earmarked for renting out to Farmer Interest Groups and Farmer Producer Organisations. A total of 207 shops would be allotted to them. The last date for application was May 22. The applicants are required to substantiate their business interest with necessary documents. It was open to all Farmer Interest Groups and Farmer Producer Organisations in the State. The power of allotment of shops had been given to the Tiruchi Collector. “It is an important move to utilise the facility that had remained unused for about three years. We hope that a portion of shops will be allotted to the farmer groups in the first or second week of June,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-traders-blink-farmers-eye-a-share-in-kallikudi-market/article31553923.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Shramik special train brings them home||As many as 962 workers from various parts of Tamil Nadu who had been working in Maharashtra and rendered jobless for over 45 days due to the lockdown reached here by a special train on Sunday and sent to their respective districts. The ‘Shramik’ special train with 22 coaches which left Pandharpur in Solapur district in Maharashtra on Saturday afternoon carrying the Tamil Nadu migrant workers with escort provided by a team of Railway Protection Force personnel on board arrived here around 11.45 a.m. via Salem - five hours behind the specified time of its arrival. The special train was run by the Central Railway for migrant workers from Tamil Nadu who had registered their willingness to return back home in the wake of the lockdown. They all had been working in Solapur district. The Tiruchi district administration and the Southern Railway authorities had made elaborate arrangements at Tiruchi Junction where teams of Railway Protection Force, Government Railway Police and Tiruchi City Police besides revenue officials were deployed to ensure safe transportation of the men to their respective districts. The workers were from 34 districts . Of them, 29 belonged to Tiruchi. Markings were made on the platform and barricades placed at the station entrance to ensure that personal distancing was maintained by the migrant workers upon arrival at Tiruchi Junction. As the train arrived on platform 1, RPF personnel wearing masks took position in front of each sleeper class coach and on the other side of the platform to ensure orderliness when they alighted from the compartments. RPF sources said announcements were made asking them to wear face masks before alighting from their respective compartments. Wearing masks, the workers carrying their belonging came out of the station entrance by maintaining personal distancing as instructed, and were guided by officials to board the buses. District Collector S. Sivarasu monitored the entire exercise at the railway station accompanied by police and revenue officials. A senior Tamil Nadu State Corporation (TNSTC) official said 30 special buses were arranged for their safe transportation. The buses were sanitised prior to leaving the depot and sanitised again after arrival at Tiruchi Junction in the early hours, the official said adding that personal distancing was also ensured inside the buses. Every bus driver was provided with face mask and gloves. A coordinator from the TNSTC travelled in each bus to take the workers to their respective district, the official further said. The district administration provided food packet, water bottle and face mask to all before they boarded the vehicle. Official sources said the workers would be screened by the health department in their respective district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shramik-special-train-brings-them-home/article31553936.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Seven patients discharged from MGMGH||Seven patients - six hailing from Ariyalur district and one from Perambalur - were discharged on Sunday from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after recovery from COVID-19. The MGMGH, a designated COVID-19 hospital for the region has so far treated 117 patients belonging to Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Pudukottai, Karur and Erode districts. So far, 72 patients: 51 belonging to Tiruchi, 11 to Ariyalur and seven to Perambalur, and one patient each from Erode and Karur districts have been sent to their homes after recovery. The patients were applauded and sent off by hospital officials with a package of fruit and nutritious food. The patients have been advised self-isolation for 14 days. Currently, 45 patients comprising 14 patients from Tiruchi, five from Ariyalur, 24 from Perambalur, and two from Pudukottai are undergoing treatment at the isolation ward of the MGMGH. All patients are stable and are responding well to treatment, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-patients-discharged-from-mgmgh/article31553934.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers in 70 villages to get soil health cards||The Agriculture Department would collect soil samples from about 70 villages under the National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) in the district this year for issue of soil health cards to the farmers. Five villages would be covered under each of the 14 blocks in the district. Last year, the department had collected soil samples from one village each in every block. Under the initiative, soil samples are taken from grids of 2.5 hectares in irrigated areas and 5 hectares in case of rainfed areas and sent for analysis. The samples are analysed for macro and micronutrients as well as pH and Ec. Soil samples are also analysed for major soil health problems based on which soil health cards are issued to all farmers. The NMSA Scheme aims at boosting the productivity of the soil by ensuring the right balance of fertilizers required for a healthy crop said P. Asokan, Joint Director of Agriculture, Tiruchi. “Soil being the most important input for crop growth, needs a lot of attention. Continuous cultivation, lack of organic matter and indiscriminate use of fertilizers lead to decline in soil health,” he pointed out. The cost of analysis of a single soil sample works out to Rs. 275 and is borne by the government so that the soil health cards are issued free for the farmers. By adopting the recommendations made based on the soil health of their fields, farmers can save up to 30% on cost of fertilizers. Field level officers of the Agriculture Department have begun collecting soil samples from across the district to issue the soil health cards to farmers ahead of the next cultivation season. Deputy Director of Agriculture B. Elangovan inspected the work at T. Edaiyapatti of Marungapuri block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-in-70-villages-to-get-soil-health-cards/article31553919.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Robots to reduce infection risk||To ensure the safety of maintenance workers involved in the fight against in COVID-19 pandemic at hospital wards, a local software company Propeller Technologies has developed two new robots that will reduce the risk of infection for them. The robots are the latest in the line of automated assistants by the company, which had supplied two humanoids to help doctors in Tiruchi’s Mahatma Gandhi Memorial General Hospital (MGMGH) in late March. “After we got involved in the efforts to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, we realised that hospital cleaning staff were most vulnerable to infection due to the nature of their job. So we decided to manufacture robots that would take care of their riskier duties,” Mohamed Aashik Rahman, CEO, Propeller Technologies, told The Hindu . Zafi Clean is a robot that can be programmed to spray the interiors and outer campus of hospitals with a payload of 20 litres of disinfectant. It also has a detachable mop stick attachment that can take care of cleaning duties inside COVID-19 wards. The second robot is Zafi Sterilise, which is equipped with ultraviolet (UV) radiation lamps that can be used to sanitise COVID-19 wards for 4 hours, in a 1000 metre radius. Both the products were developed with partial funding from SASTRA Deemed University and will be given free of cost to government hospitals in Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Chennai and Nagapattinam. Manufacturing during the lockdown has also been a challenge, Mr. Rahman said. “For basic nuts and bolts, we were given requisition letters by the authorities allowing us to request local suppliers to open their stores. And in the absence of courier services, many of our team members had to personally travel by road to get the required parts from places like Bengaluru, Madurai and Coimbatore,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/robots-to-reduce-infection-risk/article31553932.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T chosen to host Super Computing Facility||National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, has been inducted into National Super Computing Mission (NSM) envisaging empowerment of technology institutions with high-performance computing capabilities to solve computationally intensive problems. A proposal submitted by the NIT-T to NSM - Infrastructure team was approved for sanction of a Super Computer worth Rs. 17.11 crore by the Department of Science and Technology (DST) and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeiTY). The supercomputer with CPU-GPU (Central Processing Unit-Graphics Processing Unit ratio of 70:30 will shortly be installed at the Institute by CDAC, Pune, soon, with an additional installation cost of about Rs. 2 crore, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said in a press release. With the development of projects involving Artificial Intelligence, machine learning and deep learning on the rise, the NIT-T has been sanctioned the Super Computer at the appropriate time for the research scholars and faculty working on projects involving high-end computing for carrying out various research and sponsored projects, the NIT-T Director said. It was the only NIT to achieve the honour of hosting the Super Computing Facility, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-chosen-to-host-super-computing-facility/article31553926.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Stitching face masks on the roadside||Before the onset of the novel coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown which followed it, roadside tailors were sought after by customers to do the last minute alterations or mending a tear. But nowadays the tailors are busy churning out a new product - cloth face masks. “The masks are essential and we are able to make a living through it”, they say. L. Balamurugan has been wheeling his tailoring machine to his spot on Shastri Road for the last six years. “We do not make enough to rent a shop. Everything we earn is what my family eats,” he says. Murugan, as he is referred to by his customers, was finding it difficult to make ends meet during the lockdown. “Initially I did not know what to do. I have two sons and both are pursuing their higher education. We needed to sustain ourselves during the lockdown,” he says. His wife, B. Kalavathi suggested that they make cloth face masks which are high in demand. Mr. Murugan immediately picked up his scissors and with her help, set up a stall at their usual spot. “As many purchased surgical masks and the supply was not enough, cloth masks were being promoted. We decided to do our bit and also earn something from it,” he says. While Mr. Mururgan cuts, folds and stitches the masks, his wife arranges them on a make-shift rack and attends to customers. Mr. Murugan says a doctor who works at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Government Memorial Hospital, and is a regular customer has purchased at least 10 masks for himself and his colleagues. “They prefer masks made of cotton cloth. I was also told that they like blue and green colour, and so I make those masks especially for them,” he says. Masks made from cotton blend material, which is what tee-shirts are made of are also popular, he says. “These come in various colours and prints as well, which the customers seem to prefer. The cotton blend is purchased from a textile unit in Tiruppur,” he says. Masks are sold at Rs. 20 each. “I believe we are going to be selling these for a while longer. Even after the lockdown, people will still require it,” Mr. Murugan adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stitching-face-masks-on-the-roadside/article31553930.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Builders hope lockdown impact will be temporary||The COVID 19 lockdown impact will be a passing phase, builders in the city hope. “Tiruchi has always been a need-based market for buyers of land and buildings. The sales may be slow, but the demand is not likely to diminish in the post-COVID 19 scenario,” according to S. Anand, Managing Director, Jeyam Builders. Mr. Anand saw positives for the construction industry from the restrictions on extension and issue of H-1B visa by the United States. In all likelihood, many working abroad will choose to return and settle down in India, in view of the global economic impact of the COVID-19 virus. The initiative taken by the State Government to attract investments from MNCs unwilling to go to China is also a sound augury for the revival of the construction sector, said Mr. Anand, who was earlier the president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India, Tiruchi. As for Tiruchi, the need for high-rise housing structures has not yet arisen. The trend in urban parts is still ground plus four-floor structure. Builders say that the cost of land or buildings has not gone down at any point of time. There may be stagnancy in business, but the cost always keep rising. It does make sense for Non-Resident Indians to invest in houses in cities that are closest to the villages they belong to. “It may not be proper to compare the difference between the interest returns on cash deposits to the rent accruing from buildings. The continuous escalation in the value of the property has to be factored in when it comes to investing in houses,” said a contractor, who is constructing a house at Win Nagar on the outskirts for an Indian professional employed in Malaysia. “For instance, the cost of construction was only in the range of Rs. 700 to 800 per square foot eight years ago. But, now, it has gone past the Rs. 1,800 mark. Also, the rent is revised from time to time. Most of all, the sense of security in owing a property is far more than holding a huge bank deposit,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/builders-hope-lockdown-impact-will-be-temporary/article31553928.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Five pregnant women among 15 test positive in central region||Fifteen persons, including five pregnant women, tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Sunday. Four of them belonged to Ariyalur, nine to Perambalur and one each to Karur and Pudukottai districts. The nine patients in Perambalur district included three men who had been employed at the Koyambedu market. Another man aged 55 years is a family member of a COVID-19 positive case. The other five patients are all pregnant women aged 28, 29, 21, 32 and 20. The source of the infection for these patients is unknown, official sources here said. As on Sunday, 104 patients have tested positive for the virus in the district. Of them, 27 have been admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, 66 are at the Perambalur Government Headquarters Hospital and four are at the Ariyalur District Government Headquarters hospital. Swabs have been lifted from 105 more persons on Sunday and the results are awaited. In Ariyalur district, four patients, all Chennai returnees tested positive last week. Two of the patients belong to Ariyalur town and the rest to Thirumanur and Jayankondam blocks. Including the four, the total number of positive cases in the district is 275. A total of 89 people have been placed in home isolation.  Meanwhile, 22 persons who returned to Ariyalur district on Sunday from Maharashtra have been tested and isolated. Results are yet to arrive. According to government orders, only those showing symptoms such as fever, cold, difficulty in breathing are admitted to the hospital. All asymptomatic patients have been advised quarantine at home or at specially designated facilities by the district. A total of 173 such people are being monitored by health officials. They are being provided with nutritious food including fruits, protein shakes, soups among other items. In Karur district, a 56-year-old man tested positive for COVID-19. The man, hailing from Pallapatti here had been working in Maharashtra and had returned after he lost his job following the lockdown. He has been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur. In Pudukottai, a 37-year-old man who had returned from Chennai tested positive on Sunday. The man hails from Ennai, a village near Illupur. The family members and close contacts of the patient are being tested. The patient has been admitted to the Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Headquarters Hospital in Pudukottai town. A total of 369 persons who returned from Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat and other States on Sunday were subjected to thermal tests and throat swab tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-pregnant-women-test-positive/article31553884.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘May go back later’||Another worker G. Raju of Cuddalore district said he had been working in a private company at Pandharpur for three months now. An engineering degree holder involved in sales, 24-year-old Raju said he along with other workers had been staying in a room in a commercial complex arranged by a company's representative. Raju said he and other workers did not face any problem as food was arranged by the company as well as by a local temple. It was only for few days that they had to shell out from their pocket for meeting their food expenses. Depending on the situation, Raju said he would take a call on going back to Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/may-go-back-later/article31553942.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘I prefer to remain here’||K. Ilayaraja (21) from Guduvanpoondi village in Villupuram district, said it was only few days before the spread of COVID-19 that he had gone to Maharashtra to work in a company at Pandharpur. Ilayaraja said he had been staying in a room since the lockdown was announced and did not face any problem with regard to his daily meal. The company had lent its support in providing food with help also coming forth from the Maharashtra government side, he said. They were all screened before leaving Pandharpur, he added. With the spread of the viral disease, Ilayaraja says he now prefers to work in Chennai instead of going beyond the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-prefer-to-remain-here/article31553941.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Malaysia returnees kept under quarantine||Malaysia returnees, who had arrived in Tiruchi on Saturday night by an Air Express flight as part of the Vande Bharat Mission, an initiative to repatriate stranded Indian nationals from various countries, have been quarantined in different locations in the city. Upon arrival at the Tiruchi International Airport, all 178 passengers were subjected to medical screening. None of them had symptoms of COVID-19 virus. Since one of them had a kidney ailment, he was taken to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi for treatment. A total of 117 persons were transported on special buses to Government Engineering College at Sethurapatti near here, where special arrangements have been made for their quarantine. Sixty among them chose to undergo the quarantine procedure in various hotels in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/malaysia-returnees-kept-under-quarantine/article31553933.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 100.17 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 381 cusecs and the discharge was 496 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article31553938.ece
11 May 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli in the ‘red’ as 10 more test positive||After Saturday’s tally of 80 COVID-19 patients in Tirunelveli district, 10 more tested positive on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 90. Sixty-two patients were successfully treated and discharged from hospital in the district. On Saturday, officials said, the number of cases in the district rose from 72 to 80 after eight persons from Valliyoor Sithur and Nadukaatur tested positive. On Sunday, 10 fresh cases, including nine from Melapalayam, were reported. Special Monitoring Officer Karunakaran, when contacted, said the nine cases from Melapalayam comprised members of one family. Officials cordoned off the areas and identified them as containment zones. According to an official from the Health Department, if the number of active cases were 20 or above, the district was identified as red zone. Meanwhile, civic authorities were taking steps to break/distance the virus chain, while the district administration was focused on reopening of shops from Monday, Police intensified booking of violators of the curfew. In neighbouring Kanniyakumari district, 16 persons tested positive initially, but the figure rose to 25 on Saturday. According to officials, 150 to 200 persons from other districts and States were making their way to their native place in Kanniyakumari. The district administration had set up a health check post, jointly manned by police and revenue officials. In the last five days alone, close to 1,000 people from different parts of Tamil Nadu and other neighbouring States, including Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, arrived here, an official said. Only after ascertaining their nativity, the returnees were subjected to screening. They were requested to remain in quarantine until the results were known. In the event of symptoms, they were told to remain in isolation at their homes and only if they tested positive, they were sent to Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. Two days ago, a person belonging to Marthandam arrived here from Thanjavur. After he confirmed positive, his house situated on Tamil Nadu-Kerala border was cordoned off. At least 327 houses were also cordoned off and residents requested to cooperate with the officials by staying indoors. The officials shared WhatsApp numbers through which the residents in containment zones could approach for assistance. They assured them that essential goods would be delivered on time, especially drugs for patients at homes. Meanwhile, former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan visited the area on Sunday and interacted with the residents. Many of them told him that they wanted to withdraw money from ATMs. Immediately, the former minister contacted Collector Prashant M. Wadnere, who arranged to send a mobile ATM vending machine to the location. Mr. Radhakrishnan also appealed to the residents to cooperate with the official machinery in order to overcome the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelveli-in-the-red-as-10-more-test-positive/article31553883.ece
11 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Siddha practitioner murdered in Tirunelveli||A 32-year-old man, who was practising Siddha, in Vijayanarayanam under Thisayanvilai police station limits, was found dead in a well in the early hours of Sunday. Following a complaint from his family members that he had not returned home since Saturday noon, a case was registered. The police said that Thirupathi Linga Raj, who was residing in Melapandarapuram, was married and had two children. He was running two clinics. Every day, he used to go to Thisayanvilai and Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district on his two-wheeler. As he did not return home even after 10 p.m. on Saturday, his family members went in search of him. Around midnight, they spotted a body floating in a well and alerted Fire and Rescue Services personnel. When the body was fished out from the well, they found it to be that of the Siddha practitioner. There were injuries on the body and his two-wheeler was also pushed into the well, the police said. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the man had some differences over purchase of a property near his house. “This could be a motive. We are probing in this angle,” an investigating officer said. A special team has been formed to nab the assailants. Thisayanvilai police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siddha-practitioner-murdered-in-tirunelveli/article31553879.ece
11 May 2020||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Leather units in Ambur, Vaniyambadi to open today||Industries, particularly leather units, outside containment zones will start functioning from Monday. As many as 35 industries in Ambur and another 20 in Vaniyambadi were granted permission to start their business, but with certain conditions, such as adhering to social distancing and number of persons per shift. Re-starting tanneries and drying units in Ambur alone would ensure employment to over 5,000 people and another 1,500 persons would get indirect benefits. Ambur Tanners’ Association, honorary secretary, S.M. Faiyaz Ahmed, said as many as 650 tanneries and 300-odd leather-allied product industries function in the combined Vellore district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leather-units-in-ambur-vaniyambadi-to-open-today/article31553626.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||First batch of migrant workers leave for home from Tiruppur||Nearly a week after unrest in various parts of Tiruppur district, the first batch of 1,140 workers and students were sent to their home towns by Shramik special train from Tiruppur on Sunday. The train was bound for Muzaffarpur Junction in Bihar and left the Tiruppur Railway Station at around 4.30 p.m., according to officials from Salem Division of Southern Railway. The train had 24 coaches comprising 18 sleeper coaches, four unreserved coaches and two seating-cum-luggage Rake (SLR) coaches. All coaches were disinfected and only six passengers will be allowed per bay in the sleeper coaches (instead of eight as the middle berths are not allowed) to ensure personal distancing for prevention of COVID-19. More special trains will be operated from Tiruppur after receiving the approval from other State governments, railway officials said. Heath Department personnel checked the body temperature of the workers using thermal scanners, following which they were provided with food packets and water bottles, district administration officials said. Among the 1,140 passengers were 75 students from Sainik School, Amaravathinagar. Apart from the train service, nearly 700 migrant workers also left Tiruppur through private buses by Sunday. Officials said that they directly applied for an e-pass with the State government to arrange for the buses and paid the travel expense themselves. About 1,140 workers from Bihar left Coimbatore by Shramik special train on Sunday. The workers had registered online their willingness to return to their home State. This is the fifth special train operated from Coimbatore to other states for migrant workers. So far, three trains were operated to Bihar and two to Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-batch-of-migrant-workers-leave-for-home-from-tiruppur/article31553669.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||15 booked for clashes among migrant workers in Uthukuli||The Uthukuli police booked 15 persons, including seven migrant workers, following the clashes between migrant workers and officials at a private garment company in Uthukuli here on Friday. The police said that over 50 migrant workers, who are staying on the company premises, demanded that they should be sent back to their hometowns and engaged in a heated argument with the officials of the company. A few workers allegedly attacked the officials, including the Manager of the Human Resources Department, and the officials too allegedly attacked them in retaliation. Two cases were registered – one against seven migrant workers and another against eight officials of the garment company including the HR Department Manager. Further investigations were on, the Uthukuli police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-booked-for-clashes-among-migrant-workers-in-uthukuli/article31553670.ece
11 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Forest watcher washed away while retrieving elephant carcass||A forest watcher, who was part of a team involved in the retrieval of an elephant carcass from Contour Canal in Udumalpet, Tiruppur district, was washed away on Saturday. C. Chandru (24) was part of a 15-member team from Udumalpet Forest Range involved in the operation, when he was washed away by the strong current in the canal, according to Forest Range Officer C. Dhanabalan. Following information that a seven-year-old male elephant accidentally fell into the Contour Canal near Pollachi in Coimbatore district, the team was sent to rescue it alive. However, the elephant was found to be dead during the operation and its carcass was retrieved from the canal. But Chandru was washed away in the strong currents of the canal during the operation at around 5 p.m. on Saturday. “He was recruited in December 2019 and this was his first rescue operation,” Mr. Dhanabalan said. Forest officials and personnel from Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services are trying to trace him on Sunday, the Range Officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-watcher-washed-away-while-retrieving-elephant-carcass/article31553660.ece
11 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaw drivers feel the pinch||“We have never been dependent on anyone for our livelihood except for our job of ferrying people,” says C. Manikandan, an autorickshaw driver in Virudhunagar. “But the 45-day lockdown due to COVID-19 has made us economically weak and forced to seek succour from others,” he rues. Manikandan is not the only autorickshaw driver who has been deprived of his regular income after the State government prohibited the three-wheelers and taxis, along with other public transport, from plying during lockdown. Barring a handful number of autorickshaws that get opportunity to carry vegetables or take patients to hospitals, regular operation has come to a grinding halt. Virudhunagar town has got some 300 autorickshaws operating from various spots such as Collectorate, old bus stand, railway station, government hospital and bazaar. He complains that all the help they have got so far is Rs. 1,000 and free groceries given by the State government through fair price shops. “How does the government expect us to run the family with this little help. Neither the ruling party nor the opposition have come to our help in our town,” he says. Another autodriver, R. Mariselvam, adds that only drivers registered with the unorganised sector welfare board got some assistance. A majority of the autodrivers are not registered with the welfare board. “The drivers in the town have not been offered even some rice by anyone. They also need to pay their house rent,” he points out. “Since my wife makes around Rs. 50 a day through her petty shop, my family keeps afloat in this critical situation. Others do not even have this money,” he says. “Most of the people do not engage autorickshaws to go to hospital and, instead, go by two-wheelers as they do not have money to pay us,” he says. The situation can become normal for autodrivers only when buses and trains are operated as people will move from one place to another, he feels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/autorickshaw-drivers-feel-the-pinch/article31553885.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||High surveillance in four clusters of Madurai||As COVID-19 cases continue to rise, the district administration has set its focus on four clusters which have contributed to the maximum number of cases. A cluster is an area with five or more cases. The four clusters in Madurai district are Sellur and Vandiyur in the city and Elumalai and Melur in the rural parts. Twelve cases have been reported in Sellur alone - seven from one area, Sathiyamoorthy Nagar. Six cases have been reported in Vandiyur cluster, 11 in Elumalai and 12 in Melur. Containment zones, where COVID-19 positive patients reside, are barricaded and closely monitored for 28 days. The health workers trace their contacts and monitor symptoms of those living in the vicinity. Corporation workers spray disinfectants and regularly clean the streets. There are 55 containment zones in Madurai district. However, a more aggressive approach is carried out in clusters. Disinfection is carried out thrice a day, including once at night. Bleaching powder is distributed to each household to keep the make house clean. The residents are given Vitamin C and Zinc supplements for 15 days, besides sachets of ‘kabasura kudineer.’ Collector T. G. Vinay said that influenza-like illnesses of contacts were closely monitored and the health of the elderly and those with co-morbidities looked into. But the surveillance would be vigorous in the four clusters, he said. However, a resident of Vandiyur, said people often travelled in and out of the containment zone. Despite police presence, outsiders do enter. “From our balcony we can see movement of milk delivery men. It is tough being indoors all the time. But many go to houses of neighbours and play board games. Some can be seen without wearing masks,” he said. Presently, seven areas - Mathoor, Kariyeepatti and Kallampatti in rural Madurai and Tahsildar Nagar, Narimedu, P and T Nagar and Mahaboobpalayam in the city - which were earlier containment zones have been permitted to function as usual after the completion of 28 days without any new cases. The Collector said that though people may be under the impression that their area was part of the cluster, they may not be in the strictly barricaded zone. “Those who say their movement is not restricted should belong to a buffer zone. We are making efforts to ensure that there is no further spread in cluster areas. More containment zones, including Tirumangalam, will complete the 28-day tenure on Monday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-surveillance-in-four-clusters-of-madurai/article31553897.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation resumes work at multi-level car parking site||After suspending construction of the multi-level car parking (MLCP) on D.B. Road, R.S. Puram, the Coimbatore Corporation resumed work, a few days ago. The Corporation had stopped work in the third week of March after the State Government imposed lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19. By then, the Corporation had completed the foundation work and had around 50 labourers working on the project. After suspending work for over a month, the Corporation resumed work about a week ago after the Government eased some of the lockdown restrictions by allowing construction provided labourers were available at the site.  Rs. 40.78 crore project Using the opportunity, the Corporation had resumed work on the Rs. 40.78 crore project and had seen some progress in construction. Now, work was on to construct concrete pillars to raise the first floor, said sources familiar with the development. The Corporation had managed to find workers in and around the city and had housed them at the site, providing food and shelter. It had also given them mask and other personal protection equipment while asking them to maintain personal distancing to the extent possible. The suspension of construction for over a month and uncertainty over the arrival of a few mechanical devices would push the deadline by three to four months. And, in all probability, the Corporation could throw open the MLCP after July 2021, the sources said. The Corporation had placed orders for a few devices with a company that had its manufacturing facility in China. The devices were what would make the MLCP an automated one, the sources explained. The Corporation had taken up the ground-plus-four-storey MLCP work with funds under the Smart Cities Mission to house 370 cars to ease congestion on D.B. Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-resumes-work-at-multi-level-car-parking-site/article31553654.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation closes wholesale fish market at Ukkadam||The Coimbatore Corporation had to forcibly close the wholesale fish market in Lorrypet, Ukkadam, and the Coimbatore City Police had to use mild force on Sunday, after the authorities found out that the traders were working beyond the permitted time. The Corporation had allowed a few days ago the functioning of the market from 3 a.m. to 8 a.m. after the traders petitioned Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani. At the time of placing the request, the traders had promised to abide by all the conditions that the Corporation imposed. On Sunday, however, the Corporation authorities saw the traders doing business well past 8 a.m. and when they questioned them, a verbal duel broke out forcing the police to intervene. Sources familiar with the development, said when the Corporation officials asked the traders to close their business, the traders retorted if the State Government could run liquor shops why could it not allow the fish market to function. With the police’s help, the Corporation officials removed the customers and then the traders before forcibly closing the market around 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-closes-wholesale-fish-market-at-ukkadam/article31553656.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plans afoot to upgrade Kurumbapatti zoo||The Forest Department is mulling at bringing in large carnivorous animals to Kurumbapatti Zoological Park here as part of its efforts to upgrade the zoo into a medium category zoological park. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden of Tamil Nadu S. Yuvaraj inspected the zoo premises on Saturday and suggested development measures. Mr. Yuvaraj along with A. Periasamy, Conservator of Forests, Salem Circle, R. Kanchana, District Forest Officer Salem (in charge) and other senior officials conducted the inspections and suggested measures for upgrading the park to medium category. Chief Minister Edappadi.K.Palaniswami in February announced that the zoological park would be upgraded to medium category and Rs. 8 crore was announced for the purpose. According to forest officials, they are considering expanding the park area from 31.74 hectares to 80 hectares within the Kurumbapatty reserved forest for accommodating large carnivorous animals like tiger and leopard and also sloth bear. The officials inspected the park premises and suggested sites for setting up enclosures for large carnivorous animals and developing other infrastructure like modernisation of existing enclosures, creation of veterinary facilities, construction of interpretation centre and store room and formation of pathways around the park. At present, the park has 156 species of wild animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plans-afoot-to-upgrade-kurumbapatti-zoo/article31553652.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rebooting health of industrial workers||Industries are getting back to normal slowly but steadily to lift up the sagging economy. In addition to the oft-repeated protocols, two aspects which need to be taken care of are — employees’ health status and the other equally important — health education for them.  Only if a worker understands the rationale behind the protocol, can he be convinced about its necessity and safeguard himself from the virus without prodding. To achieve this goal, subgroups have to be formed with team leaders among them who should first be appraised by the medical officer to address the issue and clarify doubts, which can be then be passed on to the group who, in turn, will pick up the cue in team spirit. To enthuse workers, contests can be held and the winning teams awarded tokens of appreciation. In my experience, I have seen this strategy elicit spontaneous positive response from employees, who assimilate the concept without being forced to do so, when they are aware of the fact that if safety norms not practised, they run the risk of contracting the disease, spreading it to their colleagues and also endangering their families. Once this idea is instilled in their mind, it works wonders. Let us take an example. If youngsters were told not to shake hands but to greet others with a ‘ Namaste ’ with folded hands, as a gesture of greeting, which is our age-old custom, they would have simply laughed and brushed aside the idea. But now this practice has come into vogue for fear of contracting the disease. Simple psychology The logic is simple psychology; if put in place it works to bring about a miraculous change in people’s attitude towards life. After that, there will be no need to preach distancing, hand washing and cough etiquette etc as it will be imbibed automatically in their daily routine. After all, everyone wants to live a healthy life. Mental health Another important factor is the mental health of the employee. Here again, the role of the doctor comes into play. To alleviate fear psychosis and dispel false propaganda, employees need to be educated. After all, only a miniscule percentage of patients are likely to be severely infected and the majority recover. If they are well-informed, they are unlikely to panic or get stressed. Last but not the least, the focus should be on building resistance to the disease. In one of the factories where I have been medical consultant, in the evening hot beverages such as coffee and tea have been replaced by healthy natural extracts of carrot, beetroot, cucumber, pudhina, guava, papaya, coriander, curry leaves, ginger with lemon and neem with honey, and buttermilk, all in rotation, to boost immunity of the workers. Though initially, they were hesitant, they have understood the resultant health benefits of these measures. It not only protects employees from the ill-effects of caffeinated drinks but is also cost-effective and has nutritional value. After all, who does not want strong immunity to fight COVID-19? This practice can well be emulated by others. This is another example to show that, when a concept is understood in the right perspective, the norms are followed to the T. As medical professionals we are guardians of the well-being of citizens. In the current scenario, employees are under mental stress, which can sometimes reveal itself as physical ailment — so-called ‘psychosomatic disorder’ for which counselling rather than medication will do. Good practices All protocols which have been practised by our elders have long been forgotten. In olden days, during viral fever, isolation of the patient and cleansing the area with natural detergents were followed. “Cleanliness is Godliness.” goes the saying. We had lost some good practices somewhere along the way in the name of advancement, and now the coronavirus has brought back our old customs to the fore. Be alert. Be not alarmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rebooting-health-of-industrial-workers/article31553635.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||669 cases in T.N., 509 in Chennai||The bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health on Sunday said 13,376 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested till date to 2,43,037. The testing of 676 samples is under process. As many as 10,669 samples are repeat samples. Among those who tested positive are as many as 29 children. Nearly half a dozen of them are aged below five years. On Sunday, 135 persons were discharged from various hospitals in the State, taking the total number of those discharged till date to 1,959 persons. As many as 4,305 individuals, suspected to have the infection, are in isolation wards. Of the 7,204* positive cases in the State, Chennai accounts for 3,171 cases. So far, 639 persons have been discharged from various hospitals in the city. The State now has 5,195 active cases, officials said. ( *Two deaths have been cross notified to other states. *One patient died after turning negative for infection. )   Among those who tested positive are as many as 29 children. Nearly half a dozen of them are aged below five||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/669-cases-in-tn-509-in-chennai/article31553639.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Narrow escape for forest staff as elephant charges at vehicle||Frontline staff of the Forest Department had a narrow escape from a wild elephant that raided crops in farms at Sarkarpathy, near Pollachi, on Saturday. The elephant charged at the patrol vehicle of the department, video of which was widely circulated on social media. A. Kasilingam, forest range officer of Pollachi forest range, said that the lone tusker ventured into farms at Sarkarpathy and raided crops. As the tusker remained in a farm without retracting to forest, frontline staff of the department rushed to the place at 8.30 a.m. and attempted to chase it. As seen in the video, the elephant ran close to the vehicle due to which the driver was forced to reverse it. The elephant hit the bonnet of the vehicle while the staff burst fire cracker and managed to escape. None of the staff was injured in the incident. Mr. Kasilingam added that the tusker was not in musth and a team was monitoring its movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narrow-escape-for-forest-staff-as-elephant-charges-at-vehicle/article31553658.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Compensation handed over||Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger on Saturday handed over compensation cheque of Rs. 4.12 lakhs to Deepashwari, widow of Vishnupriyan (28), who died in a brawl between two inebriated groups near Omalur in Salem on Friday night. Police have arrested 10 persons in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compensation-handed-over/article31553650.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The transplanting throw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-transplanting-throw/article31553902.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No passage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-passage/article31553624.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for murder||Pollachi East police arrested a 50-year-old man, his son and brother-in-law on charges of beating to death a 21-year-old man who had come to his house to meet his daughter in the absence of others on May 7. G. Annadurai, a resident of M.G. Nagar near Suleeswaranpatti and proprietor of a lorry transport agency, his 16-year-old son and brother-in-law R. Viswanathan (43) were arrested for allegedly beating T. Gowtham, a resident of Chinnapalayam near Pollachi, to death. The three persons were arrested for murder attempt on May 8. The first information report was altered to a case of murder as Gowtham died without responding to treatment on Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-murder/article31553659.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide PPE to non-medical workers’||People’s Watch, a Madurai-based non-governmental organisation, has filed a public interest litigation petition before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the State to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) to non-medical front line workers engaged in prevention of the COVID-19 pandemic. In his petition, R. Sathiamoorthy, Executive Trustee of People’s Watch, said the State must provide gloves, mask, gown, face shield, head cover and rubber boots to them, as there was an increase in the number COVID-19 positives cases in Tamil Nadu and front line workers were also affected. So, PPE must be given to police and Fire Service and Rescue Services personnel, sanitary workers, revenue officials, ambulance crew, media persons, official and unofficial volunteers. Police personnel were among the most vulnerable as they were engaged in containment zones, the COVID-19 affected areas. They also engage in crowd management in places likes markets to ensure physical distancing and interact with the public during traffic management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-ppe-to-non-medical-workers/article31553906.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||As on May 10   Coimbatore district  No. of persons in hospitals: 188 (Male -63, Male child – 2, Female – 122, Female child - 1) Government hospitals – 160 Private hospitals – 28 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No new case on Sunday) No. of active cases: 4 No. of persons recovered: 141 No. of persons died: 1  Tiruppur district  House quarantined: 1,386 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on May 10) Active cases: 2 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 112||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article31553676.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - May 11, 2020||Though one takes comfort that a majority of the people wear mask to prevent themselves from COVID-19 infection, it is distressing to see the disposable masks discarded indiscriminately in public places such as markets. These masks could contain saliva or sputum which are highly infectious. So people must pay attention towards safe disposal of used masks, as part of the fight against the coronavirus. V. Sabari,  Madurai     With a view to ensuring physical distancing through better crowd control, more wholesale markets must be opened. Physical distancing must be followed in wholesale grocery store cluster also, to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Vennila Junaith,  Dindigul     An industry manufacturing polyvinyl chloride (PVC ), situated around 25 km away from Thoothukudi harbour, transports imported vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) through tankers on road. An accident involving a VCM tanker and a coal-laden lorry took place on Harbour Express Road on April 20, 2012. Fortunately, no leak developed and a major disaster was averted. From that day, VCM is being transported with an aid of a pilot vehicle. In light of the recent accident at Visakhapatnam, it is suggested that VCM is transported through underground pipelines along the coast or any other safe means.  J. Edison Devakarm, Thoothukudi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-may-11-2020/article31553894.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||A unused electric pole is proving to be a hindrance to movement of buses at the Arignar Anna Bus Stand in Thuraiyur town. The electric pole has not been removed though it was replaced with a new one six months ago. Removal of the unused pole would help in free movement of buses. Saravanan Natesan  Puthanampatti   The drainage canal at Karattampatti near Thuraiyur town has not undergone maintenance for long. The canal constructed five decades ago has to be cleared of weeds. M. Periyamalaiyan  Karattampatti   People given to drinking habits must be wary of the dangerous myth that liquor with heavy alcohol concentration will kill COVID-19 virus. Alcohol consumption at the time of lockdown will trigger risk-taking behaviour, leading to mental health issues and violence. Alcohol consumption is associated with a wide range of communicable and non-communicable diseases and mental health disorders, which can make a person more vulnerable to COVID-19 infection and its complications. Alcoholics need to forget liquor and adapt to social distancing. M.A. Aleem  Tiruchi   Closure of TASMAC outlets after two days of sale at the intervention of the High Court must be followed up by bringing in dry law. Crowding of the TASMAC outlets by tipplers in disregard of social distancing norms was an indication that the government's efforts to contain the spread of the pandemic has not created the desired impact among the people. The Government should take cognisance of the public protests against opening of TASMAC outlets since liquor availability is related to violence and disturbances in families and work places. T. M. Ranganathan  Srirangam   The recent order of Madras High court for closure of all TASMAC shops is welcome. The government's stated objective - to generate more revenue - behind opening of the outlets is perplexing, since it will only lead to escalation in COVID-19 cases, and result in higher expenditure for the government. Sadly, most of the distilleries are owned by party leaders. The people in the State have been left to choose between the devil and the deep sea. Thankfully, the intervention by the High Court will help in preventing the spread of the pandemic. J. Eden Alexander  Thanjavur   This is the right time for Tamil Nadu Government to enforce total prohibition. The government should realise that the revenue from liquor sale would be far less than the expenditure arising out of the consequences of the spread of COVID-19 virus. S. Krishnan  Thippirajapuram   Had Koyambedu Market been strictly kept out of bounds for people, the surge in the spread of COVID-19 cases could have been prevented. Sheer negligence of the people towards social distancing norms has caused aggravation of the dreadful pandemic. Crowd control needs to be given top priority by the government to mitigate the consequences. R. Pichumani  Kumbakonam   The civic authorities should undertake disinfection of all localities in the city uniformly. There are locations like the spot opposite to the Cantonment Police Station where garbage accumulates. The garbage and bushes at the location must be cleared on a war-footing. S. Raghavan Cantonment   Banks are not doing enough to place sanitisers at the ATM (Automated Teller machines) centres in and around the city. Sanitisation of hands is vital for preventing the spread of COVID-19 virus since customers have to operate the touch screen and the keypads. M. Raja Tiruchi     While encouraging payment of bills online through messages and reminders, the electricity board also has to acknowledge the payments in the same way, for the convenience of customers. V. K. Gopalan  Thuvakudimalai   At the time of lifting of restrictions, norms must be made stricter for functioning of hair dressing saloons. Sanitisation of foot rest, hand rest and head rest must be undertaken by the hair dressers after attending to every customer. Combs and other materials must also be sprayed well with sanitisers. The hair dresser must be required to wear face mask all the while. Seating arrangement must be made for waiting customers at a safe distance. Kanagaraj Arthur Ramalinganagar South Extension||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article31553921.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||Praveen P. Nair is the Collector of Nagapattinam district and not M. Govinda Rao as mentioned in the report, ‘Migrant workers return home’ published on May 10, 2020 (Tiruchi edition). Mr.Rao is Collector, Thanjavur. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article31553939.ece
11 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||30 returning from Rajasthan test positive for COVID-19||Doctors of the district designated hospital on Sunday began treating 30 persons who had returned from Ajmer in Rajasthan, for COVID 19. They include 22 persons from Belagavi district and eight from Bagalkot who have tested positive for COVID 19. Sunday’s cases push up the total number of persons who have tested positive in Belagavi district to 107. One of them has died and 37 have been discharged. As many as 75 active cases are under treatment at the district designated hospital. All those positive cases have a history of visiting Ajmer in Rajasthan. A group of 38 persons from the State had travelled to Ajmer in March. They were stuck there for nearly 40 days. The Rajasthan government sent them back, issuing them passes. They travelled through Gujarat and Maharashtra, before reaching the Kuganoli check-post near Nippani. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli said that they were carrying passes issued by the district magistrate of Ajmer district in Rajasthan. However, their documents were not in the format approved by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs and officers sent them back. But they did not heed the advice and used another smaller pathway to enter Nippani. They were spotted and quarantined on May 3. Their throat swab samples were collected and sent for test on May 7. Their results arrived on Sunday. Of the 38 persons, eight have tested negative. They have all been quarantined in a government residential school in Tavanidhi village. They will be shifted to the designated hospital, Mr. Bommanahalli said. The Bagalkot district administration has been intimated about the eight persons who are being treated here, he said. The Deputy Commissioner said that timely action by officers had averted a disaster. “If we had not quarantined the Ajmer returnees and let them reach their homes and mix among the public instead, then, we would have had a steep increase in cases. That was avoided,” he said. He said that the government would considering filing cases against them for illegal entry and not following protocol. Meanwhile, Mr. Bommanahalli denied allegations that returnees were being selectively tested based on religion. The Ministry of Home Affairs protocol on testing returnees is being followed at all check-posts. In fact, wherever officers come to know about border-crossing by anyone or occupants of any vehicle, they are subjecting them to test and quarantine,” he said.  ‘If we had not quarantined the Ajmer returnees and let them reach their homes and mix among the public instead, then, we would have had a steep increase in cases; that was avoided’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/30-returning-from-rajasthan-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31553737.ece
11 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers look beyond traditional markets||Vegetables from Rajghatta, a village in Doddaballapur taluk, have become popular in some apartments in Bengaluru’s IT hub of Marathahalli, while residents in a few localities in J.P. Nagar wait for fresh vegetables from Anekal farmers at their doorsteps. In some other areas in the city, people queue up to buy premium quality grapes from Chickballapur. The COVID-19 crisis might have hit the farmers hard, but the silver lining is that several enterprising farmers have begun to look beyond conventional markets by connecting directly with consumers. Several farmers, who hitherto did not focus much on marketing their produce, have now started exploring direct marketing concepts by avoiding middlemen. While this method has helped sustain them during the lockdown, experts feel that this is likely to gain further momentum in the post-lockdown scenario too. The trend suggests that farmers who came as a group or backed by institutional support, in particular, managed a greater degree of success. This has put the limelight on Farmers’ Producers’ Organisations (FPO), which are organised groups of about 1,000 farmers each. Chaitra, CEO of the Rajghatta FPO, says that her organisation, comprising mostly vegetable and fruit farmers, has managed to establish links with several apartments in Marathahalli. “We tried to explore markets directly and sent a small load of vegetables, worth around Rs. 20,000, to some of the apartments. The response was very good and the residents praised the freshness and quality of produce and the reasonable price. Encouraged by this, we sent two vehicles of vegetables and fruits worth around Rs. 60,000 the next day around 2 p.m. Such was the response that residents were buying them till 2 a.m.,” she says. Customers’ feedback Now, her FPO has fine-tuned its marketing strategy based on customers’ feedback and sends the produce only during weekends. “We manage to sell two to three tonnes of produce just during weekends,” she points out. She is planning to strengthen their marketing strategy further by buying new vehicles for vegetable sales as soon as the pandemic recedes. Siddaraju, CEO of Anekal Horticultural Farmers’ Producers Company Ltd., says his organisation, comprising growers of a variety of vegetables including English cucumber, is now selling its produce directly to consumers on streets of various localities in J.P. Nagar. “We focus on localities as there are no restrictions,” he says. His organisation too is planning to further build on their direct marketing concept post lockdown. Ravi Sajjannavar, director of Hungund HFPCL, has set up a procurement centre in Bengaluru for fresh produce. “We have started reaching out to other farmers beyond our locality or group. In fact, I have reached out to farmers in distress based on media reports and social media posts,” says Mr. Ravi, whose organisation is selling farmers’ produce directly to various big retail units in Bengaluru. “Till last week, we procured 50 to 80 tonnes of onion, 20 to 35 tonnes of ginger, 20 tonnes of grapes, and five tonnes of mixed vegetables among others and managed to sell them without the intervention of middlemen,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-look-beyond-traditional-markets/article31553594.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Travel-linked cases rise in Karnataka, Kerala||Andhra Pradesh inched closer to the 2,000-mark for COVID-19 cases, and with one more death, its toll touched 45. The State had 50 new positive cases in nine districts on Sunday. Telangana reported 30-plus fresh cases for the second consecutive day, concentrated in Greater Hyderabad area. In a sharp rise, Karnataka reported 54 positive samples on Sunday, of which 72% had a travel history. Kerala had a slow rise of cases, with some expatriates and travellers adding to the tally. A single day high in Karnataka took the total to 848. A total of 39 patients who tested positive had a travel history to Ahmedabad or Ajmer. They were stranded tourists, said Jawaid Akthar, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare. “As they had travel history to States that have high COVID-19 positive cases, they were all placed under quarantine and tested,” he said. Meanwhile, another death was reported taking Karnataka’s toll to 31. The patient was a 56-year-old woman who passed away on May 7 and later confirmed COVID-19 positive. The patient had Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). Meanwhile, of the 54 new cases reported on Sunday, 22 were from Belagavi, eight each from Bagalkote and Shivamogga, seven from Uttara Kannada, four from Kalaburagi, three from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Chikkaballapur and Davangere districts.  Eight persons who had tested positive for Covid-19 from Shivamogga were those who had boarded a train on March 5 from Davangere to attend a religious conference. But they were stranded in Ahmedabad due to lockdown. Kerala was experiencing a slow climb in COVID-19 cases again, with seven persons, including three expatriates, testing positive on Sunday. Three of the cases were from Wayanad, two were from Thrissur and one each from Malappuram and Ernakulam. The cases from Thrissur and Malappuram were expatriates who had come from Abu Dhabi on May 7. The case in Ernakulam had travelled from Chennai. Two cases in Wayanad had developed the disease through contact, while the third had come to the State from Chennai. Four persons who were under treatment had recovered. Of the 512 COVID-19 cases in the State so far, 489 had recovered. At present, 20 persons were under treatment. A total of 37,464 samples were sent for testing, of which 36,464 samples were negative. Of the sentinel surveillance samples from front line health workers and other priority groups, 3,525 were negative. The number of active cases in Andhra Pradesh stood at 1,010. While 38 patients were discharged in the past 24 hours, a total of 925 patients had recovered, with a recovery rate of 46.7%. The mortality rate was 2.2% as 12 deaths were reported during the past six days. Kurnool, with the highest number of cases, had the highest number of deaths. With the latest death, the district toll was 16. Kurnool, Krishna (13) and Guntur (8) accounted for 82% of total deaths. Of the new cases, 16 were in Chittoor, 13 in Kurnool, six in Guntur, five each in Anantapur and Nellore, two in Prakasam and one each was reported in Kadapa, Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts. Telangana’s new cases took the total to 1,196. On Sunday, the tally went up by 33 with the Greater Hyderabad share being 26. There were no deaths, after one fatality reported on Saturday. Significantly, among Sunday’s cases were seven migrant workers. (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada and Hyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/travel-linked-cases-rise-in-karnataka-kerala/article31553493.ece
11 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Availability of quarantine facilities will decide how many can return to State||The number of Kannadigas stuck in various parts of the country who will be allowed to return home will be based on the availability of quarantine facilities in the State. The government on Sunday announced that it would foot the bill of those travelling by train to reach the State. With institutional quarantine of 14 days made compulsory for those returning to Karnataka from other places, the State government is expecting a huge number of applications. Approval for this will be based on the quarantine facilities currently available, sources in the Chief Minister’s Office said. Also, only those Kannadigas willing to be quarantined for 14 days have been asked to register their names and destinations online, a note from the CMO said, after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa chaired a meeting of senior Ministers and officials. The decision comes as efforts have been stepped up to bring Kannadigas stuck in different parts of the country even as several new cases of COVID-19 are being reported among those who have been allowed back into the State. Priority in approval for return will be given to students, pilgrims, those who have gone for medical treatment or on travel andhave got stuck in other States, sources in the CMO said. They added that several thousands were expected to return home in the coming days. The State has also decided to test those arriving from other States for COVID-19 even if they have been tested in those States. Sources in the CMO said the decision to strictly implement quarantine protocols was taken as it was found that many of those who have returned were not adhering to the request for quarantine. While the returnees will be asked to make clear their place of arrival and date during registration, they will not be allowed to return to their villages on arrival. Sources said the government was also under pressure from political representatives from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi region, and from the North Karnataka border districts, from where a large number of people have gone to Maharashtra on work. Sources said that a fresh spurt in cases has been reported among those with travel history or their contacts. For Kannadigas coming from abroad as well, quarantine is seen as an important aspect to ensure that community spread does not happen. Government sources said that the May 7 order on the protocol to be followed for people returning to the State was discussed at the meeting on Sunday, and it was decided to implement it strictly for those coming from five designated high-risk States — Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, and Rajasthan. Meeting with PM There will be a videoconference meeting involving Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Ministers on Monday afternoon. Mr. Yediyurappa is expected to discuss issues related to the State with senior officials before the meeting.        High-risk arrivals The May 7 order on protocol to be followed for people returning to the Statewill be implemented strictly for those coming from five high-risk States — Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, and Rajasthan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/availability-of-quarantine-facilities-will-decide-how-many-can-return-to-state/article31553577.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Shramik’ way back home||It was a day of many firsts for South Western Railway (SWR). Apart from a special train to Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir, ‘Shramik’ special trains left the city for the first time for West Bengal, Tripura and Madhya Pradesh on Sunday. After the government changed its stand on cancelling train services to other States, trains have been leaving Bengaluru for various destinations in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan and other parts of the country. But no trains had left for West Bengal until Sunday as the State government had not received clearance from its counterpart there. For many days, migrant workers from West Bengal were anxiously waiting to return to their hometowns. The train left for Bankura (West Bengal) from Malur with 1,247 passengers, including 47 children. Not just workers Not all the passengers were labourers. A woman who was on board the train to Bankura with her child said, “I came to Bengaluru for medical treatment. Because of the lockdown, I was stuck here all these days. Now I am happy to be going back home.” Services to Danapur (Bihar) and Uttar Pradesh were also operated on Sunday. In all, 7,400 people left the city. Chief PRO of SWR E. Vijaya said, “In addition to West Bengal, the SWR also operated a Shramik train for the first time to Agartala and Gwalior. Schedules were fixed based on the requirements given by the Karnataka government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shramik-way-back-home/article31553586.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hairdressers, beauticians face prospect of slump in work even after lockdown||COVID-19 has struck a huge blow to the incomes of barbers, hairstylists and beauticians, who know that even if other businesses find a way to function safely, they will have a hard time returning to normalcy because the nature of their job is such that they have to be in close proximity to people. A majority of professionals in this sector will not be eligible for the one-time compensation of Rs. 5,000 that Chief Minister B.S. Yediurappa announced, which is expected to benefit around 2,30,000 barbers. Many in the profession are not sure whether they qualify for this and have urged the government to clarify whether or not hairstylists and beauticians come under their definition of barbers. “I’m an aesthetician in a beauty parlour that has many outlets in Bengaluru. We have been closed for more than a month and the number of women coming to us for manicures and pedicures had dropped even before the lockdown. What happens to us after May 17, when the lockdown ends?” said a 35-year-old beautician. A manager of a beauty parlour in Mahalakshmi Layout shared similar concerns. “We are not considered barbers. To be fair, everyone in the profession should get it.” The Karnataka Rajya Savitha Samaja has approached the government to provide them with COVID-19 safety kits and operational guidelines that they can follow when restrictions are lifted. “However, we have not received any response yet. We have also asked for medical insurance as we are vulnerable to the attack of COVID-19,” said Sampath Kumar, State president of the Samaja. S. Ravish, who runs seven men’s parlours across the city, said that their expenses would nearly double after the lockdown. “We will have to take preventive steps like using and throwing away towels, gloves, and masks,” he said, adding that he had already ordered body thermometers. With over 35 people working in his parlours, Mr. Ravish said that it was impossible for him to provide everyone with safety kits. “This is why we want the government to step in and help us,” he said. Many barbers and beauticians also said that they don’t know if they would reopen even if they were allowed to do so after May 17. Though many have been getting calls for home services, we are declining them. “I do not want to contract the virus or be responsible for transmitting it to others,” said Ravi Chander, who on an average gets a couple of home service requests every day. Kiran Kumar, another office-bearer of the samaja, said that interest-free loans and electricity bill waiver was the need of the hour for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hairdressers-beauticians-face-prospect-of-slump-in-work-even-after-lockdown/article31553563.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Can’t direct governments to give funds to advocates: HC||The High Court of Karnataka has declined to accept a plea seeking a direction to the State and Union governments to release Rs. 50 crore to the Karnataka State Bar Council (KSBC) to grant financial assistance to lawyers facing financial difficulties due to closure of courts in view of COVID-19 lockdown. “Ultimately, it is a matter of policy for the State as well as Union governments to take a decision on utilisation of the limited resources available. The priorities for the use of available resources is also a matter of policy. That is the reason why we are unable to issue a writ of mandamus directing both the governments to release the amounts,” the court observed. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna passed the order while disposing of two PIL petitions filed by advocates H.C. Shivaramu and Anantharaju B.G. ‘Cash crunch’ The Bench also observed, “It is true that several advocates will be affected due to closure of the courts as a result of COVID-19. It is an accepted position that both the governments are facing severe cash crunch. Both the governments are required to deal with the marginalised sections of the society who are deprived of even daily food requirements as a result of COVID-19.” However, the Bench said that both the BCI and the KSBC can approach the governments seeking necessary financial assistance and if such applications are made, both the governments are bound to decide the same in accordance with law and as expeditiously as possible.  BCI funds The Bench also noted that the Bar Council of India, which is intending to release up to Rs. 1 crore for every State bar council to help needy advocates, has already released Rs. 45 lakh to the KSBC. As the KSCB said that it is already in the process of utilising Rs. 2.45 crore (including Rs. 45 lakh from BCI) for granting financial assistance to eligible advocates, who have put in less than 10 years of practice, the Bench suggested that the KSBC, with the help of the State Advocate-General can appeal to the senior members of the Bar to make donations so that financial help to other needy advocates can be offered on a rational criteria. “...We are sure that considering the rich traditions of the Bar in the State, if an appeal is made by KSBC to the members of the Bar, it will receive a spontaneous response and a large amount will be collected by way of donations which will ultimately reach the advocates who badly need financial assistance in the present crisis,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cant-direct-governments-to-give-funds-to-advocates-hc/article31553590.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Workers worried over piles of discarded masks, gloves at dry waste collection centres||Waste pickers running Dry Waste Collection Centres (DWCCs) are a worried lot these days, as the waste arriving at their centres is flooded with used and discarded masks. Using masks has been made mandatory in all public places to fight COVID-19 pandemic. As they are forced to segregate waste and pick these masks, waste-pickers are exposed to the risk of contracting the infection. “Every day, we are getting thousands of masks, used tissue paper, and gloves in the dry waste we are collecting from households. We are forced to segregate these potentially hazardous material putting us at risk of COVID-19,” said Mansoor, a waste picker who runs the DWCC at Pattabhiramnagar, ward number 168. Hasiru Dala, which works with waste pickers, has been distributing masks and gloves to be used during work. “We have been creating awareness among waste-pickers to use gloves for many years now, but to little success. COVID-19 has brought about a behavioural change in them, which we hope stays post the crisis as well,” said Nalini Sekhar of Hasiru Dala. Many centres closed However, despite using masks and gloves during work, concerns of contracting COVID-19 while handling such waste remain. “Many waste pickers have shut down the DWCCs as they were fearing contracting the infection. While lack of transport facilities during the lockdown was the trigger, dry waste being inundated by masks is also one of the reasons why they are hesitant to reopen,” said A. Krishna, a waste picker managing a DWCC at Domlur, ward number 112. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has issued clear instructions on the disposal of masks. “Facial masks and gloves used by households and commercial establishments should be properly handed over to waste collectors in covers or closed bags as part of sanitary waste,” BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar’s order on April 30, making masks mandatory in public spaces, states. D. Randeep, Special Commissioner, Solid Waste Management, BBMP, said they were trying to create awareness and at the same time, impose penalties for non-segregation.  However, citizens seem to be not following the guidelines and throwing masks and gloves in the dry waste bin. “We have been trying to create awareness when we go to collect waste, to little success. People are considering masks, gloves, and tissue paper dry waste. They seem unempathetic to the fact that we will be forced to handle them risking our health,” said Mr. Mansoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workers-worried-over-piles-of-discarded-masks-gloves-at-dry-waste-collection-centres/article31553556.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Migrant labourers, police clash||Migrant labourers unhappy with their contractors gathered at Veeranapalya Colony in Amruthahalli on Sunday. Over 500 labourers started protesting, demanding that they be allowed to return to their hometowns, and locked in two representatives of the company they were employed with. They pelted stones at the police vehicles that arrived at the spot. The labourers said they were tired of waiting for their turn to go home and alleged that the contractor was apathetic to their plight and financial situation. Two police vehicles were damaged in a melee. The police alerted the control room seeking reinforcement. Additional police personnel rushed to the spot and cordoned off the area. “We called in activists who have been interacting with residents of the colony to help defuse the situation. The situation is tense but under control now,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/migrant-labourers-police-clash/article31553574.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Masks, sanitary waste to be picked up separately||The BBMP is set to address the health hazard of improper disposal of discarded masks, tissue paper, and other other sanitary waste. Though three-way segregation — dry, wet, and sanitary — is the norm, as per the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, this is not being implemented owing to lack of secondary collection. The civic body has floated tenders for sanitary waste to be picked up separately and incinerated, like biomedical waste. The tender, BBMP officials said, was in the final stages. The city generates around 36 tonnes of sanitary waste a day. “In another two weeks, each zone will have a dedicated biomedical waste collector, who will be pressed into action to collect these masks and other such material from dry waste collection centres (DWCCs) to be disposed of in a scientific manner,” said BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep. The technical and financial approval of the tender is under progress. Sanitary waste will be picked up from secondary collection points in each ward and transported to the incinerators. “As per the norms of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB), only authorised biomedical waste handlers with incineration facilities can participate in the tender,” he said. Meanwhile, it is status quo for the new garbage tenders. SWM officials, who spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, said the tenders that were for collection of only wet waste were almost finalised. However, Mayor M. Goutham Kumar had criticised the model and claimed that it would result in a garbage crisis. He said the BBMP should go in for a model where in a single vehicle with separate compartments to collect wet, dry, and sanitary waste every day. The Mayor and Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar had even inspected a few vehicle prototypes. “However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the BBMP is focusing on only containing the spread. A decision may be taken after the lockdown is lifted,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/masks-sanitary-waste-to-be-picked-up-separately/article31553554.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka HC strength is now 47 with five new judges assuming office||The number ofjudges in the High Court of Karnataka has been increased to 47, against the total sanctioned strength of 62, with the appointment of five new additional judges. The newly appointed judges are Justices Shivashankar Amarannavar, Makkimane Ganeshaiah Uma, Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, and Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai. They were all working in the cadre of district judges before their elevation. Born on July 20, 1970, Justice Amarannavar received his undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in law from Karnatak University, Dharwad, and worked as Special Public Prosecutor in Dharwad before he was selected to the post of district judge in 2008. He was serving as Principal City Civil and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru before his elevation. Justice Uma, born on March 10, 1964 in Sringeri, secured her law degree from Vaikunta Baliga College of Law, Udupi, and postgraduate degree from Kuvempu University, Shivamogga. After being appointed as a district judge in 2008, she served in Ballari, Mangaluru and Ramanagaram besides serving as Member Secretary, Karnataka State Legal Services Authority. Born on March 29, 1966 in Hassan, Justice Srishananda secured his undergraduate law dregree from Seshadripuram College, Bengaluru, and postgraduate degree from Annamalai University. After being appointed as a district judge in 2008, he served in several districts, including as Principal District and Sessions Judge in Haveri, Dharwad and Bengaluru Rural districts, besides serving as Registrar (Judicial) and Registrar General of the High Court. Justice Sanjeevkumar, born on May 13, 1971 in Talikote, Vijayapura district, secured his law degree from KPES Law College, Dharwad. He served in several districts after being appointed as district judge in 2008 and worked as Principal District and Sessions Judge, Yadgir and Tumakuru districts, besides serving as Member Secretary, Karnataka State Legal Services Authority. Born on May 21, 1961, Justice Desai secured his law degree from University Law College, Dharwad, and joined judicial service in 1992 as a Judicial Magistrate First Class and was appointed as a district judge in 2009. Besides serving in many districts, he has also worked as Registrar (Judicial) and Registrar (Vigilance) of the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-hc-strength-is-now-47-with-five-new-judges-assuming-office/article31553567.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hundreds of people from J&K board special train||More than 900 passengers, a majority of them students from Jammu and Kashmir, left Bengaluru to their homes early on Sunday. A special train pulled out of Chikkabanavara railway station  to Udhampur at 12.30 p.m. with 985 passengers. The students were studying in various colleges in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka. This is the first train being operated by the Railways from Bengaluru, apart from the Shramik trains to ferry migrant workers to their home towns. The students had registered on the ‘Seva Sindhu’ portal and reported for mandatory health screening at Byappanahalli police station. Later, they were transported in 50 BMTC buses to the railway station. Zahid, a student, said, “Many students from Jammu and Kashmir were stranded during the lockdown. It was very difficult for us as we were not with our families. We were also scared because of the pandemic.” South Western Railway posted tweets of a student thanking the Indian government and authorities for arrangingthe train service. A BMTC official said no money was collected for the bus or railway tickets. “We were told by the authorities that the Jammu and Kashmir government was bearing their travel cost.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hundreds-of-people-from-jk-board-special-train/article31553583.ece
11 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Former engineer’s bid to help Bidar farmers||This engineer-turned-farmer has ensured technological convergence in farming after developing an online platform for consumers to place orders for vegetables and fruits so that the required quantum could be sourced from farmers and delivered at their doorsteps. Chetan Dabake, 30, an active member of Bidar Horticultural Farmers Producers Company Limited, has developed www.raithanamitra.in. “Consumers can place their orders with a minimum purchase of Rs. 100. The orders are in the four categories – vegetables, leafy vegetables, fruits, and ripen-yourself-mangoes under which consumers can buy green mangoes and ripen them at their homes through traditional methods,” he says. “The door-delivery system on behalf of the FPO began on April 14 in Bidar and we are about to extend it to Belagavi.” According to him, there are about 2,300 consumers for the organisation so far in Bidar. Mr. Dabake, a civil engineer with an MBA degree, says he took to farming as it was his passion. Earlier in February, he was honoured by the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) with the ‘innovative farmer award’. “I have realised that 10% is growing crops while 90% is marketing. Hence direct and innovative marketing is the key to make agriculture a profitable venture,” he says. He is planning to extend the scope of door-delivery to all parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-engineers-bid-to-help-bidar-farmers/article31553595.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Relief package announced without preparation: HDK||Alleging that the State government’s Rs. 1,610-crore package for marginalised groups affected by the lockdown was merely aimed at getting publicity, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday said the announcement was made with inadequate preparation. “The government is not behaving responsibly. It is only with God’s grace that the State has not been affected very badly by COVID-19. Does the government have data on the list of beneficiaries?” he asked. He told reporters that the Rs. 1,610-crore package was like the one announced for the flood victims of North Karnataka last year. “The government should focus on preparation to implement the package. Who will give a list of beneficiaries of the package?” he asked. “This package is just for publicity.” He pointed out the preparation during his 14-month tenure as CM before the Rs. 25,000-crore farm loan waiver package was announced and implemented with efficiency. “The State government’s announcement of Rs. 25,000 per hectare for floriculturists will entail an expenditure of just about Rs. 31 crore. Where is the question of government spending on 21 lakh registered construction workers? The government is spending money that belongs to workers,” the JD(S) leader said. He also expressed ire over transfers effected in the Excise Department, which have been cancelled, and stated that the whole exercise was mired in corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relief-package-announced-without-preparation-hdk/article31553575.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Case against Tipu Nagar councillor for violating curfew||Hundreds of residents of Tipu Nagar gathered in the containment area on Sunday morning to protest the alleged high-handedness of the police during an interaction with a local councillor the previous night. The situation was a cause for concern in the light of violent protests at the neighbouring Padarayanapura ward, which is also a containment zone. Nazima Khanam, councillor, K.R. Market ward and a resident of Tipu Nagar, said she had gone out of the area to visit a family doctor at around 9 p.m. on Saturday after taking permission from the police. “However, as I returned nearly an hour later, a policeman in civil clothes, who claimed to be an inspector, verbally abused me even though I showed my ID card and informed him that I was the local councillor. I told him I had taken prior permission. The situation was soon diffused as other policemen intervened,” she said. The Chamarajapet police have registered two cases against Nazima Khanam for violating curfew and obstructing police on duty. “The councillor and her associates were moving in Tipu Nagar at 10 p.m. on Saturday while the curfew was in place. When we stopped to question her, she objected and asked how we could question her. Heated arguments led to a tense situation following which we seized her ID card and vehicle,” a police officer said. The incident triggered protests on Sunday morning, and social distancing rules were ignored as protesters demanded answers from the police. The councillor’s husband Ayub Khan, who also leads the local masjid committee, led the protests. “If this is how the police treat an elected representative, then what is the security for common citizens?,” he asked. Additional police personnel were deployed in the area to monitor the law and order situation. Senior police officers also visited the area and pacified the crowd asking them to abide by the rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-against-tipu-nagar-councillor-for-violating-curfew/article31553566.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah demands transport, food for migrants||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Sunday urged the State government to behave responsibly towards migrant workers who have built cities. In a letter to Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa on Sunday, he said that lakhs of migrant workers in Karnataka and migrant Kannadiga workers stuck in other States were struggling to get home. “Without proper food and transport facilities, they have become desperate. Many are walking back home. The government is not treating them humanely and is ignoring them,” he said. Furthermore, he said that adequate transport arrangements had to be made. While the Union government has said that it will bear 85% of the travel cost, the State government should bear the rest 15%, he said, adding that food facility has to be extended to the workers. “The government should drop its irresponsible and arrogant attitude towards migrant workers. They have built cities. Since trains are departing from stations outside Bengaluru, adequate transport arrangements have to be made and food has to be distributed,” he said.  Many are walking back home. The government is not treating them humanely and is ignoring them Siddaramaiah, Former Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-demands-transport-food-for-migrants/article31553568.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KBA taken aback by govt. note on its premises||A letter from the State government to Karnataka Badminton Association (KBA) has taken the latter by surprise. The note, from P. Manivannan, Secretary of State, Department of Information and Public Relations, thanks the KBA for volunteering to offer its premises for COVID-19 relief activities. The note has also given an assurance that the government would not damage the premises, which would be returned in good condition in three months. KBA secretary P. Rajesh, however, explained that the facility was not available for government use. “An expelled KBA member with no locus standi approached the government and offered use of our facility. In reality, it is not possible to conduct any relief logistics work because renovation work is on at the KBA. We also have our academy students staying in the campus rooms,” he said. He added that the KBA had also approached Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan seeking permission to restart badminton training activity at the earliest. Mr. Rajesh and other KBA office-bearers plan to meet State government officials on Monday to explain the circumstances that prevent them from handing over the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kba-taken-aback-by-govt-note-on-its-premises/article31553570.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Flight landing||A flight under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ carrying Kannadigas stranded abroad will land at Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru in the early hours of Monday. Between 230 and 240 passengers are scheduled to land. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar will welcome them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flight-landing/article31553581.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Eligibility conditions for driver relief scheme||The Transport Department has clarified that only those drivers who fulfil certain conditions will be eligible for the Rs. 5,000 relief package announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa recently. This benefit will be made available only to autorickshaw and taxi drivers, and driver-cum-owners of maxi-cabs. Documents According to a press note on Saturday, autorickshaw and taxi drivers who wish to get the relief will have to submit valid driving licence details, vehicle registration details, Aadhaar and bank account details on the Seva Sindhu portal. In addition, their driving licence details will have to be as per on March 1, 2020. They will also have to submit a self declaration that they have lost their source of income as they have no daily income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eligibility-conditions-for-driver-relief-scheme/article31553588.ece
11 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘FPOs can help make farming profitable’||A senior official of the Horticulture Department has underscored the point that innovations, backed by Farmers Producers’ Organisations (FPO), can play a major role in making agriculture a profitable venture. Kshama Patil, Deputy Director of Horticulture, Project Monitoring Unit, explains that Karnataka has a total of about 400 Farmers Producers’ Organisations, including 99 formed by the department. Those formed by the department have been trained in various aspects of management through resource institutions. Of the 99, 55 have been working very actively during the COVID-19 situation and have been able to lift about 2,000 tonnes of perishable produce of farmers, she notes. “We have been able to organise only about 1 lakh farmers so far in the form of FPOs. The situatiation will improve further when most of the farmers and taluks are covered under this system,” she feels. “Agriculture is the only sector where farmer buys inputs at retail prices and sells his output at a bulk rate. The FPOs can help reverse this trend by taking up bulk buying of fertilizers, pesticides and other inputs from the manufacturers and also helping the farmers to sell their produce to consumers directly,” she added.  We have been able to organise about 1 lakh farmers in the form of FPOs so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fpos-can-help-make-farming-profitable/article31553596.ece
11 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bodies not to be allowed||The State has decided not to allow bodies of persons who die outside Karnataka to be brought in for performing final rites. The family of the deceased will be asked to perform the final rites at the place of death. Similarly, if the death occurs in Karnataka, the final rites will be performed locally. The decision comes in light of the Mandya incident where a native of K.R. Pet, who died in Mumbai, was brought in an ambulance by his family members, who later tested positive for COVID-19. This created a scare in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bodies-not-to-be-allowed/article31553580.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Warning against walking on tracks||The SWR has stated via a release that railway tracks are not free of services now. “To ensure availability of essential items, freight trains carrying foodgrain, coal, fertilizers, LPG, cement, iron ore and other commodities are running,” it states. It adds that people walking on tracks are trespassers and if caught they can be prosecuted and jailed for six months and will have to pay a fine of up to Rs. 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/warning-against-walking-on-tracks/article31553560.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two men threaten BMTC driver at knife-point||Two armed men allegedly intercepted a BMTC bus, assaulted and robbed the driver at knifepoint and threatened the conductor on board in K.R. Puram on Saturday. According to the police, BMTC driver Mutthayya Swamy was driving to the depot at the end of his shift. The two accused, Ganesha and Seena, allegedly intercepted the bus on their motorcycle. They boarded the bus and beat him up. In his statement he said they made off with his gold chain worth Rs. 70,000. The accused threatened the conductor and passersby who tried to help. The K.R. Puram police have taken up a case of robbery and efforts are on to track down the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-men-threaten-bmtc-driver-at-knife-point/article31553561.ece
11 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Stranded girls reunited with parents in Rajasthan||Two girls from Rajasthan, who were separated from their parents because of the nationwide lockdown, were reunited with them after Dharwad district officials intervened and facilitated their travel. The children — Romukumari, 10, and Posukumari, 8 — had to remain with their house owner’s family in Hubballi for nearly 50 days. The situation arose as their father, Talsaram, had left for his native Memandwara village in Sirohi district of Rajasthan because of some urgent work just a few days before the lockdown was announced. He could not take the children with him because of financial reasons and left them in the care of his house owner, Ramesh Rawal. However, Mr. Talsaram was unable to come back because of the lockdown. As the days passed by, the children became impatient to meet their parents. Meanwhile, someone tweeted about their agony and it was noticed by Hubballi city tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal, who in turn alerted Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa. Ms. Deepa communicated with officials of the Rajasthan government and facilitated the children’s journey back home. Meanwhile, the house owner offered to take the children to their native place in his private vehicle. Apart from issuing a special travel pass, arrangements were made for food en route and accommodation at Surat. Mr. Rawal was told to report to the tahasildar after safely handing over the children to their parents. Ms. Deepa, Dharwad Zilla Panchayat CEO B.C. Satish and others sent off the children from here last Thursday, and they reached Sirohi the next day. Sirohi district collector Bhagavati Prasad informed Ms. Deepa in writing about the safe arrival of the children and their reunion with their parents, a release from the Department of Information and Public Relations said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stranded-girls-reunited-with-parents-in-rajasthan/article31553579.ece
11 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Seed potatoes to go on sale from today||The sale of seed potatoes is all set to begin at the APMC Yard in Hassan on Monday. The district administration has instructed merchants to take all necessary steps as per COVID-19 preventive protocol. The administration has also fixed Rs. 2,250 per quintal as the maximum price for seed potatoes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seed-potatoes-to-go-on-sale-from-today/article31553753.ece
11 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Child marriage stopped||Child Helpline staff members have stopped a child marriage scheduled to be held later this month in Arkalgud taluk. The staff visited Kerekodi village in the taluk on Friday and stopped the ceremony scheduled for May 24 after convincing the girl’s parents. The engagement ceremony was held on May 3. It is said that the 16-year-old girl was opposed to the marriage as she wanted to continue her studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/child-marriage-stopped/article31553752.ece
11 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two killed in as many road accidents||Two people died in as many road accidents reported in Hassan district on Saturday. A motorcycle rider died after he was hit by a tractor at Kallahalla in Holenarasipur taluk. The police gave the name of the deceased as Paramesh (40) of Doddakadanur in Holenarasipur taluk. In the other accident, Basavaraj (38) of Pettihalli in Belur taluk died after a car hit his motorcycle near Kadadaravalli on Hassan-Belur Road. He died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-killed-in-as-many-road-accidents/article31553754.ece
11 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Four more in Kalaburagi||As many as four new cases of COVID-19 were reported from Kalaburagi on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 71 that included six deaths and 44 persons discharged upon recovery. Of the new cases, P-805, a 35-year-old man from Afzalpur, was suffering from SARI and his source of infection is yet to be ascertained. Patient 806, a 30-year-old man from Kamalapura, had a history of travelling to Ahmedabad in Gujarat. The third case, P-807, a 72-year-old man from Mominpur area in Kalaburagi, was a contact of P-604. The fourth case, P-848, is a 35-year-old man from Kalaburagi and was suffering from ILI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-more-in-kalaburagi/article31553738.ece
11 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Enmity results in murder of two brothers||Two brothers were killed by a group of people due to enmity near Motagi Cross in Jewargi taluk of Kalaburagi district on Saturday. Yallaling S. Kargond and his brother, Ganganna S. Kargond, were attacked by a group of people near the agricultural land at Motagi Cross and killed by lethal weapons. The reason for the murder is said to be a family dispute and rivalry. A complaint was lodged by Yallaling Kargond’s wife Meenakshi against 12 persons of Bhutali family and their relatives at Nelogi Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/enmity-results-in-murder-of-two-brothers/article31553739.ece
11 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Migrant workers board two special trains to UP, Bihar||Two Shramik Special trains ferrying migrant workers left Mangaluru Junction Railway Station for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on Sunday. The first train with 1,129 workers left for Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, at 2.20 p.m from Mangaluru Junction. The passengers, who had registered their names on the State government’s Sevasindhu portal, were brought in several buses from Bunder, Bombay Hotel, Kandatpalli, Kudroli, Kankanady and Ullal to the railway station. They underwent thermal scanning before being allowed to board their coaches. “Social distancing was ensured during boarding and once on board, the passengers adhered to it by keeping the middle berths vacant,” said Southern Railway in a tweet on its official handle, @GMSouthernrailway. Another special train left with 1,149 workers to Khagariya in Bihar at 6.20 p.m. from Mangaluru Junction. The passengers were brought from Panambur and Jokatte. A total of 23 buses were used for the purpose, said a release from Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh. Shramik Special train services were launched at Mangaluru Junction on Saturday evening. As many as 1,168 workers travelled on a train bound for Jharkhand. The train comprised 18 sleeper coaches, four general coaches and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches. According to officials, Rs. 960 was collected as fare from each passenger for the journey.  Norms flouted Accusing the district administration of flouting norms in repatriating the workers, Democratic Youth Federation of India State president Muneer Katipalla alleged that not all workers who travelled on the trains were registered with the Sevasindhu portal. Workers were packed onto buses and no proper medical check-up was conducted, he said. Refuting the allegations, Ms. Rupesh said in the release that all workers were screened and their complete details were taken before they were allowed to board the buses. A district-level officer was made in-charge of each bus and he was assisted by a village accountant and two policemen. The district-level officers were involved in the work since 7 a.m., Ms. Rupesh said. Entry The Deputy Commissioner in another communique said that those coming to Dakshina Kannada from other States should have Sevasindhu passes and enter through the designated check-posts. All such persons would compulsorily undergo institutional quarantine, she said and added that people illegally entering the district would be dealt with as per law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/migrant-workers-board-two-special-trains-to-up-bihar/article31553749.ece
11 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Social networking, and some value addition||When the lockdown began, farmers of Aladangady and nearby villages in Belthangady taluk of Dakshina Kannada did not know what to do with banana, pineapple and vegetables they had cultivated. With no way to market them, some began feeding the produces to their cattle. After learning that farmers such as David at Nada village who had cultivated nendra variety of banana in huge quantity are feeding it to the cattle, a farmer producer organisation (FPO) pitched in to help them. WhatsApp group The Aladangady Horticulture Farm Producers Company, which already had a WhatsApp group of some farmers, added some more farmers who were looking for the marketing of their produce, to the group. It also added some known consumers to the group. The FPO began lifting the produces directly from the doorsteps of growers and delivered them to the houses of consumers who had placed demands on the group. It also opened an outlet at Belthangady. The president of the company, Haridas S.M., told The Hindu that the FPO made chips, halwa and jam from unsold banana and pineapple. “We did not allow anything to go waste as the value-added products too are getting sold. We have also marketed about 300 kg. of honey,” he said adding that the FPO also made coconut oil and sold it. The WhatsApp group has about 30 farmers and about 50 consumers. Mr. David had cultivated about 50 tonnes of nendra variety of banana. After the FPO purchased about 300 kg of banana initially from him, a market link was established to Kerala. Thus he could sell all 50 tonnes, the president said.  We did not allow anything to go waste as the value-added products too are getting sold. We have also marketed about 300 k.g. of honey Haridas S.M., President, Aladangady Horticulture Farm Producers Company||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/social-networking-and-some-value-addition/article31553587.ece
11 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangaluru Junction sees capacity augmentation||Mangaluru Junction Railway Station, a prominent railway station along Indian Railway’s network on the West Coast, is set to see capacity enhancement with the Southern Railway taking up Phase 1 of its expansion work. Its passenger train handling capacity, at present, over 70 a day, is set to increase by at least 50 % before the end of this fiscal when Phase 1 work will be completed, while Phase 2 work next year would ensure another 50 % capacity augmentation. The railway station has been a crucial link between Mumbai, Kerala and Bengaluru where train traffic from three zones get merged and move towards respective destinations. While Southern Railway has jurisdiction up to Thokur, Konkan Railway Corporation’s jurisdiction starts from Thokur towards North and South Western Railway’s jurisdiction starts from Padil towards East. Southern Railway’s Construction Wing has taken up Phase 1 of the expansion work at an estimated cost of Rs. 13 crore as a part of line doubling between Mangaluru Junction and Panambur (New Mangalore Port). Chief Engineer (Construction-North), Ernakulam, P.T. Benny told The Hindu that the expansion work mainly focuses on Yard Remodelling, including construction of a Loco Shed and a shunting neck. When The Hindu visited the railway station area, execution of earthwork around the existing yard was going on. Mr. Benny said that Southern Railway requires about 1.5 acres of additional land for Phase 2 of the expansion work for which the requisition was submitted to the State government. It is said that with Konkan Railway Corporation too set to complete electrification of its 760-km route network between Roha in Maharashtra and Thokur near Mangaluru, trains running on the West Coast would soon be hauled by electric locos. A senior engineer with the Permanent Way section said that Mangaluru Junction that has three platforms would get an additional two platforms during the expansion process. Consequently, train handling capacity would increase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangaluru-junction-sees-capacity-augmentation/article31553748.ece
11 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Delay in providing temporary sheds worries traders||In all, 350 traders who were operating from the two blocks of the Central Market which was closed down a month ago to maintain social distancing are still waiting for their rehabilitation by Mangaluru City Corporation. The corporation closed down the vegetable, fruit and meat business at the Central Market to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The wholesale fruit and vegetable market was shifted to APMC Yard in Baikampady. There are 106 licensed wholesale, retail traders, owners of meat shops, grocery shops, Ayurvedic shops, textile shops, electronic shops and other small traders in the complex. There are about 250 other traders around the complex. “More than a month since the order, the corporation is yet to provide us space to earn our living. For the time being they should allow us to operate from the place for which licence has been issued,” said Mohamed Abbas, a retail vegetable trader and treasurer of Central Market Traders Association. Grocery shop owner Gajanana said that officials are not allowing them to remove material from their shops. Meanwhile, Ganesh said that the police forced him to close down the shutters of his electronics shop on Wednesday. The corporation on Wednesday started laying poles along the compound wall of Lady Goschen Hospital for creating temporary sheds for retail traders. Steps are yet to be taken in the case of other traders. Meanwhile, corporation Commissioner S. Ajith Kumar Hegde said that the corporation was trying to provide temporary sheds for licensed traders. An appropriate place was being scouted to provide sheds for 240 other traders. “These temporary sheds are for a period of three months when Mangaluru Smart City Project Limited will provide them temporary sheds,” he said and added that delay on their part to commence the work was because of the preoccupation of officials with COVID-19 relief and containment work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delay-in-providing-temporary-sheds-worries-traders/article31553750.ece
11 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Eight in Shivamogga test positive for COVID-19||As many as eight persons in Shivamogga district who had returned from Ahmedabad tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. So far, the district had remained free of COVID-19. Of the eight persons who tested positive, seven are from Shikaripur taluk. while one person identified as P-814 is a resident of Tirthahalli taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-in-shivamogga-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31553751.ece
11 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Rain brings relief to people||After the scorching heat with temperatures reaching 42 degrees Celsius in the last about a week, heavy rain coupled with thunder gave the much-needed relief to people in Vijayapura on Sunday. It started raining at around 1 a.m., and continued to drizzle till around 7 a.m. However, later, it became heavy and flooded the roads. Heavy rain lasted over 30 minutes, and thereafter, it continued to drizzle for a couple of hours more, turning the weather cooler. Rain brought some relief to people, mainly construction workers who have been working in the blistering heat after the government relaxed lockdown norms. Hawkers too got some relief. Similarly, Muslims who are on Ramzan fasting also had some relief with the dip in temperature. While heavy rain certainly brought relief to people from the heat, meteorologists believe that heavy pre-monsoon rain may affect regular monsoon. They believe that pre-monsoon showers should be limited and average. If they turn heavy, it may possibly weaken monsoon. This would directly affect the Kharif season when farmers need copious rainfall for better yields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-brings-relief-to-people/article31553743.ece
11 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir to get COVID-19 test laboratory soon||Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has said that Yadgir district will soon get a laboratory to test COVID-19 cases at the new district general hospital on the outskirts of Yadgir city. While addressing a media conference in Yadgir on Sunday, Mr. Rao said that the State government has decided to establish the laboratory and the district administration is keen on setting it up at the new district hospital to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The process to set up other facilities and appoint staff, doctors and others is under way. Further, Truenat test will be conducted at the old district hospital before samples are sent for the final test at the proposed laboratory, he added. Already, 32 oxygen beds are kept ready and another 100 beds will be ready shortly to attend to COVID-19 cases, he said. He said that samples from patients with symptoms are being collected at the district hospital, and in the Bhimarayanagudi and Surpur hospitals. The Deputy Commissioner said that 10,518 persons, including migrant workers, from various parts of the State and 390 persons from Maharashtra and Goa came on 362 buses to Yadgir district. After necessary medical check-up, they have been referred for quarantine for 14 days, as per protocol, he added. A sum of Rs. 18.61 lakh fine has been collected and 1,283 vehicles have been seized for violating lockdown guidelines. As many 16 check-posts have been set up on the border to keep vigil on vehicle movement and carry out health checks for those passing through, Mr. Rao said. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane, CEO Shilpa Sharma, Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakash Rajput and DHO M.S. Patil were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-to-get-covid-19-test-laboratory-soon/article31553745.ece
11 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Six sheep die in Yadgir||Rain, accompanied by thunder, lightning and gusty winds, lashed many parts of Yadgir district late on Saturday night. Sources said that as many as six sheep died in different villages in Gurmitkal and Wadgera taluks and portions of several houses collapsed at Yampad village in rain-related incidents. But, accurate figures on damage caused to houses are not available yet. Although, majority of crops have been harvested, paddy and horticulture crops, including papaya and banana, in several hectares, particularly in Shahapur taluk, were damaged. “Loss due to rain is yet to be assessed,” Joint Director of Agriculture Department R. Devika told The Hindu . She, however, said that standing crop in 3,075 hectares of land have been assessed to have suffered damage in rain-related incidents between April 4 and April 29 this year. When contacted, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said that there were no reports of human or livestock casualty due to rain. Officials have been instructed to conduct crop damage assessment, he added. The Department of Statistics provided the following details of rainfall received: Yadgir 23.2 mm, Gumitkal 24.2 mm, Shahpur 8 mm and Hayyal 5.5. But, there was no rain in Surpur taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-sheep-die-in-yadgir/article31553746.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Celebrating ‘corona warriors’||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrating-corona-warriors/article31553559.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Y.S.V. Datta, who has donned several roles in the JD(S), has returned to his most beloved profession of teaching during the lockdown. Mr. Datta, popularly known as ‘Datta Meshtru’ in political circles in Bengaluru, was a teacher before he turned to politics. Now he is taking classes in mathematics using Facebook Live for Class 10 students. Wearing his trademark white panche and full-sleeved shirt neatly folded up, Mr. Datta is taking revision classes for students, who are anxiously awaiting the government’s announcement on exam schedule. The classes of Mr. Datta, who has penned a biography of former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, have been quite a hit as he teaches bilingually, in both Kannada and English. The teaching experience of the 66-year-old former Kadur MLA goes back to the 1970s. In fact, some of his students are currently members of the Legislative Assembly.   The novel coronavirus is a hard one to stop from spreading. The only thing giving it tough competition is the fake news that goes viral on social media. As a result, in the midst of a health crisis, the Karnataka police are busy fighting a dual battle — enforcing a strict lockdown and cracking down on false news.The Mangaluru police recently had a tough situation on hand because of a fake news report widely circulated on WhatsApp groups. Several migrants from North India rushed to Mangaluru railway station(in picture)in the hope of boarding trains to go back home. They arrived at the station only to discover that the news was not true. The police had a tough time convincing them to go back to their camps. To fight this menace, the police have launched a website and are requesting people to check the authenticity of the news they receive on social media. Despite the arrest of a few people for spreading fake news, there seems to no end to the trend.   There seems to be no end to the U-turns of the government headed by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa(in picture)during this lockdown. The government has reversed a series of decisions, some within a few hours and some in a day or two. For instance, the government has now said that private schools can collect fee from financially stable parents for the 2020-21 academic year. Earlier, the Primary and Secondary Education Department had issued a circular directing schools not to collect fee from parents. In another instance, bowing to public opinion during the second phase of the lockdown, the government changed its decision in a couple of hours on allowing two-wheeler movement. Many of the decisions taken on April 18 were reversed on April 21 at a Cabinet meeting, superseding the Chief Minister’s announcements. The government’s latest blunder is cancelling trains for stranded migrants. However, after receiving flak from the public, it restarted special trains to send migrants back to their native States. The flip-flops in decision-making seem to reflect the absence of coordination in the government. Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article31553573.ece
11 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Making Subhiksha Keralam a success||Local bodies in the district have started measures to make Subhiksha Keralam, a project launched by the State government to ensure self-sufficiency in food production, a success. A meeting chaired by district panchayat president G. Venugopal has drawn a plan to implement the project. Officials said coordination of departments including Local Self Government, Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development, and Fisheries would be ensured. Volunteers of Kudumbashree, Haritha Keralam Mission, and labourers of the MGNREGS will become part of the project. “Each grama panchayat will take steps to cultivate paddy, vegetables, raise cows, goats, rabbits, pigs, fish and so on,” said an official. Panchayats will constitute ward-level committees on May 12 and panchayat-level committees on May 13. Details of fallow land will be collected on May 15. On May 17, a crop calendar will be prepared. Grama panchayats have also been directed to submit the amended annual plan for approval. Approval The Thanneermukkom grama panchayat has given approval for an integrated farming project for which Rs. 2 crore has been earmarked. Panchayat authorities said Rs. 50 lakh each would be spent on paddy and vegetable cultivation, animal husbandry, and dairy farming. Projects worth Rs. 1 crore would be implemented in the fisheries sector. Vegetable seedlings will be distributed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-subhiksha-keralam-a-success/article31553863.ece
11 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Special train takes migrant workers from Kannur to U.P.||As many as 1,140 migrant workers stranded in different parts of the district began their journey back home to Uttar Pradesh in a special train that left Kannur at 6 p.m. on Sunday. The workers were taken to the railway station in 38 KSRTC buses. Each 50-seater bus carried 30 people. The workers were allowed to return home after medical check-ups. The authorities also provided the workers with food for their journey. The train is expected to reach Lucknow by Tuesday afternoon. Two batches of 1,140 migrant workers each from the district returned to Bihar last Sunday and to Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. Around 450 workers from Kannur left for Madhya Pradesh after boarding a train from Kozhikode last Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-train-takes-migrant-workers-from-kannur-to-up/article31553821.ece
11 May 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Kasaragod COVID-free as lone patient tests negative||Kasaragod district turned COVID-19-free with the lone patient, a 47-year-old man, testing negative for the SARS-CoV-2 virus on Sunday. The patient, a Chengala resident who had returned from abroad, was undergoing treatment at the Kasaragod Government Medical College Hospital at Ukkinadka. The district had earlier recorded the highest number of COVID-19 patients (178) in the State. Kasaragod still has 965 people under observation, including 105 in the hospital. The test results of 181 samples are awaited. Eighty-five persons were admitted to the isolation ward on Sunday. Most of the positive cases in Kasaragod had foreign connections. The first patient was a medical student from Wuhan, China. Soon, with the arrival of more people from abroad and the spread of the disease through social contact the number of cases increased. Kasaragod was allocated Rs. 75 lakh from the State Disaster Response Fund and Rs. 3.95 crore from the package set aside to counter COVID-19. In addition, Rs. 7 crore was allocated for upgrading the Kasaragod Medical College Hospital. ‘Too early to relax’ District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said it would be too early to relax. “Importantly, none of the doctors and paramedical staff contracted the disease. This shows the level of preparedness of the team,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kasaragod-covid-free-as-lone-patient-tests-negative/article31553852.ece
11 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kashmiri workers urge govt. to facilitate return||“It looks like we are too few in number to be taken seriously. Hence our problems are not being addressed,” says Sajid Khatai, president of the Kashmiri Traders Welfare Association in Kochi, speaking on behalf of the 750-odd Kashmiris in the State in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. He is surprised that the government of Kerala, which has set a precedent of welfare in treating migrant workers and facilitating their return to their respective States, should overlook the plight of the Kashmiri community in the State. Since the lockdown and its extension, community leaders have been petitioning the government to arrange for the travel of workers from Kashmir back, by train. The Kashmiri community in the State mainly retails handicrafts and runs stores in the tourist spots of Kochi, Thiruvanathapuram, Kumily, and Alappuzha. They employ a large number of workers, mainly young men, from Kashmir, who are currently unemployed and wish to return home. “We took our petition to the Chief Minister’s office in Thiruvananthapuram and, in Kochi, we presented our case to District Collector S. Suhas, but we have not yet received a response.” The lockdown preceded by a weak tourist season has made their businesses unviable. “For one month, our association arranged for free ration for the members, but we are absolutely without funds to continue. Besides, we cannot pay salaries and rents, as there has been no business and no income.” Another major issue facing the community, according to Mr. Khatai, is rampant depression due to isolation and homesickness. “Most of our workers are young boys and live in around 40 ‘messes’ in and around Fort Kochi. This isolation is playing havoc with their minds. The desperation may lead to something worse. Now that the government is sending migrant workers back, they should consider our plea,” he said.  We took our petition to the Chief Minister’s office and, in Kochi, we presented our case to the District Collector, but we have not yet received a response Sajid Khatai President, Kashmiri Traders Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kashmiri-workers-urge-govt-to-facilitate-return/article31553820.ece
11 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Issue passes to the stranded’||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Sunday directed the State government to take urgent steps to facilitate those people who were stranded at Walayar to cross the State border by issuing necessary passes. The Bench made it clear that all those persons who are crossing the border in accordance with the passes so issued shall strictly adhere to the guidelines and other orders issued by the State government to deal with the situations day by day. The Bench comprising Justice Shaji P. Chaly and Justice M.R. Anitha passed the directive at a special sitting held on Sunday in the view of the filing of a petition highlighting the pathetic condition of the persons stranded at the Wayalar check-post. The court ordered that while taking the steps, immediate attention and preference shall be given to pregnant women, senior citizens and children. The others too should be issued passes at the earliest, since they were stranded from May 9 onwards. Provide facilities Besides directing the State government to ensure that basic facilities were provided to the persons reaching the entry points, the court directed the State and other authorities to coordinate with officials of other State governments with respect to the passes issued for inter-State travel so as to have parity of dates. The court also ordered the State government to adequately attend to the pleas of 13 students who got stuck at Malahalla, near Muthanga. The court further made it clear that these directives were issued taking into account the special circumstances and the order “cannot be treated as a precedent for any future purposes.” The Bench further made it clear that the directives “are not intended to water down the advisories, orders and guidelines issued by appropriate governments, since we are conscious of the fact that the governments and their officials are better equipped to deal with the situations taking into account the factual circumstances occurring from time to time during the lockdown period.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/issue-passes-to-the-stranded/article31553847.ece
11 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Parents unwittingly put children at risk||Some parents have been taking their children below 10 years of age to shops and other public places despite a government directive that kids in that age group should remain indoors in all zones. An order issued by the Home Ministry after the lockdown was extended for two weeks had said persons above 65 years of age, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 should stay at home in all zones, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes. An assessment of the compliance of the directive here revealed that a few parents were taking children even below three years of age to public places. A grandfather was seen holding a two-and-a-half-year old child at a supermarket at Edappally, while an eight-year-old girl was found walking into a grocery store in Aluva. Neither of the children was wearing the face mask. Similar scenes were witnessed in other parts of the city. The security personnel at department stores claimed that they did not permit children below 10 from entering the outlet. Advising parents that children below 10 years should be kept indoors in view of the pandemic, Dr. S. Sachidananda Kamath, former national president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP), said they remained vulnerable to COVID-19. “Children may find it difficult to cope with the situation once they are infected. The challenges will be higher when schools re-open for the new academic year. A detailed list of dos and dont’s should be in place before that,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parents-unwittingly-put-children-at-risk/article31553825.ece
11 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Taking Keralites on a tour of the State, with huge discounts||With most hotels and resorts in Kerala either locked down or staring at negligible or nil room occupancy in the wake of COVID-19, tourism stakeholders are gearing up to launch ‘Keralam Kaanam,’ a scheme to woo people of the State to avail accommodation at heavily discounted rates. This is part of Malayali Yathra, an initiative of tour operators and hotels based in Kerala. The relaxation of lockdown norms down the lane will see people travelling within the State, mostly to tourist locales in nearby districts, for a few months. 300 hotels, resorts The scheme which would cover approximately 300 hotels and resorts in Kerala, targets such regional travellers. Houseboat operators, who too have been severely hit by the lockdown, also are part of the scheme, said Anish Kumar P. K, executive committee member and former president of Association of Tourism Trade Organisation of India (ATTOI). “Kerala's tourism resources are globally acclaimed, but most people of the State prefer day tours and shun overnight stay in hotels. The project aims to familiarize the higher category of hotels in Kerala to prospective customers, at hitherto unimaginable tariff. We hope to roll out the scheme from July 1 to October 30. It will be a new experience for guests, while also generating business for hotels, tour and transport operators. Those who cancelled their outbound tours and NRIs returnees would particularly benefit, since packages under the scheme are available at rock-bottom rates,” he said. These discounted rates will be exclusive for guests and tour operators from within Kerala. Details are available at www.malayaliyatra.com. This is the best time to discover Kerala, her villages and tourist/heritage locales. Hotels and resorts are joining the scheme by submitting their discounted tariffs. Soon after lockdown “We have begun the groundwork so that travellers can avail the package immediately after curbs are lifted. Kerala Tourism has assured help to market the scheme, while hotels are busy readying safety protocols that have to be adhered to post the lockdown,” Mr. Anish Kumar said. On their part, hotels will not offer these rates to any other operators/individuals/corporates or others, since the project is to support each other, apart from tour and taxi operators, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taking-keralites-on-a-tour-of-the-state-with-huge-discounts/article31553834.ece
11 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Memorable Mother’s Day for couple||It is a Mother’s Day worth remembering for Sonia Jacob, a nurse in the Maldives, and her husband Shijo, a nurse working in Kerala. Among the 19 pregnant women part of the first lot of people evacuated by the Navy using its ship INS Jalashwa , Sonia from Eraviperoor at Thiruvalla, gave birth to a boy on Sunday evening. She had six miscarriages earlier. Sonia felt a little uneasy soon after completing emigration formalities at the Kochi port. She thought that the baby was not moving as much as it should be. Following this, she was taken to the hospital for women and children at Mattancherry and then to Kinder Hospital at Kalamassery. She had completed 36 weeks of pregnancy and by evening the baby was delivered by way of C-section and admitted to NICU. Naval doctors had attended to her while she was being brought to Kochi on the ship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/memorable-mothers-day-for-couple/article31553851.ece
11 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||121 people arrive from Lakshadweep||A total of 121 people from different parts of Kerala, who were stranded in Lakshadweep islands following the lockdown, arrived in a passenger ship here on Sunday. Most of them are government officials and students. They would go for home quarantine, since the islands have not reported any SARS-CoV-2 positive cases and come under green zone. Police sources said that they had applied in the Jagratha portal for the evacuation to Kerala, following which State government approved a list of people. Medical personnel screened them before they boarded the vessel, they said. Meanwhile, the Lakshadweep administration has taken steps to ferry islanders stranded in Kerala and Mangaluru, to Lakshadweep, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/121-people-arrive-from-lakshadweep/article31553846.ece
11 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||179 brought from Malaysia||In continuing operations to evacuate Indians stranded in different parts of the world the first flight from Kuala Lumpur landed at Cochin international airport about 10.15 p.m. on Sunday. The IX673 Kuala Lumpur-Kochi flight brought 175 adults and four children below the age of 10. The evacuees comprise people mostly from Kerala. The flight landed as scheduled. Two flights landed here on Saturday night and one in the early hours of Sunday. These three flights brought a total of 535 people, including 156 pregnant women. The Doha-Kochi flight (IX 476), which landed in the early hours of Sunday, comprised 175 passengers. One of the passengers hailing from Ernakulam, who showed symptoms of SARS-CoV-2, was shifted to the COVID care centre at Muttam. Seventeen were sent to their homes for quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/179-brought-from-malaysia/article31553849.ece
11 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Pandemic blues marring beauty industry||Thousands of migrant workers employed at salons across the State are bracing for an uncertain future with the COVID-19 situation threatening the prospects of the beauty and wellness sector. Salons were asked to totally shut down during the lockdown phase, them being part of the non-essential commercial sector. And now as the lockdown enters the last leg, even major chains, who had provided food and accommodation to their employees during the lockdown, feel they may not be able to retain the original staff strength when they resume services. The salons, spas and parlours provide employment to lakhs, most of whom had migrated to Kerala years ago. Many among them are from the Northeast who fear they may have to return to their hometowns where jobs are scarce. “In Kerala, we get a minimum pay of Rs. 12,000 per month and here the living conditions are much better compared to other places. But we have been out of work for the last two months. We got our last pay in March. Since the sector offers hands-on services, people will be hesitant to visit salons for a long time,” says Chaya from Darjeeling. Uncertainty will stare at the industry hard in the post-lockdown scenario, according to salon owners. Post-lockdown scenario “In North India, they have opened salons in some places but the inflow of customers is much less compared to that in the pre-pandemic days. For many days, people will be coming for basic services like haircut and we will be forced to reduce staff strength. Some of our staff from the Northeast left for home in March but now they are desperate to come back since the situation there is too difficult,” says Karthik Sunil, joint secretary of Kerala Salon Owner’s Association. “There will be a considerable dip in our revenue if there are no public events and marriages in the coming months. In the last two moths we had to cancel around 32 weddings and I think this trend will continue till the end of 2020,” celebrity make-up artist Renju Renjimar, who runs a salon in Angamaly, says. Once the lockdown lifts, the sector may function with restrictions including disposable neck wraps and thermal screening for its employees and customers. But those in the mid-level and lower will have to face more challenges than the major players. They may not be able to afford single-use materials and maintain the right protocols. “Instead of five chairs, now we can only put two and it means a huge difference in the number of customers we can attend to in a day,” says a beautician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-blues-marring-beauty-industry/article31553864.ece
11 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||33 from Gulf countries put in isolation centre||Amidst the ongoing influx of expatriates from COVID-19-affected countries to the State, the focus of the Health authorities in Kottayam has now shifted to a COVID care centre near Ettumanoor. As per official estimates, 33 out of the 94 persons who reached the district from the Gulf countries have been admitted to the Thuvanisa Retreat Centre, near Kothanallur. The remaining 61 persons, according to officials, belonged to the exempted category and hence have been allowed to remain in home quarantine. Besides those from overseas, the centre here has accommodated 12 persons returning from the red zones of other States in the country. Arrangements are now also in place to lodge the four men who will reach the district from Kuala Lumpur via Kochi at midnight on Sunday. Accident at Karoor The district administration here on Sunday made interventions to bring back nursing students from Bengaluru who remained stranded at Karoor, Tamil Nadu, following a bus accident. Officials said both District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu and District Police Chief G. Jaidev called up their counterparts in Karoor and arranged a bus for the students to reach Kottayam. A bus carrying 25 students, mostly from Kottayam and Idukki districts who were being brought back from their college, rammed a tanker on the National Highway near Karoor at around 12 noon on Sunday. The bus driver, a native of Thrissur, sustained serious injuries while the passengers escaped with minor injuries. Check-posts As on Sunday afternoon, the number of person who entered the district through the inter-State check-posts stood at 1,081. The authorities have so far issued passes to 1,894 persons and are slated to consider 1,094 applications for passes. Kottayam has not reported any fresh cases of COVID -19 outbreak for the past four days. Of the 109 sample results received on Sunday, all tested negative. The shutdown declared by the State government was complete in Kottayam with all shops remaining shut and vehicles staying off the road.  Our Staff Reporter writes from Alappuzha: The number of expatriates shifted to COVID-19 care centres in the district has touched 69. This included 33 people who arrived at Cochin and Karipur airports from the Gulf nations and 36 from Maldives. Officials said 42 people had reached Alappuzha from Maldives. Of this, 36 were shifted to a care centre at Kanichukulangara to serve the mandatory institutional quarantine period. Six persons were sent to self-quarantine at their houses. Officials also said of the 52 people who reached from the Gulf countries, 19 were allowed to go to their homes to serve the self- quarantine period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/33-from-gulf-countries-put-in-isolation-centre/article31553866.ece
11 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Woman, child drown||The Kaduthuruthy police have launched a probe into the drowning of a woman and her two-and-a-half-year old child in a canal near Kothanallur on Sunday. The bodies of the woman, Obe, and that of her son Advaith, were recovered from the Kuzhiyanchal canal. The police are now awaiting a post-mortem report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-child-drown/article31553867.ece
11 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||130 expatriates kept under surveillance in Kozhikode district||As many as 130 expatriates are under surveillance in Kozhikode district as on Sunday. According to a release, 42 persons are quarantined at COVID care centres, and the others are at their homes. Thirty of them are pregnant women. Twenty-nine persons came from Doha on May 10 morning and 11 from Muscat and one from Kuwait on May 9. Three persons from Doha and eight from Muscat were admitted to COVID care centres. The rest were put under observation at their homes. There are 21 persons from Kozhikode in the ship that reached Kochi from Maldives on Sunday. The release said five natives of Kozhikode had been scheduled to fly by the Doha-Thiruvanathapuram flight that was supposed to reach on Sunday. That flight was, however, cancelled in the last minute. The natives of Kozhikode included three who needed urgent medical attention and a child. Meanwhile, there were no SARS-CoV-2 positive cases in the district on Sunday though the number of those under surveillance went up to 2,936. Of them, 1,984 had come from other States, and the rest are expatriates. Five were discharged on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/130-expatriates-kept-under-surveillance-in-kozhikode-district/article31553819.ece
11 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Student designs automatic sanitiser dispenser||A student from Nettur Technical Training Foundation, Thalassery, has designed a low-cost automatic sanitiser dispenser, which can be installed easily in offices and public places for hand sanitation. Amal Varun Mathew, a native of Kozhikode who designed the gadget, has already supplied it to two police stations in the district for trial. The total cost of the device is only Rs. 400. It works with minimal electronic components. Amal says only four components are needed to make the sensor-fitted device, which can dispense the sanitiser without touching. The first automatic dispenser was installed at the Vigilance office at Thondayad after a Sub Inspector from there happened to hear about the device designed by the student. Later, it was also installed at the Kunnamangalam police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/student-designs-automatic-sanitiser-dispenser/article31553817.ece
11 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Bomb hurled at house of BJP worker||Unidentified miscreants hurled a country bomb at a house belonging to a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker near Valayam in Nadapuram on Sunday morning. No one sustained injuries in the powerful explosion, according to police sources . Another bomb The police and bomb disposal squad inspected the spot and recovered another steel bomb from the spot. The house owner said he suspected political motives behind the incident. The BJP local committee too has demanded a detailed investigation into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bomb-hurled-at-house-of-bjp-worker/article31553833.ece
11 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||KSU protest to bring back stranded Keralites||The Kerala Students Union (KSU) has urged the State government to use Kerala State Road Transport Service buses to bring back Malayalis stranded in other States. KSU president K.M. Abhijith said that the organisation would hold a ‘standing protest’ in the State on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksu-protest-to-bring-back-stranded-keralites/article31553845.ece
11 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Abu Dhabi returnee tests positive||A 34-year-old man from Angadipuram who returned home on a special flight from Abu Dhabi on May 7 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. District Collector Jafer Malik said the man reached Nedumbassery on May 7, and was shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. So far, three persons from the district who returned from abroad on May 7 have contracted COVID-19. They are being treated at the medical colleges at Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Manjeri. The Angadipuram man had been in a labour camp at Mussafah, Abu Dhabi, for the last two months. He had suffered from throat congestion since April 27. He reached Nedumbassery on May 7 night, and travelled with 13 other Malappuram passengers in a KSRTC bus to the International Students Hostel at Calicut University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abu-dhabi-returnee-tests-positive/article31553828.ece
11 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Confusion prevails as many lack pass||The Walayar check-post on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border witnessed confusion and tension on Sunday as well when dozens of people seeking entry into the State were detained there for having no pass issued by the District Collector. A team of students, teachers and parents from a Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Haryana was detained at the border for several hours as they had no e-pass. The team was travelling on a bus to Thiruvananthapuram. The team had got sanction from the District Collector before they started their journey. The team was allowed entry into Kerala after five hours. About three dozen persons who reached Kerala border from other States without proper e-passes too were detained. Following the intervention of the Kerala High Court, the government decided to sanction entry for those stuck at the border. However, their entry would be ensured only after strict medical examination, said district officials. Over 170 people detained at the border on Saturday had been shifted to a camp at Coimbatore with the help of the Coimbatore authorities. They too are being given e-passes. However, the district authorities have tightened the norms for those trying to jump the pass system. At Inchivila As many as 111 people, including 60 women, entered the State through the interstate check-post at Inchivila on Sunday. While no one was diagnosed with any COVID-19 symptoms, 34 people had come from various red zone districts in the country. Those who gained entry included 105 people who came from Tamil Nadu, four from Chhattisgarh and one each from Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. As many as 88 people are from Thiruvananthapuram, while others are from Kollam (5), Alappuzha (8), Pathanamthitta (2), Kottayam (2), Ernakulam (3), Thrissur (1) and Malappuram (2). A total of 161 persons entered the State through the Aryankavu check-post in Kollam. As many as 360 persons on 130 vehicles crossed the Muthanga interstate check-post on the Kerala-Karnataka border till 8.30 p.m. on Sunday. Among them, 42 persons have been handed over to various local administrative bodies for institutional quarantine. Via Talapady A total of 215 Keralites stranded in other States crossed the Talapady check-post at the Kerala-Karnataka border in Kasaragod. Though 1,720 persons had applied to enter the State through the check-post, the district administration issued passes only to 591 applicants. In the past five days, the district administration received 20,086 applications from people through the NoRKA website. However, only 11,878 applications were approved and of this only 4,658 have so far crossed the check-post. (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Wayanad and Kasaragod.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/confusion-prevails-as-many-lack-pass/article31553860.ece
11 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Elderly tribal couple shifted from tumbledown shed||Until Saturday afternoon, septuagenarian Adivasi couple Veluppan and Pappal lived in a squalid shed through the roof of which the sky was visible. They called it their home, not knowing whether they would be able to survive the upcoming monsoon under that tumbledown shed. The squalid plight of Veluppan, 76, and Pappal, 74, never affected the civic authorities and people’s representatives until it became a topic of discussion during the COVID-19 lockdown through the social media. A handful of social and human rights activists took the matter up. And the government’s attention fell on the two sickly couple living near Vellaramkadavu Babupathi Colony in Muthalamada panchayat. On Saturday afternoon, K. Babu, MLA; and Muthalamada panchayat president K. Baby Sudha shifted the tribal couple to Guruprasadam Charitable Trust Old Age Home at Kozhinjampara, managed by the Social Justice Department. The department had to act by shifting them to its old age home following pressure from different quarters. Trust chairman Suresh Purushothaman and secretary C.C. Mini received the elderly couple at the old age home. Panchayat officials had reportedly said that they could not take care of the couple as they did not want to reconstruct their house. Rights activists led by Raymond Antony appealed to the State Human Rights Commission seeking corrective action against such “gross negligence of human rights.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elderly-tribal-couple-shifted-from-tumbledown-shed/article31553827.ece
11 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Man held for selling homoeo medicine||A retired government employee was held for selling homoeo medicine with strong alcohol content from Kollangode on Sunday. A team of Excise officers held Vijayan, 65, and seized many bottles of homoeo medicine containing 91% alcohol. Mr. Vijayan, a former employee of Fisheries Department, had procured the medicine from a homoeo doctor at Kambrath Challa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-selling-homoeo-medicine/article31553859.ece
11 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||63 more NoRKs reach Pathanamthitta||Another batch of 63 Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) reached the district from the UAE and Maldives on Sunday, according to the district administration. A total of 40 NoRKS from Pathanamthitta reached the Cochin International Airport by the Muscat-Kochi, Kuwait-Kochi and Doha-Kochi special flights operated by the Air India Express on Saturday night. Another batch of 23 persons bound for Pathanamthitta reached Kochi in the ‘INS Jalashwa’, from Maldives on Sunday morning. With this, the total number of NoRKS reaching the district in the past three days has gone up to 88. No new cases of COVID-19 has been reported from Pathanamthitta for past 28 days. The number of people in quarantine in the district is 783 as on Sunday. A medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu on Sunday said six persons remained under observation at the isolation wards of the three government hospitals in the district as on Sunday afternoon. A total of 190 persons, including the 17 persons cured of COVID-19, have got discharged from the isolation wards. So far, 17 throat swabs sent from the district tested positive while 4,341 others tested negative for the viral infection. Meanwhile, 146 surveillance squads deployed by the Health Department screened 14,352 people for fever and other symptoms at 15 border points on Sunday, and 42 of them have been referred to corona care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/63-more-norks-reach-pathanamthitta/article31553868.ece
11 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Migrant workers clash with police||The State capital witnessed tense scenes on Sunday when an agitation taken out by migrant workers turned violent and injured a senior police officer. The incident took place against the backdrop of several weeks of calm in the district with the police strictly enforcing the lockdown and going the extra mile to ensure the well-being of each cross-section, including the migrant workers’ population. Around 650 workers who have been engaged in the construction of a shopping mall, braved a heavy downpour to gather close to their camp at Oruvathilkotta around 6 p.m. and demanded trains to transport them to their native places. They alleged that they were being denied the opportunity to travel while the workers in several other camps in the district had been able to return to their home States. Many even cited personal tragedies as the reason for their demand. The demonstration turned unruly after some workers began to hurl stones at a police party led by Pettah circle inspector Girilal that had rushed to the area to pacify them. With the officer sustaining head injury in the melee, a large posse of police was deployed to control the crowd. Soon, Shanghumughom Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Aishwarya Dongre managed to placate the workers and assured them that their demand would be considered. A similar number of migrant labourers, who were also part of the workforce for the project, had managed to travel to their home towns prior to the lockdown. Total lockdown The public largely cooperated with the government’s call to observe total lockdown on Sunday. Barring some morning walkers, cyclists, and sanitation workers, the main roads of the city remained largely deserted for most part of the day. Only medical stores, laboratories, and outlets selling essential commodities were allowed to function. The City police booked 122 people for violating the lockdown norms and also seized 96 vehicles. As many as 138 people were also penalised for failing to wear masks outdoors. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 195 cases, arrested 194 people, and confiscated 121 vehicles.  The district administration placed 2,514 people under observation on Sunday, thereby increasing the number of those who are quarantined in the district to 4,059. As many as 3,626 people were quarantined at their homes. While 11 persons were admitted to various hospitals with COVID-19 symptoms, seven others were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-workers-clash-with-police/article31553873.ece
11 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Venu removed from post of CEO of RKI||Senior IAS officer and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Rebuild Kerala Initiative (RKI) V. Venu was shifted from the crucial post amidst the work to secure the second tranche of funds from the World Bank for the ambitious project to rebuild the flood-ravaged State. Departing from convention of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announcing the transfer and posting of Civil Services officials after the weekly Cabinet meeting or issuing official release from the Chief Minister’s Office, Chief Secretary Tom Jose issued the order shifting Dr. Venu from the post of the CEO, RKI, late on Saturday. Additional Chief Secretary, Finance, Rajesh Kumar Singh, 1989 Kerala cadre, has been given the full additional charge of Planning and Economic Affairs Department and CEO, RKI. Dr. Venu, who is the Principal Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, has been retained as a member of the RKI, as per the order issued by General Administration (AIS A) Department. $250 million loan The shifting of Dr. Venu comes at a time when the deliberations are mid-way to secure the second tranche of the World Bank loan of $250 million for the RKI. The World Bank had already provided a development policy loan (DPL) of $250 million as the first tranche. Dr. Venu, along with former Additional Chief Secretary, Finance, Manoj Joshi had clinched the deal for Kerala. Even on Saturday evening, Dr. Venu and Mr. Singh had attended a videoconference with the World Bank team on getting the second tranche of $250 million and the shifting of Dr. Venu from the post has come as surprise to Civil Services officials. Removal of officer In March, Dr. Venu had expressed displeasure to the Chief Minister and Revenue Minister over the removal of young IAS officer V.R. Premkumar from the post of Director, Survey and Land Records. Some Ministers were unhappy over the reported threat by Dr. Venu of going on leave if Mr. Premkumar was not reposted and the manner in which the IAS officers’ association took up the issue. However, the next Cabinet decided that there was no reason to reverse the decision.  V. Venu replaced by Additional Chief Secretary Rajesh Kumar Singh Venu retained as member of RKI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/venu-removed-from-post-of-ceo-of-rki/article31553835.ece
11 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lockdown, a time for self-discovery for Malayali diaspora||Nearly a month-and-a-half into the lockdown to break the chain of transmission of COVID-19, it has had a significant impact on our personal, social, and economic life. A study conducted by Kanal Innovations, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that works among students, to assess the changes and impact of the lockdown on Keralites around the world has found that people learnt and experimented with new things during the period. It also helped them develop their interpersonal relationships. The study was conducted among 441 Malayalis from seven countries — India, the U.S., the U.K., the UAE, South Africa, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia. It covered five sectors such as personal life, economic activity, media, governance, and education. The study looked first at changes in one’s daily routine during the lockdown. It covered aspects from technology use, sleep, and exercise to eating habits and spiritual time. It found a dramatic increase in use of mobile phone and TV. Among the respondents, 72.94% said their mobile phone use was very high, while 17.04% said it had not changed. In the case of 7.92% people, mobile phone use had decreased. While 64.3% of the participants said their use of social media was high, only 39.46% said their mobile gaming had increased. As many as 64.54% of the respondents used the time to acquire new knowledge or learn skills. Reading habits Reading habits of 49.32% of the participants and TV viewing of 69.54% increased. A significant aspect was the use of mobile phone for positive and creative purposes. Sleep duration increased for 64.53% of the respondents. However, the sleep cycles were not normal for many. The lockdown did not significantly improve exercise habits, with 68% of the respondents reporting a decrease or little change. About 59.74% of the respondents said the lockdown helped improve their relationship with family. Only 1.36% of the people reported bad relationships. It improved parental attachment in 44.87% of children and better attachment towards children in 46.09% parents. Another area the study focussed on was mental health. While 45.67% of the respondents said they were positive about the lockdown, 50.44% said it had increased their loneliness. It also found that people with high social media use experienced more loneliness. depression, anxiety, death fears, and mental distress increased in nearly 20% of them. The lockdown has had an economic impact too. The family budget of 48.61% of the respondents was hit. As many as 34.5% said the lockdown did not affect them financially, while 8.4% families said it helped increase their income. While 20.9% people believed they could lose their jobs, 24.4% people felt they would not become unemployed but their income would decrease; 14.72% people said they had no idea of what would happen to them after the lockdown. As many as 53% of respondents said they would reduce their costs, while 34.8% responded they would increase their money spending. Only 23.4% said they would find new sources of income for greater economic security. The study highlighted the need to encourage income generation activities, else an economic recession could be looming large||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-a-time-for-self-discovery-for-malayali-diaspora/article31553862.ece
11 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||AIE to make use of ferry flights for repatriation||Air India Express (AIE) will make use of the ferry flights proceeding to West Asia under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ for the repatriation of foreigners and permanent residents stranded in Kerala. The first such repatriation flight of the budget airline will leave from Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Bahrain at 1 p.m. on Monday. Good response The initiative has received good response and 90 had booked by Sunday noon in the flight to Bahrain, airline sources said. For the AIE, these flyers are a source of income as the aircraft is operating as ferry aircraft from here to bring back the stranded Non-Resident Indians (NRI). “Bahrain has permitted immigration of its citizens and permanent residents stranded here due to the COVID-19-induced ban on international flights to fly back. Rules have been relaxed for them and those travelling back are undertaking the trip at their own risk and paying the normal fare,” sources said. Health check-up The flyers will have to undergo health check-up at the international airport as per the health protocol and complete other formalities and only asymptomatic persons will be allowed to board the flight. The bookings were through the official website of the airline on submitting the valid documents shortlisted by the destination countries. The Air India Express flight (IX 0473) will return from Bahrain as IX 0474 at 4.30 p.m. local time on Monday with the stranded non-resident Keralites to reach Kozhikode at 11.20 p.m. on the same day. Assent Qatar and Singapore have also given their nod for the return of its citizens, permanent residents and long-term pass holders. Air India Express has decided to cash in on it as regular international flight services will take time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aie-to-make-use-of-ferry-flights-for-repatriation/article31553831.ece
11 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s revival plans hinge on PM’s conference||Kerala’s next stage of COVID-19 containment strategy and plans for economic revival will pivot on the outcome of the videoconference by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Chief Ministers on Monday. The third phase of the lockdown will end on May 17. The meeting is likely to take a call on restoring limited public transport within low-risk zones, opening up the retail sector with adequate social distancing safeguards and making COVID-19 testing more widespread. Officials said inter-State travel and restoration of domestic flights and rail travel might not be immediate. Mandatory holidays The Centre and States appear inclined to impose a less restrictive partial lockdown, interspersed with mandatory holidays and strict 24-hour clampdowns on mobility, in the fourth phase. The conference is also likely to deliberate measures to avoid industrial accidents like Vizag gas leak that claimed many lives in Andhra Pradesh. The epidemic has not ebbed, and an estimated 130 districts remained in the red zone category. Free inter-State movement of people could pose a risk to public health. As a precursor of the crucial meeting, Chief Secretary Tom Jose conferred with the Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Sunday by video link. Officials said Kerala had laid the groundwork for the conclave in advance. Mr. Jose had reportedly conveyed to the Centre the State’s plan to restart the economy without allowing its containment measures to backslide. Kerala had also sought a package to help it overcome the drag and inertia precipitated by the lockdown in critical sectors such as retail, travel and tourism, industrial production and construction. GST compensation It had sought the Centre’s permission to issue sovereign bonds to raise money from the open market, a two per cent increase in its borrowing limit, GST compensation and an extension of the RBI moratorium on the repayment of loans. Kerala had told the Centre that non-resident Keralites’ remittances had plummeted and the State anticipated an influx of blue-collar workers displaced by the economic downturn in the Gulf countries. It has requested banks to extend low-interest relief loans to small businesses and Gulf returnees. The State had also sought 6,42,000 tonnes of food grains to keep storage levels at optimum level and cargo trains to ferry harvest, including fruits and vegetables, from production centres to markets in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-revival-plans-hinge-on-pms-conference/article31553838.ece
11 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Industry-based electives to be offered by universities||Universities in the State are poised to modify their curricula to suit the emerging needs of industry in the post-COVID-19 scenario. With an eye on catering to the digital industry that remains a major employment provider for graduates, the government has directed all universities to offer industry-based elective courses. The proposed courses will not be evaluated through conventional methods, but will be assessed both by the course providers and industry bodies. The move comes nearly a year after the government had constituted a committee comprising A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree, Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) Vice Chancellor K.N. Madhusoodanan, and Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management Kerala (IIITM-K) Director Saji Gopinath to explore means to integrate industry-based courses into the academic curriculum of the KTU and Cusat. The government has now advised all universities to join the bandwagon. Based on their recommendations, the government has decided to offer such courses as electives. The workload and outcomes will be similar to the existing elective courses. Students will be able to score up to 20% of the credits allotted to electives from such industry-based courses. Minor programmes The students will be offered a Minor programme in these industry courses, in addition to the credits required for their graduation. These programmes are meant to instil specific skills and the credits required will be fixed by the Board of Studies of universities. These courses will be evaluated through formative and summative assessments by universities and approved agencies such as the ICT Academy of Kerala or the IIITM-K. Modern technological means such as the Skill Development Platform of Kerala (SDPK); Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC); and blended, flipped and hybrid learning models will be adopted for the delivery of such courses. Those with experience The Higher Education Department has not fixed any academic qualifications for the course instructors. Instead, those with substantial industry experience and proven credentials could be roped in. The courses will be vetted by a committee consisting of academicians and the industry that will function under the Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP). The programmes cleared by the panel will be adopted directly by universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/industry-based-electives-to-be-offered-by-universities/article31553841.ece
11 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||AIE cancels flight to capital from Doha||The Vande Bharat Mission to bring back the stranded Non-Resident Indians suffered a setback on the fourth day of the repatriation exercise with Qatari authorities denying permission to the Air India Express (AIE) flight to land in Doha on Sunday. Following the denial, the Air India Express IX 0374 flight from Doha to Thiruvananthapuram was cancelled. Thiruvananthapuram District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan and the airline officials confirmed that landing permission was denied to the flight but they were unaware of the reason for the denial. The flight is likely to be operated from Doha on Tuesday. The Boeing 737-800 aircraft was scheduled to fly from Kozhikode at 1 p.m. on Sunday to Doha to bring back the 181 stranded expatriates mostly from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta and adjoining Kanyakumari district of Tamil Nadu. The six-member crew had reached the Karipur international airport and the aircraft was ready to take off to Doha. Passengers upset The delay on the part of the authorities to convey the cancellation of the flight to the passengers in Doha had upset many who had reached the airport well ahead of departure time.    The cancellation came as the Airports Authority of India and the State government made all arrangements to receive the passengers who were scheduled to land here at 10.45 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aie-cancels-flight-to-capital-from-doha/article31553853.ece
11 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kattakada set to cultivate fallow land||Having achieved considerable success in water conservation through the Jalasamridhi scheme, local bodies in the Kattakada Assembly constituency have set a new goal of cultivating at least 450 hectares of fallow land as part of the Jaiva Samridhi scheme. The concerted efforts have come in the wake of the launch of the State-sponsored Subhiksha Keralam project to achieve self-sufficiency in vegetables to meet the challenges posed by the post-COVID-19 scenario. According to Kattakada MLA I.B. Sathish, the scheme envisages the utilisation of fallow land for farming, ensuring that each panchayat takes up vegetable farming in at least 50 hectares, achieving self-sufficiency in fruits and tuber crops, encouraging kitchen gardens and terrace farming, and promoting fish farming in ponds. He added that dairy farming and poultry would also come under the ambit of the programme. While it is estimated that around 450 hectares of land remain unused in the constituency, the Revenue and Agriculture Departments will undertake a survey to ascertain the actual extent of fallow land. Joint liability groups While the services of the existing cooperative farming groups will be retained in each ward, joint liability groups will be constituted. A preparatory meeting at Nemom recently decided to conduct meetings at the panchayat and ward levels to finalise the strategy and constitute farming groups required in each area. A massive planting drive will begin on May 25 and will continue for six days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kattakada-set-to-cultivate-fallow-land/article31553870.ece
11 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A smooth ride back home during the pandemic||Living one more month in Hyderabad was almost out of the question for D. Nihal and his four friends, all employees of a car servicing centre in the city. Their salaries had not been credited for a month, the lockdown in Telangana was extended till May end and they were sure that their savings would not last them long. But, with no vehicle of their own, it was hard for them to travel back to Kerala. They asked around and learned that they could hire a bus back home, if they had enough people. Facebook post One of them posted about this in a Facebook group called ‘Malayalis in Hyderabad’, asking whether there were others interested in joining them. Soon, replies began coming in, from people who had lost their jobs, others who had to get back home urgently and even a fresher who got stranded in the city, after his company shut down during the lockdown, soon after he joined it. “Since we could accommodate only 22 in a bus, due to social distancing restrictions, we added the first 22 people in two WhatsApp groups, one for those from Thrissur and another for people from Ernakulam. My friends Nigil Gangan and M.G. Satheesh coordinated with the Thrissur team, while I did with the Ernakulam team. Some of the travel agencies demanded as much as Rs. 1.75 lakh for a trip. At last, we found one for Rs. 1.25 lakh, which came to around Rs. 6,000 per head. All of us then applied together for the COVID-19 Jagratha pass to clear the Walayar check-post, with this bus number,” says Nihal. Jagratha team’s aid But, following a two-day delay in getting the passes cleared, they got in touch with the Jagratha team as well as the district administrations in Thrissur and Ernakulam. When it got approved, only half of them got the same, leading to another round of phone calls and application processes. “Both the District Collectors as well as all the officials were patient with us, despite multiple calls, and ensured that we got it all cleared. We reached the Walayar check-post at 7 p.m. on Friday. There was not much of a rush at that time and things went all smooth. The officials there told us that we would be taken to institutional quarantine centres as we had arrived from a red zone,” says Nihal. Now, 21 of them are in quarantine centres in Ernakulam and Thrissur, while one person is at Kottayam. All of them are happy with the facilities and care being provided at the centres. The only grouse was non-functioning plug points in some rooms, which was addressed the very next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-smooth-ride-back-home-during-the-pandemic/article31553855.ece
11 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM’s personal touch to Mother’s Day message||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan added a personal touch to his International Mother’s Day message on Sunday. In a Facebook post, Mr. Vijayan reminisced about his mother’s uphill struggle to provide him with education. His father had died early leaving his mother to fend for her three children. Mr. Vijayan had 14 siblings of which only three survived. He was the youngest. A teacher had urged his mother to teach Mr. Vijayan till he failed in his exams. He said he developed a taste for books by reading aloud to his mother. The reading habit and the strength he drew from his mother’s convictions formed the foundation of his political education and stood him in good stead in trying situations in life. Mr. Vijayan said Kerala was passing through an unprecedented crisis. The people have to summon the last reserves of their will to overcome the adversity. “We have our mothers as our role models. Their sacrifices guide us and offer us strength,” he said. He also uploaded a photograph of his mother on his FB account.  Mothers are our role models. Their sacrifices guide us and offer us strength.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-pens-a-personal-note-on-mothers-day/article31553836.ece
11 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||She Taxi services to run Statewide from today||She Taxi services will be available across the State from Monday. An off-campus initiative of the Gender Park under the Social Justice and Women and Child Development Department, the service will be available to all, without any gender discrimination, Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja was quoted in a statement. The services will begin in association with the Gender Park, She Taxi Owners’ and Drivers’ Federation, and Global Track Technologies. Executive cab services are also being provided to employees of firms in Technopark and Infopark. However, with other vehicles becoming available, relaxations announced during the lockdown will not available any more. To avail the She Taxi service, contact the 24x7 call centre numbers 7306701400 and 7306701200 or download the She Taxi app. Women interested in joining the She Taxi scheme can register onhttp://www.myshetaxi.in/ myshetaxi.inor the app ‘shetaxi driver.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/she-taxi-services-to-run-statewide-from-today/article31553840.ece
11 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Teachers’ training online from Thursday||As the General Education Department gears up to start the new academic year observing the lockdown norms, steps are under way to equip teachers to realise the goal of ‘golden academic year.’ As part of this, teachers’ training will start online and through KITE Victers channel on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-training-online-from-thursday/article31553869.ece
11 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Agribusiness to offer new opportunities post-COVID||With all its downsides, COVID-19 may also create new opportunities in agriculture and allied sectors. Thanks to lockdown restrictions, people may be impelled to minimise dependence on other States, resulting in a paradigm shift towards the agribusiness sector. “The production of animal protein sources like milk, egg, meat, and meat products has emerged as a potential means to address food security issues and protein malnutrition. Policies and programmes in the sector will be the thrust areas post-COVID-19. A lot of entrepreneurship opportunities exist in this sector,” says B. Sunil, professor and head, Meat Technology Centre, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU). According to the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), 30% of agriculture enterprises are making profit, 35% at break even level, and the remaining 35% are making losses. By 2022, of the total retail market in the country, food retail may occupy 70% of the market. It implies that there will be huge demand for ready-to-eat and ready-to-cook products. The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector, which has been badly affected by the COVID-19 crisis, is making an effort to promote agribusiness and the agri-industrial sector. But they need location specificity and market-centred production strategies. Appropriate market linkage is necessary to make agricultural operations viable and sustainable. Moreover, it requires good agricultural practices, technology, and micro irrigation methods, says Dr. T.P. Sethumadhavan, former KVASU Director. Agribusiness can be developed through farmer-producer organisations (FPO) and farmer-producer companies (FPC). It envisages providing services supporting producers or farmers in cultivation and post-harvest activities. Kerala has nearly 120 NABARD-supported FPOs. The Union government announced 10,000 FPOs for 2020-21. Kerala could explore this opportunity by establishing at least 400 FPOs in the current financial year, according to experts in the sector. Food security should be the focus in the post-COVID-19 scenario, says Varghese Tharakan, a jackfruit farmer from Kurumalkunnu. “‘One jack fruit each house’ should be our motto. Jackfruit has a huge market in the country and abroad,” he notes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agribusiness-to-offer-new-opportunities-post-covid/article31553824.ece
11 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Care home residents contribute to CMDRF||They have not seen the outside world for years. Many of them are bedridden. But they do have huge hearts with lots of love. Residents of Pope John Paul Peace Home, Peringandoor, donated Rs. 15,150 they earned by selling Christmas stars, greeting cards, and rosaries to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). Johny, one of the residents, handed over the money to Minister for Local Self-Governance A.C. Moideen. The charity institution, under the Thrissur Archdiocese, has around 300 bedridden patients. The Minister also visited the Pope John Paul Mercy Home, another institution under the same management, where special children are sheltered. The Children handed over masks made by them to the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/care-home-residents-contribute-to-cmdrf/article31553823.ece
11 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Mobile hospital launched||A mobile hospital that provides COVID-19 screening and medial support has begun functioning in Thrissur. Peace Valley and Aster Volunteers are jointly providing the service with special permission from the district administration. The mobile hospital will have two doctors, nurses, lab technician, care facilitator and volunteers. People’s Foundation under the Thrissur Inter Agency will organise medical camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mobile-hospital-launched/article31553822.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Desolate stretch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/desolate-stretch/article31553843.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No room for Corona||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-room-for-corona/article31553830.ece
11 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lack of coordination forces migrants to return to Anantapur||In a total failure of coordination between officials of Anantapur, Kurnool districts and the Indian Railways, migrant labourers from these two districts were forced to return to the places from where they were grouped to be sent to Indore and Gwalior from the Ongole railway station in a train on Sunday. Seven APSRTC buses from Gooty and Guntakal in Anantapur district and three RTC buses from Kurnool district were flagged off on Sunday morning by assembling all the migrant labourers bound for Madhya Pradesh, when the district officials got information that the train would leave Ongole station in the evening. For reasons not known till Sunday night, the train was cancelled and all the migrant labourers were asked to be ferried back to their respective places in these two districts. The district officials meanwhile, tried to prevail upon the Prakasam district officials to temporarily house these near 400 migrant labourers somewhere near Ongole, so that they could take the next scheduled train, but since Prakasam district officers could not give that assurance, they were asked to be brought back after tiring journey of 16 hours both ways put together. APSRTC officials, meanwhile, were asked to find out the possibility of taking those migrant labourers directly to Indore and Gwalior in those buses, but since there was no official communication on who should bear the near Rs. 6 lakh fare for such an operation, even that possibility did not fructify. However, the APSRTC flagged off six buses to Odisha carrying 170 passengers from Prasanthi Nilayam in Puttaparthi on Sunday. The Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust paid the to and fro fare for the students, devotees of Sathya Sai Baba and others from Odisha stranded in the district and one bus each travelled to Bhawanipatna, Bhanjanagar, Bhubaneswar, Anandapur (Keonjhar district), Baripada and Rourkela. The RTC also ran paid services to Chennai, Ooty and Tirunelveli on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lack-of-coordination-forces-migrants-to-return-to-anantapur/article31553515.ece
11 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus spreads to new areas in Anantapur dist.||The virus spread to new areas in Anantapur district with five new positive cases getting reported on Sunday. The total number of coronavirus cases went up to 134 (including 27 shown in ‘Others’ category), with 43 of them getting discharged and seven deaths. Out of the fresh cases, one each was reported from Dharmavaram, Kadiri and two from Uravakonda and one was recorded in Hindupur. Four persons were getting treated in the State COVID hospitals and 54 in Anantapur district. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu on Sunday held a meeting with all the nodal officers of COVID-19 at the camp office and instructed them to implement the containment measures in the best possible way to stop the spread of the virus to other areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-spreads-to-new-areas-in-anantapur-dist/article31553516.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka govt. decision catches travellers off guard||The government’s sudden decision to implement mandatory institutional quarantine for those entering Karnataka from five high-risk States, including Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, on Sunday evening caught travellers off guard. There was a long line of vehicles at the State’s border with Tamil Nadu, as many were not prepared to go for a 14-day institutional quarantine and were confused whether to go back or go into quarantine. No pile-up While the checkpoints at the Karnataka-Maharashtra border also implemented the norm, there was no pile-up of vehicles there. Many were seen requesting officials for option to be in home quarantine. While asymptomatic people from other States are given that option, those from the five States categorised as high risk by the Ministry of Home Affairs — Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Delhi — have to go into institutional quarantine, even if asymptomatic. CM chairs meeting The decision to implement the May 7 guidelines was taken at a meeting of senior Ministers, chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, on Sunday. This, in the light of several COVID-19 positive cases being reported in the State in the past few days having a travel history of Rajasthan, Maharashtra, and Gujarat. In less than an hour after the meeting, the Karnataka police sealed the Attibele checkpost, a point of entry into the State from Tamil Nadu. Travellers were either asked to return to Tamil Nadu or were taken to institutional quarantine and not allowed to enter Bengaluru, the destination of most of them. Shanta (name changed), a Bengalurean studying in Chennai, was one of those stranded at the border. Her parents reached Chennai from Bengaluru on Sunday morning to fetch her back home. However, as they were returning to the city the same evening, the Karnataka police refused to let them in unless they agreed for institutional quarantine. “We have valid travel passes issued by both Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. My parents came to Chennai without any hurdles this morning and within hours the rules have changed catching us off guard,” she told The Hindu.  “We will allow only those from Tamil Nadu who are prepared to get into institutional quarantine, which many are not willing. They can go back to Tamil Nadu and return once the norms are relaxed,” said Ravi B. Chennannavar, Superintendent of Police, Bengaluru Rural district. There is a strict vigil at Attibele check-post, where medical tests were being conducted to categorise patients as symptomatic and asymptomatic. While symptomatic patients would be hospitalised, asymptomatic patients were being quarantined at private hotels nearby, senior police officials manning the check-post said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-govt-decision-catches-travellers-off-guard/article31553489.ece
11 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Staff of hospital run by B.R. Shetty’s firm allege they were told to resign||After businessman Bhavaguttu Raghuram Shetty (B.R Shetty), the founder of NMC Health in the UAE, was accused of flouting corporate governance rules, a city-based hospital which until recently was run by BR Life is allegedly in a fix. BR Life is a company owned by Mr. Shetty which also has hospitals in Udupi, Bhubaneswar, and Thiruvananthapuram. SSNMC Super Speciality Hospital, located at Rajarajeshwarinagar, was run by BR Life with other stakeholders. After the scam in the UAE came to light, employees — many of whom were senior management members — allege many staffers who were part of the corporate office and the hospital were told to resign. Some senior managers pegged the number at least a 100. One of the employees told The Hindu that they were left in the lurch. “Last week we were given oral instructions by BR Life to put in our papers. We were told that the company would clear our dues and pay for our notice period. Now, we are not even sure if we will get our dues,” he said. He said that many of the employees had EMIs and other financial commitments. “The situation in our industry is already bad owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. After the lockdown, we don’t know when we will be able to find new jobs,” the employee said on the condition of anonymity. Many doctors too who were appointed as staff of the hospital have reportedly been told that they would now get paid for the service they provide. Another employee of BR Life said the company did not issue orders in writing as the State government had ordered that none of the employers can sack their employees. Several senior management members of the hospital that The Hindu spoke to said they were not longer associated with the company. Shamanur Mallikarjun, former MLA who is also the joint secretary of Bapuji Education Association, said they were in the process of sorting out all the issues. “The hospital will continue to function and will be reopened again. We had given the hospital on lease and now we will take over the entire hospital,” he said. Udupi-born and UAE-based billionaire businessman Mr. Shetty has been in the centre of the controversy over allegations of misappropriation of money and other fraudulent practices at NMC Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/staff-of-hospital-run-by-br-shettys-firm-allege-they-were-told-to-resign/article31553503.ece
11 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor reports 11 new cases with Koyambedu link||Chittoor district on Sunday registered 11 new COVID-19 positive cases, linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, taking the total cases to 112. The new cases had emerged in the rural side of V. Kota, Ramasamudram, Madanapalle, Mulakalacheruvu, Nagari, Vijayapuram and Pichatur mandals. District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta told the media here that in view of the sharp increase in cases, the inter-State borders at Gandrajupalle, NR Peta and Cheekalabailu were under strict surveillance. Collection of samples for testing was intensified in all the mandals which registered new cases. “So far, 250 persons with Koyambedu links were identified, of which 26 had turned positive to the virus,” he said. Referring to the migrant workers setting out on foot for their destinations in other States, the Collector said that voluntary groups and the personnel on COVID-19 duties should provide them with food and shelter at the special camps. He said that the district administration was in touch with the railway authorities regarding special trains to the North for the migrant workers. Instructions were issued to all the Arogyasri network hospitals to collect samples from vulnerable sections with possible links to Koyambedu, including drivers, cleaners and hamalis. Contacts’ identification SP S. Senthil Kumar said that teams were formed to identify the prime contacts with Koyambedu market. The personnel in the red zones were instructed to contain public movement between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. “The vehicles of the violators would be seized and released only after the lockdown is lifted. Criminal cases would be registered against the violators,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-reports-11-new-cases-with-koyambedu-link/article31553519.ece
11 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two youth killed in fuel tank blast in Kuppam||Two youth working as welders died on the spot when the gas fuel tank of a crane which is usually used in stone quarries exploded near a mechanic shop at Thambuganipalle in Kuppam mandal on Sunday morning. Four injured Four people were also injured, of which the condition of two is stated to be critical. According to Kuppam police, the two deceased have been identified as Azas and Afsar from Ragimanupenta village. The crane was brought to the mechanic shop for some welding works. “The youth were working beneath the crane when the fuel tank exploded. Under the impact, the youth died on the spot. The crane and half a dozen two-wheelers parked in the surrounding area were also damaged,” the police said. The Kuppam police rushed to the spot and shifted the bodies to area hospital for autopsy. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-youth-killed-in-fuel-tank-blast-in-kuppam/article31553947.ece
11 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plasma therapy trials from today||The much-anticipated convalescent plasma therapy clinical trials for COVID-19 patients at Gandhi Hospital will start from Monday. Doctors at the hospital will start collecting plasma from donors who had recovered from coronavirus. Superintendent of the hospital and principal investigator of the clinical trials M. Raja Rao said that currently around 15 people, who have recovered, are ready to donate their plasma. He said that the donors wanted to express their gratitude to doctors for curing them and this was a way of expressing it. However, right now, the number of people who will receive the plasma cannot be stated with certainty, as it is a dynamic number, Dr. Rao said on Sunday. He added that there were certain parameters to select recipients, such as, the patient should be suffering from moderate to severe form of infection. Those with mild or very severe infection cannot be part of the clinical trials, he said. “A patient, whose condition is severe, can turn very severe, any time. So we cannot say the number of recipients. Before selecting the recipient, we check their oxygen saturation levels, condition of their heart, lungs, kidneys, liver and other parts. Only those who meet all parameters will be selected,” Dr. Rao said. Plasma collected from patients who recovered from the infectious disease would contain antibodies that neutralises coronavirus. It is expected that the mortality rate might come down when plasma filled with neutralising antibodies are infused into critically-ill patients. However, its effectiveness as a treatment option for COVID-19 is yet to be proved. As there is no vaccine to treat the disease yet, convalescent plasma therapy is being considered as an option. The therapy dates back to more than a century when it was used in the treatment of H1N1 influenza in 1918. Meanwhile, Gandhi Hospital doctors said that they would follow Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines to conduct the clinical trials. Donors too have to meet a certain criteria, which includes being more than over 18 years and above 55 kg. Their blood pressure should be normal. Before taking their blood to extract plasma, tests will be conducted to know if they have any other infection or disease. Head of General Medicine department and co-investigator A. Vinay Sekhar said that plasma collected would be stored in a refrigerator below minus 40 degrees. “It can be stored up to 12 months,” Dr. Sekhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plasma-therapy-trials-from-today/article31553783.ece
11 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seer’s disciple passes away||Andhra Kanchi Maha Samsthanam president Chandrabatla Ganapathi Sastry (70) passed away on the midnight of Saturday at his residence in Samalkota in East Godavari district. Recently, he had undergone surgery for heart related problems and reached Samalkota on March 2.  Ganapathi Sastry, the disciple of Kanchi seer Jayendra Saraswathi, is a renowned astrologer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seers-disciple-passes-away/article31553969.ece
11 May 2020||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three migrants injured in accident||Three migrants had a miraculous escape after a lorry, in which they were travelling, hit another lorry on the national highway near Murari village under Gandepalli police limits in East Godavari district on Sunday. On Saturday, four migrants have boarded the lorry in Guntur to reach their destination in Srikakulam district. All of them sat in the driver cabin.   The police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-migrants-injured-in-accident/article31553968.ece
11 May 2020||KHAMMAM/,ANDHRA PRADESH||People from A.P. cross inter-State border for ‘cheap’ liquor||The relatively cheap prices and choicest brands of liquor in the State compared to Andhra Pradesh appears to be drawing hordes of boozers from neighbouring State to the liquor outlets in the border mandals of the old undivided Khammam district. The geographical proximity of Telangana's erstwhile composite Khammam district with AP’s Krishna, East and West Godavari districts is proving to be advantageous for tipplers from the adjoining State to buy the liquor of their choice at a comparatively lesser price. Most of them are making their way into the district through various small and kutcha roads running along the agricultural fields and canals in the rural hinterland to circumvent the checkpoints on the inter-State highways, sources said. As many as four mandals - Madhira, Yerrupalem, Sattupalli and Nelakondapalli in Khammam district and an equal number of mandals - Bhadrachalam, Aswaraopeta, Burgampadu and Dammapeta mandals in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district share a long border with AP. Despite the strict vigil along the inter-State borders in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, tipplers are gaining entry into Bhadrachalam town from AP's Yetapaka revenue divisional headquarters, which is located within two km distance from Telangana's famous temple town popularly known as Bhadradri, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-from-ap-cross-inter-state-border-for-cheap-liquor/article31553945.ece
11 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC okays lockdown restrictions||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Sunday approved of various guidelines and restrictions, including the passes for travels issued by the State and Centre governments, holding that the attempts of the governments were to contain the spread of pandemic and to protect the interest of the general public and the nation as a whole. The Bench comprising Justice Shaji P. Chaly and Justice M.R. Anitha, while passing directives on the pleas of persons stranded at Walayar, observed that “it cannot be said that the restrictive orders and advisories issued are in any manner unreasonable so as to interfere with the fundamental rights enjoyed by the citizens. Looking at that angle it cannot be said that the action of the State officials not permitting the interstate movement of the people in question is illegal.” State has the right The court further observed that the State was at liberty to impose reasonable restrictions under clause (5) of Article 19 of the Constitution and every citizen had the freedom to travel which is a right protected under Article 21 of the Constitution irrespective of the territory of India and the State boundaries. But, “the present meticulous and stringent restrictions imposed on crossing the borders of State have occurred due to the outbreak of COVID-19,” the court said. Containment measure When the petition came up for hearing, Additional Advocate General Ranjith Thampan submitted that if the restrictions and the guidelines of the State government and any periodical advisory issued by the Central government were not adhered to strictly, the containment of the pandemic would be impossible. The regulation of persons at check-posts through entry passes was not aimed at denying entry to any person. But it was to safeguard those who were already inside State as well as those coming to the State. The success in the COVID-19 containment and cure achieved by the State so far could not be allowed to be downgraded, he said. The court noted that there were clear parameters provided in the guidelines that a person securing a pass from the host government could start his/her travel only after receiving the travel permit from the Kerala government and the local authority of the person’s location to avoid any problem during travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-okays-lockdown-restrictions/article31553490.ece
11 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central team members suggest change of containment strategy in Kurnool||The Central team from the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, Kolkata, has asked the Kurnool district administration to change its strategy on COVID-19 containment and bring it under control as early as possible. After a meeting here on Sunday with the frontline officials engaged in the fight against COVID-19, AIIH&PH Director Madhumita Dobe and institute professor Sanjay Kumar Sadhukhan while appreciating the efforts of the administration, asked the officials to find ways to increase the number of samples being tested, early tracing of primary and secondary contacts, isolation and quarantining of suspected cases. COVID-19 cases showed a rise on Sunday after a couple of days of lull. Thirteen new cases took the total to 566 in the district. Twenty-eight patients were discharged taking the total number of the recovered to 267 leaving the active cases being treated in the hospitals at 283, according to District Collector G. Veerapandian. Mr. Sadhukhan said lockdown could not be continued indefinitely and living with the coronavirus would become the new normal and wanted people to adopt all the precautionary measures as part of their daily life. Upgrading of skills Ms. Madhumita wanted the district administration to concentrate on improving the skills of the staff handling COVID patients and focus on getting more human resources prepared for a bigger challenge if needed in future. The Collector said there were 20 surveillance teams for tracing of contacts and it was done meticulously identifying the primary and secondary contacts of all the foreign returned, Delhi returned and K.M. Hospital cases and collected 17,399 samples from them for testing in RT-PCR, CLIA, Rapid Test, and TrueNAT methods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/central-team-members-suggest-change-of-containment-strategy-in-kurnool/article31553950.ece
11 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 children drown in irrigation tank||Three children drowned in an irrigation tank at Belum Singavaram in Kolimigundla mandal in the district on Sunday. Two brothers Lokesh(8) and Vamsi(7), along with their cousin Asmin(7), went to the tank, Chinnavanka, for swimming where they got stuck in the mud in the tank bed leading to their death, Koilakunta Circle Inspector Subbarayudu said. The brothers hailing from Banaganapalli and the girl from Pyapili had come to their grandparents’ house here on Friday. While the family members were away in the agriculture fields, the trio jumped into the water, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-children-drown-in-irrigation-tank/article31553520.ece
11 May 2020||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Storage position in major reservoirs comfortable||The storage position in major reservoirs across south Karnataka is comfortable and is higher than in the last five years for the first week of May. With the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting a normal monsoon and its timely onset in June, the region will not be affected by drinking water scarcity this year. Unprecedented rain and back-to-back floods in 2019 and 2018 ensured copious inflow to the reservoirs, which otherwise would have approached the dead-storage level by now. The water level at Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS), as on Saturday, was 96.58 ft. against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 124.80 ft. The water level on the same day last year was 82.69 ft. The live storage, which is the quantum of usable water, as on Saturday, was 15.85 thousand million cubic (TMC) feet, while it was 7.62 tmcft on the same day last year. This is almost twice the quantum of water available in 2019. Similarly, the storage in KRS as on May 9 was 7.54 tmcft in 2018, 7.33 tmcft in 2017, and 10.58 tmcft in 2016, as per the records of the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). The storage position at Hemavati, the other major feeder for the KRS, is also comfortable. The water level was 2,893.37 ft. against the FRL of 2,922 ft. and the live storage was 14.61 tmcft as against 3.67 tmcft on the same day last year. The live storage during the corresponding period in 2018 was 4.55 tmcft, 2.68 tmcft in 2017, and 4.66 tmcft in 2016. Though a bulk of the stored water is normally used for early kharif crops, the KSNDMC rainfall and weather analysis for the State indicates that pre-monsoon showers have been widespread. Hence the dependence on reservoirs for standing crops will be relatively less and agriculture will be under rain-fed conditions which will help the dams maintain the storage levels. The pre-monsoon rain for South Karnataka is 18%, which is above normal for the period from March 1, 2020, to May 7, 2020. Against a normal of 67 mm, the region received 79 mm of rainfall. The district-wise rainfall for April was also uniform and widespread and near normal across the region. Mysuru received 65 mm for April which is 5% higher than normal while Chamarajanagar district received 79 mm, which is 18% above normal. Only Chikkmagaluru has received deficient rains — 40 mm — in April which is 32% below normal, while Hassan received 54% which is near normal for April. Across the State, 15 districts have received excess rains from March 1 to May 7 this year. While 13 districts received normal rainfall, two districts — Haveri and Shivamogga — received deficient rain, as per the KSNDMC statistics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/storage-position-in-major-reservoirs-comfortable/article31553497.ece
11 May 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore sees resurgence of COVID cases||After a brief lull, the number of confirmed cases rose to 101 as five more persons tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours in Nellore on Sunday. All of them reportedly had links with wholesale traders from Koyambedu market in Chennai. With this, the number of active cases in Nellore rose to 36. The containment action plan was implemented around the A.C.Subba Reddy wholesale vegetable market. Some truck drivers bringing vegetables from Chennai had reportedly spread the disease. Traders and their family members were subjected to testing. In the light of the emerging cases having a connection with Koyambedu, all vehicles carrying essential commodities from Tamil Nadu were stopped along the inter-State border at Tada. The district administration worked out on an alternative for supply of essential commodities from the VRC centre from tomorrow. Ongole reports 2 cases In Prakasam district, two more(both from Ongole) contracted the infection taking the total number of confirmed cases to 63 during the same period. Cluster containment strategy was unveiled in Gopal nagar as also Indiramma colony from where the infected persons hailed from.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-sees-resurgence-of-covid-cases/article31553522.ece
11 May 2020||Staff reporter VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak: all trains passing through Vizag diverted||The Indian Railways has diverted all the Shramik Special and good trains passing through Visakhapatnam owing to the gas leak incident occurred at LG Polymers, claiming 12 lives and hospitalising more than 500 people. Instructions have been issued to the railways authorities to divert the Shramik Special and goods trains proceeding towards Odisha via Visakhapatnam , said Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas. “We have operated more than ten Shramik Special trains towards Odisha in the last four days, and the trains have been diverted via Kondapalli and Ballarshah route,” the DRM said. A few goods trains passed through Rajamahendravaram, Tuni, Samalkot stations for two days after the disaster. On Friday night, the crew while passing Visakhapatnam developed vomiting and fell sick. Services resumed through Duvvada “Immediately, we stopped all the goods trains proceeding towards East Coast Division en route and diverted them. No train will be allowed on Visakhapatnam route until further orders,” Mr. Srinivas told The Hindu .  Railway officials resumed goods and parcel traffic through Duvvada and Simhachalam North after two days of the incident as the situation returned normal on Sunday. Cleaning of Shramik Special trains were being done after the gas leak incident and catering arrangements were made for passengers travelling on diverted routes, the DRM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gas-leak-all-trains-passing-through-vizag-diverted/article31553962.ece
11 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala govt. eases quarantine norms||The government has decided to allow Keralites returning home to undergo home quarantine rather than institutional quarantine, provided they do not have any symptoms. The guidelines for observing home quarantine were issued late on Sunday. The government has decided to make this concession following the recommendations of the expert group headed by B. Ekbal. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday the decision to send non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) on home quarantine had been taken as Kerala had proven that home quarantine could be implemented effectively, with the active cooperation of local bodies and people. The decision was also occasioned by the fact that the State could be overwhelmed, given the huge number of people waiting to get home from abroad as well as from the rest of the country. Check-up Those coming from other States will undergo a medical check-up upon arrival. If they do not have any symptoms, they will be sent on home quarantine for 14 days. Those found to be having any kind of symptoms will be made to undergo the PCR test and then sent to the COVID care hospitals. If those in home quarantine develop any symptoms, they will be tested and further medical care will be made available. Symptomatic cases Only those with symptoms will be tested using the PCR. The government was trying to get antibody kits which would be utilised as and when these become available. All pregnant women who came on flights these past two days have been allowed to go on home quarantine. However, if they require any kind of medical attention, they cannot just opt for the hospital of their choice. They will have to first get in touch with the Health department’s control room and proceed as per their advice. Kerala’s priority is to ensure that the low disease transmission is not upset.  Kerala has proven that home quarantine can be implemented effectively Pinarayi Vijayan Kerala Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-govt-eases-quarantine-norms/article31553502.ece
11 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tying up with Todas to keep the virus at bay||As the COVID-19 outbreak continues to sweep across the country, a small corner of India has come forward to use its traditional skills to help people ward off the infection. More than a hundred women and indigenous Toda artisans from the Nilgiris are producing thousands of stylish, embroidered masks for local residents, police, and sanitary workers. The cloth masks, are embroidered with intricate Toda designs, and sold for around Rs. 225 each. These have been a huge hit, with demand for the masks coming from Coimbatore, Chennai and New Delhi, said Mathew John from Keystone Foundation, which is using its marketing arm, Last Forest, to market them. The masks are produced by Indian Yards in Coonoor and Shalom Ooty, who are partnering with Last Forest. While Indian Yards has been empowering more than 50 local women by training them on how to stitch articles of clothing, Shalom Ooty regularly employs over 150 Toda artisans to embroider indigenous designs on bags, shawls and other items. Sheela Powell, founder of Shalom Ooty, said the idea to hand embroider designs on masks came to her as she realised that people will have to learn to incorporate masks as part of their everyday clothing for the foreseeable future. “By using the skills of the Todas to stitch the motifs, we are providing them with a stable livelihood,” said Ms. Powell.  A Toda artisan, who embroiders the motifs on masks, said she gets anywhere between Rs. 50-100 for each single piece she produces, and added that because of demand for the masks, she has found work despite the lockdown. “As there are no tourists coming into the district, there is no demand at all for Toda embroidered quilts, shawls or other clothes. But because of the demand for masks, our skills are being put to use and we get a livelihood in return,” she said. The masks have already been dispatched for sale in stores in the Nilgiris and people can also order them online from the Last Forest website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tying-up-with-todas-to-keep-the-virus-at-bay/article31553488.ece
11 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||First batch of foreign returnees arriving today||The State government has made arrangements for screening the first batch of people returning from foreign countries, including the US, on May 11 and sending them to quarantine centres soon after their landing at Visakhapatnam, Tirupati and Vijayawada airports. It has also taken steps to bring back people reaching airports in other States. In a review meeting with the officials of Health, Medical and Family Welfare and other departments concerned on Sunday, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered that the foreign returnees be provided special transportation to quarantine facilities and other necessary measures taken for providing treatment to coronavirus positive cases and keeping others under observation. Further relaxation Reviewing the status of lockdown, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said shops and commercial establishments could be opened between 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. in permitted areas subject to the guidelines laid down by the Central government. He further called upon the officials to ensure public safety, especially during inter-State transportation, post lockdown and to focus on the control measures to be taken at 11 check-posts on the borders with other States. Seeks report on gas leak Meanwhile, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy enquired about the situation in R.R. Venkatapuram and the adjoining areas in Visakhapatnam city whose residents were affected by the styrene gas leak at LG Polymers plant a few days ago. He sought a report on the treatment being given to those who fell seriously ill after inhaling the poisonous gas. Officials informed the Chief Minister that the company had initiated steps required to prevent any problem. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also instructed the officials to allow the residents to return to their villages only after ruling out the possibility of any further leak of toxic gases from the plant.  Officials have been instructed to ensure public safety, especially during inter-State transportation post lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-batch-of-foreign-returnees-arriving-today/article31553957.ece
11 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay for a ‘ritzy’ quarantine||With the Centre arranging special flights to bring back the Indians stranded abroad, the State machinery has undertaken the Herculean task of finding suitable places that can be converted into quarantine centres for isolating the close to 20,000-odd ‘lockdown’ returnees. Since the number is very high and the government alone cannot set up free quarantine centres for all, it will offer ‘paid’ quarantine as an option. The move is also an attempt to address complaints about bad hygienic conditions at a few quarantine centres. The district administration has asked some of the local hoteliers here to prepare their hotel rooms as quarantine facilities to accommodate people expected to return in the coming days. Tariff chart The hotels are put in three categories of normal, medium and luxury with a tariff of Rs. 2,000, Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 3,500 respectively per day per person, inclusive of breakfast, lunch and dinner. The first round of discussions saw seven hoteliers offering services in the first category-hotel M5, Manorama, Swarna Palace, Indra Prastha, Alankar Inn, Growwin and Oyo Rooms. In the second category, hotel Metropolitan, Red Fox and Kiran’s Pride have come forward and among luxury hotels, Taj Gateway, Fortunue Murali and D.V. Manor will lend their rooms. Not all hotels have the infrastructure to contribute their mite as many of them had been shut down immediately after the lockdown was announced with the staff and workers heading for their homes. The star hotels and a few others have been running their properties with minimum staff for maintenance of the place.  Testing mandatory From the Gannavaram airport, people will be brought to the COVID-19 Control Centre and those testing positive will be shifted to a hospital in an ambulance while others will head to the ‘government’ and ‘private’ quarantine centres for mandatory isolation of 14 days. “A small part of our hotel will turn into a quarantine centre with a doctor, a nurse and a police person monitoring the situation round the clock. The area will be sanitised and everybody in the vicinity will avoid direct contact with the ‘returnees’,” said the General Manager of a star hotel who was part of the Sunday’s meeting. Three uniform sets of menus have been designed for the three categories and the ‘guests’ will not be allowed to move around as part of the social distancing norms, he said. State nodal officer Srikanth Arja said the first flight from the U.S. will land in Hyderabad on Monday. People coming to A.P. will be quarantined in Vijayawada city, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-for-a-ritzy-quarantine/article31553954.ece
11 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A gift of motherhood on Mother’s Day||More than 1,000 women gave birth in the State on the Mother’s Day on Sunday, and all of them were doing well, officials of the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department said. “Anganwadi workers and helpers, along with ward volunteers, Mahila Samrakshana staff, ASHA workers, ANMs, ICDS, and ICPS staff attended to more than 90% of the deliveries during the COVID-19 crisis. I appreciate them all for helping the women have a safe delivery,” Krithika Shukla, WD&CW Director, said. “Despite lockdown , the anganwadi workers made door-to-door visits, supplied nutritious food to the pregnant women, and helped them have a safe delivery,” she said. While this is so, 75,000 deliveries have been registered in the State during the 47-day lockdown period. All the mothers and their newborns are safe. “As many as 80,000 pregnant women were expected to give birth between March 23 and May 10 in the State, and 95% of them delivered as per the schedule. The anganwadi workers kept the medicines and kits ready in advance to assist the pregnant women ,” said ICDS Joint Director R. Shiva Parvathi. Significantly, hundreds of migrant women who were in shelter homes delivered. “There are 55,607 anganwadis in the State, 6,800 of them in Agency areas. In all, 53,799 workers are extending their services to lakhs of pregnant and lactating women, and children (below 0-6 years),” Ms. Krithika Shukla said. Nutritious diet The anganwadi staff conducted awareness programmes on the immunisation and child feeding practices, besides distributing nutritious food under the Poshan Abhiyaan and the Pradhan Mantri Matritva Vandana Yojana (PMMVY), Ms. Parvathi said. “At a time when private hospitals and maternity homes are closed due to the pandemic, anganwadi worker P. Bhagya Lakshmi came as a goddess, and helped me have a safe delivery,” said G. Naga Malleswari of Guntupalli village in Krishna district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-gift-of-motherhood-on-mothers-day/article31553961.ece
11 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM discusses ST quota for teacher posts||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday discussed the fallout of the striking down of the GO 3 by the Supreme Court, with Advocate General S. Sriram. Through the GO issued by the government of the unified Andhra Pradesh, it had been contemplated to provide 100% quota to teachers belonging to ST category in schools in the scheduled areas. The apex court declared it unconstitutional. Deputy CM and Minister for Tribal Welfare P. Pushpa Sreevani has recently expressed her reservations on the Supreme Court judgment to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who then asked the Advocate General to take necessary steps to protect the interests of STs in the appointment of the qualified ones as teachers in the scheduled areas subject to the apex court’s directions. Consultation with TS The Chief Minister also stressed the need for consulting the Telangana government before taking a stand as the said GO would have consequences for both A.P. and Telangana as it was issued in in January 2000, long before the bifurcation. The Supreme Court objected to exceeding of the 50% ceiling on quotas by citing the landmark judgment in Indra Sawhney V/s Union of India case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-discusses-st-quota-for-teacher-posts/article31553955.ece
11 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||27 IAS, other officers shuffled||The government has transferred and posted 27 IAS officers in senior time scale and State Civil Service and Non-State Civil Service officers as ‘Joint Collectors - Rythu Bharosa and Revenue, Village and Ward Secretariats and Development and Aasara and Welfare’ as part of restructuring of the organisational structure of district administration , the G.O. 809 issued by Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney said. The GO said the government’s priority was to provide responsive and accountable governance in a corruption-free environment while focusing on the welfare of all sections of society. For this, it had effected the reshuffle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/27-ias-other-officers-shuffled/article31553958.ece
11 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire breaks out in furniture shop||Fire broke out in a furniture shop near Kedareswarapeta Fruit Market on Sunday. However, no casualties were reported. Krishna District Fire Officer M. Srinivas Reddy said the furniture at the shop was gutted in the incident. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the DFO added. About 30 personnel of the A.P. State Disaster Response and Fire Services department rushed to the spot and extinguished flames.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-breaks-out-in-furniture-shop/article31553525.ece
11 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disclose revenue made from liquor sale: Yanamala||Senior TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has demanded that the State government disclose the details of the income generated from the sale of liquor. In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Ramakrishnudu sought to know why the government kept the revenue details secret . The government asserted that the number of shops was brought down by 13%, but it was deliberately hiding the revenue figures, he said. Citing a survey, the former Finance Minister said that of the total people consuming liquor in the State, only 7.5% belonged to affluent families while 80% were BCs, Dalits and tribal people. With the steep rise in liquor prices, a large section of the society were impacted, he said. COVID-19 cases Referring to the COVID-19, Mr. Ramakrishunudu said positive cases were rising alarmingly. “A.P. has climbed to the 4th position in India in terms of total infections due to miserable failure of the government. A.P. tops the South India with regard to coronavirus deaths and is in 7th position in the country,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disclose-revenue-made-from-liquor-sale-yanamala/article31553953.ece
11 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police personnel lock houses at Venkatapuram to prevent thefts||In order to prevent thefts, the city police have locked around 300 houses in RR Venkatapuram and its surrounding areas from where the residents had fled to protect their lives leaving their homes unlocked following the gas leak at LG Polymers. The residents had breathing issues as a thick fog engulfed the area, causing irritation in their eyes. In order to save themselves, they just ran carrying their children. Taking note of this, police arranged locks for the houses left open in RR Venkatapuram, Venkatadrinagar, SC Colony, BC Colony, Vuda Colony, Tailors Colony, Ajantha Park, Nandamuri Nagar, Janatha Colony, Padmanabha Nagar, Kamparapalem and Ganesh Colony. “Most of the families have lost their mental peace and happiness due to the gas leak. We wanted to make sure that they are not financially affected now due to thefts (property loss). So, following instructions from Commissioner of Police R.K Meena, we purchased over 300 locks and locked all houses left open by the residents who fled,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police (Crimes) Ch. Penta Rao. Burden eases Mr. Penta Rao said earlier they had to deploy nearly 20 beat police teams at RR Venkatapuram and surrounding areas where people evacuated houses under Gopalapatnam limits. “After locking the houses, we are now able to reduce the teams. At present, 17 beat police teams are going in day and night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-personnel-lock-houses-at-venkatapuram-to-prevent-thefts/article31553975.ece
11 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home guard ‘tests positive’||A woman police home guard deputed at Maharanipeta police station has tested COVID-19 positive here on Sunday. However it is yet to be ascertained in the State health bulletin most likely on May 11. If it is confirmed, this would be first case of a police personnel testing COVID-19 positive in the district. According to officials from the Health Department, the woman hails from Chodavaram and a resident of Kobbarithota area. On May 6, her samples were collected. “The HG who does tapal duty was deputed to Maharanipeta police station in January. For the past 15 to 20 days, she was on leave. On May 6, when she resumed duty, she complained of some health issues and tests were conducted,” a senior police officer said. The Health Department officials are yet to ascertain how did the HG contract virus. However primary contacts of the woman were sent to isolation.  One more case One more COVID-19 positive case has been reported in the city taking the total to 63, as per the State health bulletin released on Sunday. The total number of active cases in the district are now 37. Meanwhile, the total number of discharged patients will be 25 as two more patients were discharged from GIMSR after their reports resulted negative. According to the officials from the Health Department, the new case has been reported from Dandu bazaar area of Maharanipeta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-guard-tests-positive/article31553979.ece
11 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak: 14 children discharged from KGH||Fourteen children, who were undergoing treatment at the Paediatrics Ward of King George Hospital (KGH) for the LG Polymers styrene gas leakage, were discharged on Sunday. District Medical and Health Officer S. Tirupathi Rao, who came to see the condition of the children, said that all the children were responding well to the treatment and were recovering. The number of gas leak-affected children, undergoing treatment at the hospital, now stands at around 38. He said that no other children would be discharged as the State government has given directions on assessing the short and long-term effects due to the inhalation of styrene gas. “The main complaints of the children include: burning of the eyes, breathing problems, vomiting sensation, dizziness and effect on the central nervous system. A committee of experts will meet to give their opinions on the long-term effects. We are listing out the details of those undergoing treatment at hospitals and those affected living in the villages surrounding the LG Polymers plant as constant monitoring of their progress is needed,” Dr. Tirupathi Rao said. “There are over 300 gas leak-affected persons, including children, undergoing treatment at the KGH. This apart 165 persons were under treatment at 10 private hospitals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gas-leak-14-children-discharged-from-kgh/article31553967.ece
11 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man lodges ‘false complaint’ to claim compensation||A man allegedly lodged a false complaint claiming Rs. 20 lakh property loss in his house at RR Venkatapuram area, where the gas leak incident occurred in Visakhapatnam. According to sources, on May 8, M. Suresh, a resident of RR Venkatapuramk lodged a complaint at Gopalapatnam police station to this effect. He was one of hundreds of evacuees from the area. The Gopalapatnam police registered a case and started investigation. “Suresh admitted that as the government was giving compensations to the victims of gas leak incident, he sketched a plan that he would inform he had lost huge property in theft,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police, (Crimes) Ch. Penta Rao. The ACP said that police would initiate action against Suresh as per law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-lodges-false-complaint-to-claim-compensation/article31553976.ece
11 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navy designs and develops equipment for VIMS||The Indian Navy officers and sailors of Naval Dockyard designed and developed a solution to monitor critically ill patients admitted into Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) with COVID-19 and presented it to VIMS Director Satya Vara Prasad on Sunday. During the handing over of Portable Multifeed Oxygen Manifold by the Indian Navy to VIMS, the hospital which caters to the needs of four adjoining districts, Dr. Vara Prasad had sought a solution for remote monitoring of vital parameters of patients in the ICU to reduce the risk of transmission of the virus to health staff. A core team comprising two officers and four workers of Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam under Eastern Naval Command, expeditiously designed and implemented a solution. The audio-visual output of the bedside patient monitoring system was converted to HDMI (High-Definition Multimedia Interface) output and multiplexed for all 48 beds in the ICU through a digital video recorder and provided on a big display outside the ICUs where the staff sit. The facility includes monitoring all patients simultaneously or selecting as required including zooming with an audio alarm. Further, the same parameters through HDMI Ethernet converter have also been provided to the doctors on their mobile over the internet. The doctor can at any time from any place with internet connectivity, monitor 48 patients in ICU. The conceptualisation to final implementation was completed in a record six days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navy-designs-and-develops-equipment-for-vims/article31553981.ece
11 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Take preventive measures’||Many expressed concern over theaccident at LG Polymers Visakhapatnam factory and asked the high-committee formed by the government to finalise a policy to prevent recurrence of such incidents . During an interactive meet held by committee headed by Special Chief Secretary Neerabh Kumar Prasad, representatives from various organisations sought concrete measures to stop such incidents and initiate stringent action against the officials responsible . Solid waste researcher N. Kalidas said the Inspectorate of Factories was supposed to issue guidelines, during the lockdown period, for maintenance of boiler and storage vessels of toxic elements and arrange passes to the manpower as well as to ensure the compliance. NGO Nature founder S. Balaraju said they would start a pilot project on interventions and strategies required post-tank leakage with the support of Unicef, UNDP and the district administration. Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry honorary secretary G. Veeramohan said any facility handling hazardous material and poses risk, must impart better training to its skilled work force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-preventive-measures/article31553982.ece
11 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Situation under control, says Kannababu||District in-charge Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said that the situation at LG Polymers, where a gas leak had occurred in the early hours of Thursday, is fully under control. He said that review meetings were held twice with higher officials and the experts on Sunday and all out efforts are being made to restore normalcy in the area on a war-footing. Mr. Kannababu along with Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana and Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and VMRDA Chairman Dronamraju Srinivas addressed the media here on Sunday evening. The temperature was brought down from 98.4° Celsius to 92.6° Celsius on Sunday evening. The toxicity of the atmosphere in areas surrounding the plant has been brought down to minimal levels and efforts were on to bring it down to zero and again review the situation after 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/situation-under-control-says-kannababu/article31553970.ece
11 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 police officials receive awards||Thirty police personnel from Visakhapatnam city police and the district police received DGP’s Commendation Disc awards for the year 2019 on Saturday evening. Director General of Police Gautam Sawang gave away the awards in an event at the VMRDA Children’s Arena. Mr. Gautam Sawang appreciated the police for their response to the gas leak incident during the golden hour. He said that people from various parts of the country have been appreciating the police for their efforts in saving lives of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-police-officials-receive-awards/article31553973.ece
11 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP MLA stages protest||Visakhapatnam South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar has found fault with Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao for allegedly making remarks on the plight of gas leak victims. Addressing the media here on Sunday, he sought immediate shut down of the LG Polymers plant. Mr. Ganesh Kumar launched a one-hour silent protest. Visakhapatnam East MLA V. Ramakrishna Babu and party leaders Pappu Raja Rao, G. Venku Naidu, and others participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-mla-stages-protest/article31553972.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant workers off to Bihar by special train||Migrant workers engaged by different industries and at construction sites in the State have been growing restive for the last couple of days. Staying put in shelter homes, camps and industries for the last 45 days owing to the lockdown , the workers, who were desperate to reach their native places, recently set off on foot throwing caution to the winds, which led to the police using force to quell them. The police had resorted to mild lathi-charge at various places when the workers staged protests. Hailing from the States such as Odisha, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Assam, and West Bengal, the workers had migrated to Andhra Pradesh in search of livelihood. Lockdown blues The long lockdown period and increasing COVID-19 cases made the restive workers hit the streets demanding transport arrangements for their safe passage. Heeding their pleas, the authorities arranged a special train on Sunday to send 650 workers engaged at the Polavaram project site, 205 workers in the construction activity at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Mangalagiri, and others to Bihar. “We have tried in vain to pacify them. A few workers are homesick and are fasting, seeking that they be sent home. We made arrangements for their journey to Bihar,” an officer, who was monitoring the arrangements, said. “In all, 350 migrants working in various places in East Godavari district, 205 working at AIIMS, Mangalagiri, and 650 working at the Polavaram project site are travelling to Bihar,” said Kovvur Revenue Divisional Officer D. Lakshma Reddy. “We provided 50 buses from East Godavari, Polavaram and Guntur to enable them to reach Kovvur railway station. Drinking water, food, masks and sanitisers have been provided to them,” he said. Meanwhile, Vijayawada DRM P. Srinivas, said the Shramik Special bound for Barauni, Bihar, left Kovvur. Polavaram DSP Venkateswara Rao arranged security at the Polavaram project site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/migrant-workers-off-to-bihar-by-special-train/article31553496.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire in chemical unit triggers panic in Nellore||Close on the heels of the Visakhapatnam gas leak, a fire broke out in a chemical godown in Nellore on Sunday night, trigerring panic among the residents on Sunday night. Eye witnesses said an electric transformer exploded, causing the mishap. People ran helter skelter . Fire tenders rushed to Bodigadithota, near Mypadu gate and the flames were doused after a couple of hours. “'The situation is under control now,” said District Fire Officer K.Sreekanth who is overseeing the fire fighting operation. Irrigation Minister P.Anil Kumar Yadav allayed the fears of the people. The denizens feared that the chemical reaction caused by the fire might be fatal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-in-chemical-unit-triggers-panic-in-nellore/article31553952.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Long way to go||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/long-way-to-go/article31553500.ece
11 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Savvy migrants to quarantine themselves on reaching home||All the members of a small group of snack sellers from Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh, who are headed for home on two-wheelers, sounded sincerely resolute when they promised to quarantine themselves as per the COVID-19 protocol once they reach the district headquarter, hopefully late on Sunday or Monday. Their assurance only shows that awareness with regard to the pandemic has percolated to all the levels as intended. The group, comprising six adults, including a female and two children used to sell samosas and other snacks at Medahalli in Bengaluru, running a shop. They were in business in the capital city of Karnataka since the last dozen years when the lockdown forced them to take a break. “We thought it would be better to return home until things get normal. We purchased two used bikes in addition to the three we already had and started on Thursday,” disclosed Vinod Kumar Yadav of Dayachapra village in Ballia, about 2,100 km away from Medahalli, when the group stopped for a brief rest under a shady tree near Seetagondi on the NH44 in Adilabad district. Displaying an unusual composure for someone who is hoping to exit a difficult situation, Akhtar Ansari, another group member, revealed that they could not get even a glass of water until they reached Hyderabad outskirts. “People flatly refused to give water, apparently suspecting us to be carriers of COVID-19,” he recalled of the experience due to the stigma. Mushtaq Ansari even justified the action of people who refused water to them during their journey. “Even we understand that we cannot go home directly and put the lives of our family members in danger,” he observed. The passage of the group from Karnataka into Telangana and further into Maharashtra was a smooth affair. “If our journey is smooth until we reach our district, we will go straight to the district hospital and ask the authorities there to put us in quarantine if needed,” Mr. Yadav affirmed once again.  We thought it would be better to return home until things get normal. We purchased two used bikes in addition to the three we already had and started on Thursday. Vinod Kumar Yadav, Migrant worker from UP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/savvy-migrants-to-quarantine-themselves-on-reaching-home/article31553768.ece
11 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccine not a panacea but a potent tool, says IIPH director||While efforts to find a vaccine for COVID-19 are under way the world over, the likely availability later this year or early next year cannot by itself be construed as the last frontier in the fight against the virus, asserts G.V.S.Murthy, director of Indian Institute Public Health-Hyderabad . “Deployment and utilisation of vaccine will be the most important challenge as billion-plus individuals cannot be immunised at will,” he points out. Any vaccine before being released into the market will have to undergo stringent testing through clinical trials for safety, side-effects, effectiveness and adverse events in humans. ‘Needs stocking’ Fast-tracking is possible only in developing a vaccine but human trials have clinical and ethical issues to be carefully considered. “Such a lengthy process means the vaccine cannot be used for the present pandemic but needs to be stocked in sufficient quantity for possible future outbreaks,” observes Mr. Murthy.  COVID-19 is not going to be a ‘one season fantasy pandemic’ but will dig its heels deep enough to trouble all of us in virus transmission favourable seasons, year after year, just like influenza virus, he affirms and provides an interesting insight into its vaccine usage. In 2009, there was an outbreak of swine flu in humans from a virus infecting pigs (H1N1 strain) with India having 27,236 cases with 981 deaths; in 2010 it saw 20,604 cases with 1,763 deaths. Cases of H1N1 flu are being reported every year and except in 2016, there have been 28,798 to 42,592 cases till 2019 and between 1,218-2,990 deaths during these years. There were two peaks in 2017 with many deaths, especially in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh which are also witnessing high COVID-19 cases, explains Mr. Murthy, also professor, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine,UK. Most private facilities do not report most flu infections they see are not laboratory confirmed and hence, the numbers could be under-reported. Flu also causes significantly higher deaths among the elderly — those with co-existing conditions like diabetes and hypertension, etc.; is highly contagious with infection risk. However, unlike COVID-19, it has a known treatment and a cost-effective vaccine too. Gap in dose distribution World Health Organisation and Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization have ensured vaccine production to be ramped up to 6.4 billion doses. But, despite the pandemic in 2009 and 2010, vaccine doses distributed was only 1.1 per 100,000 population in India in 2011, though it increased more than 400% compared to 2008! Influenza vaccine has been available for more than 60 years now but the uptake has not been commensurate with the recommendation it has to be given to high-risk groups every year — healthcare workers, pregnant women, children aged six months to eight years of age and individuals with suppressed immunity. Low uptake Vaccine uptake is abysmally low at just 11% in tertiary care hospitals, even among doctors. About 1.5 million vaccine doses imported and another large quantity manufactured by Indian firms to “immediately immunise healthcare and emergency service personnel” had to be destroyed “because of lack of demand”. “It happened within a year of the pandemic surfacing and causing many deaths — higher than in the COVID-19 outbreak here till date,” the public health official asserts. So, personal hygiene like regular hand washing, covering mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing, self-isolating when sick and avoiding close contact with those who are sick — tenets since the last century — are as vital as anti-virals and vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-not-a-panacea-but-a-potent-tool-says-iiph-director/article31553765.ece
11 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR-chaired meet favours controlled farming||Stopping input support given to landholding farmers failing to cultivate the crop suggested by the State government and denying purchase of their produce at minimum support price under the price support scheme were among several suggestions made by agricultural experts to make agriculture profitable in the State by preventing cultivation of some crops. They also suggested that a system of cultivating crops suggested by the government and controlled farming practices to reduce losses in agriculture be evolved in the State not only to make agriculture remunerative but also to maximise the benefit of government interventions for the development of the farm sector. A meeting chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao attended by officials of agriculture and allied departments, agriculture university, agri-business and agriculture experts here on Sunday further advised the farming community that it would be beneficial both to them (farmers) and the government to cultivate crops suggested by agricultural scientists, experts and officials since such produce would also have the buyback facility. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, Rythu Bandhu Samithi chairman P. Rajeshwar Reddy, Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy, Vice-Chancellor of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University V. Praveen Rao and functionaries of the Civil Supplies and Seed Development Corporations and experts discussed the changes required to be brought in the farming sector in the State to make it lucrative in the coming years. Farmer education Agriculture and agri-business experts opined at the meeting that the farmers would get good returns on their produce only if they cultivated the crops which had demand in the market or the crops based on the consumption patterns of people. However, educating the farmers to shift to such a system would have to be taken up by the government so that demand and supply system was maintained properly. Apart from government guidance, awareness and self-regulation would have to be developed among farmers. In addition, the government should act tough in enforcing the system to make such a controlled farming practices successful, the experts said. They felt that Rythu Bandhu benefit and support price to the produce should be given to only those farmers who cultivated crops suggested by the government. Although the State government was purchasing all food crops with a humane approach due to the COVID-19 lockdown, such a massive-scale procurement would not be possible every year since the government was not a commercial entity, the meeting felt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-chaired-meet-favours-controlled-farming/article31553796.ece
11 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No ‘ironing’ out||With not much need for ironing clothes during lockdown, families dependent on providing laundry services are among the worst-hit. Their income mainly depends on daily or weekly laundry load for washing and ironing from mostly the white-collar workforce. These people are suddenly finding themselves without any cash in hand. “I used to iron at least 30 pairs of clothes in a day, and now people hardly come to my shop as they are not going to offices or meeting people, thanks to lockdown,” said Ramulu, who has a makeshift shop on Road No. 72 of Jubilee Hills. He migrated to the State capital from Siddipet 10 years ago in search of a livelihood and is now worried as he was unable to make money to feed his family. “For the last three weeks I managed to get food for my wife and two children, but now things are getting worse. I have no money and don’t remember the ration card number to claim the rice and Rs. 1,500 distributed by the State government,” Mr. Ramulu said. He said that due to the lockdown, even coal prices are sky-rocketing. During normal days, one kg coal would cost around Rs. 20, but now the dealers are selling it for anywhere between Rs. 35 and Rs. 40. “Despite no business, they have increased the price. I have got stock and once it is exhausted, I will close the shop and start looking for other sources of income,” Mr. Ramulu said with grief. Same is the case with people who iron clothes in residential complexes. “For the last one last week, I haven’t lit up coals as there are no clothes. People are hardly stepping out of their houses. As my husband is a watchman in the same building, we are managing to survive,” said Ramabai from Masab Tank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-ironing-out/article31553776.ece
11 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown takes the shine off Ramzan markets||Hyderabad practically gets lit up in the holy month of Ramzan. But, not this time. The coronavirus pandemic and lockdown imposed by the government to curb the spread of the disease took the usual glitter off the city. In the last dahaa — the last 10 days — the city would come alive with people from all walks of life converging at markets. A haven for shoppers, the brightly-lit Madina to Shalibanda market in Old City, particularly, would stand out as it would be ‘pedestrianised’ till Eid. A unique feature of the markets is the thousands of hawkers who line up from Madina in the north to Shalibanda in the south; and Laad Bazaar in the west to Sardar Mahal in the east. They would sell everything from un-stitched cloth to ready-made garments, toys to sunglasses and watches. But, this year, the markets wear a deserted look. According to National Hawker Federation working president Inayat Ali Baqri, 9,000 to 10,000 hawkers would sell their wares here in the last 10 days of Ramzan. “It will be difficult for even the seasonal hawkers from Rangareddy, Mahabubnagar, Sangareddy and Nizamabad, who come to the city every year during Ramzan. Their earnings in one month are sufficient for them to take care of expenses for two or three months. But with the coronavirus pandemic, the livelihoods of approximately 10,000 hawkers have taken a massive beating,” he said. Monu Khan is one such hawker. A resident of Bhavani Nagar, he would sell locally made ice-cream in Charminar. But come Ramzan, he would double up as an accessories-seller. “What can I say, sir. With no Ramzan rush and the lockdown, I have to rely on my brother’s earnings. He sells vegetables everyday for a living. I used to earn minimum Rs. 12,000 during the holy month that would take care of two months’ rent and partial expenses for groceries. There are others who would make much more than this and their earnings would take care of three months’ expenses,” Monu Khan said. Siraj, another hawker, continues to sell fruits though. However, this year, lockdown has affected his earnings to a great extent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-takes-the-shine-off-ramzan-markets/article31553792.ece
11 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Redgram supply may be delayed||Supply of one-kg each of processed redgram (dal) to all ration cardholders free of cost in the State during May and June, as part of relief in the wake of COVID-19 lockdown conditions, is likely to be delayed. The May allotment is expected to reach the card-holding below poverty line families only towards the month-end. The supply of processed redgram along with 12 kg of free rice per head has been taken up in only four out of 33 districts — Nizamabad, Nalgonda, Warangal Rural and Medak — this month so far as the available stock supplied by the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED) is sufficient only to meet that much requirement. According to officials, the four districts have a total of 12,82,028 ration cards under National Food Security Act (NFSA) and other BPL families identified by the State. Although Civil Supplies officials have planned to take up processed redgram supply before the third week of May, it is likely to get delayed as the NAFED is supplying whole redgram to the State for the purpose and the Telangana government has to get it processed into dal with the help of millers. NAFED has allotted 17,509.142 tonnes of whole redgram to Telangana for supply of dal at the rate of one-kg per card for two months. To get the redgram processed into dal, the State government has constituted a committee headed by Director of Agricultural Marketing. The committee has been authorised to approve technical and financial tenders. Telangana State Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (TS-MARKFED) has been assigned to identify dal mills for conversion of whole redgram being supplied by NAFED into dal. Of the 17509.142 tonnes to be processed, the cost of whole redgram and processing would be borne by the Centre for 10,658.764 tonnes and the remaining 6,851.780 tonnes by the State for the two months. Dal millers would be asked to supply processed redgram up to all mandal-level stock points . The government intends to complete position of the processed redgram at all MLS points by this month-end. MARKFED would be paid 2% services charges by the Civil Supplies Corporation for the total quantity of whole redgram at the rate of minimum support price. According to Civil Supplies Corporation Chairman M. Srinivas Reddy, the government has commenced supply of redgram in seven more districts — Kamareddy, Mahabubabad, Nirmal, Rajana-Sircilla, Sangareddy, Suryapet, Warangal Urban and Yadadri — on Thursday. He stated that it would be started in Siddipet, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, Vikarabad and Mancherial. However, supply of rice had been completed to about 49% (42.42 lakh) of total cardholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/redgram-supply-may-be-delayed/article31553793.ece
11 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Migrants’ plight is due to insensitivity of governments’||The TPCC COVID-19 Task Force said the present plight of the migrant labour was the culmination of the total insensitivity of the Central and State governments. A video conference of the task force attended by TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy; CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, AICC in-charge RC Khuntia, and AICC secretary Bose Raju felt that there was no preparedness for the lockdown and the kind of implications that it would have on the poorest of the poor, daily wage earners and the unorganised sector. G. Sanjiva Reddy, president of INTUC, who participated, lauded the efforts of the Congress, particularly the call given by Congress president Sonia Gandhi asking the party to bear the cost of train tickets, the burden of which was put on the shoulders of hapless people. He said that was the height of insensitivity and Ms. Gandhi’s statement forced the governments to change their stand. The meeting decided to look at three different aspects of the problem, concentrating first on immediate relief and the role for the party in this. The second was to work out strategies for early return of migrant labour for resumption of work when the lockdown was eased or totally lifted. The third was the strategy to be evolved in the long run for the welfare of of migrant labour. Mr. Shashidhar Reddy said the meeting discussed opening of liquor shops and felt that it defeated the very purpose of continuous lockdown. Sravan Dasoju, AICC spokesperson, was appointed convener of the sub-group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/migrants-plight-is-due-to-insensitivity-of-governments/article31553801.ece
11 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Military Engineering Services probationers complete course||The valedictory of second foundation course for Group ‘A’ Officers of the Military Engineering Services (MES) Probationers was held virtually at Dr MCR HRD Institute. The course was attended by 33 MES probationers for 14 weeks. Devendra Kumar, IDSE, Director General, (Personnel), Ministry of Defence, said that armed forces aspire to adopt latest technology in their infrastructure development. Therefore, use of innovative, cost efficient and rapid construction technique is a must for MES and this demands embracing cutting-edge technology and the probationers have to be ready for adoption of the same, he said. Mr. Kumar, who was the chief guest, said that the MES has been playing a crucial and professional role in the areas of developing infrastructure and its maintenance for Indian Army, Navy, Air Force, DRDO, Ordnance factories, Coast Guard etc. B.P. Acharya, DG, Dr. MCR HRD Institute and Special Chief Secretary to Government in his presidential address called upon the MES probationers to work with their counterparts from different wings of their respective organisations in unison. Chetna Anand, Prateek Kumar Meena and Shubham Saluja bagged the DG’s Shields for best all-round performance, highest aggregate marks in written examinations, and sports champion, respectively. Harpreet Singh, ADG of the institute, and Ayaluri Sridevi, director (IT & e-Learning) and course director, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/military-engineering-services-probationers-complete-course/article31553761.ece
11 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||City College organises webinar for students||Ensuring that education is not obstructed during the lockdown, the Government City College in Old City is conducting online classes. Students from the poorest sections were brought into the digital system through lectures on popular online platforms and recording classes to be posted on WhatsApp groups of students and faculty members. Taking a step further, the college organised a webinar on ‘Impact of COVID-19 on Socio Economic Conditions in India’ where prominent professors and professionals shared their views with the students. The screen was shared by C. Parthasarathi, who retired recently as the director of Environmental Protection Training and Research Institute, and human rights activist G. Haragopal. Mr. Parthasarathy spoke on coordinating efforts of students and teachers to find time-bound solutions to the process of continuous education in the post COVID-19 phase and advocated the need for blended teaching methodology in the days to come, informed Principal V. Vijayalakshmi. Mr. Haragopal spoke on the failure of the neo-liberal era and market mechanism in dealing with the pandemic. The session was attended by nearly 100 students and faculty members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-college-organises-webinar-for-students/article31553766.ece
11 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||L&T donates PPE kits, masks worth Rs. 3 crore||Larsen & Toubro Group donated Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and N95 masks worth Rs. 3 crore to the Telangana government, through Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMSIDC) in various tranches. The material was handed over by L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad MD and CEO K.V.B. Reddy and HMR MD N.V.S. Reddy to Minister for IT and Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao on Saturday. “By the time lockdown ends, HMR will be fully prepared for a ramp-up of services for safe and healthy travel for commuters. It is very challenging. But also, an amazing opportunity to unlearn, relearn, and test our capabilities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lt-donates-ppe-kits-masks-worth-rs-3-crore/article31553774.ece
11 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Expert panel to study market conditions mooted||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday instructed the officials to form a committee of experts to study agriculture-related market conditions in the State, country and the world from time to time and give guidance for the development of the farm sector. After meeting the officials, scientists and experts here on Sunday, he also decided to have a direct interaction with field-level officials of the Agriculture department working at the mandal and district levels to discuss the comprehensive farm policy being drafted by the State government. The meeting would be organised soon and later he would also speak to agriculture extension officers and Rythu Bandhu Samithi representatives on the issues, according to a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). The Chief Minister suggested that rice mill owners increase the capacity of their mills since about 2.7 crore tonnes of paddy would be produced in the State every year from now. At a meeting held on the comprehensive farm policy on Saturday, the Chief Minister had instructed the Agriculture department officials to prepare an inventory of the department, including assets and buildings, availability of agricultural tools, machinery, harvesters, tractors and other farm-machinery. It would help the government assess the requirement for farm mechanisation with proper planning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expert-panel-to-study-market-conditions-mooted/article31553797.ece
11 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2 constables suspended for taking bribe||Two constables of Afzalgunj police station were suspended after a video showing them taking money from an auto trolley driver went viral. Immediately, Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar ordered an inquiry and suspended D. Pancha Mukesh and B. Suresh, who were attached to the Blue Colt team. Mr. Kumar called it a grave misconduct and issued a memo to Afzalgunj Inspector P. Gyanender Reddy for poor supervision. Police sources said that the incident took place on Sunday morning in the by-lanes of Jambagh. In the video footage, one of the police officers flagged the trolley transporting water pumps, and was talking to a man sitting in the vehicle, while his colleague was on a bike. The officer snatched his phone, and returned it only after the driver agreed to pay him. The duo took Rs. 200 from him and left.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-constables-suspended-for-taking-bribe/article31553778.ece
11 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SUV rams lorry, 1 killed||A 29-year-old man was killed and his driver suffered injuries after their SUV crashed into a moving lorry on the Hyderabad-Bengaluru national highway at Shamshabad on Sunday morning. Victim P. Naveen Kumar and his driver Kumar were going to a relative’s place in Hyderabad from Kadapa, AP, when the accident took place around 6 a.m. near Pedda Shapur village. “When they reached Pedda Shapur, Kumar, who was driving the car at a high speed, failed to notice a lorry moving in the same direction and rammed it. Naveen Kumar, who was sitting next to the driver, died on the spot,” Shamshabad police said. Driver Kumar is battling for life at a hospital in Shamshabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suv-rams-lorry-1-killed/article31553780.ece
11 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||EWS quota in PG medical admission sought||The OC Samkshema Sangham (OC Welfare Association) has demanded that the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) reservations be implemented in the PG medical admission in the two Telugu states that were denying the benefit to poor people among the OCs. In a statement here, O. Karunakar Reddy, president of the association, said Rajashthan, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh were among several states implementing the EWS reservation but the Chief Ministers of the two states were denying the benefit to this category. He said 95 seats had been given additionally to AP for the 956 seats by the Medical Council of India (MCI) while 153 seats were given to Telangana. But the two States were not implementing it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ews-quota-in-pg-medical-admission-sought/article31553800.ece
11 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Give exact status of COVID-19: Congress||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy on Sunday demanded that the State government clarify whether Telangana has entered the third stage of coronavirus spread. He demanded that the State government disclose the profile of patients who tested positive for coronavirus since the last 15 days and clarify whether the State has entered into community transmission phase, given the rising number of cases despite the lockdown. In a statement here, Mr. Narayana Reddy said that the State government was not only hiding the statistics, but the real status of COVID-19 situation in Telangana. The State government’s policy of going for less number of tests for coronavirus has increased the threat of community transmission. Mr. Narayana Reddy demanded that the State government release a Status Note on coronavirus situation in Telangana by giving complete details of number of people it identified as suspect and how they were quarantined or treated later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/give-exact-status-of-covid-19-congress/article31553799.ece
11 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fire broke out at a scrap godown||Fire broke out at a scrap godown at Mallepally in the wee hours of Sunday. No casualties were reported. Habeebnagar police said that around 5 a.m., a blaze started inside the locked godown, reportedly due to short-circuit. The fire intensified after an oxygen cylinder exploded. “We got an alert around 5.15 a.m. and within a few minutes, two fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fire-broke-out-at-a-scrap-godown/article31553779.ece
11 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man murdered over ‘property dispute’||A 40-year-old businessman was brutally murdered by his co-brother in Chaderghat on Saturday night. Police said that the offence took place around 10.30 p.m. at Azampura. The victim, Abdul Rahman, who lived at Kachiguda, was having a discussion over property with his co-brother Dastagir (40), when the latter took out a knife and hacked Rahman to death. “He was rushed to a private hospital in the area soon, where he succumbed,” Chaderghat police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-murdered-over-property-dispute/article31553777.ece
11 May 2020||Kamareddy,TELANGANA||BRF||Devunpally police traced three bodies, including that of a six-year-old child, in Kamareddy pedda cheruvu and Lingapur tank under the municipal town limits on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Shaikh Meera (31) and his son Maulana (6) and Sakinala Mallesh (30).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article31553786.ece
11 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Blood donation camp for thalassemia-hit children||To help ensure improved access to timely and safe blood transfusion for thalassemia-affected children during lockdown, around 40 voluntary donors donated blood at a programme held here on Sunday. The camp was organised at the IMA Hall under the aegis of SANKALPA, a town-based voluntary organisation working for the cause of thalassemia patients, especially children suffering from genetic blood disorder. Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar inaugurated the camp in the presence of radiologist Rajesh Garge, founder president of SANKALPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blood-donation-camp-for-thalassemia-hit-children/article31553789.ece
11 May 2020||MUPKAL (NIZAMABAD DT.),TELANGANA||With its meagre earnings, this family feeds the hungry||Anganwadi teacher Hameena Begum has turned mother not only for children at her anganwadi centre but also for migrant workers who embarked on tedious journey on foot on National Highway 44 to their homes in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Chattisgarh and Maharashtra. She has become ‘care of address’ for starving migrant workers travelling long distances without food, water and money. Mother of four and a widow, she has been providing food, water, tea, fruits and snacks to hapless workers and their children at her home and also along the road in this village since lockdown was imposed towards the end of March. She started charity with her own meagre savings when her brother-in-law Wahab, a driver, informed her of the suffering of children of moving migrant workers on roads. She immediately provided them biscuits and fruits and offered tea to elders. Seeing this, Hameena’s 22-year-old Heena daughter gave her Rs. 20,000 she had earned through embroidery work to serve food to migrant workers during the Ramzan month. Her son, Azaruddin, who runs a chicken centre, started to give Rs. 500 every day to his mother for carrying out her service. Her younger son Mazaruddin, who completed B. Tech, also stood by her. The mother and the four children would start their service early in the morning. The family is providing food to over 250 migrant workers every day. In the last three days, Orange Travels owner Mutyala Sunil Reddy arranged buses for workers who, after having the food given by Hameena, would resume their journey. Having come to know her charity, Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya personally rang her up and lauded her gesture. Hameena earns a paltry Rs. 10,000 per month as Anganwadi teacher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/with-its-meagre-earnings-this-family-feeds-the-hungry/article31553804.ece
11 May 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BRF-2||The Indian Medical Association, Nalgonda chapter, has been in the forefront to serve the poor, not only with medical aid but also sponsoring food. Doctors, in the last 25 days, have taken turns to sponsor food for about 400 poor people. On Sunday, doctors served food to people at the leprosy and rickshaw-pullers’ colonies. “This is an attempt to help them,” IMA president Ch. Pulla Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf-2/article31553785.ece
11 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Rice mills face severe shortage of hamalis||Rice mills in the erstwhile undivided district have been facing a severe problem of dearth of hamalis as the head load workers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are unable to come for work after the imposition of lockdown. Most of them usually come towards the end of February and leave for their States in June. There are about 350 rice mills in the district which engage at least 30,000 hamalis, hailing mostly from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, on daily wages. Technicians who work in the rice mills belonging to Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have also not come this season, affecting the technical and repair works in the mills. Consequently, loading of paddy bags after weighing at the purchase centres run under the aegis of PACS, IKP and SHGs and the unloading at rice mills are badly affected. Authorities at the purchase centres and millers are managing the loading and unloading work with the help of the hamalis who remained in the district. At present, an estimated 4,000 hamalis are available as against the requirement of 30,000. “There is no dearth of workers in our State, but they do not come for hamali work. We are making double payment for hamalis now,” said Kaparthi Shravan Kumar, managing director, Sidhirameswara Rice Mills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rice-mills-face-severe-shortage-of-hamalis/article31553787.ece
11 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||DS mourns Ratnakar Rao||Rajya Sabha Member D. Srinivas expressed shock at the passing away of former minister and senior Congress leader Juvvadi Ratnakar Rao. In his condolence message to the bereaved family, he said the services of the departed leader as MLA and minister to the poor and downtrodden were memorable forever. Mr. Srinivas expressed his sympathies to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ds-mourns-ratnakar-rao/article31553802.ece
11 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Minister’s gesture to migrants||Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy at Sreerampur in his Balkonda constituency on Sunday interacted with migrant workers who were walking down the National Highway-44 to reach their homes in different States. The Minister, who was touring the constituency, stopped his vehicle seeing the moving workers along with their families. He arranged food and water for them and vehicles to drop them on inter-State border. He asked them to come back to Telangana for work after the impact of coronavirus subsided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ministers-gesture-to-migrants/article31553806.ece
11 May 2020||RUDRARAM (SANGAREDDY DT.),TELANGANA||They came all the way to earn just Rs. 210 a day||Arjun, in his late 30s, is one among the two dozen migrant workers engaged at a pharma unit located in Patancheru mandal. A native of Hili village in Balurghat district of West Bengal, he left his three children in the care of his aged parents and travelled more than 2,000 km by train along with his wife Rupali to eke out a living here. His work involves cleaning the premises of the pharma unit, assisting the mason in construction activity and other odd jobs. Arjun and Rupali, along with a few other families, are put up in tin-roof shacks on the premises. Most of the workers hail from West Bengal while a few others are from Jharkhand and Bihar. A majority of his counterparts have left for their respective native places on foot, and those like him who have chosen to stay back for their own reasons are now battling homesickness. Seasonal workers Arjun and the others are seasonal workers and this is not their first stint in this industry. “We have come to work here for the third time. We are given an amount in advance by the thekedar (contractor) based on an agreement that we would be staying here to work for two months at the least. If the conditions are good, we continue for another couple of months. Likewise, the thekedar allows us to continue if he is satisfied with our work,” said Arjun. “Depending on the nature of work and our commitment, the advance amount is given, which varies from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 30,000 for the two-month period,” revealed Basidur Rehman, a workman supervisor. However, their daily earnings are quite meagre as compared to the prevalent rates for daily wage earners, which ranges between Rs. 600 and Rs. 800 per day. What Arjun and others earn is far less than that. “I get paid Rs. 210 a day. We are provided free meals thrice a day and the accommodation is rent-free. We are also paid an additional Rs. 250 per week to meet our other expenses. After all that, I manage to send Rs. 6,000 every month to my parents who are raising my three children,” said Arjun.  We are given an amount in advance by the thekedar (contractor) based on an agreement that we would be staying here to work for two months at the least. If the conditions are good, we continue for another couple of months. Arjun, Migrant worker from West Bengal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/they-came-all-the-way-to-earn-just-rs-210-a-day/article31553771.ece
11 May 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Jobs lost, workers not willing to return to cities||Notwithstanding lofty claims by both the Central and State governments about coming to the rescue of migrant workers during the lockdown, the disconnect with ground realities is all too glaring. A group of 18 migrant workers from Rajasthan, which started its 2,500-km journey from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu to their native village in Karauli district of Rajasthan, are still far from their destination even after almost 40-odd days of exhausting and expensive travel via Telangana. The group, including six children and two women in advanced stages of pregnancy, had reached the border of Andhra Pradesh at Done in Kurnool district where they were kept in a shelter for over a month, they claimed. Earlier last week, they were released stating that permission was accorded for their return after which they reached here. Despite efforts of the authorities to convince them to stay put in this part of the State till their train reservation is confirmed, they left for their native place, hitching a lorry ride on Thursday night. The group landed in Nagpur in Maharashtra the very next day and then reached Madhya Pradesh where they are now stranded. “We have not yet reached home, and we don’t know when we will return to work. We have to speak to our contractor and he must make sure that we can get work in future without any hassle. Public transportation must be restored so that we travel to our native place when required,” Monu, one of the members of the migrant group, told The Hindu over phone. Others in the group said they would prefer to stay back in their native village and live on whatever little they can earn locally instead of finding work in another State. “What was left there for us? No one was taking care of us,” said Gayatri, who is eight months pregnant, adding that her parents back in the village would at least take care of her and her family. Another migrant worker, Vijayender, elaborated on the expenses that they have incurred in their attempt to return home. “We have spent about Rs. 10,000 per person from the time we started our journey on March 29. I do not know how much time it will take for us to reach our village. We have spent over Rs. 1 lakh on our journey so far and it may cost us another Rs. 50,000 if things go to plan,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jobs-lost-workers-not-willing-to-return-to-cities/article31553769.ece
11 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||Mother’s Day at old age home||Sulakshya Seva Samithi distributed SafEnergy kits to around 80 inmates of Sahrudaya old age home and organised a music concert on Mother’s Day. Nephrologist Mangalampalli Venkataramana said, “Sulakshya Seva Samithi is doing an excellent job and their efforts for the well-being of the society are relentless. I wish them good luck to continue their activities in future.” Founder president Santhosh Manduva said that they have been celebrating Mother’s Day with these elderly people for the last eight years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mothers-day-at-old-age-home/article31553784.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||In the cause of the lockdown-hit, Seetakka walks long distances||It was only last week that Congress MLA D. Anasuya, better known as Seetakka, who launched ‘Go hunger go’ challenge hogged the limelight walking long distances on rough and rocky terrain to distribute essential commodities to tribals reeling under the impact of lockdown in inaccessible areas of Mulug constituency represented by her. She went by two-wheeler driven by her aide on motorable paths and took to walking with a heavy load of commodities on rocky patches. In the process, she also injured her leg. Seetakka met with resistance from police when she tried to repeat her act in the adjoining Kothagudem district on Sunday. The police denied her permission to proceed on the ground that the village she was headed for was affected by Naxalite activity. Moreover, she was told that there was no permission to leaders to distribute relief to the poor.   The Karimnagar model of containing COVID-19 implosion by the best handling of the District Collector Konduru Shashanka has been continuing to be the talking point in the corridors of power. Be it the Secretariat, the the State Health department or even for that matter at the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), no meeting is comp lete without a reference to ‘Karimnagar model’ that saved the town, which once played a vital role in both Maoist and Telangana movements, from the clutches of deadly coronavirus. While news media were all praise for the successful containment strategy by the Collector, Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao did mince no words. Even during the recent press conference, soon after the Cabinet meeting, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao acknowledged the best efforts of Mr. Shashanka and Karimnagar Police Commissioner V.B. Kamalasan Reddy. The Chief Minister also said it was the foresight of the officials in earmarking containment zone or red zone in the town when none knew or was familiar with such concept across the country. Paradoxically, Jogulamba-Gadwal district, one of the eight red zone districts in the State, which reported 45 positive cases with the death of two persons, was the previous stint of Mr.Shashanka.   That the gain of Karimnagar has become the bane of Gadwal is doing the rounds in the higher echelons of powers.   Police personnel in Telangana are flooded with the barrage of instructions from top brass almost on a daily-basis sermonising the dos and don’ts of interacting with the public moving on the streets. The task has exasperated the field staff so much so that the instructions were reduced to platitudes. Several field-level officers maintain that they get ‘confused’ with the string of instructions from the bosses every other day. Moreover, the top brass are wary of getting adverse media coverage, as they target only positive news. Hours before 2,200-odd liquor shops were reopened in the State on Wednesday, a senior officer sent a message to all unit officers and zonal deputy commissioners to ensure that there is ‘no adverse’ publicity with regard to the response of police after liquor shops are opened.   Amid the mundane times since the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic, life has become sedentary in all spheres although some unavoidable and inevitable activities are being carried out. It has been no different to every section of society. However, it was a memorable, energetic and colourful style of parting ways on the conclusion of virtual training for 142 civil servants and 34 military engineering service probationers who underwent human resource skill development at Dr. Marri Channa Reddy Human Resource Development (MCRHRD) Institute here, when they presented a “first-of-its-kind” virtual India and cultural programmes last week. They were attending foundation courses from 172 locations across the country. When the time came for concluding the training with cultural programmes, the trainees exhibited their latent and innate qualities in different art forms by giving performance from their locations while senior officers, faculty and staff of the institute logged in from their residences to watch the exciting event, aptly named “Virtual India Day” capturing the imagination of one and all who were part of the huge virtual exercise.  ( N. Rahul, Abhinay Deshpande, B. Chandrashekhar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-the-cause-of-the-lockdown-hit-seetakka-walks-long-distances/article31553798.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Caught in a nightmare||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/caught-in-a-nightmare/article31553773.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIIMS doctor removes safety gear, risks life to save COVID-19 patient||Zahid Abdul Majeed, a senior resident doctor at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), put his life at risk to save a COVID-19 patient on the way to the hospital’s trauma centre in an ambulance on May 7. Dr. Zahid, who works at the critical care division of the hospital, had to remove his PPE (goggles and face-shield) to re-intubate the patient. While the patient continues to be on a ventilator, the doctor is under quarantine after the exposure. “My father called me today [Sunday] and said even if I were to die from COVID-19, he would not grieve as I saved the life of a patient and may die as a martyr. It felt like a weight had been lifted from my heart. My parents appreciated the spirit with which this intervention was performed,’’ noted Dr. Zahid on Sunday. Hailing from Kashmir’s Wanihama-Dialgam village in Anantnag district, Dr. Zahid has been working at AIIMS for nearly two years. “Of course, this is not an example to follow. All healthcare professionals should use PPEs. When the transfer was happening, I realised that the patient’s tube was mal-positioned and that without immediate intervention, the patient would go into a cardiac arrest. In a dim-lit ambulance, working with PPE wasn’t a viable option and I quickly removed the face-shield [they were fogging up] and goggles while keeping my N-95 mask on to perform the procedure. I immediately reported the breach in PPE and was advised to proceed to quarantine,’’ said Dr. Zahid. Intubation and the steps leading up to it are some of the high-risk moments for COVID-19 spread to healthcare workers and other patients, according to World Health Organization, which has recommended that strict protocols to limit viral exposure must be followed. “This is the holy month of Ramadan and I reacted to a fellow human being in distress. As a doctor and a human being, I couldn’t have let harm come to my patient. The thinking and orientation at AIIMS are such that I have always seen my teachers and seniors go that extra mile for the patients….it does affect the way you start looking at your duty,’’ said Dr. Zahid. The doctor said he hasn’t been able to meet his parents in nearly a year now and hopes that the COVID-19 situation improves enough for him to head to his village. “I was worried about what my father would say but his reaction has filled my heart with joy and I feel so much stronger now,’’ said Dr. Zahid, adding that he is looking forward to heading back to the hospital and back to his patients at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aiims-doctor-removes-safety-gear-risks-life-to-save-covid-19-patient/article31553715.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU teachers divided over academic calendar for monsoon semester||The JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) and a faction of teachers going by the name JNU Teachers’ Federation (JNUTF) are divided over the revised academic calendar for the monsoon semester 2020-21 that was released by the university on May 9. The JNUTA demanded that the matter of disruption of academic activity due to COVID-19 threat be considered by the due process of discussions in Centres and Boards of Studies before being placed before the Academic Council. It claimed that the academic calendar had been prepared without following due process. “There is no concluding date for the semester, no specification of dates/periods for classes, sessionals, end-semester examinations, etc. In short, it does not even come remotely close to resembling an academic calendar for the monsoon semester of 2020-21,” the JNUTA said. The JNUTA added that the revision has not been passed by the Academic Council and only has the sanction of the ‘Competent Authority’ which at JNU has become a synonym for one individual and his office. “UGC guidelines did not give extraordinary powers to the Vice-Chancellor to take all the decisions bypassing statutory bodies,” the JNUTA added. The JNUTF said that it welcomed the notification brought out by the administration as it gives a sense of direction in uncertain times as the students will benefit as it provides terminal research scholars time by extending the date of submission of dissertation by one semester.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnu-teachers-divided-over-academic-calendar-for-monsoon-semester/article31553721.ece
11 May 2020||New Delhi,||Investigation reveals ‘sexual assault’ chat not part of ‘Bois Locker Room’||An investigation into the ‘Bois Locker Room’ case has revealed that the alleged ‘sexual assault’ conversation on Snapchat between two juveniles was a result of a girl, using a fake profile of a boy, to another boy with an intention to test the ‘values and character’ of the latter, the police said Sunday. They said the Snapchat conversation that allegedly happened last month has nothing to do with ‘Bois Locker Room’. The devices of the juveniles have been seized and sent for forensic analysis. “A screenshot of a one-to-one Snapchat conversation shows a profile with the name — Siddharth — suggesting a plan to the other person to sexually assault a girl,” said Anyesh Roy, Deputy Commissioner of Police (CyPAD). Probe revealed that the conversation actually took place between a girl and a boy in which the girl used the name — Siddharth. Using the fake identity, the girl suggested a plan to the other juvenile to sexually assault her, police said. She wanted to check his character, the officer added. However, the juvenile boy declined to participate in any such plan and stopped further communication with the girl, the DCP added. The boy then took a screenshot of the conversation and sent it to his friends, including the juvenile girl. One of the recipients of the screenshot posted it as an Instagram story from where it went viral. When screenshots from Bois Locker Room started circulating on social media, the alleged Snapchat conversation also got mixed with those chats. However, police said no case will be registered against the girl or the boy because of them being juveniles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/investigation-reveals-sexual-assault-chat-not-part-of-bois-locker-room/article31553728.ece
11 May 2020||New Delhi,||JMI students leave for J&K by special bus||Jamia Millia Islamia has started making arrangements to send students residing in their hostels to their respective States, with the first batch of students starting their journey to Jammu and Kashmir by a special bus on Sunday. Last week, however, hostellers wrote to the Vice-Chancellor against the university’s recent order to have the residences vacated at the earliest. The university had on May 1, instructed hostellers to vacate “as per the arrangements of transportation and travel protocols of the State governments”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jmi-students-leave-for-jk-by-special-bus/article31553731.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. issues SOP for hospitals on reporting COVID-19 deaths||The Delhi government issued an order to both public and private hospitals in the Capital and warned of strict action in case of any delay in reporting COVID-19 deaths. After allegations were made that the government was not reporting the actual number of deaths due to the virus, Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev issued an order along with a standard operating procedure (SOP) under which all COVID-19 hospitals and other facilities will e-mail a ‘death report’ to the government by 5 p.m. everyday. “It has come to notice that both public and private hospitals are not reporting the deaths of positive cases of COVID-19 ...in a timely and regular manner. Despite several reminders, the death summaries are not being provided to the Death Audit Committee resulting in incorrect/delayed reports,” the order reads. “Every COVID-19 hospital and other health facilities will appoint nodal officers who will ensure timely communication of deaths,” Mr. Dev said. The order said that non-compliance will be viewed seriously and action as per relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and other relevant laws will be taken against defaulters without any further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-issues-sop-for-hospitals-on-reporting-covid-19-deaths/article31553723.ece
11 May 2020||New Delhi,||Schoolteacher, husband die of COVID-19||A contract teacher of a school under North Delhi Municipal Corporation and her husband died due to COVID-19, an official from the North civic body said on Sunday. According to a senior official from the civic body, the teacher had last worked on April 18, was admitted to a hospital on May 2 and died on May 4. Her test report confirmed her to be COVID-19 positive only on May 5. Her husband – who had already contracted the virus – died a day before her death, the official added. The couple is survived by two sons and compensation for the family would soon be finalised, the official said. Meanwhile, a malaria inspector from Karol Bagh, who also works for the civic body, has been found to be COVID-19 positive. The staffer was taken to LNJP hospital and was discharged after a preliminary check-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/schoolteacher-husband-die-of-covid-19/article31553719.ece
11 May 2020||New Delhi,||JNU V-C asks students to download Aarogya Sethu App||JNU Vice-Chancellor on Sunday wrote to students of the university appealing to download the Aarogya Sethu App. The V-C said that the app was a one-stop solution for spreading awareness about COVID-19 and to trace contacts to identify potential COVID-19 victims. “It is essential that all of us in JNU download and install this app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnu-v-c-asks-students-to-download-aarogya-sethu-app/article31553720.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Quake- brief||A 3.4-magnitude earthquake shook the Capital on Sunday afternoon with the epicentre being near Wazirpur in north-east Delhi. Sunday’s epicentere was close to the location of the ones of the earthquakes on April 12 and 13, which was of the magnitudes of 3.5 and 2.7 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/quake-brief/article31553727.ece
11 May 2020||New Delhi,||Over 500 migrants stopped while crossing border||The police on Sunday stopped over 500 migrant workers and booked several truck drivers when they were allegedly trying to leave Delhi via Ghazipur border in east Delhi, said a senior officer. He said several migrant workers were stopped at Ghazipur and Anand Vihar border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-500-migrants-stopped-while-crossing-border/article31553729.ece
11 May 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- DU||Delhi University students residing at the North Eastern Students House for Women (NESHW) will be allowed to stay put following an intervention by Union Minister (in-charge of development of northeast) Jitendra Singh on Sunday. “The issue that arose as a result of eviction notice has been sorted out,” tweeted Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sidharth-du/article31553730.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Darkness at noon||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/darkness-at-noon/article31553718.ece
11 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||61 new cases in Punjab, tally reaches 1,823||Punjab recorded 61 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,823 in the State, according to an official statement. The State health department said the major chunk of cases were reported from Ropar and Amritsar districts respectively. The active cases are 1,626 and 166 patients have so far recovered, it added. In Haryana, one virus-related death was reported while 28 new cases surfaced, taking the State's tally of confirmed cases to 703. In the Union Territory of Chandigarh, four fresh cases were reported, taking the tally to 173. The city also reported one death, taking the total number of fatalities to three.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/61-new-cases-in-punjab-tally-reaches-1823/article31553702.ece
11 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Man dies in Meerut because of ‘negligence’, DM orders action||A possible COVID-19 infected person died, allegedly because of the negligence of doctors at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial College and Hospital in Meerut, on Saturday night. The video of a middle-aged person with difficulty in breathing went viral on Saturday evening. The person could be seen sitting on the floor of a ward and asking for help. After some time, another video of the person covered with a white sheet came to light where a voice in the background could be heard saying that the person died as he kept waiting for medical attention. Rahul, a relative of the person who brought him to the hospital, told reporters, “We brought him to the hospital after his health deteriorated. We were told that his COVID-19 sample has been taken and he was admitted to the ward.” Later, he said, they saw a video of him sitting on the floor and not being attended to by medical staff. “We rushed to the hospital and were told that he had passed away and were asked to bring an e-rickshaw to take his body home,” Mr. Rahul said. Other complaints In another video, old patients could be seen complaining about the lack of arrangements in the ward. An old lady who is seen coughing could be heard asking for poison. An elderly man could be heard saying they should be allowed to make their own arrangements. R.C. Gupta, Principal, LLRM Medical College and Hospital, said, “Action would be taken against those found guilty. There are two wards in the hospital. One is meant for COVID-19 positive cases and the second for the those whose reports are awaited. The deceased was in the latter.” Late on Saturday night, District Magistrate Anil Dhingra held a meeting with the Chief Medical Officer and Principal of the Medical College and directed that any case of negligence should be strictly dealt with. On Sunday, the DM issued an order to install CCTV cameras in the hospital. Mr. Dhingra said daily recording should be preserved in a pen drive. He also asked the Principal to ensure the online display of the footage in the office of the Chief Medical Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-dies-in-meerut-because-of-negligence-dm-orders-action/article31553712.ece
11 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana announces measures to bring MSMEs back on track||In view of the role of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in economic and industrial development, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal has announced several measuress to bring these industries back on track. These include setting up of bank complaint information centres to redress bank related issues by the Finance Department, extending the date of depositing electricity bills without penalty till May 31, providing guarantee to MSMEs for bank loans from Small Industries Development Bank of India by the State government, fixing the power rate at Rs. 4.75 per unit for agriculture-based industries up to 20 kW, and pre-fabricated housing for labourers in the factories itself. The Chief Minister announced the measures while interacting with the representatives of MSMEs along with members of the Laghu Udyog Bharati Association of all the districts of the State through videoconferencing in Chandigarh on Saturday. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who holds the portfolio of Industries and Commerce Department, was also present. Mr. Lal said that during the nationwide lockdown, the economic activity of all the States was affected and now they were being reopened in a phased manner. Haryana’s enterprise promotion policy, 2015, was appreciated all over the country. The State government was now committed to make the best industrial policy in the country again. A new enterprise promotion policy will be formulated from August, for which suggestions will be invited from all stakeholders, he added. The Chief Minister said that the revenue collected in the last two months had been almost negligible. The revenue is mainly collected from GST, Excise, Stamp Duty, VAT refund from Central government, and mining, he added. He said these were now being operationalised in a phased manner. Mr. Lal assured that a separate nodal officer would be appointed for issues related to the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation.  VAT refunds In addition, issues related to VAT refunds of 2017 were being resolved in a timely manner. For about 1,300 applications, a refund of Rs. 162 crore has been made since April. He also assured to re-assess MSMEs’ bank loans. The scheme to provide 10% working capital has also been announced by the Central government, the Chief Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-announces-measures-to-bring-msmes-back-on-track/article31553711.ece
11 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana police file fraud case against six||Almost two years after around a dozen people came forward claiming a whopping Rs. 400 crore compensation for a plot of land in Narshingpur off the National Highway-48 here acquired by the Haryana government, the police have now registered a First Information Report against six to investigate their claims. The FIR has been registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, cheating, fraud and forgery, among others. The land in question, measuring around eight acres, was acquired by the Land Acquisition Officer, Urban Estate, for Transport and Communication Zone in 2013 and handed over to the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, formerly Haryana Urban Development Authority. The award was initially fixed at Rs. 44.01 crore and announced on June 6, 2016, but the amount increased many folds following enhancement ordered by the Supreme Court and the interest on it.  ‘Legal heirs’ As per the revenue records, the land belongs to Charanjeet Singh S/O Nandi Singh, a resident of Narsinghpur village, but ten persons came forward seeking the money. Interestingly, six of them claim to be Charanjeet Singh themselves, and the rest either his “legal heir” or are in possession of the “General Power of Attorney” for the land. The matter is sub-judice for almost two years after the Land Acquisition Collector moved the local court since more than one claimant to the land surfaced. Right to Information activist Ramesh Yadav, in his complaint to the police seeking FIR in the case in February this year, said the land’s owner, Charanjeet Singh, is “believed” to have died during Sikh riots without any legal heirs and the compensation for the said land is actually “public money”. “It is indeed strange that none of the claimants in the matter have sought legal proceedings against the other. It raises serious doubts about the authenticity of their claims. There is a need for a detailed investigation into the matter so that public money does not go into the hands of the fraudsters and those making false claims are brought to book,” said Mr. Yadav. He alleged that even before the acquisition a few political leaders had also made attempts to illegally occupy the land, situated at a prime location, in collusion with the revenue officials, but they did not succeed. ‘Not much progress’ The FIR, lodged at Sector 37 Police Station, has been registered at the behest of Naib Tehsildar Omprakash following commissioner’s letter to him on February 24. Station House Officer, Sector 37, Inspector Devender said not much progress was made in the investigation due to the lockdown. Mr. Yadav also raised question over registration of the case against only six people and not all the ten named in his complaint to the police.  It is indeed strange that none of the claimants in the matter have sought legal proceedings against the other. It raises serious doubts about the authenticity of their claims. Ramesh YadavRTI activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-police-file-fraud-case-against-six/article31553705.ece
11 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||IIT-JEE top rankers offer free doubt-solving sessions||A group of Indian Institute of Technology-Joint Entrance Examination (IIT-JEE) top rankers has offered free doubt-solving sessions for students aspiring to crack JEE and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical courses.  Examination dates Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ had on May 5 announced July 18-23 as the dates for JEE Main and July 26 for NEET exams. The announcement made Edvizo, a Guwahati-based start-up launch a 30-day online initiative to help JEE and NEET aspirants clear their doubts. “Studying from home has obtained top importance more than ever before due to the ongoing crisis that made educational institutions close abruptly. Post-lockdown, many platforms are providing free online courses but few are there to solve their doubts on time,” said Pallav Baruah, one of 42 members of start-up formed in 2017. Clearing uncertainties Clearing the uncertainties related to their approach to the examinations is the responsibility of 18 top-rankers in the group. The top-rankers include IITians, doctors and senior subject experts. Edvizo has been connecting with the aspirants through the Zoom app every day from 6 am to 9 pm. The aspirants are provided solutions through one-to-one live video. Mr Baruah said their education-tech start-up is a one-stop digital platform for students and parents to guide them to proper coaching. They have been focussing on “real-time query resolution”, which a Google-KPMG report in 2017 said topped the list of problems for India’s ed-tech firms. “We have registered more than 50,000 students from across India and tied up with more than 2,500 coaching institutes in five cities of the country for taking the idea forward. Our objective is not to make the students feel demotivated because of the lockdown,” Mr Baruah said. Career guidance The team has now planned to provide career guidance classes every weekend for seven hours from 9 am.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/iit-jee-top-rankers-offer-free-doubt-solving-sessions/article31553709.ece
11 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||COVID-19 duty keeps administrators away from children on Mother’s Day||Roshni Aparanji Korati’s sons Sanchit, 4, and Suchit, 2, are furious with her for being “so near yet so far”. On the other hand Sashanka Ala’s two-year-old son Prabir is used to her staying away, sometimes for a week. Life was no different for the two district administrators about 900 km apart on Mother’s Day. Ms. Korati is the Deputy Commissioner of central Assam’s Jorhat district and Ms. Ala is her counterpart in Lawngtlai, Mizoram’s southernmost district bordering Bangladesh and Myanmar. “We have been separated by a floor in my official residence. They are upstairs with my parents who are above 65 years and I have been staying downstairs since the COVID-19 preparedness began two months ago,” Ms Korati told The Hindu on Sunday. The Jorhat DC has been on “perpetual home quarantine” for fear of infecting her sons and parents if she contracts COVID-19. “My responsibilities require meeting healthcare workers and others who deal with people on quarantine,” she said. Her workload increased after two women, who arrived from Mumbai in an ambulance tested COVID-19 positive on Saturday. While she has been a reassuring figure in the district’s fight against the virus, her sons are not amused. “They see my vehicle. We see each other from the stairs. I cannot help it, better to be safe than sorry,” she said. On Sunday, Ms Ala returned to her official residence in the district headquarters Lawngtlai three days after a tour of some villages on the Myanmar border to ensure. “The borders are very porous and long and we have to make sure no one sneaks in during the lockdown,” she said.  ‘That’s the way it is’ “He got used to my being away for a few days during the November 2018 elections. It hurts not to be able to give him more time, but that’s the way it is,” Ms. Ala said. A local woman takes care of her son when she is away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-duty-keeps-administrators-away-from-children-on-mothers-day/article31553708.ece
11 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Collegium system ensures selection of competent judges’||Over 68% of the advocates surveyed from eight High Courts were of the opinion that the collegium system of appointments — wherein the Supreme Court appoints judges to itself and the HCs — ensures the selection of the most competent judges, a report by Delhi-based Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy has revealed. The survey covered 2,880 practising advocates from eight HCs — Delhi, Allahabad, Bombay, Kerala, Gujarat, Calcutta, Madras and Patna — who answered 27 questions across various themes. The survey covered advocates’ perceptions about the judges with regard to different aspects of their functioning, their relationship with the Bar Council and their perceptions about their earnings and other professional conditions. On whether the advocates think they get a fair hearing before the judge, 82% of the surveyed Delhi HC advocates said it depended on the judge or the bench. Monthly income It also found that 80% of the surveyed advocates from the Delhi HC said that the average monthly income in the first two years of practice is between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 20,000. For the remaining seven HCs, over 78% of the advocates surveyed said this was in the range of Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 10,000. “This finding is particularly relevant in the current times where reports have emerged regarding the adverse impact of lockdown has had on a large section of advocates,” Vidhi Centre said. “Many Bar Associations have sought financial assistance from the governments and Bar Councils. In this backdrop our data collected on the average earnings of the advocates at different stages of career progression can inform the discussion on the professional security that advocates as a class enjoy,” it added.  Financial help The survey also found that only 7.58% of the surveyed Delhi High Court lawyers have themselves or any other lawyer they know received assistance from the Advocates’ Welfare Fund that was established by a law in 2001. This percentage, however, was much higher at the other seven HCs at around 64.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/collegium-system-ensures-selection-of-competent-judges/article31553713.ece
11 May 2020||New Delhi,||Petition seeks financial aid for sex workers||A public interest petition filed before the Delhi High Court has sought direction to the Centre and the city government to take necessary steps for protection, social security and welfare measures, including food, accommodation and medicines, for sex workers and the LGBT community during the lockdown.  ‘Set up panel’ The petitioner, advocate Anurag Chauhan, also urged the High Court to constitute a committee for rehabilitation of sex workers in the Capital. The petition was filed for the welfare of sex workers and members of the LGBT community who do not have access to financial aid during the lockdown. The petition also sought a direction to the authorities to take steps to exempt them from paying rent and also to set up a separate helpline to counsel them and address their problems during the period of the pandemic.  ‘No details’ “There is no particulars or details found regarding grant of any financial aid and scheme to sex workers and LGBT community people by the Delhi government, despite exercise of due diligence by the petitioner and other people in the society,” the petition said. The plea said that the petitioner had given a representation to the Delhi Chief Minister and the Lieutenant Governor on May 2, highlighting the grievances of the sex workers and the members of the LGBT community but no steps have been taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/petition-seeks-financial-aid-for-sex-workers/article31553706.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Queue for ration||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/queue-for-ration/article31553704.ece
11 May 2020||Berlin,||Clusters in S. Korea, Germany show risks of ‘second wave’||A family in China, nightclubs in South Korea and a slaughterhouse in Germany — new clusters of infections are igniting concerns about a second wave even as calls grow in some countries to relax restrictions even further. In Germany, where thousands have protested remaining restrictions in recent days, health officials say the number of people each confirmed coronavirus patient infects rose above 1 again, reflecting a renewed increase in cases. The number must be below 1 for outbreaks to decline. Later on Sunday, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was expected to take a different tack, keeping most restrictions in place as he reveals a “road map” for the country that has the most official virus deaths in Europe at over 31,600. His Conservative government was criticised for being slow to react to the pandemic, but after falling ill with the virus himself, Mr. Johnson has taken a tougher line. 14 cases in China China reported 14 new cases on Sunday, its first double-digit rise in 10 days. Eleven of 12 domestic infections were in the northeastern province of Jilin, which prompted authorities to raise the threat level in one of its counties, Shulan, to high risk, just days after downgrading all regions to low risk. Authorities said the Shulan outbreak originated with a 45-year-old woman who had no recent travel or exposure history but spread it to her husband, her three sisters and other family members. Train services in the county were being suspended. South Korea reported 34 more cases as new infections linked to nightclubs threaten the country’s hard-won gains against the virus. It was the first time that South Korea’s daily infections were above 30 in about a month. Across Europe, many nations were easing lockdowns even further even as they prepared to clamp down on any new infections. Turkey’s senior citizens got their first chance to venture outside in seven weeks Sunday. Germany, which managed to push daily new infections below 1,000 before deciding to loosen restrictions, has seen regional spikes in cases linked to slaughterhouses and nursing homes. German officials have expressed concerns about the growing number of large demonstrations, including one in the southwestern city of Stuttgart that drew thousands of participants. Police in Berlin had to step in Saturday after hundreds of people failed to respect social distancing measures at anti-lockdown rallies. Reopening in Europe Chancellor Angela Merkel and the Governors of Germany’s 16 States last week cleared the way for restaurants, hotels and remaining stores to reopen. The country’s soccer league resumes this week, despite a number of professional players testing positive for COVID-19, and more students are returning to school beginning Monday. France, which has a similar number of infections as Germany but a far higher death toll at over 26,300, is letting some younger students return to school on Monday after almost two months out. Russia, in contrast, is still reporting rising infections. Figures released Sunday recorded 11,012 new cases, the highest one-day tally yet, for a total of nearly 2,10,000 cases and 1,915 reported deaths. Russian officials attribute the sharp rise in part to increased testing, but health experts say Russia’s data has been significantly under-reported. Worldwide, more than four million people have been reported infected and nearly 2,80,000 have died, over half of them in Europe, according to Johns Hopkins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/clusters-in-s-korea-germany-show-risks-of-second-wave/article31553432.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic exposes U.S.’s weak social safety net||The COVID-19 pandemic is straining social safety nets across the globe — and underlining sharp differences in approach between wealthy societies such as the United States and Europe. In Europe, the collapse in business activity is triggering wage support programmes that are keeping millions on the job, for now. In contrast, in the United States more than 33.5 million people have applied for jobless benefits and the unemployment rate has soared to 14.7%. That is a pattern seen in earlier economic downturns, particularly the global financial crisis and the Great Recession. Europe depends on existing programmes kicking in that pump money into people’s pockets. The U.S., on the other hand, relies on Congress taking action by passing emergency stimulus programs, as it did in 2009 under President Barack Obama, and the recent rescue package under President Donald Trump. Budget policy Economist Andre Sapir, a senior fellow at the Bruegel research institute in Brussels, said budget policy in the U.S. plays partly the role that Europe’s welfare system plays because the American welfare system is less generous and a recession can be much harsher on workers. In downturns, U.S. employees can lose their health insurance if they lose their job and there’s also a greater risk of losing one’s home through foreclosure. On the other hand, Europeans typically pay higher taxes, meaning they earn less in the good times. “In the U.S. you need to keep pumping money into the economy so that people continue to be employed, because it is through being employed that they are protected,” said Mr. Sapir. The U.S. tends to rank below average on measures of social support among the 37 countries of the Organization for Economic Development and Cooperation, whose members are mostly developed democracies. The U.S. came last in people living in relative poverty, meaning living on half the median income or less, with 17.8%. Countries like Iceland, Denmark, the Czech Republic and Finland have less than 6%. Unemployment benefits Americans on unemployment were collecting an average of about $372 weekly before the coronavirus struck. By comparison, Germany’s jobless benefit pays 60% of previous salary for a year. France provides up to 75% of the previous average daily wage for up to two years. Unemployment benefits in France are on average €1,200 ($1,320) per month. And there’s Europe’s short-hours programmes, which pay most of worker salaries if companies put them on shorter hours through a temporary disruption. More than 10 million workers are being paid that way in Germany and about 12 million in France, helping hold eurozone unemployment to only a 0.1 percentage point increase in March over February, to 7.4%.  Nearly half of Americans receive health insurance through their employers, while another 34% get benefits through the government programs Medicare and Medicaid. In Europe, universal health coverage is the rule, generally funded by payroll or other taxes. Europe’s more generous social safety nets come at a cost, largely paid through taxes levied on workers and employers. In the U.S., Social Security contributions amounted to 6% of GDP in 2018, according to the OECD. In France it was almost three times higher, at 16% of annual GDP, while in Germany it was just over 14%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pandemic-exposes-uss-weak-social-safety-net/article31553438.ece
11 May 2020||Washington,||Trump aides stress need for reopening||Two top U.S. economic advisers on Sunday defended the need for an expeditious reopening of the economy even as COVID-19 reached into the White House despite the extraordinary precautions taken there. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and economic adviser Larry Kudlow also again expressed optimism that the U.S. economy would register a sharp recovery in the second half of the year, with Mr. Kudlow predicting “a tremendous snapback” in 2021. But their comments on Sunday talk shows came just two days after the country recorded its steepest job losses in history, for an overall unemployment rate of a historic 14.7%. Mr. Kudlow was asked on ABC’s “This Week” how U.S. businesses could reopen with confidence when the White House — where virus protections are far more rigorous than most Americans enjoy — has recently seen at least two staff members infected. Those cases, Mr. Kudlow said, represented a “small fraction” of the 500 or so staff members working in the White House complex. He added that the combination of federal and State guidelines, coupled with private-sector innovation, should allow relatively safe reopening. Call to businesses But he emphasised that the bottom-line responsibility would be not on government but on individual businesses. “I think that businesses, large and small, are probably going to wind up leading this charge as we attempt to reopen the economy,” he said. Both Mr. Kudlow and Mr. Mnuchin stressed that undue delay in reopening would also come at a cost. “I think there’s a considerable risk of NOT reopening,” the Treasury secretary said on Fox. “You’re talking about what would be permanent economic damage to the American public, and we’re going to reopen in a very thoughtful way that gets people back to work safely.” Mr. Kudlow, pushing back on reports of growing partisan tensions over another tranche of emergency relief, said informal talks with Democrats were under way. But both he and Mr. Mnuchin emphasised the need to move with caution. “We just want to make sure that before we jump back in and spend another few trillion of taxpayers’ money, that we do it carefully,” Mr. Mnuchin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-aides-stress-need-for-reopening/article31553437.ece
11 May 2020||Washington,||Fauci to self-isolate after potential exposure||Top infectious diseases expert Anthony Fauci is among three members of the White House’s coronavirus task force who will self-isolate after potential exposure to the pathogen, U.S. media reported Saturday. On Friday, reports that Vice President Mike Pence’s press secretary had tested positive heightened fears about senior administration officials catching the virus. Robert Redfield, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and Stephen Hahn, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, will self-isolate, CNN said. But Mr. Fauci — who has become the trusted face of the government’s virus response — told the network he would undergo a “modified quarantine” because he had not been in close proximity to the contagious White House staffer. Daily tests The head of infectious diseases at the National Institutes of Health will remain at home teleworking and will wear a mask for two weeks. He is also undergoing daily coronavirus tests, and has so far been negative for the disease. Mr. Redfield and Mr. Hahn will quarantine for two weeks after exposure to a person who tested positive, FDA and CDC statements to U.S. media said. Officials have not revealed the identity of the COVID-19 positive individual in contact with the task force. Earlier in the week U.S. President Donald Trump announced plans to shut down the highly visible task force, only to backtrack one day later. Members of the group — which coordinates between medical institutes, political staff and State Governors — gave daily press conferences meant to inform the nation on the latest status of the pandemic. But they were often overtaken by Mr. Trump’s own freewheeling question-and-answer sessions, and the press conferences ended roughly two weeks ago. All three men will still testify at Tuesday’s Senate coronavirus hearing, with Mr. Redfield and Mr. Hahn dialing in via videoconferencing software, according to Senator Lamar Alexander, chairman of the chamber’s health committee. It is believed Mr. Fauci will attend wearing a mask, CNN reported. The U.S. has recorded more than 78,000 fatalities and 1.3 million infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fauci-to-self-isolate-after-potential-exposure/article31553435.ece
11 May 2020||Islamabad,||We fully complied with ICJ order on Jadhav: Pak.||Pakistan said on Sunday that it has “fully complied” with the ICJ’s judgment in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case, days after India’s lead counsel Harish Salve asserted that New Delhi had hoped it might be able to persuade Islamabad through “back channel” to release the Indian death-row convict. Mr. Jadhav, a retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of “espionage and terrorism” in April 2017. Weeks later, India approached the International Court of Justice (ICJ) against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Mr. Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The court ruled in July last year that Pakistan must undertake an “effective review and reconsideration” of the conviction and sentence of Mr. Jadhav and also grant consular access to India without further delay. “We were hoping that through back channel, we may be able to persuade Pakistan to let him go... They haven’t,” Mr. Salve said on May 3 while speaking online from London.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/we-fully-complied-with-icj-order-on-jadhav-pak/article31553427.ece
11 May 2020||Dhaka,||Former Bangla PM Khaleda Zia receives treatment at home amid COVID-19 lockdown||Former Bangladesh Prime Minister and main opposition leader Khaleda Zia, who was freed from prison in March after serving 25 months in two corruption cases, is undergoing treatment for multiple ailments at her home here, her family has said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/former-bangla-pm-khaleda-zia-receives-treatment-at-home-amid-covid-19-lockdown/article31553429.ece
11 May 2020||Moscow,||Moscow, May 10, 2020 (AFP) -||Russia’s space agency on Sunday confirmed that one of its rockets used in past launches and floating in space broke down on May 8, leaving debris in orbit. The agency said the Fregat-SB upper stage rocket was used to deliver the Russian scientific satellite Spektr-R to orbit in 2011.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-may-10-2020-afp/article31553433.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The trends shaping the post-COVID-19 world||The COVID-19 pandemic began as a global health crisis. As it spread rapidly across nations, country after country responded with a lockdown, triggering a global economic crisis. Certain geopolitical trendlines were already discernible but the COVID-19 shock therapy has brought these into sharper focus, defining the contours of the emerging global (dis)order. Asia ascending, U.S. waning The first trend which became clear in the aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis is the rise of Asia. Economic historians pointed to its inevitability, recalling that till the 18th century, Asia accounted for half the global GDP. The Industrial Revolution accompanied by European naval expansion and colonialism contributed to the rise of the West, and now the balance is being restored. The 2008 financial crisis showed the resilience of the Asian economies, and even today, economic forecasts indicate that out of the G-20 countries, only China and India are likely to register economic growth during 2020. Asian countries have also demonstrated greater agility in tackling the pandemic compared to the United States and Europe. This is not limited to China but a number of other Asian states have shown greater responsiveness and more effective state capacity. Consequently, Asian economies will recover faster than those in the West. The second trend is the retreat of the U.S. after a century of being in the forefront of shaping the global order. From the Treaty of Versailles and the League of Nations after World War I or the creation of the United Nations and Bretton Woods institutions after World War II, to leadership of the western world during the Cold War, moulding global responses to threats posed by terrorism or proliferation or climate change, the U.S. played a decisive role. U.S. hubris and arrogance also generated resentment, more evident in recent years. Interventions in Afghanistan and Iraq have become quagmires that have sapped domestic political will and resources. This is the fatigue that (former) U.S. President Barack Obama sensed when he talked of “leading from behind”. President Donald Trump changed it to “America first” and during the current crisis, the U.S.’s efforts at cornering supplies of scarce medical equipment and medicines and acquiring biotech companies engaged in research and development in allied states, show that this may mean “America alone”. Moreover, even as countries were losing trust in the U.S.’s leadership, its bungled response at home to the pandemic indicates that countries are also losing trust in the U.S.’s competence. The U.S. still remains the largest economy and the largest military power but has lost the will and ability to lead. This mood is unlikely to change, whatever the outcome of the election later this year. Intra-European fission A third trend is the European Union’s continuing preoccupation with internal challenges generated by its expansion of membership to include East European states, impact of the financial crisis among the Eurozone members, and ongoing Brexit negotiations. Threat perceptions vary between old Europe and new Europe making it increasingly difficult to reach agreement on political matters e:g relations with Russia and China. The trans-Atlantic divide is aggravating an intra-European rift. Rising populism has given greater voice to Euro-sceptics and permitted some EU members to espouse the virtues of “illiberal democracy”. Adding to this is the North-South divide within the Eurozone. Strains showed up when austerity measures were imposed on Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal a decade ago by the European Central Bank, persuaded by the fiscally conservative Austria, Germany and the Netherlands. Recently, ECB chief Christine Lagarde’s press statement in end-March that “ECB is not here to close spreads” undermined any solidarity that the Italians felt as they battled with the pandemic and growing borrowing costs. Further damage was done when Italy was denied medical equipment by its EU neighbours who introduced export controls, which led to China airlifting medical teams and critical supplies. Schengen visa or free-border movement has already become a victim to the pandemic. The EU will need considerable soul searching to rediscover the limits of free movement of goods, services, capital and people, the underlying theme of the European experiment of shared sovereignty. Rising China A fourth trend, related to the first, is the emergence of a stronger and more assertive China. While China’s growing economic role has been visible since it joined the World Trade Organization at the turn of the century, its more assertive posture has taken shape under President Xi Jinping’s leadership with the call that a rejuvenated China is now ready to assume global responsibilities. Chinese assertiveness has raised concerns, first in its neighbourhood, and now in the U.S. that feels betrayed because it assisted China’s rise in the hope that an economically integrated China would become politically more open. In recent years, the U.S.-China relationship moved from cooperation to competition; and now with trade and technology wars, it is moving steadily to confrontation. The pandemic has seen increasing rhetoric on both sides and with the election season in the U.S., confrontation will only increase. A partial economic de-coupling had begun and will gather greater momentum. Mr. Xi has engaged in an unprecedented centralisation of power, and with the removal of the two-term limit, has made it clear that he will continue beyond 2022. His signature Belt and Road Initiative seeks to connect China to the Eurasia and Africa through both maritime and land routes by investing trillions of dollars in infrastructure building as a kind of pre-emptive move against any U.S. attempts at containment. Even if Mr. Xi’s leadership comes under questioning, it may soften some aggressive policy edges but the confrontational rivalry with U.S. will remain. Fading organisations Global problems demand global responses. With COVID-19, international and multilateral bodies are nowhere on the scene. The World Health Organization (WHO) was the natural candidate to lead global efforts against the health crisis but it has become a victim of politics. Its early endorsement of the Chinese efforts has put it on the defensive as the U.S. blames the outbreak on a Chinese biotech lab and accuses Beijing of suppressing vital information that contributed to the spread. The UN Security Council (UNSC), the G-7 and the G-20 (latter was structured to co-ordinate a global response to the 2008 financial crisis) are paralysed at when the world faces the worst recession since 1929. The reality is that these institutions were always subjected to big power politics. During the Cold War, U.S.-Soviet rivalry blocked the UNSC on many sensitive issues and now with major power rivalry returning, finds itself paralysed again. Agencies such as WHO have lost autonomy over decades as their regular budgets shrank, forcing them to increasingly rely on voluntary contributions sourced largely from western countries and foundations. U.S. leadership strengthened the Bretton Woods institutions in recent decades (The World Bank spends 250% of WHO’s budget on global health) because the U.S.’s voting power gives it a blocking veto. The absence of a multilateral response today highlights the long-felt need for reform of these bodies but this cannot happen without collective global leadership. The energy factor The final trend relates to energy politics. Growing interest in renewables and green technologies on account of climate change concerns, and the U.S. emerging as a major energy producer were fundamentally altering the energy markets. Now, a looming economic recession and depressed oil prices will exacerbate internal tensions in West Asian countries which are solely dependent on oil revenues. Long-standing rivalries in the region have often led to local conflicts but can now create political instability in countries where regime structures are fragile. A vaccine for the novel coronavirus, possibly by end-2020, will help deal with the global health crisis but these unfolding trends have now been aggravated by the more pernicious panic virus. Rising nationalism and protectionist responses will prolong the economic recession into a depression, sharpening inequalities and polarisations. Greater unpredictability and more turbulent times lie ahead. Rakesh Sood is a former diplomat and currently Distinguished Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-trends-shaping-the-post-covid-19-world/article31553415.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Responding to COVID-19 at the grassroots||Mahatma Gandhi envisioned that a free India would rest on a foundation of gram panchayats, village republics that governed locally and epitomised Swaraj in practice. B.R. Ambedkar was sceptical; he described the caste-ridden, unequal village society as a cesspool. Yet, he was not unequivocally against decentralisation. Locally relevant initiatives The 73rd Constitutional Amendment mandates the constitution of panchayats at the district, intermediate and village levels as devolved institutions of self-government and provides for the endowment of powers and responsibilities to plan and implement programmes for social justice and economic development. This fulfilled the vision of the Mahatma, whilst addressing Dr. Ambedkar’s concerns by providing for reservation in both the elected seats and leadership positions of sarpanches, mukhiyas and adhyakshas. Yet, the progress of panchayati raj has been patchy, since its constitutionalisation 27 years ago. Some States have walked the talk by devolving untied grants to panchayats so that they can plan flexibly and implement locally relevant initiatives. However, in most, the substantive spirit of the constitutional design has been obstructed by politicians and bureaucrats, who fear the loss of their patronage powers. Panchayats are not given enough funds and are bypassed by State-controlled line departments that continue to implement programmes falling within the rightful domain of the former. Past pandemics, apart from decimating populations, have also caused paradigm shifts in the perception of governance. The plague waves of the 15th century, which killed nearly three quarters of England and nine-tenths of people in some quarters of Europe, also undermined the political position of the Pope, whose assurances that god would come to the help of the virtuous, were not fulfilled. Will the novel coronavirus crisis trigger a reaction of greater faith in the local governments, or will it result in more centralisation? The picture on the ground is a fascinating one. While much of the deservedly generous appreciation that Kerala has received for combating the COVID-19 pandemic so far is focused on its Chief Minister and Health Minister, administering the lockdown with firmness and compassion and alleviating the distress caused to the poor has also been largely due to Kerala’s empowered panchayats. True, Kerala has had a head start; no State has such a panchayat-friendly fiscal system. Nearly a third of Kerala’s plan funds have been given to the panchayats as flexible development and maintenance funds, a policy that the government follows even though it suffers from chronic fiscal stress. The Kudumbashree system, which encourages women to form self-help groups and their federations, acts as an organised civil society counterpoint to the panchayats, collaborating with and yet holding to account the latter for their performance. Kudumbashree has also been an effective incubator for women leaders who have then stepped into the political sphere; nearly 65% of all women elected to the panchayats are Kudumbashree members. Kerala’s panchayats were COVID-19-ready because years ago, they stepped in as caregivers for the old, the weak and the marginalised. From their flexible funds, panchayats feed the destitute through their Ashraya programme, and run free day care centres for the mentally and physically challenged through ‘Buds’ schools. These are initiatives in which the government later participated in, but the initiatives were those of the panchayats themselves. Moving from that to taking care of those affected by COVID-19 has been an easy transition. A revival in Karnataka In contrast, Karnataka typifies the stop-start approach of most States to strengthening local governments. Its politicians play a double game. For political reasons they have passed laws that create a powerful framework for democratic decentralisation. But in practice the panchayats are tied down through restricted finance and administrative controls, parallel structures, and have deputed officers who owe allegiance to their line departments rather than to the elected panchayat body. Most bureaucrats support and implement this charade of devolution. Yet, today, the State is witnessing a revival of panchayati raj in practice, triggered by the State response to the COVID-19 crisis. First, it would have been impossible to impose the lockdown in the State effectively without the cooperation and support of the panchayats. Second, the lockdown has also tied the hands of the government; only essential services of the government, such as the police and the health departments, are functioning without physical restrictions. All other departmental staff have stopped travelling to villages, giving instructions and monitoring their programmes and plans. Governance abhors vacuums, and that is what is prompting the revival of democratic decentralisation. As locked-in senior officials cannot oversee their frontline workers, panchayats have stepped in and are taking charge. Nearly all panchayats in Karnataka passed a formal resolution that no one in their respective areas will go hungry. Kadashettihalli Satish, an elected member to the Kadaba gram panchayat in Karnataka’s Tumkur District, is president of the Karnataka State Grama Panchayat Sadasyara Maha Okkoota, a federation of district and taluk associations of elected panchayat representatives in the State. He speaks of how panchayats are rising to the occasion. He credits the government with the creation of gram panchayat and village-level COVID-19 task forces, and the way these have begun to easily and readily function to handle the crisis. The panchayat-level task force meets twice a week. The primary health centre doctor, auxiliary nurse midwives and accredited social health activists are part of the task force in which all elected representatives and panchayat-level staff participate. Decisions taken on COVID-19 related management such as implementing the lockdown, disinfection, providing food to those who need it and ensuring the supply of other essential services are implemented by the village- level task forces. Yet, all is not well. In a panchayat in Kolar district, while the entire body resolved to buy masks for people, the panchayat development officer, an officer deputed from above and placed with the panchayat, obstructed the resolution. He owed no allegiance to the panchayat to which he was posted, and ignored government guidelines giving flexibility to panchayats to decide appropriate responses to the pandemic.  Another problem looms large. Very soon, the five-year terms of the panchayats will come to an end and an election is impossible in the current circumstances. A confident and caring government ought to continue with the current elected bodies functioning as administrators. If instead they appoint officials or their chosen political representatives to take charge, then we will know where the government stands on its commitment to democratic decentralisation. T.R. Raghunandan is Former Secretary, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Karnataka, and Former Joint Secretary, Ministry of Panchayat Raj, Government of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/responding-to-covid-19-at-the-grassroots/article31553420.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The epidemic and ensuring safety in courts||In a letter addressed to the Chief Justice of India, the Bar Council of India has opposed the continuation of virtual hearings once the lockdown is lifted, on the grounds that 90% of the advocates and judges are “unaware of technology and its nuances”. The COVID-19 crisis is far from over. Once the lockdown is lifted, unless the number of advocates/litigants is restricted in open court proceedings, the possibility of the virus spreading is high. On April 6, invoking its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution, the Supreme Court issued certain directions for the functioning of courts through video conferencing during the lockdown. The Court directed the State officials of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to liaison with the respective High Courts and formulate a plan for the virtual functioning of courts. A virtual court hearing is one where there is no physical court room. All the participants take part in proceedings using telephone or video conferencing facilities. It was made clear that the guidelines for this would be formulated by the NIC and sent to the respective courts and lawyers. But the NIC has not yet notified the guidelines. In its order, the Supreme Court had also indicated that the district courts would follow the video conferencing rules as formulated by the respective High Courts. E-filing system In the United Kingdom, a considerable amount of work has gone into putting in place the infrastructure necessary to facilitate remote court hearings. For instance, a user must have a personal computer running Windows, OS X or Linux; a web browser such as Mozilla Firefox or Google Chrome; the Adobe Reader 11 software; and a scanner. Only documents in PDF format are accepted for e-filing. Thus, e-filings involve a certain amount of technical knowledge and capability. In India, most advocates and litigants are unaware of and unwilling to use these services. The e-filing system was introduced in the Delhi High Court in 2009. Compared to the other High Courts in the country, the Delhi High Court is far ahead in terms of technology. About 10 courts in the Delhi High Court function as e-courts. Moreover, there are 13 e-courts functioning in the district courts attached to the Delhi High Court. Another 11 e-courts will soon be functional. There is also sufficient technical manpower in the Delhi High Court (70) and district courts (30). In the Delhi High Court, e-filing is mandatory for company, taxation and arbitration jurisdictions. The facility for e-filing of cases pertaining to the Delhi High Court was also made available from April 7, 2020, at all the court complexes of the Delhi district courts. Realising that the lockdown may continue for a while, the Delhi High Court formed a panel to create a graded plan for courts functioning after the lockdown. The committee, headed by Justice Hima Kohli, was formed with the expectation that there will be a deluge of new cases after the lockdown is lifted. The letter addressed by the Registrar General to the district judges attached to the Delhi High Court clearly mentions that it may not be possible to predict a definite cut-off date for the resumption of normal functioning of the court system as there is no certainty about when the COVID-19 threat will end. One of the issues refers to ensuring availability of proportionate court infrastructure till normalcy is completely restored. The Delhi High Court has sought suggestions from the district courts for the effective functioning of e-courts. In the Bombay High Court, e-courts started functioning from 2013. Initially they started taking up company matters, arbitration and conciliation matters, income tax appeals and suits. Now even writs, suits and testamentary matters are heard by e-courts. In the Madras High Court, the facility for e-filing of cases, which was initially only for bail applications, was launched on April 22, 2020. Filing of urgent cases through e-mail is also permitted now. While it is true that there is less pressure on the courts now, this will change once the lockdown is lifted. It is in this context that suitable safety measures must be put in place for conducting proceedings after the lockdown is lifted. The method of hearing post lockdown will depend on the facilities available at the court concerned. While such facilities are largely available in the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court, they are not available in the various other High Courts and subordinate courts. The judiciary must be allotted sufficient funds for self-administration and timely delivery of justice. Today, technology dictates our lifestyle, but because of lack of allocation of sufficient funds to improve and strengthen technical support for the judiciary, we in India are unable to make full use of technology. Implementing guidelines As much of the Supreme Court and many High Courts will remain closed for the summer, the High Courts can consider constituting committees, as the Delhi High Court did, to create graded plans for the courts functioning after the lockdown. They can formulate plans based on the availability of infrastructure to conduct virtual hearings or actual hearings, or by running courts in shifts. In case any of the courts are inclined to conduct open court hearings, they may have to implement some guidelines. One, only those lawyers/litigants whose cases are listed for the day’s hearing should be allowed to enter court halls. Two, the lawyers must enter in batches according to the serial number in the list. Three, thermal image cameras must be installed at the entrance of every court building, to identify risk persons. Four, every person entering the court premises must install the Aarogya Setu app on their phones. Five, at the entrance of every court complex, an automatic hand wash faucet should be installed. Six, there should be regulations on the manner of functioning and running of public utility services, canteens, etc., within the court premises with all necessary precautions. Seven, masks, gloves and sanitisers should be made available. Importantly, as junior lawyers have been seriously impacted by the lockdown, they should receive financial assistance (even in the form of a loan from a nationalised bank) from the Central government. K. Subramanian is Senior Advocate and former Advocate General of Tamil Nadu. E-mail: rks_lawyer@yahoo.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-epidemic-and-ensuring-safety-in-courts/article31553417.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Are we knocking on the wrong doors?||Daniel Defoe’s 1722 classic, A Journal of the Plague Year , is a prescient reading of both the mishandling of the COVID-19 crisis by various governments and of human distress and fortitude. At a time like this, one has to remember that for the media to remain free, it must first survive. I am petrified by a term that has been gaining currency: ‘new normal’. How can we call an uncertain future ‘normal’? Are there any policymakers who are sure of the contours of this ‘new normal’? The pandemic is being used as a pretext to empower a centralised executive and weaken the federal balance between the Union and State governments, which, at its best, was a quasi-federal arrangement in India. The government has acknowledged the economic downturn but is indifferent and insensitive to the hardships faced by many. ‘A bitter irony’ In this dire situation, the news industry is in an ironic situation. On the one hand, the pandemic has forced a large section of people to trust established news brands rather than the viral content on social media. A study by the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism (RISJ) on how institutions are responding to the COVID-19 pandemic in the U.K. revealed that “more than one-third (37%) think that the news media is doing a good job of responding to COVID-19, higher than the equivalent figure for technology companies (15%)”. But at the same time, the industry is in a crisis. Adam Gabbatt’s report for The Guardian in early April captured the situation well. He wrote: “As journalists across the US scramble to cover the impact of the coronavirus, they are grappling with a bitter irony: as demand for their stories soars, the decline of the business model that funds them is speeding up catastrophically.” At a deeper level, the news industry is paying a price for its past folly of laying emphasis on reach over revenue. The cover price was kept low, and digital content was not monetised because of the faith that the reach would generate more advertising revenue. In November 2019, a study by the Tow Center for Digital Journalism revealed the uneasy relationship between the technology majors and news organisations. It said: “The most discernible difference between past findings and those of our most recent interviews is that any hope that scale-based platform products might deliver meaningful or consistent revenue for publishers has disappeared. This does not mean, however, that publishers will no longer work with platforms — an impossible scenario, as the latter are the gatekeepers of the online information ecosystem — but rather that any optimism about the ability of ad-based products to sustain journalism seems all but gone.” BBC Media Action, the charity arm of the BBC, has come up with a feasibility study for an International Fund for Public Interest Media. It spells out the difficulties before the news media industry: “As advertising revenue to journalism organisation declines, political and other factional actors invest in their own media, and the costs of carrying out independent journalism escalate, the business models available to public interest media are disappearing. The evolution of digital advertising, in particular, has destroyed funding models for journalism — news media are on course to lose around $23.8 billion in annual advertising revenue between 2017 and 2021.” Media managers are in an elusive search for a viable revenue stream. The India-specific figures for the financial year ending March 2020, and the projections for the first quarter of 2021, are alarming. Support from readers For nearly a decade, the RISJ has been arguing that independent, professional journalism needs freedom, funding and a future. While there is a near consensus about what constitutes media freedom, there are divergent views about funding and the future. One section feels that the government should come up with a bailout package for the news industry, a model which may seriously cripple the autonomy of the news organisation. Another section prefers a not-for-profit model, funded through philanthropy, without realising the pitfalls of constantly negotiating with the prescriptive agenda of various foundations. While I do not discount the value of timely help from various quarters to the beleaguered news industry, the political economy of the industry shows that only enhanced support from its principal supporters — readers — will endure and not hurt the core values of journalism. We need to identify, in a dispassionate manner, the right doors to knock on. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/are-we-knocking-on-the-wrong-doors/article31553423.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The face of exploitation||As thousands of migrant workers walk across India in a desperate attempt to reunite with their families, States are competing with one another to provide greater relaxation of labour laws to appear ‘industry friendly’. U.P., for instance, has cleared an ordinance exempting businesses and industries from labour laws, except for a handful, for three years. The Centre has done the same through its many circulars and clarifications issued during the lockdown. The worst affected are the migrant workers. Mere eyewash The lockdown has clearly established that migrant workers are the backbone of India’s economy. The sudden announcement of the nationwide lockdown on March 23 left an estimated 13 crore migrants with no way to return home and no money. However, the State and Centre remained quiet about ensuring adequate relief to them or ways for them to return home. When the lockdown was relaxed from April 20, the Standard Operating Procedure issued permitted asymptomatic workers to return to their worksites where they were to reside, but not to their home State. This denial, trade unions alleged, was because industry heads were worried that there would be labour shortage when industries reopened; that if migrant workers returned home, they may not come back to work immediately. However, the same industrial heads did nothing to ensure that these workers were given adequate food, shelter and their dues during the lockdown. Recently, Karnataka cancelled Shramik trains after the Chief Minister met prominent builders in the State. The April 29 order permitting inter-State movement of migrant workers was just eyewash. It permitted only “stranded workers” to leave, with the Centre clarifying that workers “otherwise residing normally at places, other than their native places for purposes of work” are not “stranded”. Yet another circular said that the workers, who have no money left, would have to pay for their train tickets. It was clear that all these were deliberate attempts to prevent workers from leaving the State. Railways and inter-State travel are within the Centre’s control. The Central government could have ensured that travel was free. Effectively, the Centre once again sought to protect industry at the cost of the workers’ rights, while appearing as though it was doing its best for the workers. The dispute about payment of fare also provided a ready excuse to the States to prevent workers from crossing borders. Violating rights Through their various actions, the States and the Centre are consistently and systemically violating the fundamental rights of migrant workers. Article 23 of the Constitution prohibits “forced labour”. The Supreme Court, in PUDR v. Union of India (1982), held that “the word ‘force’ must... be construed to include... force arising from the compulsion of economic circumstances which leaves no choice of alternatives to a person in want and compels him to provide labour or service even though the remuneration received for it is less than the minimum wage.” It would also run afoul of the International Labour Organization’s ‘Employment and Decent Work for Peace and Resilience Recommendation, 2017’ which requires states to ensure marginalised groups “freely choose employment” while rebuilding after any disaster. Thus, the various Home Ministry directives and State ordinances would be violative not only of India’s own Constitution but also its international commitments. Industry leaders, ministers and bureaucrats have denied workers the dignity and respect they deserve as fellow humans. Workers are being treated as a resource to be exploited by industry and state. The workers have no autonomy. This autonomy over self is at the core of dignity, a fundamental right. Until we develop a plan that respects this invisible 13-crore force, there can be no real revival of India’s economy or society. N.S. Tanvi is an Advocate at the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-face-of-exploitation/article31553424.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Coming to terms||As early as March 28, the Health Ministry acknowledged that there was “limited community transmission” of the novel coronavirus in India. On April 9, the ICMR and Health Ministry researchers — some of them are national task force members for COVID-19 — in a journal paper, provided evidence suggesting the prevalence of community transmission in 36 districts across 15 States. The sentinel surveillance for community transmission undertaken by the task force among patients hospitalised for severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) found 40 of the 102 who tested positive for the virus had no travel history or contact with a known positive case, while data on exposure was not available for another 59 SARI patients. Yet, the ICMR consistently maintained that the virus had not spread to the community. On May 5, even when the total number of nation-wide cases was close to 47,000, the Health Minister said that India’s virus spread had not gone to stage three. While there has been no hesitation in declaring local transmission caused by people who have a travel history, the government has been extremely hesitant to admit community transmission. The reluctance is surprising given that the total cases reported so far has already crossed 63,500, and the nature of spread is through droplet transmission and contact with contaminated surfaces. In contrast, is the U.S. On February 26, when the total number of cases was just 60, it confirmed community spread following the detection in California of the first case with no travel history or contact with a known positive case. One reason why India refused to confirm community spread early on could be the compulsion to expand testing when the country did not have the capacity to test huge numbers each day. But there is no reason now to continue being in denial, as that erodes public trust in the government. Against this background, the latest decision to initiate a study in 75 hotspot districts to confirm community spread and ascertain the proportion of community already exposed to the virus is encouraging. The study had apparently got delayed by about a month due to the non-availability of reliable rapid antibody tests. Due to the unreliability of rapid antibody test, the government will instead use the ELISA test to check for infection. Since the ELISA test detects antibodies to the virus, the survey will be able to pick previously infected people including those who were asymptomatic for the entire duration of the infection. Since it takes one to three weeks for the antibodies to develop, the ELISA test will miss people who have been recently infected. The survey, scheduled to begin later this month in collaboration with the States concerned, will randomly test about 30,000 people in the general population. Meanwhile, all States should continue with strict containment and mitigation measures, acting on the assumption that the virus has indeed spread in the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/coming-to-terms/article31553411.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Tragedy on the tracks||The tragedy of 16 strewn bodies on a railway track in Maharashtra on Friday morning has been in the making for weeks now. The Centre and several States have been engaged in flip-flops on facilitating the return of migrant workers to their homes. In the present instance, the workers at a company in Jalna in Maharashtra were walking on the track to their families in Madhya Pradesh some 800 km away after the national lockdown since March derailed their livelihoods. The Centre’s inability to clearly communicate to the public and States the purpose and protocol of the lockdown every step of the way has put people through completely avoidable hardship. This governance failure was aggravated by several States, either due to lack of capacity or incompetence. The sight of an endless stream of migrant labourers, some of them carrying toddlers and the infirm, walking towards India’s poorer regions from its economic centres, will remain an indelible memory of this inept and insensitive approach that had not taken their particular circumstances into account. Under orders to stop their movement at any cost, the police in many places forced them to walk back. This particular group took to the rail track to escape the police, according to survivors. Though it did not spare any effort to make spectacles out of an unfolding pestilence, each government announcement about the lockdown threw even the educated public into a tailspin, and required numerous clarifications and amendments. To argue that this is a once-in-a-century event that caught even developed countries napping could at best be a tenuous defence. Even after it woke from the slumber and announced special trains to ferry the stranded and starving workforce to their homes, confusion reigned. Onerous paper work and huge costs were heaped on these hapless citizens who manage to barely get by even in the best of times. States acted arbitrarily; courts intervened thoughtlessly. Hunger, humiliation and fear of the disease made thousands of these migrants so desperate that they ventured to walk thousands of kilometres to get home. All of this could have been managed better had the Centre worked with States to map out a strategy to support those who wanted to stay where they were, and organised the return of those who chose to do so in an orderly manner. A huge cost has already been paid in lives and suffering, but even now there can be measures to mitigate the situation. For that, it must have a more open and honest communication with State governments, and citizens. Tough measures may be essential but caring ones are just as vital. This unfolding tragedy must be stopped in its tracks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tragedy-on-the-tracks/article31553410.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Buzz on Cabinet reshuffle||This has been a weary weekend of searing heat and seasonal rumours of impending Cabinet changes which have become a routine ritual here [New Delhi] before the end of every Parliament session. For the last few days, Delhi has been buzzing with both informed and uninformed reports of an early Cabinet reshuffle. But the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, has become even more uncommunicative on the subject in the face of this widespread speculation. What is known so far about the scope of the proposed changes is that the Prime Minister has been working for some time on two or three sets of proposals for a reshuffle, ranging from a major shake-up to make the Cabinet more reflective of her political thinking as well as the current power factors in the party to a routine instalment of new appointments to fill the existing vacancies without displacing any of her senior colleagues or altering the present Cabinet structure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/buzz-on-cabinet-reshuffle/article31553421.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Must you keep off debt mutual funds?||The Franklin Templeton crisis has brought to light many instances of mis-selling and mis-buying in debt mutual funds (MFs), where many folks seem to have signed up for these products without understanding their true nature. Here are specific situations in which you should avoid investing in debt funds. Securing the principal If the top attribute you look for in a debt investment is your principal remaining intact, then debt MFs aren’t for you. Unlike deposits or small savings schemes, debt MFs are market-linked vehicles that pass on not just interest receipts, but also capital gains or losses on the bonds they own, to you. Some categories of debt funds are highly prone to capital losses. Funds which invest in longer-dated government securities or bonds fall in this category. Gilt funds made 12-13% NAV losses between January 2009 and 2010 as interest rates rose. Funds that invest in lower- rated corporate bonds (credit risk funds) can hit you with substantial losses, if the issuers, whose bonds they hold, default or get downgraded. In the recent past, we’ve seen some credit risk funds taking 20-30% NAV knocks on such write-offs. Even safer categories of debt funds such as ultra-short, short, low-duration or liquid funds are not wholly loss-proof. In the past, liquid, short and low duration funds have taken NAV hits on commercial paper from issuers who got downgraded. Liquid funds, deemed the safest, experienced a brief period of negative returns in March after big pullouts from the money market-battered bond prices. So, if you have zero tolerance for capital losses, it is best to steer clear of debt funds and stick to bank deposits or post office schemes instead. Predictable income With a bank deposit or a Sundaram Finance FD it is possible to know exactly at the time of investing, the interest income you’re likely to receive every year. Such planning is impossible with debt funds because of the high variability in returns. Some debt fund categories are more volatile than others. For instance, gilt funds, which delivered a 11% return in 2019, earned just 2% in 2017. Credit risk funds, which surprised investors with 9-11% returns between 2011 and 2016, have averaged a nil return in 2019 after a bunch of debt write-offs. But even debt fund categories that don’t take on very high credit or duration risks tend to deliver volatile returns. In the last ten years, corporate bond funds have seen their annual returns swing from 5.5% to 11% and banking/PSU funds from 5.9% to 10%. Short duration and liquid funds have delivered between 5% and 10%. Knowing which category of debt fund will deliver a good return in the year ahead needs one to make accurate forecasts on interest rate movements and the ability of companies to service their debt. Even star fund managers haven’t been great at this, so it’s a tall task for the retail investor. Yes, setting up Systematic Withdrawal Plans (SWPs) to receive regular cash flows from debt funds can help you deal with this problem. But while SWPs smoothen out your cash flows, they don’t change the underlying nature of returns from a debt fund that remain volatile. So, if you are a pensioner, senior citizen or self-employed person looking for high predictability of income, then debt funds aren’t for you. Preserving wealth Received a big windfall from an employer/relative that you simply want to protect? Are you a high net worth investor who is looking to preserve the wealth you’ve created for posterity? If preserving wealth takes priority over growing it, then you have no need to take on the risk of capital losses or bond market volatility with debt MFs. Such investors have the choice of alternative debt investments that offer reasonable returns with a capital guarantee such as GOI 7.75% taxable bonds, National Savings Certificates (6.8%) or Kisan Vikas Patra (6.9%) which lock in your money for 5-9 years but promise to keep your capital intact. The returns are comparable to debt funds too. No tax considerations Tax-efficiency is one of the main arguments offered for signing up for debt funds. Your interest receipts from bank FDs, GOI bonds and post office schemes are treated as income and taxed at your income tax slab rate. But returns on the growth options of debt funds are treated as capital gains. This leads to two tax advantages. One, when you hold a debt fund for less than 3 years and set up cash flows via SWP, you pay tax only on the ‘return’ part of your withdrawals and not on the entire withdrawal amount. Two, if you hold debt funds for over 3 years, the capital gains are taxed at a flat 20% after adjusting for indexed costs, effectively allowing you to pay tax only on the returns earned over inflation. This leads to substantially better post-tax returns on debt funds compared to safer alternatives such as bank or post office deposits. However, this tax arbitrage matters mainly to folks in the 20-30% tax brackets. For those in the 10% bracket or with no tax liability, the tax efficiency may not be incentive enough to take on higher risks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/must-you-keep-off-debt-mutual-funds/article31553403.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Go for the right cover drive||Buying a new car is a major decision in the life of an individual. He/she gets the feeling of having made a wise decision after the deal. Now comes the crucial decision on insuring the vehicle. There are too many confusing and enticing options. Earlier, the option was to approach an insurance company’s office or leave the decision to the dealer who is bound to have an alliance with an insurance company (acting as an agent for commission), to obtain a policy. But today, the customer has umpteen options as listed below, with pros and cons discussed. The first option is where the dealer issues the policy as an MISP (Motor Insurance Service Provider) — the dealer probably puts in more effort for selling insurance than the car itself. The dealer gets a commission and an incentive for selling the policies. Some dealers even force buyers to take insurance from them under the pretext that in the event of a claim, they will have a problem and cannot get cashless claim settlement. There is nothing wrong in insuring the car with dealers who are authorised MISPs if the premium quoted is competitive and the service satisfactory. If there is any accumulated no-claim discount on your old car (a maximum of up to 50%), it can be transferred to the new car policy thereby leading to a substantial reduction in premium outgo. You should inform the dealer of the discount to your credit with proof. The policy is also issued across the counter as most companies have tie-ups with the dealers. With certain dealers, the premium charged is also more as the discount allowed on the own damage portion is limited whereas in the open market, it goes even beyond 70%. The second option available to the buyer is through brokers of authorised dealers — here again, the policy is issued by the dealer as an MISP through the broker intermediary. Major auto manufacturers have their own subsidiary broking companies to insure the vehicles sold through their dealer network and earn a commission of about 20%. A major auto brand broker controls more than Rs. 6,000 crore of insurance premium a year. Certain brokers limit the discount on premium to 30% and the car buyer ends up paying more premium whereas in the open market, discounts of up to 70% are offered. The mandatory third-party liability premium is decided by regulator IRDAI. These brokers also force the companies in their tie-ups to limit the premium discount to 30% in their software so that nobody can go to other channels and get the policy at a cheaper price. It amounts to preventing customers from benefiting from open market competition. The customers can decide about placing the insurance via this route if they are convinced of the service rendered and premium advantage. Three, buyers can obtain a policy directly from insurance firms or through general insurance agents — most of us may be dealing with offices of insurance companies/agents for the insurance of our two/four-wheelers, health insurance and other such policies. One can ask for a new car policy with maximum discount from insurers as they compete in offering maximum discount to underwrite more of private car insurance. If you have an old car with accumulated no claim discount (NCB/NCD), the same can be transferred to the new policy after paying back the no-claim discount availed in the policy of the old car. Insurance can be taken through the IRDAI-approved general insurance agents also as the premium cost does not rise even if it is insured through an intermediary. But let it be through a trusted agent as there are a few cases of fake policies issued by some agents authorised to use the company’s portal. There is a built-in personal accident cover for Rs. 15 lakh for the owner-driver in the event of death or permanent disability due to accident involving the insured vehicle. Make nomination of beneficiary in the policy for easy transfer of benefit in case of such an eventuality. Add-on benefits One can also opt for certain add-on benefits to the policy on payment of additional premium. a) Option of nil depreciation policy (also called Bumper-to-Bumper) to avoid deduction on account of depreciation in the event of accident damage repair. b) Engine protection cover to protect the replacement expenses of internal parts of the engine, gearbox, transmission and differential assembly arising as a consequence of an accident or flooding involving the insured vehicle. (Under a regular policy, insurance companies deny the liability stating that the damage to the engine when moved by the owner is a consequential loss.) c) Cost of key replacement in case of loss d) Return to invoice cover is an add-on offered in a comprehensive car insurance plan for new cars, or those less than five years old. This cover allows the insured customer to receive full compensation, i.e. the last complete invoice value of their car, in case it has been stolen or damaged beyond repair. The fourth option for buyers is through web aggregators or directly through insurers’ customer portals — the tech-savvy, younger generation is used to e–commerce and is more comfortable online. This generation gets a thrill in finding attractive rates and finalising the insurance cover on the Net. However, while taking a policy, verify the credentials of the web aggregator/insurance company behind the promise or the contract. It is advisable to go through the direct portals of the IRDAI-approved general insurance companies. A word of caution though: be careful while taking policies through web aggregators as a few cases of fraud and issue of bogus policies have been reported. Claims settlement Check the arrangements for settlement of claim in the event of an accident. Most firms settle claim directly with the insured. Find out whether they can settle directly with the workshop by any arrangement. Even in the case of direct settlement with the dealer, please verify the amount and the extent of damage claimed by the dealer as certain unscrupulous service centres might make a claim for inflated amounts without the knowledge of the insured, affecting the renewal of the policy and premium loading. ( The author retired as a general manager of a nationalised insurance company )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/go-for-the-right-cover-drive/article31553409.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Loose hangechangechangeoose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-hangechangechangeoose-change/article31553405.ece
11 May 2020||New Delhi,||Kohli ‘absolutely loves’ the IPL||The camaraderie that players share during the Indian Premier League (IPL) is what makes the tournament special for India and Royal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli. Kohli would have been leading RCB in the 2020 edition of the T20 league had it not been for the coronavirus pandemic forcing its postponement. “You do play all your tournaments, which is one team versus another, ICC tournaments come every now and then, but even in ICC tournaments, you don’t really interact with the other team players or you see the other teams so often every now and then,” Kohli said on Star Sports’ Cricket Connected.  “But in the IPL, you are just probably meeting another team every second or third day and that’s the beauty of the IPL, you are playing in a different atmosphere.” Playing with the best RCB may not have enjoyed too much success in the IPL thus far, but Kohli has shared the dressing room with some of the biggest names in the sport such as A.B. de Villiers and Chris Gayle. Kohli also said that the connection that the franchises are able to make with fans of their cities also makes the tournament special. “I absolutely love that tournament and also for the camaraderie which you share with so many new players that you play with, so many players that you have known for a long time now, not from your own country, those who you don’t see often. “There is one more reason why everyone loves the IPL: there is a connect, of players and fans and of viewers,” he said.  The connection the franchises make with the fans of their cities also makes the tournament special Virat Kohli||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-absolutely-loves-the-ipl/article31553540.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||China wins Online Nations Cup||China won the inaugural $180,000 FIDE Chess.com Online Nations Cup following a 2-2 draw against USA on Sunday. China, which lost to USA in the concluding league match on Saturday evening, was declared the winner on the basis of its topping the points table in the round-robin stage. China won $48,000, USA $36,000 and others received $24,000 each. Superfinal ends even After Ding Liren and Hikaru Nakamura signed peace and Hou Yifan drew with Irina Krush, Yu Yangyi continued his stupendous form by avenging Saturday’s loss to Wesley So and ensured the title for China. Soon, Fabiano Caruana went on to defeat Wei Yi to make it 2-2. On Saturday, India concluded its campaign by playing to its seeding and finished fifth, ahead of sixth seed Rest of the World (RoW). With Viswanathan Anand taking a break on the final day of the league stage, India lost 1.5-2.5 to third seed Russia. Vidit and Adhiban lose As seen during the better part of the league, the poor form of Vidit Gujrathi and reserve player B. Adhiban reflected in India’s defeat, its sixth in 10 rounds. Humpy’s victory over Olga Girya was the only bright spot for India after P. Harikrishna drew with Sergey Karjakin. Vidit was the first to lose, to Vladislav Artemiev and later, Adhiban became a victim of time-pressure and committed a series of mistakes despite attaining a good grip over the proceedings against Dmitry Andreikin.  The results: Superfinal: China drew with USA 2-2 (Ding Liren drew with Hikaru Nakamura; Wei Yi lost to Fabiano Caruana; Yu Yangyi bt Wesley So; Hou Yifan drew with Irina Krush)   10th round: Russia bt India 2.5-1.5 (Vladislav Artemiev bt Vidit Gujrathi; Sergey Karjakin drew with P. Harikrishna; Dmitry Andreikin bt B. Adhiban; Olga Girya lost to K. Humpy); USA bt China 2.5-1.5; Europe drew with Rest of the World 2-2.   Standings (after 10 rounds): 1. China (17 match-points), 2-3. USA and Europe (13 each), 4. Russia (8), 5. India (5), 6. RoW (4) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/china-wins-online-nations-cup/article31553532.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Coaches look at professionalism||Professional coaches came up with refreshingly pragmatic answers in providing a robust conclusion to the fortnight-long webinar, organised by Sports Authority of India and the All India Tennis Association (AITA). Chairman of the coaches education programme Bharat Oza was thrilled with the progress made by the coaches ever since the movement was put into motion in 1999. Licensing for coaches He stressed the importance of licensing for coaches on par with other professionals so that everyone could keep themselves updated. “Grass is always green on the other side,” said former Davis Cup and Fed Cup coach Nandan Bal as he viewed the spurt of young players going to Europe, USA and other countries in Asia for training. “Indian coaches have high technical competence,” said Nandan while stressing that many players were ironing out their flaws by going for rigorous training abroad. “If the kids reach technical proficiency and are physically ready, they can take advantage of training abroad,” said Nandan. Fruitful venture Coach Hemant Bendrey sought further tuning of the tournament structure and ranking system for juniors. He also viewed American college tennis as a fruitful venture for Indian players who were maturing late, but felt they needed to retain the focus on tennis to benefit from the system.  Coach Gary O’Brien highlighted the fine work of the Chandigarh Rural Tennis Scheme (CHART) and asked the coaches to keep about 10% of the earnings in their centres to encourage good players with incentives. Coach Kawaljeet Singh highlighted the importance of tuning the attitude of the kids towards the ball. He asked the coaches to encourage the kids to gain strong foundation. Sureshkumar Sonachalam, director of coaching, who anchored the show for two hours every day for 12 days, said that entry-level tennis had become remarkably affordable and that good players would get support as they progressed. Selection of racquets Nar Singh said there were enough courts and schemes available for everyone, and that travel made it financially hard for many players after a stage. He also talked about the selection of racquets, string patterns and different strings that can make a world of difference to one’s game.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coaches-look-at-professionalism/article31553684.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Give LBW if ball is hitting stumps: Ian Chappell||Former Australia captain Ian Chappell has proposed radical changes in the LBW laws, stating that a batsman should be given out leg before as long as the ball is hitting the stumps irrespective of the spot of its landing and impact. “The new lbw law should simply say: ‘Any delivery that strikes the pad without first hitting the bat and, in the umpire’s opinion, would go on to hit the stumps is out regardless of whether or not a shot is attempted’,” he wrote in a column for ESPNcricinfo . “Forget where the ball pitches and whether it strikes the pad outside the line or not; if it’s going to hit the stumps, it’s out.” Numerous positives “There will be screams of horror — particularly from pampered batsmen — but there are numerous positives this change would bring to the game. Most important is fairness. “If a bowler is prepared to attack the stumps regularly, the batsman should only be able to protect his wicket with the bat. The pads are there to save the batsman from injury not dismissal. It would also force batsmen to seek an attacking method to combat a wrist-spinner pitching in the rough outside the right-hander’s leg stump,” said Chappell. Chappell said his proposed change to the lbw law would also cut down “frivolous” DRS challenges. Working up the ball On the substitute of shining the ball without sweat and saliva, Chappell said international captains should find out a way of working up the ball. “With ball-tampering always a hot topic, in the past I’ve suggested that administrators ask international captains to construct a list (i.e. the use of natural substances) detailing the things bowlers feel will help them to swing the ball.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/give-lbw-if-ball-is-hitting-stumps-ian-chappell/article31553535.ece
11 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||EMESA harnesses cyberwaves||Sailing is a non-contact sport, but the lockdown has confined everyone, including sailors, indoors. And, in order to keep those involved with the sport up-to-date on rules and regulations and to keep them mentally fit, EME Sailing Association is conducting online classes. Using technology “We are using technology to help sailors understand the rules, for this is one sport where half the battle is won if you are good at getting them right,” EMESA honorary secretary Lt. Col. Alok Yadav told The Hindu in a telephonic chat on Sunday. “With Hussain Sagar Lake closed because of the lockdown, we began the online classes four weeks ago and are really pleased with the response,” he said. “The training is in four categories — for medal prospects, novice sailors, novice juniors and sailing race officials. “Panel discussions by coaches on racing rules, briefings on diet, psychology management and physical fitness with former National champion Sub. Maj. B.K. Rout form the sessions,” he said. “The lockdown has come at a time when most of the sailors were dominating the scene going by the performances in the 2019 Hyderabad Sailing Week,” Lt. Col. Alok Yadav said. “The Yachting Association of India has always appreciated and supported EMESA. In fact, EMESA was named ‘Best Sailing Club’ in 2019,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/emesa-harnesses-cyberwaves/article31553755.ece
11 May 2020||STOCKHOLM,||I will ask for at least triple, says Magnus Carlsen||The Online Nations Cup promoter Chess.com ’s tweet that Magnus Carlsen was invited but the Norwegian was not “willing to play under the same financial conditions as the other participants” has not been taken kindly by the World champion. Carlsen re-tweeted the statement with the quote, “Thanks for putting up a very entertaining event, and letting me now that I will be invited to events in the future! Now that you have outed me as greedy, I will ask for at least triple what I would have asked this time, though.” Earlier, Chess.com said in a statement that it would have loved to have Carlsen participate in the tournament. “Unfortunately, though an offer to play was extended by each of FIDE director general Emil Sutovsky and president Arkady Dvorkovich, our understanding is that Magnus was not willing to play under the same financial conditions as the other participants. We have the utmost respect for Magnus’ talent, and he will continue to receive invites to Chess.com ’s events on a regular basis, just as he has for many years,” said the website’s statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-will-ask-for-at-least-triple-says-magnus-carlsen/article31553599.ece
11 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Prashant steals the show||India’s top stars took part in an online carrom exhibition event, organised by the All India Carrom Federation on Facebook Live, during the weekend. Reigning world champion Prashant More thrilled the fans, accumulating 260 points in the 50-minute solo show by each player and smashing three slams along the way. Vikas Dharia (221) and Sandeep Dive (207) scored two slams each, while former World champion Yogesh Pardeshi (126) had a slam. Abhijeet Tipankar finished with 94 points. A board was deemed finished with the first miss or after a slam. Every slam fetched 20 bonus points.  “It is a great initiative to take top-class carrom to homes across the world,” said Prashant. In the women’s section, Debajani Tamuly topped with 217 points (one slam). Two-time World champion Rashmi Kumari (186) and Aisha Sajid (171), with a slam each, finished in that order. Khushboo Rani (114) and Kajal Kumari (112) were the other contestants. SYNCO, the company producing carrom boards, offered the players Rs. 5,000 for each slam. Rashmi donated the prize-money, along with her own contribution, to the PM-CARES Fund. “This will be an inspiration and guidance for the young players,” said Bharti Narayan, AICF secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prashant-steals-the-show/article31553530.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Badrinath live!||Catch former India and Chennai Super Kings batsman S. Badrinath in a live chat on Sportstar ’s Instagram handle ( @sportstarweb ) on May 11 (Monday) at 7 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/badrinath-live/article31553528.ece
11 May 2020||New Delhi,||East Bengal issue: FPAI to approach AIFF||The Football Players’ Association of India (FPAI) is planning to approach the AIFF seeking its intervention after East Bengal Club’s investors Quess Corp terminated the players’ contract in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic which brought sporting activities to halt. A number of East bengal players had approached FPAI after they were told they won’t be given salaries after the I-League’s remaining matches couldn’t be held. “Previously only three-four players had come... now we have around 12 and we are looking into their contracts. We will approach Quess and after hearing their reply, we will go to the AIFF Player’s Status Committee,” said FPAI’s player liaison officer Siddhartha Bhattacharya. “All of them have sent their contracts and we have divided them into two categories as per the tenure left.” FPAI GM Cyrus Confectioner has already spoken to the East Bengal officials and said they cannot be in denial as it is the club that makes the contract, not the investors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/east-bengal-issue-fpai-to-approach-aiff/article31553533.ece
11 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Boredom-bred online chess goes global||Nirmal Das had on March 28 launched an online chess tournament out of sheer boredom induced by the lockdown. The intention of this 39-year-old civil engineer in Tripura’s Public Works Department was to connect with a dozen-odd players of the board game in his hometown and Agartala. In 44 days, the fee-free tournament played across four formats had 975 participants from across the globe and counting. Some tournament regulars are from countries as far as Brazil, Germany, South Korea and the Philippines. Many foreign and Indian participants have a FIDE rating of more than 2,000 — a benchmark for quality players. “Chess has been my passion, though not of the digital kind. Boredom because of staying indoors during the initial days of lockdown made me log on to lichess.org , a chess portal. “The idea of an online tournament on this platform struck me and I decided to give it a try,” Mr. Das told The Hindu on Sunday. The tournament started with 15 local enthusiasts, including his son who had participated in the Under-7 Nationals in 2019. About 70 players from Agartala signed up in less than a week followed by 80 more from Assam and other north-eastern States. Chess lovers from Delhi, Karnataka and other States saw Mr. Das conducting the tournament for 450 players. “It kept getting bigger as players from Bangladesh, Nepal, the Philippines, South Korea, Germany, Brazil and other countries have joined,” he said. The oldest in the fray At 75, Anju Sarkar, a former Tripura chess champion, is a regular at these online tournaments and is the oldest player. Mr. Das has set a condition for Indian participants: download the corona tracker first. The entry for foreign participants is unconditional. The duration for the tournament for the bullet, blitz and rapid chess tournaments is two hours. For classical chess, it is 2 hours 30 minutes. The top seven performers feature on the honours’ list every day. “What excites me is that I have been able to provide a platform where any chess player can play against any other, with or without FIDE ranking,” Mr. Das said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/boredom-bred-online-chess-goes-global/article31553527.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Power of mantras||We can take small steps towards achieving control over our senses and mind, and such control is necessary before we can approach an Acharya for mantropadesa. Once we start practising, gradually self-control comes easily to us, over a period of time. And then we will be able to focus our thoughts on deities we have worshipped in temples. The image comes before our eyes, when we begin to meditate. And once we begin to visualise the Lord, our control over our senses gets firmer, and we become ready to be the recipients of mantropadesa from our Acharya. There are many mantras, each yielding different results. Narayana mantra, also known as Ashtakshara mantra, can give us everything, said Velukkudi Krishnan, in a discourse. That is why Thirumangai Azhvar said this mantra can give us status, wealth; furthermore, it gets rid of sorrow; it assures moksha; it does more good than even a mother does. Thirumangai Azhvar was blessed to be initiated into the Narayana mantra, by the Lord Himself. There are other mantras besides the Narayana mantra, each giving a specific result. Recitation of Rama mantra gives one progeny; recitation of Gopala mantra gives one wealth; Varaha mantra confers strength; Nrisimha mantra gets rid of fear. For Sri Vaishnavas Ashtakshara mantra and dhvaya mantra are important. Ashtakshara is also called moola mantra or Tirumantra. A Sri Vaishnava must also learn the charama sloka. Moola mantra, dhvaya and charama sloka must be learnt only from an Acharya. The dhvaya is called mantra Ratnam — the gem among all mantras. Ashtakshara mantra was given by Lord Narayana Himself. Charama sloka was given by Lord Krishna to Arjuna. It is found in the Bhagavad Gita. Gayatri mantra has twenty-four aksharas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/power-of-mantras/article31553479.ece
11 May 2020||May 11 2020 07:54 IST,||Sudoku - May 11, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-11-2020/article31554260.ece
11 May 2020||Delhi-NCR,||‘Nothing is more dangerous than hunger’||More than a month after they were given no other option than to count days until they could be “free” again, thousands of migrant workers stranded in the National Capital Region (NCR) await their turn to be transported back to their hometowns. Offering them hope, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on April 29 allowed the movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and individuals stranded at different places, first by inter-State buses and then special trains according to strict guidelines. The shifting of migrants was already being undertaken by different State and district administrations within the NCR on inter-State buses even before these guidelines. The MHA order gave hope to residents of faraway destinations in Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal for whom special trains can now be arranged. However, like all initiatives, it is taking time, though those associated with the initiative argued that the process has commenced and will gather steam over the coming days. ‘Bonded labour’ A week after the guidelines, at the Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School in south Delhi’s Jangpura, a group of 30-odd labourers are still lodged with their families in makeshift houses. Employed for the construction of a new school building, the labourers, most of whom are from Madhya Pradesh’s Tikamgarh district, said that the government’s “lack of initiative” in transporting them home was equivalent to allowing “bonded labour”. The Delhi government estimates that the number of migrant workers lodged at 111 shelters ranges between 5,000 and 12,000. By a senior Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) official’s count, the total number, irrespective of whether they were migrant workers or “locals”, came to around 14,000. Over 1,000 such workers were sent to Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh on a special train on Thursday and an equal number departed for Muzaffarpur in Bihar on Friday. An estimated 11,000 — a majority of whom are from Bihar — are scheduled to be send home in the coming days. With these two trips, the numbers are down to around 8,000. Surendra Kumar Banskar, a labourer, lamented: “It is almost like we have been held captive and treated like slaves just because we are poor. The leaders have completely forgotten that we are the ones who bring governments to power. We are forced to travel thousands of kilometres away from home in search of work only because we need money to feed our families. But in the last two months, we have not been able to send a single penny. There is no money to treat people for basic injuries. It is impossible for us to continue living like this.” Futile attempts The group in Jangpura made two attempts to “walk” back to M.P., but on both occasions they were “caught” by the police near Badarpur. “Our children and families are more important to us than the virus. The government should have at least warned us before the lockdown and given us a chance to be with our families. The lockdown has already been extended twice. We want to warn the governments that we are not ready for yet another round of lockdown. We want to go back to our villages immediately,” Mr. Banskar asserted. Akhilesh Kumar, another labourer, shared his lockdown agony: “On a given day my wife and I would earn Rs. 700 together. Since the lockdown started, we have earned nothing in the last two months and the government has not provided any monetary relief. At this stage, the least they can do is arrange transport.”  While most seemed unaware of the registration process initiated by the Delhi government, 30-year-old Haripad Kumar claimed that police personnel had collected their details more than a week ago and promised to take them back home in trains on May 3. “Nothing has happened since then. Now they do not even bother responding to our queries,” he said. Inmates of the Government Girls’ Senior Secondary School in Sriniwaspuri, comprising mostly migrant workers from Anand Vihar and homeless people around Nizamuddin, admitted they were unaware of the registration process. Nandu, who is from Jabalpur, fumes he can no longer live in the city. “We have no work, no money and no family in the city. Why are we being forced to stay here like this? We were brought back from Anand Vihar and told that we would have to stay here for only 14 days. Now it has been longer than that. How long do we have to stay here?” he asked. Swelling numbers Around 2.50 lakh migrants had registered on the Haryana government’s e-Disha portal till Thursday. With the Gurugram-Manesar-Bawal industrial belt being the hub of automobile manufacturing industry, and a large number of garments units scattered across Udyog Vihar areas of the district, Gurugram has a large population of migrant workers, mostly from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. A large number of domestic workers and seasonal farm workers for rabi crops are also among them. Though thousands, mostly from Uttar Pradesh, left in hordes soon after the lockdown was announced in March, the number of migrants willing to return home could run into a few lakhs in Gurugram. Around 1.5 lakh people have registered for Bihar alone. District Development and Panchayat Officer Narender Kumar said camps were held in all 203 villages in Gurugram people to register names. Though around 35,000 farm labourers have registered, a huge number of industrial workers also thronged the camps. Mr. Kumar recalled how hundreds of workers crowded a registration centre at Kho village carrying “forms” while food was being distributed on May 3. The officer said that the “forms” were being sold to the migrants by unscrupulous elements for Rs. 10-20 when the registration was online and free of cost. The district administration has also appointed nodal officers for different States to facilitate the registration. While a majority of the migrants staying in relief centres across Haryana were repatriated to their hometowns in State buses even before the MHA guidelines, several trains and buses have run to facilitate the returning of migrants registering themselves. As many as 2,978 residents of Uttarakhand returned to their homes in 108 Uttarakhand State buses on Thursday and more such buses were run on Friday. Haryana CM Manohar Lal said on Friday that 23,452 labourers were already sent home while 100 trains and 5,000 free-of-cost buses were being arranged over the next seven days. Unhappy industrialists Several industrialists, however, have challenged the wisdom of the decision to allow workers to return home when the government had accorded permission to the factories to resume operations. Manesar Industries Welfare Association vice-president Manmohan Gaind reckoned that the industry would face huge scarcity of labour in the days to come. Following the feedback from the industrialists, the Haryana Chief Minister in a recent address issued an appeal to the workers not to leave. According to the Gautam Buddha Nagar administration in Uttar Pradesh, the process of sending migrant workers home had begun on Thursday but in Ghaziabad, the third episode of the lockdown has jeopardised their hopes. “We have been sending migrants from home after seeking requisite permissions from the respective district officials. Nearly 1,465 migrant workers from Rajasthan were sent to Bharatpur aboard 60 buses. More such trips are being arranged,” a district official said. Anger writ large Jai Narayan, the most articulate among a group of 13 daily wagers from Saharsa, is angry and hurt. He had sought the route to Bihar, but was instead told that the shelter home was only two kilometres away. “Sarkar se kaho ya to humein maar de, ya humein ghar pahunchaiye [Tell the government, either kill us or send us home],” he quipped. “We waited. Now, we want to go home. We have consumed all the savings and we are convinced that ghar par kam se kam roti to milegi [at least we will get food at home],” he sighed. Lallan, a construction worker, concurred: “The government should have thought of people like us before shutting down public transport. Now, wherever we go, we are first abused, at times beaten and then pushed into a corner.” Hunger lessons At the shelter home in Radha Soami Satsang in Morta on Delhi-Meerut road, Thursday is relatively easy for sevadars, as on Wednesday the district administration had sent around 170 workers in buses to their homes in Uttar Pradesh. Sitting on the sprawling lawns and swatting mosquitoes are workers from Mathura who are desperate to reach Jammu, their home. “We work as labourers in a cold storage. When the lockdown was announced, our contractor left without making our payments. We had no option but to walk to Jammu. We were stopped on the Eastern Peripheral Highway and brought here,” said Bharat Bhushan, 34, from Udhampur. “We know the seriousness of the disease but last month’s experience has taught me that nothing is more dangerous than hunger,” said Pradeep Kumar. He is desperate to see his two daughters. “Everybody wants to be home during a crisis. Yes, we are getting food and shelter but we want to be among our own. Is it too hard for the authorities to understand it? Didn’t they bring people from abroad?” A 17-year-old from Panipat had gone to Amroha to work in a soap manufacturing unit and got stuck, but had told his parents that he is at a friend’s place. Then there’s Charan Das, a 65-year-old from Ludhiana who had gone to see a friend in Bhopal but was stopped at the Nizamuddin Railway Station. “I walked to Ghaziabad and spent several days on the footpath before being brought to the Radha Soami Satsang shelter home,” he said. It was getting dark, the fogging machines had started to make a gurgling sound and the preparation for the evening meal had begun. “We eat the same food that is served to our guests,” says Vishal Rastogi, the sevadar, looking after the facilities at the centre. “The most difficult part is to give them [migrants] hope when they break down in the middle of the night,” says the chartered accountant. “Perhaps, the governments underestimated their desperation to go home and their will to make it possible.” Outside the gate, in the inky darkness, inspector Naresh Singh from Masuri police station is standing with around two dozen migrants, including children, in a truck. His seniors are shouting at him over the phone that he had brought them to the wrong shelter home. He requests not to take photographs of workers. “We picked them from the Eastern Peripheral Highway. Please tell the governments of Punjab and Haryana to send them homes in buses or trains. We can’t see their plight,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nothing-is-more-dangerous-than-hunger/article31553694.ece
