12 November 2020||NEW DELHI/PATNA,||People trust NDA’s policies: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that the Bihar poll verdict and that of bypolls in various States had demonstrated that the National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) welfare and development policies had the trust of the people and were an endorsement of the way the COVID-19 pandemic had been combated. Speaking at a thanksgiving function organised at the BJP’s national headquarters to mark the electoral successes, Mr. Modi stated that an NDA government under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar would fulfil the promise of development that was inherent in the Bihar mandate. “The people of Bihar are both aware and discerning, and under the leadership of Nitish Kumar, the NDA will fulfil the promise of this mandate,” he said at a function where BJP president J. P. Nadda, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and Roads, and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari were present. Coinciding with the timing of Mr. Modi’s speech was the first tweet that Mr. Kumar made on the Bihar verdict. “People are the real masters who gave a majority to the NDA... I pay my respects to them... I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his continued support,” he tweeted. It was the first acknowledgement of the result by Mr. Kumar, who did not stir out of his official bungalow at 1 Anne Marg in Patna, triggering speculation that he could take some surprising steps following his party being reduced to a junior partner in the NDA. Janata Dal-United (JD-U) sources, however, told The Hindu that Mr. Kumar would be taking oath again as Chief Minister and that government formation exercises would reach fruition after Deepavali (November 14). Mr. Modi spoke at length at his party headquarters on the implications of Tuesday’s verdict, in Bihar and in other States such as Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Telangana and Gujarat. “Our victories have come from all four corners of the country, which shows that ours is the only national party that enjoys the trust of the people and the intentions of our governance model,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-hails-bihar-verdict-as-endorsement/article33079667.ece
12 November 2020||Kolkata,||Doctors at Centre-run Kolkata institute call off strike||Young doctors at the Centre-run All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health (AIIH & PH) in Kolkata, who haven’t received their salaries for four months, have called off their strike for now following an oral assurance by its Director on Wednesday that they would be paid by the end of next week. As many as 19 doctors — belonging to the First Year batch of post-graduate trainees (junior residents) at the 1932-founded institute — went on a strike in the beginning of last week protesting against the non-payment of salaries from the time they joined in July this year. AIIH & PH Director Dr. U.K. Chattopadhyay had on Tuesday issued a circular saying the strike was bringing disrepute to the institution and had asked course coordinators to give the names of students participating in the strike. “This is to state that the new entrants are on agitations, sloganing (sic) and demonstrations of placards, festoons, posters, etc. for the last few days which has created unnecessary artificial demerits of this prestigious, premier institute of South East Asia and demoralised the high-heads of all faculties,” the AIIH&PH Director had said in the circular. “I, being the head of the Institute, seek the favour of the concerned course coordinators to kindly let me know the names of the students who have participated in this endeavour and since when,” he wrote. But on Wednesday, he gave an oral assurance to a representative of the students that they would be paid by the end of next week. The institute comes under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and there is no clarity yet on why the salaries have remained unpaid for four months. According to an institute official The Hindu spoke to, they were waiting for financial approval at the Ministry-level to come through. According to First Year MD students, they aren’t the only ones to suffer and that even the salaries of their seniors are routinely delayed. They said they never refused to attend to patients during the COVID-19 pandemic in spite of not being provided PPE (personal protective equipment), but had run out of patience after not being paid for four months. “We are calling off the strike as of now because of the assurance. We will wait until the end of next week.” a First Year MD student told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctors-at-centre-run-kolkata-institute-call-off-strike/article33079875.ece
12 November 2020||Kolkata,||BJP taunts Trinamool with ‘Now Bengal’||Within hours of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) edging past the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar elections, the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party announced a number of victory rallies ( Bijoy Michils ) in the State. On Wednesday, the party’s social media and media cell toned down the celebrations and said these events would not be called victory rallies but ( Bijoy Sammilani ) victory gatherings instead. Whatever name should be attributed to these events, the victory in Bihar and the party’s performance in the byelections across several States have enthused the BJP, feels political analyst and psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty. Defections likely “There are many in the Trinamool Congress who are testing waters and are keen to switch sides and join the BJP before the polls. In the BJP also, there are some disgruntled elements who were thinking of jumping to the Trinamool camp. But now we may only see more defections from the TMC to the BJP ,” said Prof. Chakraborty, head of the Department of Political Science at Rabindra Bharati University. West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, coined a new slogan for his party at one such victory gathering — Ebar Bangla Parle Sambhla (Now Bengal, save if you can). “The BJP started from the west and is now in the east and also northeast. We are knocking at the borders of Bengal. I will say only one thing ... Ebar Bangla Parle Sambhla [Now Bengal, save if you can],” Mr. Ghosh said, taunting the Trinamool Congress. Most of the office-bearers of the BJP, party MPs and Central observers to the State also took to social media targeting and taunting the Bengal’s ruling party. ‘Mamata exposed’ “In democracy, people are supreme. The real face of Mamata Banerjee has been exposed before the people of Bengal. People are fed up with the Trinamool Congress government. The wind is blowing towards the BJP,” BJP national general secretary and observer to West Bengal, Kailash Vijayvargiya, said on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-taunts-trinamool-with-now-bengal/article33079876.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||COVID-19 patients can vote in last hour of polling||Voters for the upcoming local body elections who test positive for COVID-19 or go in quarantine on election day or in the two days preceding it will be allowed to vote in the last hour of polling. The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to recommend Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to promulgate an Ordinance for making suitable amendments to the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act and the Kerala Municipality Act to enable such voters to safely cast their votes from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. on the day of voting. (Polling is from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m.). The local body elections to 1,199 local bodies in the State are planned in three phases in December. Postal ballots It was earlier decided to issue postal ballots for COVID-19 patients and quarantined persons. However, voters have to apply for postal ballots three days before the elections. Also, the electoral rolls marked with postal votes have to be certified two days before the day of voting. This condition would, in effect, deny voters who test positive or go in quarantine in the days immediately preceding the elections their democratic right to cast their votes. The State government decided to take the Ordinance route to overcome this hurdle. Whether voters who fall in the two categories would be issued PPE (personal protective equipment ) kits and allowed to visit the polling booth is yet to be finalised. The Cabinet also decided to direct the Health Department to prepare guidelines in this regard and hand it over to the Local Self- Government Department. Health guidelines The Health Department will also prepare guidelines for ensuring the safety of polling officials and agents in view of the COVID-19 scenario. PPE kits The Health Department had earlier informed the State Election Commission that it could arrange PPE kits for COVID positive and quarantined voters. The commission would issue orders once the Ordinance is promulgated and the government frames the rules, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-patients-can-vote-in-last-hour-of-polling/article33079835.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. to govern OTT platforms||In a move that will have far reaching impact, the Narendra Modi government brought “Over the Top” (OTT) platforms or video streaming service providers like Netflix, Amazon Prime and others under the ambit of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Currently, there is no law or autonomous body governing digital content. In a gazette notification issued on Wednesday and signed by the President Ram Nath Kovind, online films, digital news and current affairs content now come under the purview of the I&B Ministry, headed by Union Minister Prakash Javadekar. This will give the government control over the OTT platforms, which were unregulated till now. From time to time, the government had indicated the necessity to monitor these platforms. In October last year, the government had indicated that it would issue a “negative” list of don’ts for video streaming services like Netflix and Hotstar. It also wanted the platforms to come up with a self-regulatory body on the lines of the News Broadcasting Standards Authority. Anticipating the government’s intervention in January 2019, eight video streaming services had signed a self-regulatory code that laid down a set of guiding principles for the content on these platforms. The code adopted by the OTTs in January last prohibited five types of content. This includes content which deliberately and maliciously disrespects the national emblem or national flag; any visuals or story lines that promotes child pornography; any content that “maliciously” intends to outrage religious sentiments; content that “deliberately and maliciously” promotes or encourages terrorism; and lastly, any content that has been banned for exhibition or distribution by law or by a court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ott-channels-come-under-ib-ministry/article33079662.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ladakh standoff: India, China finalising disengagement plan||India and China are working out modalities to finalise a plan for phased disengagement and de-escalation along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, beginning with the North Bank of Pangong Tso, according to multiple sources. The proposal from the Chinese side put forward at the eighth round of Corps Commander talks on November 6 includes pulling back their troops and equipment from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the North Bank, two sources confirmed on Wednesday. “This is still a proposal under discussion and will be taken up at the next round of Corps Commander talks soon. Once agreed upon, it will be done in multiple phases, with on-ground verification after each step,” one official source said. There is no change in the ground situation as of now. Verification on the ground at each step, in addition to aerial monitoring using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, will be key to ensuring that the Chinese fully honour the understanding on the ground, another source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ladakh-standoff-india-china-finalising-disengagement-plan/article33079670.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||TDP loyalist secured bail for policemen, says CM||Describing the suicide by a family of four in Kurnool district as an unfortunate incident that pained him a lot, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said a petition was filed for cancelling the bail the local court granted to the accused police personnel. He asserted that no one, including himself, was above law and justice needed to be delivered. “V. Ramachandra Rao, the lawyer who secured bail for the policemen, is a TDP loyalist who held a nominee director post in the AP State Kapu Welfare & Development Corporation in the previous government. The court granted bail to the policemen as our influence was no match to that of the persons who got them out,” the Chief Minister observed. Paying tributes to Moulana Abul Kalam Azad on the occasion of his birth anniversary, at his camp office on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said by getting cases registered against the policemen (Circle Inspector Somasekhar Reddy and head constable Gangadhar), the government demonstrated its commitment to the rule of law and insisted that the episode was a part of the double game being played by the TDP. The government believed that law should be the same for everyone. It was with this conviction that it launched prosecution against the policemen who were accused of abetting the family of Abdul Salam to commit suicide, he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tdp-loyalist-secured-bail-for-policemen-in-nandyal-suicide-pact-case-says-cm/article33079665.ece
12 November 2020||Pune,||With 9,164 recoveries, Maharashtra wellness rate crosses 92%||Maharashtra’s recovery spree continued with 9,164 recoveries on Wednesday as against 4,907 new COVID-19 cases. The cumulative recoveries have now risen to 15,97,255 with the recovery rate exceeding 92% to reach 92.23%. The total case tally now stands at 17,31,833. The number of active cases is now below 90,000 at 88,070. With 125 deaths, the total death toll has climbed to 45,560. “Of a total 96,00,328 laboratory samples tested thus far, 17,31,833 (case positivity rate of 18.04%) have returned positive with 64,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate currently stood at 2.63%. Pune district reported 573 cases to take its total tally to 3,40,023 while 16 deaths on Wednesday saw its total death toll climb to 7,102. As per the Pune district administration, the district’s active cases have dipped below the 10,000-mark to reach 9,943. Pune’s recovery rate is currently 94.54%. Mumbai city, however, reported a high surge 1,069 cases to take its total case tally to 2,66,748 of whom 15,825 are active. As many as 22 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,506. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Thane reported 237 cases as its total case tally crossed the 83,000-mark. With ten deaths, the total death toll stands at 2,050. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 450 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,06,852 of whom just 2,960 are currently active. Just a single death was reported, taking the toll to 2,823. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported nine deaths, taking its cumulative death toll to 1,522.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-9164-recoveries-maharashtra-wellness-rate-crosses-92/article33080351.ece
12 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Two arrested, 1.4 kg cannabis seized at Melkar||District Crime Investigation Bureau sleuths have arrested two persons for transporting 1.48 kg of cannabis in a car near Melkar Bus Stand. The police gave the names of the accused as T.P. Farooq (50) and Sagar Singh (22), a native of Nepal. Both are residents of Mangaluru. According to a press note, a team of sleuths led by Inspector B. Cheluvaraju was tipped off about the movement of cannabis in a car on the road from BC Road to Mani on Tuesday. The sleuths found the vehicle near Melkar Bus Stand. The accused in the car reportedly admitted that they were taking cannabis for prospective buyers. The police seized the cannabis and also the car used by the accused. The two were booked for offences punishable under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-arrested-14-kg-cannabis-seized-at-melkar/article33080334.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,||Major part of flyover demolition over||Metroman E. Sreedharan inspected the progress of the demolition and reconstruction of the damaged flyover at Palarivattom in the city on Wednesday. He spent an hour at the site and discussed details regarding the design and speedy reconstruction of the structure with officials of the DMRC and ULCCS, the agencies involved in the work. About 70 per cent of the demolition, work on which began in October, is over. The DMRC has fixed early June as the deadline to rebuild the pier caps, girders and deck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/major-part-of-flyover-demolition-over/article33080305.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Godown fire: Home Minister orders probe||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday ordered an inquiry into the fire at a godown in Bapujinagar where inflammable isopropyl alcohol and other chemicals were being stored. Civic agencies will come under scrutiny as the probe will ascertain whether there were lapses on the part of officials who were responsible for allowing the owners to store inflammable material in a residential area illegally. The husband and wife of Rekha Chemicals, who owned the godown, and their son have been arrested. It took more than 200 fire services personnel over eight hours to bring the blaze under control after the godown caught fire on Tuesday morning. The Home Minister, who visited the site, has directed the police to check for units running illegally in their respective jurisdiction. As of Wednesday evening, power had not been restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/godown-fire-home-minister-orders-probe/article33080221.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Deterrent action need of the hour: Delhi HC||“Strict compliance and deterrent action is the need of the hour,” the Delhi High Court told the city government on Wednesday over fear of an impending spike in COVID-19 cases in the festive season. “It is an alarming situation where all caution has been thrown to the wind during this festive season and the public is out in uncontrolled numbers. This itself would become a cause for further spread of the infection,” a Bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad remarked. “Photos flashed on social media bear estimony to the marketplaces in Delhi thronging with huge crowds,” the High Court said, adding that these large gatherings of public in narrow and constricted streets and spaces would become super spreaders of the infection. AAP govt. pulled up The court came down heavily on the city government for relaxing the norms for public gathering and movement in the Capital. It questioned the rationale behind increasing the number of guests in ceremonies to 200, which was earlier capped at 100. It also queried why the government had permitted public transport to be fully occupied, against the earlier rule of occupying alternate seats. The court pointed out that on November 10 the city recorded 8,593 new COVID-19 cases and the number of containment zones in the city were 4,016. It said Delhi was beating the whole State of Maharashtra and Kerala in COVID-19 infections for the past couple of weeks. It also asked the AAP government why it had not introduced a legislation to ensure compulsory wearing of mask in public places when it had said “masks should be treated as a vaccine” till the actual vaccine arrives. The High Court directed the Delhi government to submit a status report explaining the steps taken to control COVID-19 saying "alarm bells should have rung within the government to tackle the situation hands-on”. Responding to the order, the Delhi government in a statement said, “We will present a detailed report to the court on actions being taken to control the current corona situation. All the actions taken so far have been under the guidelines issued by the Centre and after consultation with various experts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deterrent-action-is-the-need-of-the-hour/article33080026.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Daily COVID-19 cases cross 8K in Capital||The Capital on Wednesday witnessed the biggest single-day spike in the number of new infections with 8,593 fresh COVID-19 cases being reported in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. As many as 85 deaths were reported in a single day, pushing the toll to 7,228. Tuesday had also witnessed a record number of new COVID-19 cases. Of the total 4,59,975 cases, 4,10,118 people have recovered and there are now 42,629 active cases. “Three times more tests are being done now. It is clear this is the third wave,” Health Minister Satyendar Jain told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-covid-19-cases-cross-8k-in-capital/article33080270.ece
12 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Congress and SDPI hand in glove, says Kateel||State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Wednesday that the Congress and the Social Democratic Party of India are hand-in-glove and both the parties have forged an alliance to enable the Congress to lead the Bantwal Town Municipal Council while electing the president and vice-president of the council last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-and-sdpi-hand-in-glove-says-kateel/article33080336.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre unveils incentives to boost manufacturing||The government on Wednesday unveiled a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to encourage domestic manufacturing investments in 10 more sectors, with an estimated outlay of about Rs. 1.46 lakh crore over the next five years. The 10 sectors, which Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said had been identified on the basis of their potential to create jobs and make India self-reliant, include food processing, telecom, electronics, textiles, speciality steel, automobiles and auto components, solar photo-voltaic modules and white goods, such as air conditioners and LEDs. Earlier, the government had announced a PLI scheme for medical devices, mobile phones and specified active pharmaceutical ingredients, with a proposed outlay of Rs. 51,311 crore. Now, more products have been brought under the aegis of the PLI scheme, including complex generics, anti-cancer and diabetic drugs, in-vitro diagnostic devices and special empty capsules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-unveils-incentives-to-boost-manufacturing/article33079668.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Three of a family found gunned down in city||An elderly couple and their son were found dead with bullet injuries at their house in Chennai on Wednesday night. The police said the bodies of Dileep Thalil Chand, 74, who runs a finance firm, his wife Pushpa Bai, 70, and son Shrishith, 40, were found several hours after they died. The family had been staying on the first floor of a three-storeyed residential apartment on Vinayaga Maestri Street in Sowcarpet. City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal and Additional Commissioner (North) A. Arun inspected the spot. “We suspect it is a homicide. Forensic experts have examined the crime scene. We are probing the case from all angles, working on clues and ascertaining the motive. Five teams have been constituted to probe the case,” Mr. Aggarwal said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-of-family-shot-dead-in-chennai/article33079710.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Top MTC official held over 2015 job scam||The Central Crime Branch of the Chennai police on Wednesday arrested G. Ganesan, managing director of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC), in connection with an alleged recruitment scam in the Transport Department in 2015. A couple of days after examining then Transport Minister Senthil Balaji, now in the DMK, a special team of the CCB’s Job Racket Wing arrested Mr. Ganesan, who was handling the Personnel Department at the time of the alleged scam. Illegalities were alleged in the recruitment of engineers, drivers, conductors and others. The case is that Mr. Balaji — Transport Minister in the then AIADMK government headed by Jayalalithaa — and his associates took bribes to the tune of Rs. 2.31 crore, promising people jobs in the Department. Acting on a complaint lodged by one Arul Mani, the police registered a case. The former Minister was granted anticipatory bail by the Madras High Court on the condition that he should appear before the Investigation Officer when summoned. TTV’s faction He was one among the 18 rebel AIADMK MLAs of the T.T.V. Dhinakaran faction who were disqualified by the Speaker. Investigators said that besides officials and private persons connected with the case, the candidates who got jobs through the 2015 recruitment process would also be examined. After being questioned, Mr. Ganesan was produced in a city court and remanded in judicial custody till November 25, police sources said.  The case is that Mr. Balaji — Transport Minister in the then AIADMK government headed by Jayalalithaa — and his associates took bribes to the tune of Rs. 2.31 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/top-mtc-official-held-for-2015-job-scam/article33079711.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality improves to ‘very poor’||The air quality of Delhi and Noida improved to ‘very poor’ on Wednesday after remaining in the ‘severe’ category for six consecutive days. In Gurugram, it entered the ‘poor’ category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The CPCB directed hot mix plants and stone crushers to remain closed in Delhi-NCR till November 17 due to the current situation, according to an order issued on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhis-air-quality-improves-to-very-poor/article33080027.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Don’t process post-Oct. 29 Sada Bainama pleas: HC||Telangana High Court on Wednesday instructed the State government to stop processing 6,74,201 applications received from people after this October 29 for regularisation of sale and purchase of lands under the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act-1971. The government can, however, process the 2,76,693 applications received before this October 12. Passing these orders in a PIL petition, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the officials concerned should inquire into the applications. The orders passed by the officials in these 2,76,693 applications would be subject to the outcome of the final verdict to be passed by the bench in the PIL plea. Telangana government issued an order (GO 112) on this October 12 facilitating registration of sale and purchase of lands under a new Revenue Act. A sexagenarian farmer from Nirmal district, Shinde Devidas, filed the PIL petition seeking to declare the GO illegal and cancel the proceedings issued by the Tahsildars (revenue officials) in compliance with that GO. People in rural areas of the State used to sell and purchase lands without registering the same. These transactions are called ‘sada bainamas’ (which are agreements of sale and purchases made on papers) in general parlance. These ‘sada bainamas’ transactions were earlier regularised under Record of Rights (RoR) Act. The government replaced the RoR Act and brought in the new Revenue Act from October 29. The petitioner’s counsel Chinnola Naresh Reddy contended that the new Revenue Act passed by Telangana government did not have any provision for regularisation of ‘sadaa bainama’ transactions. Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the bench that the government received 2,26,693 applications for regularisation of land transactions from this October 10 to 29. After this October 29, another 6,74,201 applications were received. The AG sought a time of two weeks to file a detailed counter affidavit. However, the bench sought to know from the government as to how it can process applications under a law (RoR Act) which no longer existed. “Processing the applications received after October 29 will open up a Pandora’s box. You cannot be permitted to process 6,74,201 applications,” the bench said. It remarked that the policy of the government had to be in compliance with the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-process-post-oct-29-sada-bainama-pleas-hc/article33080274.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Bail granted to 7 farmers||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Wednesday granted bail to seven farmers, arrested by the Mangalagiri Rural police under the Scheduled Castes (SC) Atrocities Act. On October 23, police registered cases against 11 farmers for allegedly obstructing and attacking farmers, who were supporting three Capitals. Four others involved in the case are reportedly absconding. Earlier, the farmers approached the Guntur Special Court, which rejected bail. Later, they approached the High Court. Residents of 29 capital villages in Guntur district, leaders of various political parties and some organisations raised objection when the farmers were handcuffed. The Amaravati JAC observed bandh protesting the police action against the farmers. Leaders of some organisations filed a petition with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) urging to take action against the police who handcuffed the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bail-granted-to-seven-farmers/article33080374.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Sparkling display||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sparkling-display/article33080356.ece
12 November 2020||BELAGAVI/BENGALURU,||Polls for TMC posts: BJP MLA ‘flexes his muscles’||BJP MLA Siddu Savadi pushed around a woman member of the Mahalingpur Town Municipal Council (TMC) in Bagalkot district as part of efforts to prevent three women members of the party from voting in the election of president and vice-president of the urban local body on Monday, triggering strong criticism. He tried to prevent the women members of his own party from voting after he came to know that they were going to support the Congress candidate. Video clips of the incident went viral on social media on Wednesday. Chandani Nayak, Godavari Bat, and Savita Hurakadli decided to support the Congress as they were unhappy that the BJP leaders were not willing to make them vice-president of the TMC. Mr. Savadi, who heard of this, tried to physically prevent them from voting. He stood at the gate and tried to stop them from entering the polling hall. When Ms. Bat and Ms. Nayak tried to slip through, he pushed them around. The BJP leaders succeeded in not allowing Ms. Bat to enter the hall. The BJP thus succeeded in ensuring that its candidate Snehal Angadi was elected president. Ms. Nayak managed to seek the support of both the BJP and the Congress and won the post of the vice-president. The 23-member TMC has 13 BJP members and 10 Congress members. P.C. Gaddigoudar, MP, and Mr. Savadi have one vote each, as per law. Since the two members defected and Ms. Bat was not allowed to vote, the strength of two parties was the same. Both BJP and Congress had 12 votes. Ms. Angadi and Ms. Hurakadli both got 12 votes. But Ms. Angadi was elected on the basis of a lottery draw. Ms. Bhat urged the State government to annul the election as she was not allowed to vote. Ms. Nayak told journalists later that she received minor injuries. She alleged that the police officers who were standing close by did not save her from the assault. Meanwhile, Mr. Savadi denied any wrongdoing. Lokesh Jagalsar, Superintendent of Police, however, defended the police and claimed that they tried to stop the assault on the women. “In fact, police personnel had to resort to caning to stop the assault. There were reports that some women TMC members were victims of the assault. However, none of the victims complained against it. Our officers have gone ahead and registered a suo motu case. Investigation will be held impartially and no one will be spared,” he said. Meanwhile, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Wednesday condemned Mr. Savadi’s action. Speaking to reporters in Bengaluru, Mr. Shivakumar said the Terdal MLA demonstrated the BJP’s political culture. He questioned the failure of the police to take suo motu action. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa should take action against the legislator, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/polls-for-tmc-posts-bjp-mla-flexes-his-muscles/article33079800.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC grants interim bail to Arnab||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered the Maharashtra government to release forthwith Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami and two others on interim bail in an abetment to suicide case, saying that personal liberty is increasingly becoming a casualty in the country. Mr. Arnab Goswami was released late in the evening. “People are now put in jail for a tweet... We are travelling through the path of destruction of liberty. You may not like his ideology. Left to myself, I will not watch his channel. But citizens are sent to jail, High Courts don’t grant bail. We have to send a strong message,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, heading the Bench, orally observed. The Bench, also comprising Justice Indira Banerjee, directed Mr. Goswami and two others to execute a personal bond of Rs. 50,000 each with the jail superintendent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-grants-interim-bail-to-arnab/article33079657.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Flood loss: Jagan seeks maximum aid to State||The Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT), which visited flood-hit districts in the last two days, met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Wednesday. Led by Saurav Ray, Joint Secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the team visited Anantapur, Guntur, Krishna, East and West Godavari districts where crops suffered extensive damage due to recent floods. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy pegged the loss incurred by different sectors at Rs. 8,084 crore. The loss incurred by infrastructure sector alone stood at Rs. 5,000 crore. He appealed to the team to recommend the maximum possible assistance to help the State overcome the crisis and to mainly relax the fair average quality norms so that paddy and other damaged crops could be procured. ‘Crops, roads damaged’ He said paddy and groundnut bore the brunt of nature's fury and roads were badly damaged. Ministers Mekathoti Sucharita and K. Kannababu, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Special Chief Secretary (agriculture) Poonam Malakondaiah, Principal Secretary (revenue) V. Usha Rani and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flood-loss-jagan-seeks-maximum-aid-to-state/article33079663.ece
12 November 2020||Kolkata,||Train services resume||West Bengal on Wednesday recorded a drop in new COVID-19 infections and deaths in the past 24 hours as suburban train services resumed in Kolkata and adjoining districts after seven months. Since morning, crowds thronged stations across Howrah, Sealdah and Kharagpur divisions. The Eastern Railway operated 413 suburban trains in Sealdah division and 202 in Howrah division , while 81 trains were run in Kharagpur division of South Eastern Railway taking the total number of trains to 696. In certain stations huge crowds could be seen at the ticket counters and passengers expressed happiness over the resumption of services. Some however, demanded more trains during peak hours. Meanwhile, 3,872 new COVID-19 cases were recorded on Wednesday taking the total cases to 4,16,984. As many as 49 deaths took the fatalities to 7,452. This is the first time in the past several days that the average death toll in the State has fallen below 50.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/train-services-resume/article33079873.ece
12 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||3 pregnant women die in Arunachal Pradesh||Lack of access to healthcare has reportedly claimed the lives of at least three pregnant women in a remote village of Kamhua Noknu in Khakam Block under Longding district among the most underdeveloped in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-pregnant-women-die-in-arunachal-pradesh/article33079877.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses plea against ban on fireworks||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to entertain a plea against a Calcutta High Court ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during Kali puja, saying “preservation of life is more important” than festivals amid the pandemic. “We are all battling for life in this situation,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-refuses-plea-against-ban-on-fireworks/article33080029.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru/Chennai,||KSRTC allowed to run buses to T.N. for six days||After more than seven-and-a-half months, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) on Wednesday resumed services to Tamil Nadu, ahead of Deepavali. This comes after the Tamil Nadu government issued an order permitting inter-State services from Karnataka for six days — from November 11 to 16 — without e-registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ksrtc-allowed-to-run-buses-to-tn-for-six-days/article33080220.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhiites get respite from ‘severe’ pollution||The air quality of Delhi and Noida improved to ‘very poor’ on Wednesday after remaining in the ‘severe’ category for six consecutive days, while Gurugram’s air quality entered the ‘poor’ category, according to CPCB data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhiites-get-respite-from-severe-pollution/article33080269.ece
12 November 2020||Mumbai,||First nearby||Actor Arjun Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella Demetriades appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday as part of its probe into the alleged drug use in Bollywood, an official said. Ms. Demetriades reached the NCB’s zonal office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai in her car just before 12 p.m.. A large number of media persons gathered outside the office. On Monday, the NCB had carried out a search at Mr. Rampal’s residence. It had asked Mr. Rampal and Ms. Demetriades to join the investigation on Wednesday. However, sources said that Mr. Rampal is likely to be questioned by the NCB on Thursday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-nearby/article33080354.ece
12 November 2020||Mumbai,||Will accept Diwali wishes only through social media: Maha CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said that he would accept Deepavali greetings only through social media and emails, and appealed to people to celebrate the festival of lights safely at home. “I will accept Deepavali greetings only through emails and social media. We need to keep ourselves safe and protect the health of our near and dear ones,” Mr. Thackeray said in a statement. Referring to the second wave of the viral outbreak in Europe, the Chief Minister warned against complacency. “Corona warriors are working hard to protect us from the pandemic and we shouldn’t burden them,” he said. “We have to resume schools and colleges after Deepavali. We have to follow the protocol of wearing masks, washing hands, and social distancing,” he said, urging people to consider the health of senior citizens.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-accept-diwali-wishes-only-through-social-media-maha-cm/article33080352.ece
12 November 2020||Belagavi,||221 new cases reported in North Karnataka||North Karnataka reported 221 new COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday. As many as 299 patients were discharged. Also, there were three deaths in Ballari, two in Dharwad and one in Vijayapura. Ballari reported 41 positive cases, Vijayapura 33, Davangere 29, Belagavi 28, Dharwad 22, Haveri and Uttara Kannada 21, Bagalkot 14 and Gadag 11 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/221-new-cases-reported-in-north-karnataka/article33079799.ece
12 November 2020||MYSURU,||Was helpless when norms were flouted: Sudhakar||Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar on Wednesday expressed his helplessness with regard to the recent violations of government’s COVID-19 guidelines and advisories by political parties during the recent byelections and added that all parties should take collective responsibility. The Minister admitted to participants in the campaigns and roadshows breaking rules that mandated wearing face masks and social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/was-helpless-when-norms-were-flouted-sudhakar/article33079970.ece
12 November 2020||Chennai,||With 2,184 cases, State’s tally crosses 7,50,000||With 2,184 fresh cases on Wednesday, Tamil Nadu’s tally touched 7,50,409. As many as 2,210 persons were discharged after treatment. Twenty-eight persons died, pushing up the State’s toll to 11,415.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-2184-cases-states-tally-crosses-750000/article33079713.ece
12 November 2020||Chennai,||University withdraws Arundhati Roy’s book||Acting on objections from the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, the Manonmaniam Sundaranar University in Tirunelveli has withdrawn noted writer Arundhati Roy’s book,Walking with the Comrades, from its postgraduate English syllabus. The book was based on her visit to Maoist hideouts. At a meeting chaired by Vice-Chancellor K. Pitchumani, it was decided to replace the book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/university-withdraws-arundhati-roys-book/article33079714.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,||Sivasankar, his team in CMO knew of gold smuggling: ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has said that Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, had stated that M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, and his team in the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) were fully aware of the smuggling of gold and other electronic items through the diplomatic channel. The agency made the submission before the special court for cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act on Wednesday while seeking the custody of Mr. Sivasankar for one more day. According to the statements of Swapna, the nearly Rs. 1 crore which was seized from her bank safe deposit locker was meant for Mr. Sivasankar. He was aware of the kickbacks given by Unitac Builders to Swapna and others, including Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, chief financial officer of the UAE consulate, for facilitating the award of contact from th Red Crescent for the LIFE Mission project at Wadakkancherry. Sharing info Banking on the statements of Swapna, the agency submitted that Mr. Sivasankar had shared crucial information with her on the KFON and LIFE Mission projects and he might have received kickbacks from certain private parties associated with the projects. Mr. Sivasankar had mentioned these aspects to Swapna in WhatsApp calls made to her, the agency submitted. Swapna also gave a statement that Mr. Sivasankar was in touch with Santhosh Eappan of Unitac Builders and wanted him to be part of some contracts under the KFON and LIFE Mission projects. She also disclosed to the agency the names of some persons who were very close to Mr. Sivasankar, and one was involved in the Taurus Downtown project, the agency submitted. T.A. Unnikrishnan, special prosecutor for the ED, sought the custody of Mr. Sivasankar till Thursday for confronting him with the statements of Swapna. Delaying tactics B. Raman Pillai and S. Rajeev, counsels for Mr. Sivasankar, opposed the demand and stated that the ED was playing a delaying tactics to ensure that some other investigation agencies seek his custody. Kauser Edappagath, Special Judge, who allowed the extension of remand for one more day, directed the agency to produce him before the court on Thursday. His bail application will also be heard on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sivasankar-his-team-in-cmo-knew-of-gold-smuggling-ed/article33079607.ece
12 November 2020||Patna,||NDA wins, RJD is largest party||In a close contest that went down to the wire, the JD(U)–led NDA attained a simple majority in the Bihar Assembly election by winning 125 seats while the RJD-led Opposition UPA got 110 seats and eight seats went to others in the 243-member Assembly. The new Assembly has to be constituted by November 29. Under the NDA coalition, the BJP secured the highest number of 74 seats while alliance partner JD(U) was restricted to just 43 and its other two allies — the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and the Vikasheel Insaan Party — to four seats each. HAM(S) chief and former Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi won his seat from Imamganj in Gaya district while VIP president Mukesh Sahni lost from the Simri-Bakhtiyarpur seat in Saharsa district. Among the Mahagathbandhan allies, the RJD got 75 seats, five less than its 2015 Assembly poll figure, while the Congress won a mere 19 of the 70 seats it contested in. But the three Left parties — the CPI (Marxist-Leninist), the CPI and the CPI(M) — won 16 of the 29 seats they contested in. The RJD emerged as the single largest party in the elections. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) too made its mark significantly in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal (border) areas by winning five of the 24 seats it contested. It cut into the vote share of the RJD-led alliance among the minority voters. Similarly, the Lok Janshakti Party could win just one seat — Matihani in Begusarai district — but marred the prospects of nearly 20 JD(U) candidates. “A Bahujan Samaj Party candidate and an Independent won from the Chainpur and the Chakai constituencies respectively. The RJD-led UPA, whose poll prospects appeared bright in the exit poll predictions, lodged a complaint with the Election Commission alleging that “on the direction from the Chief Minister’s office, local officials did not issue winning certificate to our candidates who had won the poll by thin margin”. Several candidates won/lost the poll by a margin of less than 200 votes: RJD candidate Shakti Singh Yadav lost in Hilsa in Nalanda district against JD(U) candidate Krishnamurari Sharan alias Prem Mukhia by a mere 12 votes. In Bhore (Gopalganj) and Ramgarh (Bhabhua) seats too, the winning margins for candidates were about 200 votes. “Whatever was the result of the poll, it underlined three important things: that there was anti-Nitish feeling in the State, RJD leader and the party’s anointed heir Tejashwi Yadav established himself as a leader, coming out of his father Lalu Prasad’s towering shadow and, the Left parties saw their electoral revival after a long time,” political analyst and former professor of Patna University Nawal Kishore Choudhury said. “Two months ago, the scenario was one-sided in favour of the NDA but when the campaign kickstarted, Tejashwi Yadav turned the battle into a close fight,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nda-wins-rjd-is-largest-party/article33079627.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Sputnik V vaccine 92% effective: Russia||Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine has proven to be “92% efficacious” among a group of volunteers who are part of Phase 3 trials to test the vaccine, the Russian Health Ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. The results were based on an analysis of 20 participants in the trial who were confirmed COVID-19 positive. The trials consist of 20,000 people who got one dose of the vaccine, and 16,000 who got two, 14 days apart. The efficacy percentage means that when cases were split among the placebo group and vaccinated group, 92% of those who were vaccinated were safe. This is close to the efficacy percentage claimed by Pfizer on Monday that said its RNA vaccine was 90% efficacious, though that relied on a larger COVID-19-positive volunteer set of 94. The Russian trials are ongoing in multiple countries, and a Phase 2/3 trial that tests for a immune reaction in a limited number of people is going on in India too. Hyderabad-based Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories is a partner of the Russian organisation, Gamaleya Research Foundation, that has developed Sputnik V. Production up “The publication of the interim results of the post-registration clinical trials that convincingly demonstrate Sputnik V vaccine’s efficacy gives way to mass vaccination in Russia against COVID-19 in the coming weeks. Thanks to the production scale-up at new manufacturing sites, Sputnik V vaccine will soon be available for a wider population. This will break the current trend and lead to an eventual decrease in COVID-19 infection rates, first in Russia, then globally,” Alexander Gintsburg, Director, Gamaleya Center, said in a statement. Not evaluated As with Pfizer’s, the preliminary report of Sputnik V’s efficacy is yet to be published in a peer-reviewed medical journal. The latter has also not yet been evaluated by an independent board of medical experts, the Russian Health Ministry statement indicated. Because Sputnik V has emergency authorisation from medical authorities in Russia, it had also been administered to a section of the population such as doctors and medical workers. “Apart from the trial participants, the effects of vaccination were also observed in 10,000 volunteers representing medics and other high-risk groups under the civil use of the vaccine out of clinical trials also confirmed the vaccine’s efficacy rate of over 90 percent,” it added. As of Wednesday, there were no “unexpected adverse events” among those in the trial. K. Vijay Raghavan, India’s Principal Scientific Adviser, in a blog commented on the Pfizer-BioNTECH RNA vaccine. “...results from Pfizer+BioNTech opens the closed door to vaccine availability a little. One can legitimately expect more good news from more vaccines and expect that the door will open even more.” Even after these and other licenses were available, only limited doses would be available in the early days and would be administered according to “priorities already set”. However, the data so far available for the Pfizer vaccine did not indicate if it was effective at preventing disease transmission or was only good enough to protect from severe disease. There was also no evidence disclosed on whether it protected older (and more vulnerable) people, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sputnik-v-vaccine-92-effective-russia/article33079646.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Cong., RJD are too afraid’||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) won five seats in the Bihar Assembly election, getting over five lakh votes out of the four crore polled. A day after the results, its president Asaduddin Owaisi stresses the need to speak about the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). Excerpts:  The central theme of your campaign in Bihar 2020 elections was the CAA and the NRC and the muted response of the RJD and the Congress on them. Can you explain why this was so key to your campaign. I disagree with you, this was not the central point, this was part of the issues we were raising. We were consistently talking about injustice towards Seemanchal. This is a region that sees annual floods during which thousands of acres of land are alienated. There is a lack of educational institutes. Also, for the last 25 years, the RSS and the BJP have been saying that there are a lot of ghuspetis (infiltrators) in Seemanchal because the area is strategically located with the Bangladesh and Nepal border at a close distance. It was only our party that has been rebutting this propaganda. We were the only ones who protested against the CAA and the NRC in Seemanchal. When you go to people, you have to address the things that matter to them. We do not have the compulsions of other parties such as the Congress or the RJD who are far too afraid that if they speak on the CAA or the NRC, their comments would help the BJP. The CAA is unconstitutional, how is it a communal issue alone? So you are saying that the Congress and the RJD were too afraid to speak out and that left a vacuum which you came to occupy in the region? We have been working consistently for the last five years. People have seen this. When floods happened, we conducted medical camps and distributed relief. When migrant workers returned, they were forcibly put in quarantine centres and we came to help them. And over and above what we did inside and outside Parliament also played a role. And third, this talk by the RJD and the Congress accusing us of being a B-team of the BJP is bizarre. And fourth, women voters played a huge role in the AIMIM victory. In all my political rallies, there were a huge number of women, something I have never seen in my political life. In Kochadhaman, in my last meeting of the campaign, I was far too tired and when I was leaving, few women approached me. They said, ‘You don’t worry, they [Congress-RJD] are speaking a lot of nonsense about you and we will give them an apt response on November 7.’ Do you regret contesting this election in an alliance, fielding candidates in just 21 seats, considering that among your allies only BSP won a seat. Do you feel you would have won far more seats had you gone solo? No. I am really thankful to Devendra Yadav of the Samajwadi Janata Dal, Upendra Kushwaha of the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party. And I credit them for the victory of our party. What does the future hold for you in Bihar? Do we expect a bigger role and will you expand beyond Seemanchal? The first priority will be that our MLAs work really hard and try to fulfil the promises we made to the voters. We will be fighting inside and outside the Assembly. Our presence is already being felt with those 21 seats. We will strengthen our party more. Will we see the AIMIM contesting West Bengal elections in 2021? I will be speaking to my Bengal party unit. We will be having a thorough discussion with them. If they are confident enough that we should contest, then we will take a decision on it. Of course, there has been a lot of interest in us, especially in the border area of West Bengal like Uttar Dinajpur and Islampur that are in Kishanganj’s neighbourhood.  This talk accusing us of being a B-team of the BJP is bizarre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-rjd-are-too-afraid/article33079625.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No second thoughts on Nitish as CM’||Bhupender Yadav , BJP general secretary in charge of Bihar, discusses the party-led alliance’s recent victory in the State. Excerpts:  What do you attribute as factors that aided your victory in Bihar? The leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the confidence expressed by the people of Bihar in his ability to deliver Aatmanirbhar Bharat was a major factor. BJP president J.P. Nadda ji ’s leadership in getting all party workers to go among the people and helping them out in a tough situation like the COVID-19 pandemic kept the people’s support with us. The performance of all our allies also contributed to the victory. There is a feeling in the JD(U) that they were hard done by because of Chirag Paswan’s party cutting into their votes. The BJP, it was felt, did not exert itself to rein in Mr. Paswan. It is true that the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) may have affected the JD(U) tally, but the BJP has been very firm throughout the election, via statements by our seniormost leadership, that we disapprove of this move by the LJP. Home Minister Amit Shah ji also stated the same in very plain words. We clarified throughout the polls that the NDA was fighting as one. Are there any second thoughts on Nitish Kumar continuing as Chief Minister of Bihar since the BJP has far outstripped the JD(U) in the tally?  No, there are no second thoughts. It was said during the campaign that Nitish Kumar would be the Chief Minister if the NDA wins, and that remains the case. The Opposition mahagathbandhan has accused district officials of aiding in counting fraud in as many as two dozen seats. Your response? That is just childish behaviour and being a sore loser. The election system is full of checks and balances, with observers being brought in from outside the State, who oversee the whole process. A large swathe of voters — women and ordinary people — supported the NDA, and that should be respected. How do you see the future of Chirag Paswan within the NDA, going forward? I am not the one to be asked this question. I am no astrologer to see his future but I do know that he has finished his own future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-second-thoughts-on-nitish-as-cm/article33079633.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers firm on Delhi march||Farmers’ groups insist they will come to the capital for protest on November 26 and 27, despite the Delhi police denying permission for a rally at the Jantar Mantar protest site, citing COVID-19 and other restrictions. Punjab farmer leaders also say they have not yet decided on how to respond to the Centre’s call for talks on Friday to resolve the situation arising from the stoppage of goods trains to the State, with no consensus among different groups about how to engage with the government. The Railways had suspended freight trains to Punjab after farmers blocked rail tracks in protest against the three new farm reform laws. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a platform including more than 300 farmer groups, had given the call for a Dilli Chalo protest on November 26 and 27, demanding the repeal of the three controversial laws as well as the Electricity Bill 2020. Applications had been made for permission to hold a rally at Jantar Mantar, near Parliament Street, as well as to accommodate farmers at the Ramlila Maidan. In a letter dated November 4, which was received on Tuesday night, the Deputy Commissioner of Police for New Delhi district rejected the application for a Jantar Mantar rally, citing the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s COVID-19 guidelines against large gatherings, as well as the imposition of Section 144 and other standing orders. “COVID-19 should not be used as an excuse to deny farmers the right to protest,” said Satyawan, a Haryana-based farmer leader from the All India Kisan Khet Mazdoor Sangathan. “Just now in Bihar, all parties were willing to hold huge rallies without worrying about COVID. When it comes to farmers alone, COVID becomes an issue,” he added. Leaders have assured that safety guidelines would be followed. A review request is being filed with the police.  The Centre has called for talks with the Punjab government and 32 farmers groups on Thursday to resolve the situation. “Only 10 out of the 32 are members of AIKSCC and there are differences of opinion on how to respond to the government’s invitation, so it is complicated,” said Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-firm-on-delhi-march/article33079644.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||NIA arrests man wanted in LeT recruitment case||The National Investigation Agency has arrested a 28-year-old daily wage worker, who is allegedly a member of various social media groups run by handlers of the terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba to recruit people for their sleeper cells and carry out terrorist activities in the country. The accused, Sayyad M. Idris, was arrested from Uttara Kannada on Tuesday. He is wanted in the West Bengal LeT recruitment case, said the NIA on Wednesday. ‘Recruiting youth’ According to the agency, he helped radicalise and recruit youth into the terror outfit. Earlier this year, the NIA had registered a case in Baduria, West Bengal, pertaining to Pakistan-based LeT handlers using social media platforms to radicalise and recruit vulnerable youth into sleeper cells, to propagate their ideology and for abetting and advocating unlawful activities, a senior officer said. Sayyad lived with his brother, who runs a grocery shop. The NIA, which had made a few arrests in the case and filed a preliminary chargesheet in Kolkata, had been keeping tabs on him. He will be produced before a court. His transit remand is being taken to produce him before NIA court in Kolkata for further investigation.  The accused, Sayyad M. Idris, was arrested from Uttara Kannada on Tuesday. He is wanted in the West Bengal LeT recruitment case. NIA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-arrests-man-wanted-in-let-recruitment-case/article33079614.ece
12 November 2020||Patna,||Our focus was on making BJP stronger, says Chirag||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Wednesday said the party was happy with the impact it had made in the election. He said the LJP would not “support” a government headed by Nitish Kumar. The LJP won just one seat, Matihani in Begusarai district, by a thin margin of 333 votes, but its candidates affected the prospects of the Janata Dal(U) in nearly 20 seats. “We wanted the BJP to emerge stronger from the election, and we are happy with the impact our party made in the poll… but, yes like other parties, we too wanted to win as many seats as we could, but our prime focus was on making the BJP emerge stronger,” Mr. Paswan told presspersons in Patna, adding that the LJP’s vote share had seen an increase. Mr. Paswan, 37, said he had “nothing personal” against Chief Minister Nitish Kumar but “yes, there have been ideological differences between us”. “Nitish Kumar as Chief Minister is not good for the State and there is no question of supporting a government headed by him [Mr. Kumar],” he said. “Of course, the NDA comprising the BJP, the JD(U) and two smaller parties have the numbers and does not need our support to form the government.” While campaigning, Mr. Paswan had repeatedly said, “After poll, there will be BJP and LJP government” and “Nitish Kumar will not be the Chief Minister again”. The LJP leader, who had raised a banner of revolt against Mr. Kumar, also said the “NDA won the poll in Bihar because of PM Narendra Modi”. “If anybody deserves to be congratulated on the NDA’s victory in Bihar, it is Prime Minister Narendra Modi. People have reposed their trust in his leadership and his vision for ‘ Atmanirbhar’ [self-reliant] Bihar…we always wanted to see a government headed by the BJP and supported by the LJP. But we respect the mandate given by the people.” He also ruled out any possibility of joining hands with the Opposition mahagathbandhan comprising the RJD, the Congress and three Left parties. Senior State BJP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Wednesday blamed the LJP for reducing the majority of the NDA. “The LJP had spoiled our wining prospects in over 25 seats,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/our-focus-was-on-making-bjp-stronger-says-chirag/article33079629.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shocked by Dave’s letter: Arnab’s wife||Samyabrata Ray Goswami, wife of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, has accused the Supreme Court Bar Association president — senior advocate Dushyant Dave — of “selective targeting” of her husband’s appeal for bail in the top court. Mr. Dave had written to the Supreme Court Registry raising concerns about the “special treatment” accorded to Mr. Goswami by instantly listing his case the same day it was filed. ‘Vested interests at work’ “When I read Shri Dave’s letter, I am shocked and horrified at the extent to which certain vested interests are at work. Neither do I know Shri Dave, nor have I ever met him. However, the selective targeting of my husband’s petition by Shri Dave shall have to be opposed by me, given his silence on other matters which were taken up by this Hon’ble Supreme Court in its wisdom with urgency in the past,” Ms. Goswami wrote in a letter to the Supreme Court Registry. Cites similar cases Ms. Goswami said the senior lawyer’s “selective outrage” was prejudicial to her husband’s cause, is contemptuous and tended to interfere with administration of justice. She quoted cases which were listed quickly by the Supreme Court for hearing. Mr. Goswami was released on bail on Wednesday after a day-long hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shocked-by-daves-letter-arnabs-wife/article33079638.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||18-tonne red sandalwood cargo seized||The India Customs intercepted an 18-tonne shipment of red sandalwood destined for the United Arab Emirates, during a month-long “Operation Thunder 2020”, coordinated by the Interpol and the World Customs Organisation, which involved law enforcement agencies in 103 countries. The operation against environmental crime was held from September 14 to October 11. It resulted in large seizures of protected wildlife and forestry specimens and products, triggering arrests and investigations worldwide, said the Interpol. “Focusing on pre-identified routes and hotspots, ‘Operation Thunder 2020’ resulted in more than 2,000 seizures of wildlife and forestry products. In total, 699 offenders were apprehended and at least one Interpol Red Notice has already been requested based on information gained during the operation. Further arrests and prosecutions are anticipated as ongoing global investigations progress,” it said. Tusks recovered The participating countries focused mainly on the species protected under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. Mexican law enforcement rescued an adult female white tiger, a jaguar and a four-month old lion cub in Sinaloa. “In Cameroon, customs officers seized 187 raw elephant tusks from a truck crossing the border from Gabon. In total, 56,200 kg of marine products were seized during Operation Thunder 2020,” said the Interpol, adding that the Peruvian police seized a shipment of 11 tonnes of mutilated sharks. Besides, 1,160 birds and 15,878 kg of plants were seized during the operation. The police in Zimbabwe thwarted the transfer of 32 live chimpanzees from Congo. The seized contraband included more than 1.3 tonnes of ivory, over 1 tonne of pangolin scales, 87 truckloads of timber, 1,400 turtles and tortoises, 6,000 turtle or tortoise eggs and 1,800 reptiles. “Wildlife and forestry crime is the world’s fourth largest illegal trade — a lucrative illegal business with far-reaching and devastating consequences not just for the environment but also for society, public health and global economics,” said Interpol Secretary General, Jürgen Stock, in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/18-tonne-red-sandalwood-cargo-seized/article33079648.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Home Ministry amends FCRA rules||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has relaxed norms for farmer, student, religious and other groups who are not directly aligned to any political party to receive foreign funds if the groups are not involved in “active politics”. The Ministry notified new rules under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), 2010 on Wednesday thereby amending the FCRA Rules, 2011. The new rule said, “The organisations specified under clauses (v) and (vi) of sub-rule (1) shall be considered to be of political nature, if they participate in active politics or party politics, as the case may be.” The 2011 rules on said clauses dealt with “guidelines for the declaration of an organisation to be of a political nature, not being a political party”, and the Central government could specify an organisation as that of political nature based on six criteria. Clause V of Rule 3 (FCRA 2011) qualified a political group as, “organisations of farmers, workers, students, youths based on caste, community, religion, language or otherwise, which is not directly aligned to any political party, but whose objectives as stated in the memorandum of association, or activities gathered through other material evidence, include steps towards advancement of political interests”. The other 2011 clause (VI) qualified a group as political if the “organisation by whatever name called habitually engages itself in or employs common methods of political action like rasta roko, jail bharo, rail roko, bandh or hartal in support of public causes”. A new clause says that groups mentioned in Clause V and VI will only be considered a political group if they participate in “active politics or party politics”. As per the FCRA, members of legislatures, political parties, government officials, judges and media persons are prohibited from receiving any foreign contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/home-ministry-amends-fcra-rules/article33080218.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,||‘MLA is mastermind of investment fraud’||The State government informed the Kerala High Court on Wednesday that Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader and Manjeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin was the mastermind behind the Fashion Gold Jewellery investment fraud. The government submitted that he had lured many persons into investing in the company using his political clout and goodwill. The government pleader made these submissions when a petition filed by the MLA seeking quashing of the First Information Report (FIR) against him came up for hearing before Justice V.G. Arun. The government told the court that offences under the Kerala Protection of Interests of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act and Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act had also been included in the FIR. The court reserved its order in the case. Meanwhile, the Hosdurg frst class magistrate court hearing the MLA’s bail plea refused to release him into police custody and denied permission for his arrest in some cases. Though the probe team wanted to arrest him in 30 cases, permission was granted only in 11 cases. It posted the case for Thursday.  (With inputs from Kannur bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mla-is-mastermind-of-investment-fraud/article33079605.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala should enhance vigil, says Minister||Kerala’s new COVID-19 cases remained high in the south at 7,007 on Wednesday, as the State tested 64,192 samples. The test positivity rate was steady at 10.9% The State’s death toll rose with the addition of 29 more fatalities. Thiruvananthapuram had eight deaths, Kottayam six, Kollam three, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod two each, Kozhikode, Palakkad, Ernakulam, and Alappuzha one each. State Health Minister K.K. Shylaja appealed for high public vigilance and adherence to precautions, especially with the upcoming local body polls and Sabarimala pilgrimage. She said the daily case burden could go up to 30,000, and the State could control transmission only because of public vigil and containment strategies of the Health Department. Andhra Pradesh again reported fewer than 2,000 new infections and 14 deaths on Wednesday. There were 1,732 new cases. Daily positivity at 2.46% from 70,405 samples was one of the lowest in recent days. Krishna district’s toll crossed 600 with three new deaths, Chittoor’s crossed 801 with two new deaths while Anantapur, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported two new deaths each, East Godavari, Guntur and Nellore one death each. East Godavari reported 344 cases, Krishna 246, West Godavari 227, Chittoor 198 and Guntur 195. Anantapur added 97 cases, Nellore 89, Kadapa 88, Visakhapatnam 75, Vizianagaram 66, Srikakulam 59, Kurnool 24 and Prakasam 24. Telangana recorded 1,196 cases on Tuesday and five more patients died. The new cases include 192 from Greater Hyderabad, 121 from Rangareddy, 101 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 89 from Nalgonda and 81 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem. Karnataka’s test positivity rate touched 9.44% from over 90 lakh tests. On Wednesday, the State reported 2,584 new cases and 23 deaths.   (With inputs from   Vijayawada, Hyderabad   and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-should-enhance-vigil-says-minister/article33079623.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Rs. 1.46 lakh crore outlay over 5 years||The 10 sectors under the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme announced by the Centre on Wednesday, have been identified on the basis of their potential to create jobs and make India self-reliant, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said. “We have decided to introduce one more PLI like the one that was earlier announced and had got a good response [from investors and producers]. The selection of sectors has been based on job creation, [linkages with] the global value chain, the sunrise sectors and the larger principle of self-reliant India,” Ms. Sitharaman said, stressing that the Cabinet’s decision should be viewed as a clear signal that India is not turning protectionist. Products brought under the PLI scheme now include complex generics, anti-cancer and diabetic drugs, in-vitro diagnostic devices and special empty capsules. “This should answer the question ‘Does Atma Nirbharta mean inward looking?’ Not at all. We are once again proving it, even in PLI, we want to build on our strengths and link with the global value chain,” Ms. Sitharaman said.  While the Minister and other Cabinet Ministers pegged the estimated cost of the PLI scheme at Rs. 2 lakh crore, an official statement from the Cabinet put the figure at Rs. 1,45,980 crore, with the largest chunk of over Rs. 57,000 crore allocated for automobiles and auto components production. Committee in charge The Finance Minister said individual Ministries in charge of these sectors were ready to immediately implement the scheme. Applications to avail the benefits will be vetted by an Empowered Finance Committee, following which they will be taken up to the Cabinet for final approval. A window has also been kept open for new sectors to be included in the PLI scheme after acquiring a fresh approval from the Cabinet. “The scheme will make Indian manufacturers globally competitive, attract investment in the areas of core competency and cutting-edge technology; ensure efficiencies; create economies of scale; enhance exports and make India an integral part of the global supply chain,” the statement said. The Automotive Components Manufacturers Association of India expressed hope that the high outlay for the sector under the PLI will encourage industry to become a net exporter. “We eagerly await the detailed contours of the scheme,” said the association’s president Deepak Jain. Industry chambers welcomed the move and called for similar ideas to help more sectors. “The sectors covered under the PLI scheme are strategic, technology intensive and also important from the perspective of employment generation,” said Sangita Reddy, FICCI president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-146-lakh-crore-outlay-over-5-years/article33079634.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sabarimala pilgrims from outside must pay for treatment||The State Health Department has issued orders that Sabarimala pilgrims from outside Kerala who are not enrolled in Ayushman Bharat (AB) health insurance scheme will have to bear the expenses of their treatment in the event of their requiring treatment for COVID-19. They will be provided treatment at government or private hospital of the individual’s choice on cost basis. However, pilgrims from within Kerala can avail themselves of free treatment for COVID-19 even if they are not enrolled in the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati or Ayushman Bharat (AB). However, immediate medical care facilities shall be provided at the designated sites. The patient management shall be done appropriately as per the clinical assessment of the patients through private and government hospitals, says the order. In the case of other ailments, pilgrims from both within and outside Kerala, who are not part of the AB scheme and belonging to APL category, will have to bear the cost of treatment. Action plan Meanwhile, the Health department has formulated a detailed action plan for Sabarimala pilgrimage utilising all hospitals, human resource and ambulances in government hospitals as well as empanelled private hospitals, so that the best of medical facilities can be provided for the thousands who are expected to arrive at Sabarimala. The department has proposed that health staff be deployed at Sannidhanam, Charalmedu, Pampa, Nilakkal and Erumeli. An emergency operation theatre will also function at Sannidhanam. The health department has arranged medical facilities for managing palpitation, breathlessness, chest pain or heart attack and other cardiac issues, all along the trekking trail from Pampa till Sannidhanam. Free ambulance service has been arranged and these services will be available at Nilakkal, Pampa, Elavunkal, Ranni Perinad, Vadasserikkara and Pandalam Emergency medical centres and oxygen parlours will be set up in various places from Pampa to Sannidhanam. Nurses trained in Heart attack management and automated external defibrillators will be available at these centres round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sabarimala-pilgrims-from-outside-must-pay-for-treatment/article33079602.ece
12 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Meghalaya govt. encouraging illegal mining’||A Meghalaya-based rights group has accused the alliance government in the State of encouraging illegal coal mining in contempt of a Supreme Court order. This follows a scathing attack by the opposition Congress in the 60-member Meghalaya Assembly over the issue of illegal mining and transportation of coal as Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma insisted several stringent measures have been taken, including cases registered against some 2,000 people for flouting the ban. NGT ban The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had in April 2014 imposed the ban on rat-hole coal mining in Meghalaya. The State government later claimed tonnes of already extracted coal lying around various mining sites needed to be transported to prevent the local environment from being polluted. “Instead of objectively identifying the volume and location of extracted coal, the State government sought self-declaration from the coal miners for receiving mineral transportation challan (payment receipts) to transport and sell their coal,” the NGO Thma U Rangli-Juki said on Wednesday. The extracted coal quantity was reportedly inflated. The NGT subsequently ordered the government to set up a committee for issuing necessary guidelines regarding identification of such “extracted coal”. The committee headed by former Chief Secretary K.S. Kropha found that the volume of extracted coal by the miners was either non-existent or had been inflated. Coal miners had in December 2018 told the Supreme Court, which had upheld the NGT ban, 1.77 lakh metric tonnes of extracted coal was left to be transported. “How was it that the secretary to Meghalaya’s Mining and Geology Department filed an additional affidavit in the court on April 10, 2019 claiming there was 32.57 lakh metric tonnes of coal yet to be transported?” the NGO said. It added that challans were issued illegally and the government used the COVID-19 lockdowns and partial lockdowns to facilitate illegal transportation of coal.  Cong. demand The Congress too sought an explanation from the State government about the mismatch in the figures of extracted coal volume. The party’s MLA George Lyngdoh asked where the trucks carrying coal were coming from if the coal mining operations, as the government claimed, had not resumed since the ban and more than 32 lakh tonnes was still waiting to be auctioned for transporting. Mr. Sangma defended the figure, blaming the Congress for “creating” the 32 lakh metric tonnes during its rule. He said the entire process of assessing the coal was submitted to the NGT but the auctioning had to be delayed because of lack of approval from the relevant authorities. The Chief Minister, however, admitted that the government has been facing the challenges of illegal coal mining and transportation. “We have filed almost 2,000 cases in the past five years,” he said, adding that the government has taken steps such as issuing high-security challans with special ink and hologram, forming a task force and joint patrolling of police and mining officials at different locations in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-govt-encouraging-illegal-mining/article33080271.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,||SC/ST Act: BSY fiat to police, Law depts.||With less than 6% of the people who have committed crimes under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, popularly known as the SC/ST Act, being punished, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa instructed the police and Law departments to take initiative to increase the number of people being punished for crimes Speaking at a meeting organised to create awareness on the Act, Mr. Yediyurappa instructed the police to register FIRs in atrocity cases under sections of the Act. After completing investigation into cases within 60 days, the police should take steps to file chargesheet in court, he said. The Chief Minister directed the police to conduct video-recording of the process of filing cases of atrocities under the Act. For providing compensation to victims of atrocities, Rs. 30 crore had been set aside and Rs. 15 crore had been released to Deputy Commissioners. He told Deputy Commissioners to take action for providing compensation to victims of atrocities. The Chief Minister has asked Deputy Commissioners to make arrangements to provide facilities available under the Ambedkar Foundation of the centre for victims. He told officials not to reject applications under self-employment citing silly reasons. Deputy Commissioners and Divisional Commissioners have been told to hold meetings once in three months at the district and divisional levels for creating awareness about the Act. Mr. Yediyurappa said the government would open ration shops under the PDS in SC and ST colonies if there were more than 100 ration cardholders in each colony. Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy and Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar attended the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scst-act-bsy-fiat-to-police-law-depts/article33079801.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Slain jawan’s last rites performed with honours||Amid the outpouring of grief by hundreds of villagers, the last rites of slain jawan Ryada Mahesh was performed with full military honours at Komanpally in Velpur mandal of Nizamabad district on Wednesday afternoon. The mortal remains of the jawan was brought to his home late last night by the Army authorities. The district administration had already made elaborate arrangements at the residence of Mahesh and also at the crematorium on the village outskirts, Since Wednesday morning, a large number of local residents and some from nearby villages paid floral tributes to Mahesh and offered their condolences to the bereaved family. Roads and Buildings Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy personally supervised all the arrangements. District Collector Narayan Reddy, Commissioner of Police Karthikeya, Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind and Zilla Parishad chairman Vithal Rao and others paid tributes. Amid slogans of ‘Mahesh Amar Rahe, Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’, the last journey of Mahesh began from his house. A flower-bedecked Army truck carried the mortal remains as it passed through the main streets of Komanpally. Three round were fired in the air as the Army and Police personnel paid their tributes. Father of the slain jawan, Ryada Raju lit the funeral pyre. Meanwhile, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao expressed shock over the martyrdom of Army jawan in the firing that took place at the border. Mr Rao said Mahesh would be remembered in history as the one who sacrificed his life for the country. Stating that the State government would stand by and support the bereaved family, the CM announced Rs. 50 lakh financial assistance to them. He said one member of the family based on qualification would be given a government job. Mr. Rao said a house site would also be allotted to Mahesh’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/slain-jawans-last-rites-performed-with-military-honours/article33080282.ece
12 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Congress ‘not shocked’ by Dubbaka poll result||Silence in the Congress is quite deafening after the Dubbak result despite the fact that they were aware of the outcome much earlier. All that it prayed was a second place or in the worse situation, at least securing the deposit. But, unfortunately it is quite a humiliation for a party that gave Telangana, and continues to harp on its cause. Congress could secure just over 21,000 votes with the best and combined efforts of their top leaders. “Frankly, we are fighting to secure more votes than what we polled in the 2019 Parliament elections, when we got 26,000 votes from the Dubbak constituency,” a senior leader admitted a week before the polling came to an end. It was well aware that it had to start from the scratch as the leadership and majority cadre moved to TRS along with Mr. Muthyam Reddy, who passed away recently. “For more than a decade now, we had to be content with second place.” After Cheruku Srinivas Reddy, who joined from the TRS just to get the party ticket, several existing cadre left the party. “In a hot contest between TRS and Congress, BJP was never in the race.” Interestingly, it was an election where Congress put up a united effort, quite in contrast to its image, with all the top leaders and the second rung leaders camping in Dubbak. New AICC in-charge Manickam Tagore could bring the leaders together but there was no solid ground for them to show the results. All it depended was on Muthyam Reddy’s clean image and his good work as the anti-government plank was already taken away by Mr. Raghunandan Rao, who was in the field from the day sitting MLA Ramalinga Reddy passed away. “We joined the race a day before filing of nominations. There was nothing left for us by then,” a former Minister said. Moreover, Mr. Raghunandan had the sympathy of getting defeated three times and he was already in contact with local leaders and voters, which worked in his favour. “So all anti-TRS people preferred to vote for him to ensure its defeat,” he said. But a senior Congress functionary reasons that BJP win was a good sign for Congress. “Dubbak proved that anti-TRS feeling is growing in the State but BJP can take advantage of it only in a few pockets. So it will be beneficial for Congress only as people would prefer Congress to defeat the TRS,” he reasoned. The BJP win, he argued, would give more hopes for the leadership in New Delhi to strengthen in Telangana and they would not hesitate to go after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on the corruption allegations against him. That is a good sign for Congress that is more stronger than BJP in majority constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/by-poll-result-not-a-shocker-for-cong/article33080299.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||SC grants interim bail to Arnab Goswami||The Bench, also comprising Justice Indira Banerjee, directed Mr. Goswami and two others to execute a personal bond of Rs. 50,000 each with the jail superintendent. The court said they should co-operate with the probe and not influence witnesses. Mr. Goswami had appealed to the Supreme Court after the Bombay High Court refused him bail on November 9. During the day-long hearing, Justice Chandrachud referred to a recent case of a woman who was hauled up by the West Bengal government for a tweet. “We are deeply concerned. If this is how human liberty is persecuted, the Supreme Court has to be there for every person... We are getting cases for personal liberty in multitudes... Our democracy is extraordinarily resilient. Our point is governments should ignore them [taunts on TV]. You think what they say makes any difference in the elections?” Justice Chandrachud observed. The court asked the Maharashtra government whether custodial interrogation of Mr. Goswami was really necessary in a case of abetment to suicide in which a person may have taken his own life under financial stress. “There has to be an active incitement to make a case of abetment of suicide. A person has not paid — does this amount to an act of incitement to suicide? Can a person be sent to custodial interrogation, whoever it is...” Justice Chandrachud asked senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for Maharashtra. “In 99 out of 100 cases concerning personal liberty, I appear on the other side,” Mr. Sibal commented. “All the more reason that what we do today has to define what we will do in those 99 cases,” Justice Chandrachud replied. Senior advocate Harish Salve, for Mr. Goswami, urged the court to transfer the case to the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-grants-interim-bail-to-arnab-goswami/article33079617.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||I&B Ministry to govern OTT platforms||Other prohibited content includes any content that “maliciously” intends to outrage religious sentiments; content that “deliberately and maliciously” promotes or encourages terrorism; and lastly, any content that has been banned for exhibition or distribution by law or by a court. The government had refused to support this code. At present, the Press Council of India looks after print media; the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) takes care of the TV news channels; the Advertising Standards Council of India is for advertising; while the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) monitors films. Mr. Javadekar did not speak on the issue or explain the implications of such an order. The Ministry has also remained tight-lipped on exactly what is in store for digital news media and OTT platforms. An official from one of the leading OTT platforms said that it was too early to comment since there was no clarity from the government on what this notification would finally lead to. Founding editor of news portal The Wire , M.K. Venu, said the government had been giving enough hints from time to time that it wanted to regulate digital media but the exact nature of the regulation it wanted to bring was not clear. “There is no clarity on what they mean by digital media. The government talks about digital media and digital aggregators in the same breath but they are different things. Are they looking at licensing, are they looking at entry barriers, or are they looking at curbing digital media? We still don’t know,” Mr. Venu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ott-channels-come-under-ib-ministry/article33079618.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||People trust NDA’s policies, says PM||Mr. Modi added, “Attached to the party is our governance model. We repeatedly saw this in the way the corona pandemic was handled and combated. There is not a single corner of the world that has been unaffected by the pandemic, but the kind of fight that India put up has not been seen anywhere else. Every life that has been saved from corona is a success story of our fight against the disease,” he said. He lauded the doughty spirit of Indians through the pandemic at having carried on with vital reforms and every day work when the world “was at a standstill” due to the pandemic.  Mr. Modi singled out women as having particularly “blessed” the BJP and NDA partners in these polls, and enumerated on the various schemes aimed at them. “There is a lot of talk of silent voters that the BJP has. These silent voters are our mothers, sisters and daughters who have repeatedly blessed us. Our government has, from gas connections to allowances to toilets to one rupee sanitary napkins to piped water connections done everything we can to make the every day life of women at every stage of their life better in material terms,” he said. Without naming West Bengal, Mr. Modi referred to the State and the violence against the BJP workers there. He also said that the democratic polity in India was riddled with dynastic parties from Jammu & Kashmir to Kanyakumari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-hails-bihar-verdict-as-endorsement/article33079619.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China finalising disengagement plan||Verification on the ground at each step, in addition to aerial monitoring using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, will be key to ensuring that the Chinese fully honour the understanding on the gro und, another source said. Since the standoff began in early May, China has moved a large number of troops and equipment close to the LAC in addition to the ingress by Chinese troops inside Indian territory at various places in Eastern Ladakh. On the North Bank, Chinese troops made ingress from Finger 8 up to Finger 4 blocking Indian patrols. India holds till Finger 4 but claims till Finger 8 as per alignment of the LAC. In addition to aerial monitoring using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV), verification on the ground at each step will be the key to ensure that the Chinese fully honour the understanding on the ground, another source said. While discussions were on to schedule the next round of talks for this week, there is still no clarity on the date. After the North Bank, disengagement on the South Bank of Pangong Tso is expected to be taken up, where the two sides have deployed tanks and armoured vehicles in close proximity after tensions went up in August-end. Both were expected to be moved back some distance, the first source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-finalising-disengagement-plan/article33079620.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||68% of newly elected MLAs in Bihar face criminal cases: ADR||Sixty-eight per cent of the newly elected Bihar MLAs have pending criminal charges, with 51% of them having declared serious cases against themselves, including rape and murder, according to a report released on Wednesday by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). In its analysis of the election affidavits of 241 of the 243 winning candidates, the ADR found that the number of winners with criminal cases had increased from 142 or 58% of the total in 2015 to 163 or 68% in 2020. Winning candidates who had declared serious criminal cases, including murder, kidnapping and crimes against women, also increased to 123 or 51% from 98 or 40% in the 2015 Assembly polls. The affidavits of two of the winners were not available on the Election Commission’s site, the ADR said. Seventy-three per cent of the RJD and 64% of the BJP winning candidates had declared cases against themselves. The Bihar polls were the first general elections to be held after the Supreme Court in February directed political parties to publish details of why they selected a candidate with criminal antecedents. The ADR report also found that 81% of the newly elected MLAs had declared assets over Rs. 1 crore, an increase from 67% of the members elected in 2015. An analysis of the assets of the 96 re-elected MLAs found that their assets had grown by an average of 67% from 2015 to 2020. The majority of winning candidates (52%) were between the ages of 51 and 80. Twenty-six women were elected to the Assembly. The report also said that 34% of the winning candidates had educational qualifications between Class V and XII and 62% had declared themselves to be graduates or above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/68-bihar-mlas-face-criminal-cases-adr/article33079635.ece
12 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Gujjars sign quota pact with Rajasthan govt.||After an 11-day-long stalemate, Gujjars, demanding reservation in jobs and education, on Wednesday signed an agreement with the Rajasthan government, covering the crucial aspects of backlog posts, ongoing recruitments, withdrawal of criminal cases and rehabilitation of the families of those killed during previous agitations. The pact was signed with the members of a Cabinet Sub-Committee here after six-hour marathon talks, while Gujjars continued to occupy the Delhi-Mumbai railway track in Bharatpur district. Gujjar leader Vijay Bainsla said the decision on calling off the agitation would be taken after consultation with the community members at the site of the stir. Gujjar supremo Kirori Singh Bainsla met Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot at his official residence after signing the agreement late in the night. The signatories on behalf of the State government were Energy Minister B.D. Kalla and Ministers of State Tika Ram Jully and Subhash Garg. According to the six-point pact, a committee will examine the issue of extending 5% reservation under the Most Backward Class (MBC) category in the ongoing recruitments and study the provisions made in other States. Regular pay scale will be given to 1,252 MBC candidates on completion of their probation period, while arrears will be subject to the outcome of some court cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujjars-sign-quota-pact-with-rajasthan-govt/article33080217.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Wary passengers hesitant to book flights||Deepavali is the time for family reunions and all round cheer, including for airlines that see a surge in demand for travel. This year though is different as data show that passengers are far more hesitant while making a flight booking. Demand for travel in the first week of November is only 8% more than the first week of October, according to travel portal Cleartrip.com. A surge in COVID-19 cases in various metros as well as concerns about likely travel restrictions mean that passengers wait until the last minute to book their travel. “One way trips account for 78% of those being undertaken between November 7 and 15. This indicates that most customers prefer to have flexibility in travel plans and are booking closer to the date of travel,” says Cleartrip’s Aditya Agarwal, Head of Corporate Strategy. The top 10 routes are dominated by those originating in business centres such as Mumbai, Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad and Pune and destined for cities in northern and eastern parts of the country such as Jaipur, Varanasi, Lucknow, Kolkata. But, a shift towards leisure travel too is beginning to happen. “We are also witnessing a trend of ‘escape tourism’ in metros like Delhi, where increasing level of pollution has tourists flocking to destinations like Goa in search of fresh air. We have seen a 74% month-on-month increase in bookings for Goa in October,” says ixigo CEO Aloke Bajpai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wary-passengers-hesitant-to-book-flights/article33079636.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||MHA redefines jurisdiction of 3 FRRO offices in Kerala||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has redefined the jurisdiction of some of the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) for services related to Overseas Citizens of India (OCI). The Ministry said the jurisdiction of three FRRO offices in Kerala have been “clearly defined” now in respect of processing applications of OCI card holders. MHA said Kannur, Kasaragod, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Wayanad districts will be under the jurisdiction of FRRO Kozhikode. “The districts of Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Idukki, Kottayam, Palakkad and Thrissur, and the Union Territory of Lakshadweep, will be under the jurisdiction of FRRO Kochi. The districts of Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Thiruvananthapuram will be under the jurisdiction of FRRO, Thiruvananthapuram,” the MHA said in a statement. It said that the move will facilitate the grant of OCI services to foreigners residing in the State of Kerala and the Union Territory of Lakshadweep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mha-redefines-jurisdiction-of-3-frro-offices-in-kerala/article33079616.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,||SC/ST Act: ‘Work towards increasing conviction rate’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday instructed the police and Law departments to take initiative to increase conviction rate under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, popularly known as the SC/ST Act, from the present level of 6%. Speaking at a meeting organised to create awareness on the Act, he instructed the police to register FIRs in atrocity cases under relevant sections. After completing investigation into the cases within 60 days, the police should take steps to file chargesheet in the court, he said. The Chief Minister directed the police to conduct video-recording of the process of filing cases of atrocities under the Act. For providing compensation to victims of atrocities, Rs. 30 crore had been set aside and Rs. 15 crore had been released to Deputy Commissioners. He told Deputy Commissioners to take action for providing compensation to victims of atrocities. The Chief Minister has asked Deputy Commissioners to make arrangements to provide facilities available under the Ambedkar Foundation for victims. He told officials not to reject applications under self-employment citing silly reasons. Deputy Commissioners and Divisional Commissioners have been told to hold meetings once in three months for creating awareness about the Act. Mr. Yediyurappa said the government would open ration shops under the public distribution system in SC and ST colonies if there were more than 100 ration cardholders in each colony. Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, and Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scst-act-work-towards-increasing-conviction-rate/article33080222.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,||Chennithala against ban on audit of local body accounts||Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday approached the Kerala High Court against the stopping of auditing of the accounts of local self-government institutions in the State for 2019-20. In his petition, Mr. Chennithala challenged the order issued by the Director, Kerala State Audit Department, on September 4 directing all heads of local bodies to stop auditing of their accounts for 2019-20. The directive was issued on the ground that there was lack of operation guidelines on the implementation of grants on the basis of the Fifteenth Finance Commission recommendations from the Centre. The petitioner contended that the reason for the order was not legally and factually correct, as the Union Ministry of Finance had issued operational guidelines for implementation on Rural Local Body (RLB) grants of the finance commission. The guidelines had been given to the State government in July itself. In fact, the Director had issued the order suppressing the operations guidelines given the Centre. The petitioner alleged that the government wanted to postpone the auditing of accounts till the local body and Assembly elections because of fears of exposing corruptions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chennithala-against-ban-on-audit-of-local-body-accounts/article33079913.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Feast for the eyes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/feast-for-the-eyes/article33080224.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Left alleges irregularities in counting||In a joint statement a day after the Bihar Assembly election results, the Left parties have said that they will go to the Election Commission to complain about “irregularities during the last stages of counting”. “The Left parties are of the opinion that there were certain clear irregularities during the last stages of the counting that need to be seriously addressed by the Election Commission. Along with other partners of the mahagathbandhan , the Left parties will take up these matters with the Election Commission of India,” the statement said. The statement signed by CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D. Raja and CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said that the difference in the vote share of both the alliances was “very very small”. “The BJP-led alliance lost 12% from the votes it polled in the 2019 Lok Sabha election,” the statement said. The joint statement pointed out that the Janata Dal (United) led by incumbent Chief Minister Nitish Kumar won only 43 seats, as compared to the 71 it won in the last Assembly election. “The CM’s defection from the mahagathbandhan to the BJP is, amongst other factors, rejected by a large section of the electorate,” the statement said. The Left parties together won 16 out of the 29 seats they contested: CPI(ML) – 12, CPI(M) – 2, and CPI – 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-alleges-irregularities-in-final-stages-of-counting/article33079630.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses plea against fireworks ban||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to entertain a plea against a Calcutta High Court ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during Kali puja, saying “preservation of life is more important” than festivals amid the pandemic. “We are all battling for life in this situation and all of us have elderly people in our home,” a Vacation Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee observed. The court said the pandemic had put life in peril, especially for those with co-morbidities. It said the HC order was based on its knowledge of the ground situation there. The court was hearing an appeal filed by one Gautam Roy and the Burrabazaar Fireworks Dealers Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-refuses-plea-against-fireworks-ban/article33079639.ece
12 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||3 pregnant women die in Arunachal||Lack of access to healthcare has reportedly claimed the lives of at least three pregnant women in a remote village of Arunachal Pradesh. According to the residents of Kamhua Noknu village in Khakam Block under Pongchau Circle of Longding district, Nonsai Pansa died on November 5 on way to a hospital at district headquarters Longding about 30 km away. Two others, Polai Wangsa and Phechang Pansa, died earlier while in labour pain because the absence of road prevented healthcare workers from arriving in time. Radhilu Chai Techi, the chairperson of Arunachal Pradesh State Commission for Women, did not respond to calls or messages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-pregnant-women-die-in-arunachal/article33079640.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||HC protects 2 from arrest in anti-CAA case||The Allahabad High Court has provided interim protection from arrest to two persons who were booked for sedition during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act earlier this year in Prayagraj. A division bench of Bachchoo Lal and Subhash Chandra Sharma, however, refused to quash the FIR against them saying there were no grounds for it. Ahmed Ali, a Muslim cleric, and Suhaib-ur-Rahman, who heads a Muslim outfit, were booked on March 6, under Sections 124A and 153B of the IPC in an FIR lodged by the Kareli police. They were accused of distributing unlawful pamphlets against the CAA, the National Register of Citizens and the National Population Register.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-protects-2-from-arrest-in-anti-caa-case/article33079641.ece
12 November 2020||Srinagar,||Trace missing J&K soldier, says family||The family members of a soldier, who was allegedly abducted by militants in south Kashmir’s Shopian three months ago, on Wednesday held a protest in Srinagar and asked the authorities to trace him. “We approached officials at all levels but nobody helped us. If he is alive, then the authorities should help us in locating him. If he has been killed, they should help us in retrieving the body,” soldier Shakir Manzoor’s father Manzoor Ahmad said. Rifleman Manzoor, 24, a resident of Shopian’s Reshipora village was allegedly abducted on August 2 when he was on the way to celebrate Id at home. According to the family, his torn clothes with bloodstains were spotted in an orchard near his home. Later, a person on social media claimed that the soldier had been killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trace-missing-jk-soldier-says-family/article33079642.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Trial against 15 charged under UAPA stayed||The Delhi High Court has stayed the trial of 15 accused, including Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, charged under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the northeast Delhi riots. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait gave the order while hearing the plea of the Delhi police challenging a trial court’s order directing the agency to provide hard copies of the chargesheet to the 15 accused. Justice Kait posted the case for further hearing on December 15. The plea said the police report itself was about 2,700 pages and the total number of documents and statements of witnesses ran into about 18,000 pages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trial-against-15-charged-under-uapa-stayed/article33079645.ece
12 November 2020||Mumbai,||Vote is for PM and Nitish, says Fadnavis||A visibly joyous atmosphere prevailed in the head office of the Maharashtra unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday after the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) confirmed its victory. Maharashtra’s former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who was in charge of the party in Bihar, said that the people of Bihar clearly voted in favour of development and not “jungle raj”. “The verdict is a clear manifestation of people’s trust in the leadership of Narendra Modi and Nitish Kumar,” said Mr. Fadnavis. Mr. Fadnavis said that the BJP’s strike rate in Bihar has increased to 67% in 2020 from 34% in 2015. “Credit goes to the pro-poor policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and efforts of party workers to ensure it reaches to all poor,” he said, adding that “entire Bihar participated in the polls despite the pandemic and set an example for the world”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vote-is-for-pm-and-nitish-says-fadnavis/article33079631.ece
12 November 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Armed men barge into house, steal gold||In a daring incident, an armed gang barged into a house and allegedly stole 31 sovereigns of gold ornaments from a woman, R. Jebakiruba (33) at knife-point, after tying her up, on Tuesday night. The police said that the robbery took place in the presence of two small children at the house in Ayyappan Nagar, when Jebakiruba’s husband, Ramkumar was away at work, at around 9 p.m. The police said that two persons – one wearing a mask and another sporting a helmet – had knocked at the door. The two claimed that they had been to Ramkumar’s vegetable shop, a few metres away, and he had directed them to his home to give a wedding invitation. Even as they were talking, the young boy had opened the door. After entering the house, the two asked for drinking water. As Jebakiruba handed over a glass of water, suddenly one of them pounced on her and the other gagged with adhesive tapes and tied her hands behind her back. Meanwhile, two more robbers rushed into the house and after placing a knife at her throat, they removed around five sovereigns of gold, including her chain and ear rings from her. Later, they opened the almirah and took 26 sovereigns of gold. Even as they were trying to flee, two workers from Ramkumar’s shop – Indira Devi and Vijayakumar – had incidentally come to the house. The robbers pushed both of them into the house and locked the door from outside before vanishing under the cover of darkness. Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police, P. Perumal, inspected the scene of the crime. Fingerprints have been lifted from the scene of the crime. Aruppukottai Town police have registered a case and are analysing video footage from a nearby closed circuit television camera network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/armed-men-barge-into-house-steal-gold/article33079751.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Medical seats: rules stand in the way||A scheme introduced for the benefit of Dalit students seven years ago has become a bane for M. Divyadarshini, a topper in Class 12 this year. She secured 525/600 in Class 12 and 343 marks in NEET. Yet, it is unclear if she would qualify for a medical seat under the 7.5% quota for government school students. She is a beneficiary of the Adi-Dravidar welfare scheme, introduced by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa to enable bright students get into self-financing schools and study Class 11 and 12. Quality education The scheme envisages quality education for 10 Adi Dravidar/Tribal students every year from each district who secured higher marks in Class 10 in government/corporation/municipal/Adi Dravidar and tribal welfare schools. The students would be selected and admitted in reputed private schools. At that time, there were 32 districts. To be eligible for the scheme, the parents’ annual income should not exceed Rs. 1 lakh. Such students would receive Rs. 28,000 towards boarding and other expenses. The District Collector would select the beneficiary for the scheme, according to the Citizen’s Charter issued in 2014-15. K. Murali, the student’s father and employee of a fair price shop in Chennai, said the girl had earlier done her SSLC in the Government High School in Parangipettai in 2018 and scored 456/500. “Since she got the highest mark in Class 10, the school authorities asked her to join a private school so she could ace plus two,” he said. “It is not my daughter’s fault since it was not her decision to study in a private school. We had refused the offer then. It was the Education Department that persuaded us. Her chances of getting a seat under the government quota is slim as she migrated to a private school in Kallakurichi district. Why should we suffer and be deprived of a seat?” he asked. Mr. Murali has petitioned the Collector, seeking the Chief Minister’s intervention. Other reasons M. Gnanamsoundharya of Government Higher Secondary School in S.S. Kulam, Coimbatore district, who scored 361 in NEET 2020, also may not benefit from the horizontal reservation. But for other reasons. She topped the list of government school students who cleared NEET in Coimbatore but as she had studied in a private school for a year she is ineligible. School headmistress R. Sridevi said the student studied Class 6 at a private school in Annur. “From Class 7 to 12, she studied only in our school,” she said. Gnanamsoundharya scored 471/600 in Class 12 and cleared NEET in the first attempt. “I was happy on hearing about the reservation but two days later, the school said that I will not be eligible,” Ms. Gnanamsoundharya told The Hindu on Wednesday, adding that her relatives had advised her to choose other courses. “My goal is only MBBS and to become a gynaecologist,” she said. Her father met with an accident five years ago and since then he has been unable to work. Her family is planning to meet Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani with an appeal to consider her for medical college admissions. Chella. Selvakumar, general secretary of Samakalvi Iyakkam, a movement for Dalits, SCs and STs, said soon after the introduction of the scheme, organisations working for the welfare of Dalits had opposed it. “We are trying to get data on how many students have benefited under the Adi Dravidar scheme so far.” “We are unable to access data as the District Educational Officers want us to send queries by post. We may have to apply for the details only under RTI,” he said. ( With S. Prasad in Cuddalore and R. Akileish in Coimbatore )  It is not my daughter’s fault since it was not her decision to study in a private school. It was the Education Dept. that persuaded us||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-seats-rules-stand-in-the-way/article33079795.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai GH becomes a home for abandoned persons||Every day, hundreds of patients walk in and out of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). But the hospital has turned into a home for about 30 patients, who were rescued from the roads and had no place or family to go back to. Nearly 30 such patients have been undergoing treatment in a handful of wards at the hospital. Some of them were brought in by the 108 ambulance service after being found unconscious on the road while a few were brought in by the police. Others were admitted by their friends but most of them were destitute, according to hospital authorities. A majority of them are aged between 55 and 70 years, and 50% of them have old age-related problems. Fractures are common in those aged between 35 and 50 years. Many of the men had fractures, while a few women had problems such as uremic encephalopathy, diabetes and severe septicaemia as they were uncared for. Some had simple problems like a sprained ankle. With no place to go or no family to take them back, many have remained at the hospital for a long time. For instance, a man, in his mid-50s, has been staying at the hospital for nearly a year. He had been admitted by his friend and had undergone multiple surgeries, doctors said. “We take every effort to ensure that their care is not compromised, and provide uninterrupted treatment, including surgeries. Staff nurses, a ward boy and hospital workers take care of all of them, provide food and coffee on time, and take care of their personal needs. We engaged our barber to shave and trim their hair and beard,” said E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH. A few doctors, who had undergone treatment for COVID-19 at RGGGH, wanted to contribute something for the hospital. “They got bed sheets for the wards, and nightwear for the admitted women. Our staff has also pooled in resources to keep the ward going,” he said. Dr. Theranirajan added that officers from the Social Welfare Department visited the hospital on Wednesday and they were working out measures to place the patients in suitable homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rgggh-becomes-a-home-for-abandoned-destitute-persons/article33079792.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decision on Karthigai Deepam festival today, Madras HC told||The Tiruvannamalai Arunachaleswarar temple administration on Wednesday told the Madras High Court that a decision on conducting the 17-day ‘Tirukarthigai Deepam’ festival this year would be taken at a meeting to be held with all stakeholders, including the district administration, and made known by Thursday. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha were told by A.K. Sriram, counsel for the temple, that the meeting would be held on Wednesday. State Government pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan said a final decision on the mode of conduct of the festival would be taken by Thursday. The submissions were made during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition filed by V. Sakthivel, State vice-president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), seeking a direction to the government and the temple administration to conduct the festival this year by following all necessary COVID-19 protocols. Representing the petitioner, senior counsel AR.L. Sundaresan said the temple administration had kept devotees in the dark with respect to conduct of the festival this year. He insisted that the temple administration should necessarily conduct the festival from November 17 to December 3, without giving up any of the rituals. 17-day festival In reply, Mr. Sriram told the court that every year around one lakh devotees visit the temple on each day of the 17-day festival. Further, five lakh devotees congregate to witness the Urchavamoorthy being taken on a temple car, and somewhere between 20 to 25 lakh devotees gather around the temple to watch the Maha Deepam. Since the State government had issued a Government Order on October 31 permitting religious congregations of just 100 people from November 16, it was felt that the temple car festival this year should be confined to the precincts of the temple. Nevertheless, a final decision would be taken only after hearing all stakeholders, he said. Puri guidelines “Every ritual is going to be conducted. It is for the district administration to take a call on allowing the devotees to witness them. There is going to be a meeting today. The guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court for conduct of Puri Jagannath temple festival would be taken up for consideration,” the counsel said. After hearing all the arguments, the judges adjourned the case to November 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-on-karthigai-deepam-festival-today-madras-hc-told/article33080259.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After ABVP objects, university withdraws Arundhati Roy’s book||Acting on objections from the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the Manonmaniam Sundaranar University in Tirunelveli has withdrawn noted writer Arundhati Roy’s book, Walking with the Comrades , from its postgraduate English syllabus. The book was based on her visit to Maoist hideouts. At a meeting chaired by Vice-Chancellor K. Pitchumani, it was decided that the book will be removed and replaced with a few essays from naturalist M. Krishnan’s My Native Land: Essays on Nature . “The book was included in the syllabus in 2017. It was only a week ago that it was brought to our notice that Ms. Roy had glorified Maoists. So we formed a committee to discuss the issue and the panel recommended its withdrawal,” Mr. Pitchumani, who was appointed Vice-Chancellor last year, told The Hindu . “Besides the ABVP, others complained too, and the issue assumed multiple dimensions. So we decided to withdraw the book. It is appropriate that Krishnan is from Tirunelveli,” he added. Ms. Roy’s book was prescribed for the third semester of M.A. English, under Commonwealth Writing. It was part of the syllabus for the last three years. She first wrote it as a long essay in Outlook magazine in March, 2010. “The terse, typewritten note slipped under my door in a sealed envelope confirmed my appointment with India’s gravest internal security threat. I’d been waiting for months to hear from them,” begins Ms. Roy, who ventured into the forests to meet the Maoists. Accusing the book of openly supporting the killing fields and riots by the “anti-national Maoists”, ABVP Dakshin Tamil Nadu joint secretary C. Vignesh urged the Vice-Chancellor to remove the book from the syllabus. He said it was regrettable that Maoist and Naxal ideas had been imposed on the students for the last three years. “The teachers also taught an anti-national subject. Students are subjected to mental agony as the book encourages hatred against our country,” he said, demanding its removal from the syllabus and an apology from the university. Warning to varsity Mr. Vignesh had warned that if the University delayed its decision to withdraw the book from the syllabus, the ABVP would bring it to the notice of the Union Human Resource Development Ministry. “We will launch protests,” Mr. Vignesh had warned.  Organiser , the mouthpiece of the RSS, also carried a report against the book. “The book allegedly glorifies the Maoists, who are classified as Bharat’s gravest internal security threat,” the magazine said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-abvp-objects-university-withdraws-arundhati-roys-book/article33079735.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wet Deepavali weekend likely across the State||A wet Deepavali weekend is likely over many places of the State as the Meteorological Department has forecast an active rain spell till November 17. Two easterly waves in succession would trigger widespread rainfall over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal. While the rainfall would cover the coastal region initially, it is set to move to interior areas by Friday. One or two places in several districts may experience heavy to very heavy rainfall of up to 20 cm on Thursday and Saturday, according to the department. S.Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said a trough of low pressure over southwest Bay of Bengal off Sri Lanka coast to westcentral Bay off north Andhra Pradesh coast has activated rains over the State. There’s another cyclonic circulation over Equatorial Indian ocean. But the system is far away. “Rains will start in coastal region and move westwards. It would spread over interior places gradually. Such rainfall influenced by easterly perturbations will depend on moisture distribution and interaction between land and ocean. It will enhance convective activity too,” he said.  Rain in Chennai On Thursday, heavy rainfall is likely over one or two places in districts such as Chennai, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and delta region. Thunderstorms with heavy rains may continue over one or two places in the State during the weekend. Chennai and its neighbourhood began receiving sharp showers on Wednesday evening and the day temperature dropped to 28.6 degree Celsius in Nungambakkam and 29.7 degree Celsius in Meenambakkam. The weather trend is set to continue and the city may get light to moderate rains and it may be heavy in one or two places till Saturday. The State has so far received an average of 14 cm, which is 46% less than the normal of 26 cm for this season since October1. The department has warned fishermen not to venture into the sea as squally winds with speed reaching up to 50 km per hour may prevail along and off T.N. and Puducherry coasts till weekend.  New AGRs The Meteorological Department is also set to inaugurate automatic rain gauge at Sri Sairam Institute of Technology, west Tambaram on Friday. Officials said the other ARGs will be inaugurated at Goodwill School, Villivakkam, and Dr. MGR Educational and Research Institute, Maduravoyal, soon. There are no plans to set up ARG at Tamil Nadu Dr.MGR Medical University, Guindy.  On Thursday, heavy rainfall is likely over one or two places in Chennai, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wet-deepavali-weekend-likely-across-the-state/article33079790.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tenders for push carts on Marina not opened: Corpn.||Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Wednesday told the Madras High Court that it could not open tenders received for supplying over 900 push carts to vendors on Marina beach because of an interim order passed by a single judge on Tuesday. A Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh was informed by Additional Advocate General S.R. Rajagopal that the Corporation was about to open the tenders on Tuesday when the interim order was passed on a writ petition preferred by a private company. After recording the submission, the Bench directed the High Court Registry to tag that writ petition with the present public interest litigation petition, in which it had taken up the task of beautification of the beach, and list them together before it on November 18. The judges also directed the AAG to come up with a definite deadline, by the next hearing, on constructing a fish market on Loop Road, setting up a foot overbridge for the fishermen to reach the market from the beach and connecting Besant Nagar with the Loop Road to reduce vehicular traffic on D.G.S. Dhinakaran Road. Cleaning machines In a status report filed on Wednesday, Mr. Prakash told the court that eight tractor-driven beach cleaning machines were being pressed into service on Marina beach regularly from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. to remove litter. He also said that about 70 fish, vegetables, fruits, ice-cream and buttermilk vendors, who had encroached on Loop Road, had been evicted with the assistance of the Nochikuppam Fish Vendors’ Association representatives and the area was being maintained well. As far as the construction of a fish market on 2 acres on the Loop Road was concerned, the Commissioner said the Coastal Zone Management Authority had sought details regarding facilities to dispose offi sh waste and also the proposed drainage system. The Corporation had also been asked to submit a Geographic Information System attested by competent authorities from Anna University. Accordingly, the civic body had addressed a letter to the university on November 6, the court was told. Two private firms STUP Consultants Private Ltd. and Land Tech Engineers Private Ltd. had been given the task of preparing feasibility reports for the foot overbridge and connecting Loop Road with Besant Nagar respectively, Mr. Prakash said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tenders-for-push-carts-on-marina-not-opened-corpn/article33080238.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With 2,184 new cases, State’s tally crosses 7,50,000||With 2,184 fresh cases on Wednesday, Tamil Nadu’s tally touched 7,50,409. The State added 50,000 cases in 20 days after crossing the seven lakh mark on October 22. Previously, it took 12 days for Tamil Nadu to get from 6,50,000 to 7,00,000 cases. As many as 2,210 persons were discharged after treatment on Wednesday. A total of 7,20,339 persons have been discharged till date. Twenty-eight persons succumbed to the infection, pushing up the State’s toll to 11,415. Among the deceased were three persons in their 30s. One of them, a 30-year-old woman from Tiruvarur, had been admitted to a government hospital on October 29 with fibroid, complicating pregnancy. She tested positive for COVID-19 on November 8 and died the following day due to COVID-19 pneumonia, post-caesarean section, acute respiratory distress syndrome, multilobar consolidation (non-resolving pneumonia), complicated pyothorax and septic shock. A 38-year-old man with diabetes from Vellore had been admitted to a private medical college hospital there on November 4 with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulty for five days. He died on November 9. A 39-year-old man with no co-morbidities died at a private medical college hospital in Vellore on November 9. Except for four districts, including Chennai, the rest of the State reported less than 100 cases each. Chennai reported 571 cases, followed by Coimbatore (189). Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur reported 142 and 148 cases, respectively. A total of 96 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Erode, 94 in Tiruppur and 87 in Salem. There was a marginal rise in fresh infections in Vellore as 91 persons tested positive. With 77,309 samples having been tested in the last 24 hours, the total figure has risen to 1,07,86,565.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-2184-new-cases-states-tally-crosses-750000/article33079746.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Those violating safety norms in zoos will be fined Rs. 1,000||A penalty of Rs. 1,000 will be imposed on those violating the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the State government for reopening zoos in the State. All visitors will be under CCTV camera surveillance, the SOP issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Wednesday said. With respect to battery-operated vehicles, members of the same family will be encouraged to avail a separate vehicle. “In case the visitors are from different families, only two visitors will be allowed in a row,” it said. All visitors should compulsorily wear face masks, and must undergo body temperature checks while entering the premises. Physical distancing norms have to be adhered to. “Interaction of visitors with zoo staff has to be minimal, even when necessary,” the SOP said. Visitors may come to the zoo only when they do not have symptoms like cough, cold or fever, and those aged over 65 are requested to avoid visits. “All visitors must compulsorily pass through the medicated foot mat at the entrances. Provisions for foot-operated handwash basins are available and visitors are encouraged to use those,” the SOP said. It also provided guidelines for zoo staff with visitor-interface and animal-interface duties, and for those holding various licences.  Interaction of visitors with the zoo staff has to be minimal, even when necessary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/those-violating-safety-norms-in-zoos-will-be-fined-rs-1000/article33080249.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Abolish VPF, local body tax, says T. Rajendar||Actor and filmmaker T. Rajendar, who is running for the post of president of the Tamil Film Producers’ Council in elections slated for November 22, said on Wednesday that the virtual print fee (VPF) and local body tax should be done away with. He also appealed to the State government to renew C-form licences without a fee. With this demand, the Tamil Film Active Producers’ Association, which was formed a few months ago by former members of the Tamil Film Producers’ Council, is on the same page as the latter on the issue of VPF. Mr. Rajendar also demanded that a part of the revenue earned through online ticket sales be given to producers. “Producers should be given a rupee every time a ticket is sold online. VPF has been discontinued. Just like Hollywood studios, we will only provide the content from now on. A theatre should have its own projector. Times have changed,” he said. Despite the digital cinema service providers waiving VPF for November, he said some theatre owners were not speaking for the welfare of all. “A portion of VPF is being given to some theatre owners and denied to others,” he said. Mr. Rajendar noted that it had been promised earlier that VPF would soon be abolished. The local body tax of 8% should be removed, he added. “We have been told to allow only 50% occupancy, but are still being asked to pay local body tax. We should also be protected,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/t-rajendar-appeals-to-govt-to-abolish-vpf-and-local-body-tax/article33080260.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Fishermen taken into confidence for auction’||The reported auctioning of 125 mechanised boats, lying in Sri Lanka, was planned only after taking the fishermen concerned into confidence, said officials of the Fisheries Department and a senior representative of the fishermen community. Fishermen’s associations too had requested the State government to arrange for the auctioning of the boats, said D. Jayakumar, Fisheries Minister, in a statement. A team of four officials and 10 representatives from the community had visited Sri Lanka during October 10-16, 2018 to ascertain how many of the released boats could be brought back to Tamil Nadu. After deliberations among officials and the representatives, it was decided that 36 boats would be taken home, while the rest could be auctioned in Sri Lanka. Consequently, the boats were brought back to Tamil Nadu during January 16-February 6, 2019, a senior official in the Department said. The State government, according to the Minister, spent Rs. 47.95 lakh for bringing back the boats. In May this year, a team was supposed to visit Sri Lanka to bring back 10 more boats, but the pandemic disturbed the plan. As the boats identified for auctioning are properties of Indian nationals, proceeds from the auction will be handed over to the Indian High Commission so that the amount can eventually be passed on to the owners of the boats, the official explained. Mr. Jayakumar said the State government requested the External Affairs Ministry to send the money to it for facilitating their distribution to the boat owners. P. Jesu Raja, president of the Ramanathapuram district chapter of the All-Mechanised Boats-Fishermen Association, said he was one among those who went to Sri Lanka, and it was agreed that the unsalvageable boats could be auctioned in the neighbouring country itself. As the value of each boat is in the Rs. 15 lakh-Rs. 30 lakh range, the owners or the fishermen stand to lose heavily, if the expected revenue through the auction is “just Rs. 3 lakh-Rs. 4 lakh” a boat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-taken-into-confidence-for-auction/article33079739.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three firms bid to build phase II stretch of Metro Rail||Three firms have bid to construct one of the key sections of Metro’s phase II project, the stretch from Poonamallee Bypass to Porur Junction. Hindustan Construction Company Ltd.–KEC International joint venture, Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (L&T) and NCC Ltd. have shown interest in the construction of this 26.09 km elevated stretch. This section forms part of the Light House to Poonamallee Bypass corridor, which is one of the three in the 118.9 km phase II project. The other two are Madhavaram to Shollinganallur and Madhavaram to SIPCOT. Poonamallee Bypass, Poonamallee Bus Terminus, Mullai Thottam, Karayan Chavadi, Kumanan Chavadi, Kaatupakkam, Iyapanthangal Bus Depot, Ramachandra Hospital and Chennai Bypass will be the stations on the Poonamallee Bypass to Porur Junction corridor. These three firms had also bid for the stretch from Porur Junction to Power House, which also falls under the Light House to Poonamallee Bypass corridor. Priority corridor According to the officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), though these two stretches do not fall under the priority corridor, they still wanted to float most of the civil tenders by the end of the year and award the contracts by early next year, after which the construction can simultaneously begin across the city. The priority corridor is a 52 km stretch from Madhavaram to CMBT and Madhavaram to Taramani, for which funding was first finalised and tenders were floated. Sources said while it was easier building elevated stations as compared to the underground stations, it was not going to be easy carrying out work on the stretch as there were many congested areas. “We are planning to finish the construction of this stretch in about three years. Most of the detailed designs are nearly complete,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-firms-bid-to-construct-phase-ii-stretch-of-metro-rail/article33080244.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ophthalmologists caution against eye injuries during Deepavali||With Deepavali round the corner, ophthalmologists have called for parental supervision while lighting fireworks. Every year during the festival, eye hospitals see patients being rushed for treatment for firecracker-induced injuries.  “The problem occurs when children go near crackers that haven’t burst to check or to light it again. Sometimes, bystanders get injured when a rocket is lit. Many injuries are just mild burns and will heal with proper treatment. Some will need surgical management,” said K. Vasantha, former director of the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology, Government Ophthalmic Hospital. Rajiv Raman, senior consultant at Sankara Nethralaya, said it is best to light firecrackers that are brighter and less explosive. Children should avoid lighting explosive crackers. Even older children should be allowed to light them only under parental guidance, he said. In open areas Firecrackers should be lit in open areas and a bucket of water should be placed nearby as a precaution. “Half-burnt, unlit crackers should be thrown into water. In case of injury, rush to an ophthalmologist. Do not rub or press your eyes. Avoid cleaning eyes with chemicals. Use a convex shield or an ice cream cup for covering the injured eye. Ointments or drops should not be applied as they may not be sterilised,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ophthalmologists-caution-against-eye-injuries/article33080257.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin joins issue with Palaniswami on Sterlite||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday denied Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s allegation that he was responsible for launching the Sterlite Copper unit in Thoothukudi. “The Chief Minister is responsible for the police firing on peaceful protesters, in which 13 persons were killed. Since elections are approaching, the Chief Minister is uttering a blatant lie. His speech is highly condemnable,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. He said the entire country watched policemen standing on vans and firing on the protestors. “After constituting a commission to probe the incident, the Chief Minister fears that his true face will be unmasked,” he said. Reiterating that former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had issued a no-objection certificate to the unit in August, 1994, he said the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board granted environmental clearance on May 17, 1995. “It was Jayalalithaa who laid the foundation stone and inaugurated the unit,” Mr. Stalin said.  In a separate statement, he urged the State government to hold counselling for medical admissions in the State, online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-joins-issue-with-palaniswami-on-sterlite/article33079740.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judge urges police not to bring Deepavali gifts||A district judge in Thoothukudi has written to the police, urging them to avoid bringing Deepavali gifts for court staff, contending that it amounts to bribery. Principal District Judge N. Logeswaran wrote to the Superintendent of Police, with copies marked to all Deputy Superintendents of Police in the district, that he came to know of a custom of police personnel gifting crackers, sweets and other items to court staff on Deepavali. “I am of the view that the above mentioned act amounts to a kind of bribery which is clearly an offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Hence, I request you to kindly instruct all police personnel in Thoothukudi district not to give any type of gifts to the court staff...,” he said. Some years ago, when he was in service, Justice K. Chandru of the Madras High Court had dissuaded people from meeting him on festivals and New Year by putting up a board outside his official residence. Distribution of sweets/crackers/gifts to government officials is considered customary ahead of Deepavali. Some officials in income-generating departments like Registration, Road Transport, etc., even face allegations of collecting mamool or cash gifts from customers. The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption has been conducting a series of searches in government offices across the State since October 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gifts-amount-to-bribery/article33079797.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight held for forcing minor into prostitution||The All-Women police in Tondiarpet on Wednesday arrested eight persons for allegedly forcing a minor into prostitution. Those held include the girl’s aunt and seven others, including two women. The police said the 13-year-old girl in north Chennai had dropped out of school three years ago after her father’s death, and accompanied her mother to houses where she worked as a domestic help. Two months ago, the woman’s niece from Vyasarpadi requested the girl’s help in taking care of her two children. The niece, who was estranged from her husband, was living with another man. Later, when the woman visited her niece’s house in Vyasarpadi, she saw that her daughter was nowhere to be found. She persuaded her relative to bring her to her daughter. When they finally met, the girl disclosed that she had been forced into prostitution. On a complaint from the woman, the police arrested the aunt, her friend Madhan and seven others, including two women who acted as brokers. All of them were booked under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act, and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-held-for-forcing-minor-into-prostitution/article33080239.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Isha Foundation can hold Sivarathri events after getting permission: NGT||The Southern bench of the National Green Tribunal has allowed Isha Foundation to hold its Sivarathri events or any other mega functions within its premises after obtaining permission from the district administration, police department, forest department or the Pollution Control Board. Isha Foundation has been directed to provide sound limiters so as to avoid excess noise during the events. The bench ordered that the district administration, police department, forest department and the TNPCB depute their officials during the function to see whether the conditions imposed by them are being complied with. The TNPCB has also been directed to monitor whether waste generated during the gatherings are being dealt with scientifically as specified under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The bench also said if the Isha Foundation did not have any sewage treatment plant, it should establish one after getting permission from the TNPCB. If violations are found, authorities can take action, it said. In a statement, the Isha Foundation welcomed the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isha-foundation-can-hold-sivarathri-events-after-getting-permission-ngt/article33079788.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Korean govt. gives award to director of InKo Centre||The Consulate General of the Republic of Korea announced that the Korean government will award the Prime Minister’s citation to Dr. Rathi Jafer, Director of the Indo-Korean Cultural and Information Centre, InKo Centre, a non-profit society, supported primarily by TVS Motor Company, Hyundai Motor India Ltd and Korean and Indian member companies. The award is for her outstanding contribution to the development of the Korean language and its dissemination in South India. This is the first time a person from South India would be honoured with the Prime Minister’s Medal, a statement said. During her 14-year tenure as the Director of the InKo Centre, Dr. Jafer contributed significantly in enhancing the learning of Korean for 250 million South Indians, it added. On behalf of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Korea, Hon. Chung Sye-kyun, Consul General of Republic of Korea in Chennai Young-seup Kwon will physically deliver the prestigious medal to Dr. Jafer at the InKo Centre in the presence of Venu Srinivasan, Chairman, TVS Motor Company. Established in 2006, the InKo Centre is a nodal centre for learning about Korean culture, their language and for Indo-Korean intercultural dialogue. Native teachers Dr. Rathi ensured the induction of native teaching staff for the Korean language programme by signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Sangmyung University in June 2010.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/korean-govt-gives-award-to-director-of-inko-centre/article33080252.ece
12 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||GI application filed for Authoor Vetrilai||An application for grant of Geographical Indication (GI) tag for the Authoor Vetrilai , the famous betel leaf from Authoor, has been filed by the Authoor Vattara Vetrilai Vivasayigal Sangam (betel farmers’ association). The application process was facilitated by NABARD’s Madurai Agribusiness Incubation Forum. On behalf of the Sangam, the GI application was filed by P. Sanjai Gandhi, IPR Attorney and nodal officer for Geographical Indication Registration of products, Government of Tamil Nadu. Chinnaraja G Naidu, Deputy Registrar of Geographical Indications confirmed the same. In Tamil Nadu, Authoor and nearby areas of Thoothukudi district are famous for betel vine cultivation with an area of 200 hectares. The Tamirabharani river also called as Prunainadhi in early days, is the source of irrigation for cultivation of Authoor Vetrilai . Majority of people from Authoor and nearby areas depend on betel vine cultivation and allied sectors for their livelihood. “These leaves are particularly cultivated in Authoor, Umarikkadu, Melaattur, Vellakoil, Marandhalai and other neighbouring places,” Mr. Gandhi said. This particular betel leaf comes in three different variants — Nattukodi, Pachaikodi and Karpoori. The betel leaves of Thamirabarani basins are known across India for its pungence and spiciness. According to Mr. Gandhi, the unique character of Authoor Nattukodi betel is the petiole of the leaves are lengthy when compared to others. While packing, the moisture level of long petiole helps to retain the freshness of the betel leaf and increases the shelf life. In India betel leaves are used at weddings, house warming ceremonies, festivals and other auspicious occasions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gi-application-filed-for-authoor-vetrilai/article33079796.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four held for online betting on IPL matches||Four persons have been arrested by the Chennai police for allegedly conducting online gambling and accepting bets on IPL matches. The four accused, identified as Mayur of Choolai, Punkaj of Seven Wells, and Sandeep Kumar and Dheeraj of Kondithopu, were arrested by the Elephant Gate Police. Interrogation revealed that they had developed a mobile application and invited people who wished to gamble online by sending a link to their mobile phones. The accused were found accepting bets on IPL matches through online payment. The police also seized cash, mobile phones, and two laptops from them. A senior police officer said, “We suspect the involvement of a few more persons in the illegal acts. Further investigations are on to trace them.” The arrested persons were remanded to judicial custody. Meanwhile, the MGR Nagar police arrested 13 persons for allegedly indulging in gambling by placing bets in an amusement club functioning illegally in Pillayarkoil street, Jafferkhanpet. Police also seized cash and cards from them. They were released on bail, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-betting-on-ipl-matches/article33080241.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Office of Insurance Ombudsman receives 620 complaints||The Office of Insurance Ombudsman, Chennai, which covers Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry and parts of Karaikkal, has received 620 complaints so far in 2020-21 (till October 31, including the outstanding complaints at the beginning of the year). In all, 569 complaints have been disposed of and 164 awards have been pronounced, according to a release. Online hearings Due to the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic situation, hearings are being conducted through video conferencing. Any aggrieved policy-holder, who has taken any life or general insurance policy as an individual or as a member of group insurance, can approach this forum, it added. The Ombudsman Rules 2017 also allow a sole proprietor and a micro-enterprise to approach the Ombudsman in case of any grievance against insurers. Bima Lokpal Day is being celebrated on November 11, every year. On the eve of Bima Lokpal Day this year also, the Insurance Ombudsman office is conducting various programmes, to create awareness amongst the insuring public about the institution of the Insurance Ombudsman as a system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insurance-ombudsman-gets-620-plaints/article33080254.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court closes petition filed against writer||A metropolitan magistrate court on Wednesday closed a petition filed by film director Susi Ganesan seeking writer Leena Manimekalai to restrain from going abroad following an undertaking from her. Ms. Leena said she would appear before the court as and when necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-closes-petition-filed-against-writer/article33080245.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Magazine told to remove still taken from docudrama||The Madras High Court on Wednesday restrained Kumudam Publications from using a still from filmmaker Leena Manimekalai’s award-winning docudrama ‘Is it too much to ask’ for news stories published by it regarding COVID-19. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan directed the publication to remove the movie still from existing copies of posters displayed in bunk shops, tea stalls and newsstands, where its magazinesKumudamandKumudam Reporterwere being sold. A direction was also issued to remove the still from other offline and online modes. The interim orders were passed following a civil suit preferred by the filmmaker seeking damages of Rs. 5 lakh for infringement of copyright and another Rs. 5 lakh for having violated the privacy of two transgenders who acted in the docudrama. Litigant’s counsel M.V. Swaroop told the court that the docudrama portrayed the difficulties faced by theatre artistes Living Smile Vidya and Angel Glady in finding rented accommodation in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/magazine-told-to-remove-still-taken-from-docudrama/article33080253.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight persons arrested||The All Women Police in Tondiarpet on Wednesday arrested eight persons for allegedly forcing a minor girl into prostitution. Those held include the girl’s uncle and aunt and six women. Police rescued two minor girls and a woman from the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-persons-arrested/article33080398.ece
12 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to stop burying chicken, meat waste||Coimbatore Corporation, it seems, has renewed attempts to properly dispose of chicken, meat, and other similar wastes generated in the city. Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian said the civic body was looking at tying up with two companies that had come forward to collect the waste. At present, the two companies were collecting the waste on a trial basis. Sources in the Corporation said one was a company from near Coimbatore and another one was from Bengaluru, and they were engaged in producing fish and dog food. They both collected the waste from the Corporation’s dump yard in Vellalore. Prior to this arrangement, the Corporation had disposed of the waste by burying it in 10-foot pits. And, every other day it dug the pits to dispose of the waste, which was four to five tonnes during weekdays and 10 to 12 tonnes during weekends. Mr. Pandian said while the Corporation had asked the two companies to increase their off-take quantity, it had also asked its sanitary staff to strengthen the collection system to ensure that no chicken or meat waste was dumped in the open. Sources in the sanitation wing said the Corporation at present used a dedicated lorry or small commercial vehicle to collect the waste right at the shops. There were anywhere between 3,000 and 4,000 shops selling chicken or meat in the city. And, their number increased by a few hundreds during weekends. The Corporation had made similar attempts to dispose of chicken and meat waste in the past but they did not last long as the companies backed out of the arrangement. This time, though, the Corporation was looking at a sustainable and long-lasting solution for safely disposing of the waste, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-stop-burying-chicken-meat-waste/article33080262.ece
12 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Wall that collapsed killing 17 people built again||A compound wall has come up at the place where one had collapsed on December 2 last year, killing 17 residents of Nadur in Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district. The wall is on the premises that belongs to textile trader S. Sivasubramaniam. It has been built more or less at the same height as the one that had collapsed, say residents of Nadur. The work began around 20 days ago and was completed 10 days ago. Though the residents took note of the construction they did not raise any objection, says Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi’s Mettupalayam Town secretary S. Poole, who is a Nadur resident. The house owner had raised hollow block structure atop a five-foot deep concrete basement and for every five feet or so, he had used pillars to bind the hollow block. The wall, as it stands today was more or less of the same height, he said. B. Samathuvan, another resident, said the residents did not object to the new wall. Neither did his party, the VCK. There was no complaint lodged with or petition given to officials, he said. A Mettupalayam Municipality officer said the property owner took the local body’s permission. He also submitted a detailed plan, including structural stability-related details, which the Municipality sent to senior officials in the Department of Municipal Administration for approval. Only after going through the detailed drawing and getting the consent of senior officials did the civic body grant the permission. Besides, once the construction started, the civic body also ensured that the surveyor and town planning official went to the house for a spot inspection, the officials added. Mr. Sivasubramaniam was not available for comment. District administration officials could not be reached for comment, either.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wall-that-collapsed-killing-17-people-built-again/article33079783.ece
12 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Efforts taken to curb poaching during Deepavali holidays||The Forest Department has started special patrols in villages that are lying close to forests to curb poaching of wild animals during Deepavali holidays. Forest officials said the special patrols will be in place for at least five days before and after Deepavali. The initiative was taken by the department after it witnessed several cases of hunting wild animals for meat during the COVID-19-induced national lockdown. Senior department officials said that forest range officers in the Coimbatore Forest Division were briefed about efforts to be taken to curb poaching before and after Deepavali. “Incidents of poaching animals for meat are reported during Deepavali holidays every year. Use of countrymade explosives for poaching is expected to be high during Deepavali holidays as bursting of fire crackers is very common before and after the festival," said an official. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said the department had taken up an intensive drive to curb poaching since the beginning of the lockdown. "Surprise vehicle checks are also conducted at different places as part of control measures," he said. The department has also formed vigilance committees with the participation of the people from places around the seven forest ranges. They will pass intelligence regarding wildlife offences to the department. The whereabouts of the informants will be kept confidential. E.N. Manoharan, forest range officer of Karamadai forest range, said that 24-hour patrolling have been started in his limits in view of the festival days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-taken-to-curb-poaching-during-deepavali-holidays/article33080267.ece
12 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Textile industry hails incentive scheme||The textile industry here has welcomed the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme announced by the Central Government on Wednesday. The scheme provides incentives for manufacture and export of specific textile products made of man-made fibre (MMF). According to chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association Ashwin Chandran, the Indian textiles industry has a huge potential for employment creation and boosting exports. It has been allocated Rs. 10,683 crores focusing on MMF apparel and technical textiles. Though India can become a major player in cotton textiles and exports, it has been lagging behind in the MMF textile trade due to expensive raw material and high tariff barriers, apart from cheaper imports from neighbouring countries. The scheme will benefit the industry in attracting huge investments. About 40 HS lines in MMF garments and 10 HS lines in technical textiles account for nearly $ 180 billion global trade and, therefore, the scheme will encourage the industry to make investment in manufacture of these high value added products. Apparel Export Promotion Council chairman A. Sakthivel said the scheme would give a boost to exports, investments, domestic capacity and employment. This was a much-needed step as it would fuel the V-shaped recovery that had begun in many sectors, including the apparel sector. “The fiscal stimulus of Rs. 10,683 crore to the textile sector, particularly the man-made fibre (MMF) segment and technical textiles, will go a long way in encouraging apparel exporters to foray into MMF garments for which there is a huge demand globally but exports from India is currently low. The impact of this stimulus in generating job opportunities will be maximum in labour-intensive apparel sector,” he said in a press release. The Indian Texpreneuers Federation convenor Prabhu Dhamodharan said the scheme would enable the apparel sector scale up capacities and also specialise in MMF products. The market for these products was about Rs. 3 lakh crore in the U.S. alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-industry-hails-incentive-scheme/article33079779.ece
12 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Forest Division seeks new kumkis||Officials with the Coimbatore Forest Division have requested the higher officials in the department to allot new kumkis to manage human-elephant conflicts here. The division sought new kumkis after the two kumkis it had for an year on contract basis returned to Kozhikamuthi elephant camp within the limits of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in September. Officials said that the two kumkis, Suyambu and Venkatesh, were brought to the Chadivayal elephant camp on one-year contract. They were sent back after the expiry of the contract. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said human-elephant conflict is present in all the seven forest ranges and kumkis are generally deployed in areas where the problem is severe. “A request for the allocation of two kumkis has been sent to the higher officials. We are expecting an approval soon,” he said. Though the department had plans for the construction of a ‘kraal’ (wooden enclosure) at the Chadivayal elephant camp in Coimbatore Forest Division, it did not materialise. Mr. Venkatesh said the plan was aborted as kraals are available in nearby ATR and Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. However, Chadivayal camp is equipped to accommodate kumkis. “The department is deploying more field staff for conflict management in the division. Around 150 persons, including anti-poaching watchers and members of the rapid action force, are currently deployed for conflict mitigation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-forest-division-seeks-new-kumkis/article33080266.ece
12 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Apparel industry seeks infrastructure development in Tiruppur||The garment industry in Tiruppur has appealed to the State government to develop infrastructure in the district for the benefit of workers and the industry. In a memorandum to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Tiruppur Exporters’ Association has said that the Tirupur cluster comprises of 95% of MSMEs, and recorded a turnover of Rs. 50,000 crore in 2019-2020. It employs about six lakh workers and of them, 65% are women from rural areas. The industry is facing shortage of skilled labourers. The existing workforce should have adequate housing and dormitories. The government should have a scheme so that the industry and the government can develop housing for the workers. Further, a project has been submitted to the government to upskill the existing workers at a total outlay of Rs. 20.57 crore. Upskilling the existing workers will help the industry develop. The government should also set up a Knitwear Board. It should also develop industry-related infrastructure in the district. The Apparel Export Promotion Council sought an export policy for the State and to come out with parks in the district for sewing, machinery, garment accessories, etc. It also appealed to the government to set up a women’s hostel in Tiruppur and facilitate direct connectivity between Coimbatore and international destinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apparel-industry-seeks-infrastructure-development-in-tiruppur/article33079778.ece
12 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||One held for investment fraud||The District Crime Branch (DCB) of Coimbatore rural police arrested a man for alleged investment fraud wherein several people were duped of at least Rs. 5 crore through their company named ‘Nexus Traders'.. A statement issued by the DCB said that R. Shanmugam (64), from Pandiyampalayam in Erode district, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by Damodarasamy from Kangeyampalayam. According to DCB officials, Shanmugam, his son S. Krishnaraj (40), a college professor in Pollachi, and Krishnaraj's wife Kalyani (35) are the accused in the investment fraud. The police said that they were on the lookout for Krishnaraj and Kalyani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-held-for-investment-fraud/article33079784.ece
12 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||ISMA launches portal with information on sugar||The Indian Sugar Mills’ Association (ISMA) recently launchedmeetha.org, a portal that will be a source for right information and knowledge to be shared with consumers about sugar. The per capita sugar consumption in the country is 19 kg a year as against the world average of 23 kg. The growth of per capita consumption of sugar in India between 2000 and 2016 was just 1.25 %. ISMA has decided to start a campaign to educate and spread awareness among consumers about healthy lifestyle and eating and also debunk myths surrounding sugar, according to a press release from the association. It will hold workshops and webinars and the portal will information about consumption, use and value of natural sugar, it said. Sudhanshu Pandey, Secretary, Department of Food and Public Distribution, launched the portal at a virtual meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isma-launches-portal-with-information-on-sugar/article33079785.ece
12 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Second phase of lottery admissions under RTE Act today||The lottery admissions for the second phase of admissions for the seats reserved under the Right to Education (RTE) Act will be held in 37 private schools in the district on Thursday. In a release, Collector K. Rajamani said that online applications were received from August 27 to September 25 for the first phase of admissions. The online applications for second phase of the admissions were received from October 12 to November 7. The second phase was for the seats, which were not filled as per the Section 12 (1) (c) of the RTE Act. The list of qualified students has been displayed in the schools. Officials said that 713 applications were received for the second phase, of which 530 were eligible. Tiruppur Chief Educational Officer R. Ramesh said in a release that the parents must go to the respective schools where they have applied with the necessary documents by 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-phase-of-lottery-admissions-under-rte-act-today/article33080264.ece
12 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||Customs officials seized gold and other items totally worth Rs. 1.09 crore and arrested two persons at Coimbatore International Airport on Wednesday. According to a press release, the officials intercepted two persons at the green channel of Customs on suspicion that they were carrying gold. They came to Coimbatore from Sharjah by Air Arabia flight. They were found having two packets of complex gold. Nearly 1.2 kg of gold worth Rs. 62.66 lakh was seized from them. The officials intercepted five more passengers on a suspicion that they were carrying gold or dutiable items. Goods worth Rs. 46 lakh were seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-at-airport/article33079780.ece
12 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Udhayanidhi Stalin begins tour of districts||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin began his tour of a few western districts on Wednesday. After arriving in the city in the afternoon, he left for Erode, where, according to sources, he would interact with youth wing office-bearers. He would then proceed to Namakkal to interact with the local leaders there before returning to the city on Thursday. Mr. Stalin would also interact with the youth wing office-bearers in Coimbatore, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/udhayanidhi-stalin-begins-tour-of-districts/article33080263.ece
12 November 2020||CUMBUM,TAMIL NADU||Police dog helps destroy ganja plants||In a joint operation, police and forest officials destroyed 500 kg of ganja leaves here on Wednesday. Following specific information received by the Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi's special team, the operation was planned. With the help of "Vetri" a trained police dog taking the scent, guided the team into deep forest area near Manikatti Alamaram on Tuesday, where they spotted ganja plants grown on about 3000 square feet. The team comprised Uthamapalayam DSP Chinnakannu, SI Diwan Moideen and Forest Ranger Anbu. Each plant was at least six to seven feet high, Inspector Silaimani said and added that the plants were destroyed. If sold, it may have been valued at Rs. 50 lakh. Probe is under way to know the owner of the land. Five held with 2.6 kg ganja Inspector of Police Muthu Premchand and team arrested five persons in Kodaikanal. Udayakumar (22) and Poovanath (21) of Vilpatti and Sunil Kumar (22), Sujit (24) and Gokul (25) of Palghat in Kerala were the arrested. They confessed to selling ganja to youth and tourists coming to the hill station. In a similar check, the police also arrested Jagan alias Jagnnathan (40) of Ambedkar Nagar in Kodaikanal and seized 2.6 kg of ganja totally from the raids. Further investigation is on. Traffic regulations To ensure that shoppers had free access on the eve of Deepavali, Dindigul traffic police have introduced certain regulations from November 12. The press release said vehicles, including two, three and four wheelers and heavy vehicles, would not be permitted from Periyar statue to Manikoondu, Manikoondu to Thangam Lodge Junction, Manikoondu to MP Temple and Manikoondu to Easwari Lodge Junction. On November 13, vehicles should use Dudley School Grounds for parking purposes through the west entry. The vehicles can park alongside the roads at the PWD Junction to Thalapakatti Biriyani shop. Man found dead in well In a suspected case of murder, the police found Asupathi (48) of Gunjar Valasai near Rameswaram dead in a well near Nariyankoondu Oorani on Wednesday. Police said that following a complaint that Asupathi left home on Tuesday afternoon and never returned home, the family members were on the lookout for him. On Wednesday morning, some people spotted a body floating in a well. Immediately, the Mandapam Fire and Rescue Service personnel were pressed into service, who retrieved the body. The body has been sent for postmortem. The victim was a former vice-president in the panchayat here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-dog-helps-destroy-ganja-plants-in-forest-area/article33079753.ece
12 November 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Defamation case filed against magazine, Balagurusamy||Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan has filed a criminal defamation suit against the publishers of Junior Vikatan and former Anna University vice-chancellor E. Balagurusamy in a judicial magistrate’s Court here on Wednesday .  The magazine, in its issue dated October 25, had carried an interview in which Mr. Balagurusamy had reportedly alleged that kickbacks were received at the ministerial level over appointment of professors. The defamation suit has named the publishers of Junior Vikatan , the editor, and the reporter, and the former vice-chancellor. Speaking to the media here, Mr. Anbalagan said the report was factually incorrect and was published with mala fide intent. According him, the interview claimed that the government and the Minister had a role in the appointment of professors. “As a vice-chancellor, he knew there was no role for the government or the Minister in the appointment of professors. With full knowledge of the same, he had cast aspersions with the intent to defame the government and the Minister,” Mr. Anbalagan said. Further, “the concerned publication did not bother to play back the accusations to us for our comments,” he added. “The publishers of Junior Vikatan and Ananda Vikatan had published the report. The question was asked by the reporter, and the insinuations were made by the former vice-chancellor of Anna University, Balagurusamy. The editor (of the magazine) should have reached out to us over the allegations, but did not,” the Minister said. Mr. Anbalagan said that he had filed the defamation suit in his private capacity as an individual and not as a Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defamation-case-filed-against-junior-vikatan-balagurusamy/article33079787.ece
12 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Many shoppers fail to adhere to COVID-19 safety norms||Despite appeals by the State government, many shoppers for the Deepavali festival failed to adhere to COVID-19 norms and were found without masks. As on Wednesday, a total of 11,274 positive cases were reported in the district with 10,340 discharges, 800 active cases and 134 deaths. Though most of the districts had reported significant drop in daily cases in the past three weeks, the average cases reported in the district continues to be 70 to 120 as health officials warn people to avoid overcrowding and also ensure wearing of masks in public places. But, many shoppers were found not wearing masks in busy market areas on R.K.V. Road, Manikoondu, Kongalamman Kovil Street, Sakthi Road and other busy stretches in the city. Awareness messages on the need to wear masks and maintain personal distancing were disseminated in market areas through public address systems, giant screens and by the police at the temporary watch towers. Civic body officials also continue to collect fines of Rs. 200 from persons for not wearing masks and also for spitting. However, people failed to follow the basic norms to keep them away from COVID-19, said an official at the health department. He said that on an average over 80 cases were reported everyday in the district and fear that cases will go up after the festival if people fail to wear the masks. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that traders and shopkeepers were instructed not to sell products to customers who were not wearing masks. He requested the public to adhere to norms to protect themselves and their family. On an average the corporation levies fine on 40 to 50 people for not wearing masks while the police, revenue and health department also levies fine on the violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-shoppers-fail-to-adhere-to-covid-19-safety-norms/article33079766.ece
12 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||App launched for inter-State migrants’ registration||An application, ‘India Migration’, to help inter-State migrants register their details and a helpline number 73394 98989 to redress their grievance were launched by the Sathyamangalam-based NGO, Rights Education And Development Centre (READ), here on Tuesday. Both the app and the helpline numbers were launched by Karnankamaraj, member of Child Welfare Committee, R. Karuppasamy, Director of READ, N. Maheshwaran, Project Manager and Janaki, Secretary of Erode District Women Federation. Mr. Karuppasamy said that due to regional disparity in development, inter-state and intra-state migration happens in the country and people move to earn their livelihood. He said that migrants in large numbers from Odisha, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and West Bengal arrive in the State either through employer, contractor or by their own interest with or without their family for work regularly. Most of the migrants work in Erode, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Karur, Namakkal and Salem districts in textile and garment industries and there is no appropriate data on them. “Labour trafficking, low-wage, physical and sexual harassment at workplace, no overtime wages and no social benefits are the major issues migrant workers encounter”, he said and added that during lockdown they faced difficult in getting shelter and food. The State government had launched a portal where it covers only the organised sectors employees while workers in unorganised sectors are completely neglected. “All the details of migrants will be registered in the app and the data will be handed over to the Labour Department and the Industrial Safety and Health Department”, he added. Also, the helpline number will register the grievance of workers and it will be forwarded to the District Legal Services Authority or competent authority for necessary action”, he added. Also, counselling, legal orientation and interventions to address their issues in Hindi and English will be done, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/app-launched-for-inter-state-migrants-registration/article33079769.ece
12 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tamil-origin woman in Biden’s COVID-19 Advisory Board||The Democrats’ victory in the U.S. election has brought another Indian-origin woman to the forefront — Celine Gounder has been appointed to President-elect Joe Biden’s COVID-19 Advisory Board. Her ancestral village is Perumapalayam in Modakurichi Taluk. Born to Raj Natarajan Gounder and a French mother in 1977, she is a Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine and Infectious Diseases at New York University’s Grossman School of Medicine. She was named in the 13-member health expert board to advise the President on combating COVID-19 in the U.S. As the news broke, her family’s close associates and relatives were elated. Sweets were distributed among family members and relatives who visited the house on Tuesday. Her cousin, Thangavel, a retired engineer, said Mr. Natarajan studied upto Class 8 at the Government Boys’ Higher Secondary School in Modakurichi, and completed schooling in Erode and his college studies in Tiruchi. Later, he moved to the U.S., in 1966, and settled there, he added. Dr. Gounder started the “Raj Gounder Foundation” and provided scholarships to students of the government school in Modakurichi. She has visited the village four times, including once with her husband Grant Wahl. She last visited Modakurichi in 2018. M. Kolandaisamy, schoolmate of Mr. Natarajan and president of the school alumni association, told The Hindu that Dr. Gounder visited the school in 2018 and sponsored a smart classroom, while also providing assistance to differently-abled students to purchase necessary aids. “It is a proud moment for us and the school,” said Mr. Kolandaisamy, on her inclusion in the team. Her father’s brother currently resides in the village.  CM greets Dr. Gounder Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami extended his greetings to medical experts Dr. Gounder and Vivek Murthy, who have been included in the COVID-19 Advisory Board. “I am extremely happy that @celinegounder & @vivek_murthy have been appointed to the National Pandemic Taskforce of U.S. to combat #COVID19. Both of them have made India proud, and I’m very glad to learn that Dr. Gounder has a Tamil heritage. My best wishes to both of them,” Mr. Palaniswami tweeted.  Dr. Gounder visited the school in 2018 and sponsored a smart classroom, while also providing assistance to differently-abled students to purchase necessary aids M. Kolandaisamy President, alumni association, Government Boys’ Higher Secondary School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-origin-woman-in-bidens-covid-19-advisory-board/article33079737.ece
12 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Special buses to be operated till Nov. 17||Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Erode Region, has begun operating 100 special buses for Deepavali from November 11 to 17. A press release from Collector C. Kathiravan said that in addition to the 787 regular buses operated regularly by the Erode region, 100 special buses will be operated jointly by Erode and Tiruppur Regions from Erode, Tiruppur and Coimbatore to Chennai, Madurai, Tiruchi, Palani, Salem, Namakkal, Karur, Sathyamangalam and Rasipuram. The release said that buses will be operated from Koyambedu mofussil bus stand to passengers heading towards Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode till November 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-buses-to-be-operated-till-nov-17/article33079770.ece
12 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court orders deletion of teaser of Irandam Kuththu||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered that the teaser of the Tamil movie Irandam Kuththu should be deleted from platforms like YouTube. The court was of the opinion that the teaser was obscene and vulgar in nature. However, it said that it could not act as a Super Censor Board and restrain the release of the movie. Hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions that sought a direction to restrain the release of the second part of the controversial movie Iruttu Arayil Murattu Kuththu , a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that the Censor Board had already certified the movie with an adult rating after 32 cuts. No one, except the Board, had seen the movie and without seeing it the court could not take any action, the judges said. However, taking into account the fact that the teaser was obscene and vulgar in nature and unable to ascertain if the deleted scenes were part of the teaser, the court said that the teaser that was being circulated widely had to be deleted. If the movie was against morality and public order, it would be dealt with by the competent authorities, the judges said and observed that the court could not forget that there was an increase in the number of crimes against women and children. Such movies would spoil young minds and lead to more crimes, the court said. The authorities concerned had the powers to take action under the Information Technology Act and guidelines had also been framed for the intermediaries like YouTube to regulate such content. Perusing the affidavit that contained certain dialogues from the teaser, the court observed that prima facie the dialogues were against decency and morality and adjourned the case till December 3. Restraint on TV content The same Division Bench granted an interim direction restraining the television channels from telecasting obscene and vulgar programmes and advertisements on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the authorities concerned to bring an effective monitoring and regulation of TV content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-orders-deletion-of-teaser-of-irandam-kuththu/article33080326.ece
12 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC upholds the punishment imposed on policewoman||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed the petition filed by a policewoman who sought to be reinstated in service. The woman was removed from the service on a charge of marrying a man who had already married another woman. The court was hearing the petition filed by Sujitha, a constable. After the Police Department received a complaint about the bigamous marriage, Sujitha was placed under suspension and subsequently removed from service after an inquiry. It was submitted that the second marriage was solemnised with the consent of the first wife and the first wife herself was present during the marriage. Therefore, the punishment imposed on her was excessive and it should be set aside, she said. Justice S.M. Subramaniam observed that when bigamous marriage was an offence under the Indian Penal Code and the Police Conduct Rules, contracting a second marriage even with the consent of the first wife could not be a ground to seek exoneration from the offence. The second marriage was solemnised with the knowledge that it was a misconduct under the conduct rules. Hence, the punishment of removal from service was undoubtedly appropriate, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-upholds-the-punishment-imposed-on-policewoman/article33080473.ece
12 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Railway staff oppose move to scrap night duty allowance||Railway employees are protesting against Railway Board’s decision to scrap night duty allowance (NDA) for non-gazetted railway employees with a basic pay of Rs. 43,600 and above. “What started as providing tea and bun as incentives for the employees discharging duty at night during the British rule became part of the salary as night duty allowance in 1961,” said Southern Railway Mazdoor Union assistant divisional secretary V. Ramkumar. Stating that keeping awake at night was against natural rhythm of human body, he said employees who gave up their sleep were vulnerable to various diseases. The allowance was only to compensate for it and encourage employees to come forward to work at night. “It is one of the quintessential allowances in the railway in order to compensate for the hardship faced by essential train passing staff members on night duty,” said divisional secretary of Dakshin Railway Employees Union (DREU) R. Sankaranarayanan. He said night duty caused mental as well as physical exhaustion and hence the allowance was meant only for the eight hours of duty between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. The unions feel that the new order will create great resentment among the staff and hamper smooth and safe train operations. “Two staff members – loco pilot and assistant loco pilot – have to be vigilant every second to run the trains carrying hundreds of passengers. The order would jeopardise the safe running of trains,” Mr. Ramkumar said. The DREU said the order would adversely affect station masters, loco pilots, guards, ticket checking staff and commercial clerks, whose duty involved train operations, safety, monitoring, coordination and traffic management. They had a vital role to play in running goods and parcel trains even at the time of COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Sankaranarayanan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-staff-oppose-move-to-scrap-night-duty-allowance/article33079762.ece
12 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rights group seeks white paper on atrocities against SCs during pandemic||The Madurai-based civil rights organisation, Evidence, on Wednesday said the State government should present a white paper on the atrocities committed against members of the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes during the COVID-19 pandemic. Its executive director A. Kathir said the government must ensure conduct of monthly grievance meetings by Collectors exclusively for Dalits. He told journalists that fact-finding teams found that 15 cases were registered by police in Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore, Tiruppur, Salem, Theni, Coimbatore, Tiruvallur, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Sivaganga and Dharmapuri districts. The complainants, including panchayat presidents, panchayat ward members and councillors, alleged that they were prevented from discharging their duties and abused. Mr. Kathir claimed that only in Tamil Nadu planned attacks were carried out against Dalits but tangible action was not taken against the accused. In the above incidents too, only on one complaint the accused were arrested. Out of 76,744 posts in the rural local bodies, for which elections were held last year, 19,770 posts were for the SCs and 861 posts for the STs. This accounted for 26.38%, Mr. Kathir said. However, despite Dalits constituting one-fourth of the population in the local bodies, the government remained a mute spectator to the atrocities, he charged. The fact-finding teams recommended that the government conduct education programmes for the elected representatives (SC/ST) about the Panchayat Raj, social justice and development, general administration and finances. They also wanted the governments to amend the Act in such a way that vice-president posts too were earmarked for the SC/STs so that victimisation could be prevented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rights-group-seeks-white-paper-on-atrocities-against-scs-during-pandemic/article33080328.ece
12 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam case accused produced at Madurai court||The nine policemen accused in the case of custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks in Sattankulam were produced by the CBI officials before the Madurai Chief Judicial Magistrate on Wednesday for committal proceedings. The CJM will commit the case to the Madurai Principal District Judge for trial. The CBI has filed the charge sheet against Inspector S. Sridhar, Sub-Inspectors P. Raghu Ganesh and K. Balakrishnan, head constables S. Murugan and A. Saamidurai and constables M. Muthuraj, S. Chelladurai, X. Thomas Francis and S. Veilumuthu (all of them have been suspended). Special Sub-Inspector Pauldurai, an accused in the case, died after contracting COVID-19. The accused have been charged under Sections 120 B (party to a criminal conspiracy), 302 (murder), 342 (wrongful confinement), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 182 (false information), 193 (false evidence), 211 (false charge of offence), 218 (public servant framing incorrect record) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ruled that the Madurai Principal District Judge had the jurisdiction to try the case. The accused are currently lodged in Madurai Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattankulam-case-accused-brought-to-madurai-court/article33080324.ece
12 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea against reopening of schools||The State government on Wednesday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that parents’ opinions were sought on reopening of schools. A decision would be taken on the issue after taking into consideration the opinions of all the stakeholders, the State told the court. Taking cognisance of the submission, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi adjourned the hearing on a public interest litigation petition filed by L. Ramprasath from Theni district till November 20. He sought a direction to the government to not open schools, educational and research institutes and hostels in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-against-reopening-of-schools/article33080329.ece
12 November 2020||MADURAI/KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai’s daily case count falls back in 30-40 band||Madurai recorded 35 new COVID-19 cases, which took the district’s tally to 19,171 on Wednesday. The district registered the discharge of 54 people from hospitals. Madurai had 41 new cases on Tuesday. While adding 25 cases to have an overall infection tally of 15,313, Kanniyakumari lost a patient to the viral infection to mark a death toll of 249. After 30 patients were discharged, the district has 251 active cases. Tirunelveli too registered 25 fresh cases, which raised the total case count to 14,500, with 255 active cases. Twenty-five people were discharged from hospitals in the district. Twenty-three people tested positive in Dindigul, taking the district’s overall case tally to 9,987. There were 10 people discharged from hospitals in the district. Sivaganga reported 21 new cases to have a total case count of 6,093. Hospitals registered 15 discharges. Thoothukudi’s daily case count stood at 14, which raised the overall tally to 15,389, with 334 active cases. A total of 37 people were discharged from hospitals. The number of fresh cases was 14 in Theni too. The district marked a total case count of 16,399. Hospitals discharged 17 people. After recording 13 fresh cases and four discharges, Tenkasi has 79 active cases. The district’s infection tally now stands at 7,915. Virudhunagar registered one more death, which took the death toll to 223. Thirteen people tested positive, pushing the total number of positive cases in the district up to 15,615. With the discharge of 11 people, the number of active cases stands at 95. In Ramanathapuram, there were two new cases of COVID-19 infection, which raised the district’s tally to 6,094. Five people were discharged from hospitals after their complete recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurais-daily-case-count-falls-back-in-30-40-band/article33079755.ece
12 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Restoration of lighthouse begins||The Central Public Works Department has commenced work to restore the century-old lighthouse on the Beach Road. “The civil and engineering works have commenced. The Ministry of Finance is executing the project through the GST office. The Ministry has already sanctioned around Rs. 2 crore for the work. The project is estimated to cost Rs. 3.32 crore,” an official with the GST office told The Hindu . The plan was to restore the lighthouse, which got deactivated in late 1970’s, by around October next year, the official added. Highest structure One of the highest structures here, the lighthouse will get new rafters, beams and plastering without making any alteration to its architectural beauty. While the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage is the architectural advisor, the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, is the structural consultant. Co-convener of INTACH Ashok Panda said before the advent of communication revolution, the navigation on the Coromandel coast was difficult due to severe cyclonic storms and constantly moving sand bars. The shoreline was so low that sailors found it difficult to locate the shore. Initially, the French administration used to maintain a fire on the top of the red hills surrounding the region to assist sailors to locate the shoreline of Puducherry, he said. Demand for lighthouse But there was constant demand from captains of ships to have lighthouses, like the one in Europe. As per the demand, the lighthouse was constructed locally by engineer Louis Guerre in 1836, Mr. Panda said. “It has evidently undergone several modifications over the years, but one could see still, traces of the French colonial features in the cornice and pilaster bands. The compound wall has been partially modified with masonry loop-holes, replacing the wooden fencing. The hexagonal piers still remain,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restoration-of-lighthouse-begins/article33080397.ece
12 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Govt. launches online issuance of non-judicial e-stamps||The government has launched online issuance of low denomination non-judicial e-stamps to enable the public to avoid crowding at authorised collection centres. Revenue Minister M.O.H.F. Shahjahan launched the facility in the presence of T. Arun, Collector and other officials. Since the launch of the e-stamping system as an alternative to conventional impressed stamp papers in 2012, as an e-governance initiative, it had gained widespread patronage. The government had signed an MoU with Stock Holding Corporation of India Ltd (SHCIL) for collection of stamp duty in the Registration Department. The advantages of the system included hassle-free transaction and it offered a tamper-proof e-stamp certificate with added security features such as QR code and unique id. Large crowds The process was taken online after experiencing large crowds at authorised collection centres for getting e-stamps of lower denominations for non-registration purposes. E-stamps would be issued online for denominations up to Rs. 500. For transactions above this limit, the public have to visit the authorised intermediaries/centres. Anyone seeking to pay stamp duty can log on to the SHCIL site to enter the online e-stamping payment system. The user can either register or transact as guest, select online stamp duty payment option as well as the State/UT and provide document description. After payment, the print out of the e-stamp receipt should be taken on A4 size paper. The Union Territory has also introduced digital e-stamping for digital document execution (DDE) by banks and NBFCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-launches-online-issuance-of-non-judicial-e-stamps/article33080403.ece
12 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Armistice Day observed||The city joined the worldwide observance of the 102nd anniversary of the end of World War I on Wednesday with French Consul General Lise Talbot Barre paying tributes to martyrs at the Monument aux Morts (French War Memorial). An estimated 1.5 million Indian troops, including many from Puducherry, fought in the war alongside allies and at least 60,000 had been martyred. The city is among the few places in the country that observes the anniversary of Armistice Day marking the end of WWI. Ms. Barre paid floral tribute at the war memorial. Collector T. Arun and other dignitaries paid tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/armistice-day-observed/article33080406.ece
12 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 115 new cases, one death||Puducherry added 115 newly-infected COVID-19 patients to its overall tally on Wednesday and one more death raised the toll to 605 even as authorities propose to compulsorily test violators of COVID-19 etiquette on a chargeable basis. A 57-year-old woman died at the IGMCRI after developing severe COVID pneumonia/acute respiratory distress syndrome. With this, the toll in the capital went up to 497. Karaikal has so far seen 57 deaths, Yanam 44 and Mahe seven. The new cases were identified from 3,921 tests conducted in the last 24 hours even as 107 patients were discharged after recovery from hospitals. Puducherry region accounted for 83 followed by Karaikal 6, Yanam 9 and Mahe 17. The test positivity rate was 2.93%, case fatality rate 1.68% and recovery rate 95.04%. Of the 3.47 lakh samples tested so far, 3.06 lakh were found to be negative. The overall tally in the Union Territory is 605 deaths, 1,077 active cases, a cumulative total of 36,114 cases and 34,432 recovered patients. Meanwhile, S. V. Sugumaran, AINRC MLA representing Mangalam, who turned symptomatic shortly after attending a public function last week, got himself tested and the results returned positive for coronavirus on Monday. He is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Chennai. Among the public figures who recovered are Ministers M. Kandasamy and R. Kamalakannan and three MLAs. Former AINRC MLA V. Balan died after testing positive for COVID-19. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said the Collector has been asked to notify the public that violators of COVID etiquette would be compulsorily taken to PHC and subjected to testing and provided with masks on a charge basis. A meeting has been scheduled with ICMR representatives for finalising data management and information flow systems to collate and share info for overall COVID-19 management. College students who join the performances at Beach promenade coordinated by Principal Bal Bhavan to raise awareness will be recognised with participation certificates and awards for best performers. An advisory is to be issued to Nehru Street traders to engage more manpower to regulate crowd at their shops, Ms. Bedi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-115-new-cases-one-death/article33079764.ece
12 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Puducherry CM calls for assent for 10% quota||Former Puducherry Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition N. Rangasamy urged Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) Kiran Bedi to prevail upon the Centre to concur with the Government’s proposal for reservation of 10% medical seats for government school students. In a memorandum to the Lt. Governor, Mr. Rangasamy said the proposal was for the common good and would benefit students from the lower economic strata. The All India N.R. Congress (AINRC) chief also pointed to a spate of complaints regarding fraudulent use of nativity by some students for obtaining Jipmer MBBS admissions. It appears that some students are having dual residency status in Puducherry and other States and this gave them undue advantage in claiming local quota seats in both places. This robs genuine native students of their rightful claim for pursuing medicine. Mr. Rangasamy also urged the Centre to raise the minimum period of service to five years for Central government officers posted here to stake a claim for local quota for their wards. This provision was being misused by some persons who manage a transfer to Puducherry and claim admissions for their wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/secure-assent-for-10-quota/article33080399.ece
12 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Constitute a panel to check exploitation’||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has requested Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi to constitute a high-level committee to inquire into the incident where five minor girls were allegedly sexually abused and used as bonded labourers. Addressing a press conference here AIADMK leader A. Anbalagan on Wednesday said a high-level committee should be constituted to go deep into the incident. One person was arrested and five others were detained in connection with the sexual abuse and for keeping five minor girls as bonded labourers. People who were assigned with the task to prevent bonded labour have failed miserably to detect the crime early on, he said urging the government to announce a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to the girls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-wants-panel-formed-to-look-into-abuse-of-minor-girls/article33080407.ece
12 November 2020||R. Sujatha,TAMIL NADU||Rules deprive students of 7.5% quota seats||A scheme introduced for the benefit of Dalit students seven years ago has become a bane for M. Divyadarshini, a topper in class 12 this year. She secured 525/600 in class 12 and 343 marks in NEET. Yet it is unclear if she would qualify for a medical seat under the 7.5% admission quota for government school students. She is a beneficiary of Adi-Dravidar welfare scheme introduced by Chief Minister Jayalalithaa to enable bright students to get into self-financing schools and study class 11 and 12. The scheme envisages quality education for 10 Adi Dravidar/Tribal students every year from each district who secured higher marks in class 10 in government/corporation/municipal/Adi Dravidar and tribal welfare schools. The students would be selected and admitted to reputed private schools. At that time there were 32 districts. To be eligible for the scheme, the parents’ annual income should not exceed Rs. 1 lakh. Such students would receive Rs. 28,000 towards boarding and other expenses. The Collector would select the beneficiary for the scheme, according to the Citizen’s Charter issued in 2014-15. K. Murali, the student’s father and employee of a fair price shop in Chennai, said the girl had earlier done her SSLC in the Government High School in Parangipettai in 2018 and scored 456/500.“Since she got the highest mark in class X, the school authorities asked her to join a private school so she could ace plus two”, he said. “It is not my daughter’s fault since it was not her decision to study in a private school. We had refused the offer then. It was the Education Department that persuaded us. Her chances of getting a seat under the government quota is slim as she migrated to a private school in Kallakurichi district. Why should we suffer and be deprived of a seat”, he said.Mr. Murali has petitioned the Collector seeking the Chief Minister’s intervention. ( With S. Prasad in Cuddalore )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rules-deprive-students-of-75-quota-seats/article33079763.ece
12 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||War heroes from Salem remembered||As many as 18 men from Salem who fought for the British during the World War I and lost their lives were remembered during the 103rd anniversary here on Wednesday. The first world war was fought from July 28, 1914 to November 11, 1918 during which Salem district was under British rule. A total of 196 men were sent to the war of which 18 gave up their lives. On November 11, 1918, at 11 minutes and 11 seconds, a peace agreement was signed between the Allies of World War I and Germany at Armistice of Compiegne in France which official put an end to the war. Hence, Armistice Day is commemorated every year on November 11 in allied nations across the globe during which war heroes are remembered. A commemorative plague was raised in honour of the heroes and was placed at the Collectorate entrance that had inscription, “From this town 196 men went to the Great War (1914-1918). Of these 18 gave up their lives”. Based on the request from Salem Historical Society, the district administration had constructed a war memorial on the Collectorate premises that had plaques in memory of various soldiers who took part in various wars. On Wednesday, Collector S.A. Raman laid a wreath and observed two-minute silence at the memorial during which J. Barnabas, General Secretary, Salem Historical Society, family members of the war veterans were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/war-heroes-from-salem-remembered/article33079768.ece
12 November 2020||Staff Reporter Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Implement Forest Rights Act’||Stating that Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, provides them various rights, members of the Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association urged the State government to implement the Act fully and staged demonstrations at various places in Bargur Hills here. Demonstrations were held at Devarmalai, Thamaraikarai, Osur and Kongadai. They said that many tribal people possess conditional patta for the small land holdings in Bargur hills and wanted regular patta to be issued to them. They said that providing them with chitta and adangal for lands in tribal settlements will enable them to obtain loan and also subsidy under various government schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/implement-forest-rights-act/article33079771.ece
12 November 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Elaborate arrangements at Thittai||Elaborate arrangements will be made at Sri Vashisteswarar Temple, Thittai, near Thanjavur, to help devotees offer their prayers to ‘Guru Bhagawan’ on the occasion of ‘Guru Peryarchi’ on November 15, according to Collector M. Govinda Rao. While the entry of children below 10 years and senior citizen into the temple would be barred, all others would be screened for body temperature at the entry point. Wearing of mask had been made compulsory and devotees should wash their hands with sanitizer before entering the temple, he said. Temporary health posts will function near the temple and mobile toilet facilities, vehicle parking facility and other facilities will be made available for the devotees, added Mr. Rao, who convened a meeting in this regard here recently. He said that he had directed the Revenue, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Board, District Rural Development Authority officials to ensure necessary facilities were put in place for smooth conduct of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elaborate-arrangements-at-thittai/article33079731.ece
12 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CM hands over ex gratia to slain constable’s wife||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday handed over the ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh to the family of slain constable P. Subramanian. The Chief Minister, who was here to chair a review meeting on ongoing anti-COVID-19 operations in the district and inaugurate completed schemes, also handed over the order appointing Subramanian’s wife S. Bhuvaneshwari as an office assistant in the Government Higher Secondary School at Kayamozhi in the district. When Subramanian, who had been attached to the Alwarthirunagari police station and was part of the special team, tried to nab an antisocial element P. Duraimuthu at Manakkarai near Murppanaadu in the district on August 18 last, the history-sheeter hurled a country bomb on the constable’s head, in which the policeman was killed on the spot. The Chief Minister inaugurated Rs. 22.37-crore worth 16 projects completed in the district by public works, police, fire and rescue services, school education, municipal administration and fisheries departments and laid the foundation stone for 29 new schemes to be implemented on an outlay of Rs. 328.66 crore by various departments. Mr. Palaniswami handed over welfare measures worth Rs. 37.55 crore to 15,792 beneficiaries in the presence of Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju and Collector Sandeep Nanduri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-hands-over-ex-gratia-to-slain-constables-wife/article33079750.ece
12 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled woman gets audience with CM, job||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s kindheartedness towards the differently abled came to the fore on Wednesday when he accidentally saw a disabled woman waiting on the roadside with a petition for a job when his convoy was crossing her. When the Chief Minister’s convoy was leaving Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital premises after Mr. Palaniswami inaugurated the ‘Liner Accelerator’ facility at the cancer care centre, he saw a differently abled woman waiting with a petition in her hands along with others. Much to the surprise of everyone, the CM’s car stopped suddenly near the woman. Even as a person there was carrying her in his hands, the Chief Minister lent a patient hearing to her grievance and received her petition. The woman, Mareeswari from Muthaiahpuram on the city outskirts, told the CM that she was struggling to run her family with the trivial earnings of her husband, a casual labourer. “If I am given a job, I will discharge my works properly and to the satisfaction of my higher-ups,” the woman, with folded hands, told the Chief Minister, who listened to her plight with a smile. Before leaving the spot with the woman’s petition, he asked the officials to bring her immediately to the Collectorate where he chaired the COVID-19 review meeting. When Ms. Mareeswari arrived at the Collectorate in her wheelchair, the order appointing her as ‘Ward Manager’ at Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital was handed over to her by Mr. Palaniswami in the presence of Minister for Public Health C. Vijayabaskar, Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju and Collector Sandeep Nanduri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-woman-gets-audience-with-cm-and-a-job/article33079758.ece
12 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stalin is the reason for Sterlite protests’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday said DMK president M.K. Stalin was the “prime reason” for the violent anti-Sterlite protests and the consequent loss of lives in Thoothukudi. He contended that Mr. Stalin, as Minister in the erstwhile DMK regime, had given permit and land for the copper smelter plant’s expansion. “Unrest erupted in Thoothukudi after Sterlite Copper went ahead with its expansion plans, with the permission and the land given by Mr. Stalin, who made an announcement in this connection in the Assembly. Anyone can check the facts with the minutes of the Assembly. After being the prime reason for the violent protests and the consequent loss of lives, by giving permission for Sterlite Copper’s expansion, he is blaming us. Mr. Stalin, who is solely responsible for the Thoothukudi incident, is lying through his teeth,” Mr. Palaniswami said, interacting with reporters after chairing a COVID-19 review meeting in the district. When asked for his reaction to Mr. Stalin calling him a ‘”fake farmer”, a visibly furious Mr. Palaniswami wanted to know about the occupation of the DMK president. Proudly calling himself a “farmer”, the Chief Minister said he had worked on his fields even when he was a boy, and had fully understood the problems faced by farmers. “Hence, we are according the highest priority to the farming sector by allotting sufficient funds for irrigation schemes, kudimaramaththu works, modern irrigation techniques, crop loans, etc.,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The Chief Minister said his government had received the Centre’s first prize for implementing best water management practices in the State, where water for irrigation was not abundantly available. He ridiculed Thoothukudi DMK MP Kanimozhi, who had said the AIADMK government had done nothing for the development of the port town. “The people of Thoothukudi are aware of the new projects and the development work being implemented here by Amma’s government,” he said. Earlier in the day, the hashtag #GobackEPS trended on Twitter, coinciding with Mr Palaniswami’s visit to the town, which has witnessed the firing on anti-Sterlite protestors, the Sattankulam custodial deaths and the murder of a trader, Selvam, in the last two years. AIADMK functionaries, however, dismissed it as the handiwork of the DMK IT-wing. The Chief Minister also accused Mr. Stalin of indulging in “cheap politics” by raising doubts on the “declaration of death” of former Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu. The Leader of Opposition had recently insinuated that Doraikkannu’s death was declared only after huge sums of money was extracted from his associates. ‘Stalin frustrated’ The Chief Minister said Mr. Stalin, out of frustration, was making slanderous remarks. Recalling that Mr. Stalin was highly critical about the spike in COVID-19 cases in the State in July, he said the DMK chief used to compare Tamil Nadu’s infection rate with that of Kerala. But now, the rate of infection has come down in Tamil Nadu, whereas it is on the rise in Kerala. “As a Leader of the Opposition he should have a heart to appreciate the State government [now],” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-is-the-reason-for-sterlite-protests/article33079733.ece
12 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||106 more acres to be acquired for Thoothukudi airport expansion||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced that the State Government would soon give 106 acres of land required for the Thoothukudi airport expansion. “This is in addition to the already acquired and handed over 600 acres of land for the airport expansion under way,” Mr. Palaniswami said here after chairing a review meeting at the Collectorate on Wednesday. The Thoothukudi airport, which is now handling only 72-seater small aircrafts, is struggling to handle the ever-growing passenger traffic. Meanwhile, the airport has been equipped with night landing facility. As the passenger traffic is expected to increase sharply in the next few years, airport expansion was taken up for which 600 acres of land was acquired by the Tamil Nadu Government and handed over to the Airports Authority of India. Under the expansion, the airport will get expanded airstrip to receive wide-bodied aircrafts and additional terminal buildings. Since the AAI is of the opinion that 106 more acres would be required for the expansion, the State Government has decided to acquire this land also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/106-more-acres-to-be-acquired-for-thoothukudi-airport-expansion/article33079719.ece
12 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t give ‘Deepavali Gift’ to court staff’||Principal District Judge N. Logeswaran has urged Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar to instruct his subordinates not to give any gift to the court staff on the occasion of Deepavali. In a letter to the Superintendent of Police, Mr. Logeswaran said he had learnt that there is a practice of giving crackers, sweets and other gifts by the police personnel to the court staff on the occasion of Deepavali. These acts are also a kind of bribery which is an offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-give-deepavali-gift-to-court-staff/article33080474.ece
12 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||New flood carrier, a boon||This is good news for the people living in the dry northern regions of the district as the State Government has proposed to dig a 60-km-long flood carrier channel to take the Tamirabharani’s surplus water to quench their thirst. Similar to the 73-long flood carrier channel being dug from the Tamirabharani to take its surplus water to the dry regions of Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi district’s southern regions, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has unveiled a scheme to take the excess water of the perennial river to the dry areas in Thoothukudi district’s northern regions on an outlay of Rs. 264 crore by digging a 60-km-long flood carrier channel. When the Chief Minister interacted with the reporters here on Wednesday, he made this announcement, much to the jubilation of the people who are getting a little amount of drinking water from ‘Seevalaperi drinking water scheme’ in the district. The Chief Minister announced that steps had been taken to set up a desalination plant at a cost of Rs. 634 crore to supply 60 MLD water to industries in Thoothukudi SIPCOT Industrial Estate and the ongoing drinking water schemes for the benefit of over 3 lakh people would be commissioned by year-end. Mr. Palaniswami said sand deposited at Manappadu beach due to Karumeniyar estuary would be removed under Udangudi Thermal Power Station’s corporate social responsibility scheme at a cost of Rs. 1.18 crore. Farmers of the district who have received Rs. 680.65 crore insurance benefits for the crop loss over the past four years would get arrears of Rs. 52 crore soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-flood-carrier-a-boon/article33080468.ece
12 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||TMB’s gesture||Employees of Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Limited have donated Rs. 1.50 crore to Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund for anti-COVID-19 operations. Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of TMB K.V. Ramamurthy handed over the cheque to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tmbs-gesture/article33079715.ece
12 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Maternal mortality rate goes up in Tiruchi||The maternal mortality rate in Tiruchi district had doubled over the last year so that the district administration has drawn up plans to curb the increase. While 10 maternal deaths were recorded between April and October in 2019 to 2020, 19 deaths were reported so far in the same period in 2020-2021. The Maternal Mortality Ratio for 2019 is 49 while it is 88 in 2020. A single reason cannot be pinpointed for the increase in mortality, said District Maternal and Child Health Officer, Usha Rani. While some mothers suffered a postpartum haemorrhage, many suffered from various co-morbid conditions including pulmonary hypertension which caused complications, she said. Of the 19 deaths, two were due to COVID-19, the DMCHO said. ‘There were challenges in ensuring that pregnant mothers visited their nearest Primary Healthcare Centres for regular check-ups amid the pandemic. Only 20 mothers are checked per day,’ she said. While some expectant mothers were hesitant to visit hospitals during the COVID-19 lockdown, the ground level teams including Village Health Nurses failed to bring them to the PHCs. Along with irregular blood pressure, anaemia and poor diet, the women are not maintaining their health well, said a retired staff nurse and office-bearer at Tamil Nadu Village Health Nurses Welfare Association. ‘Meanwhile, there are irregularities in distribution of kits worth Rs. 18,000 to registered pregnant women,’ she said. The department should appoint more staff nurses at all health centres to assist regular follow-up, she said. The Collector convened a meeting with District Maternal and Child Health Officer, Deputy Director of Health Services, Dean and head of the department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, Village Health Nurses to take stock of the situation and instructed that a seamless record of all pregnant mothers should be maintained. The Department of Public Health, the Government Medical College Hospital, Primary Healthcare Centres and other stakeholders have been brought together in ‘tracking groups’ where weekly, daily plans are drawn up and given to expectant mothers and regularly tracked. ‘We have begun notifying private hospitals and ensure that the coordination is seamless,’ the DMCHO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maternal-mortality-rate-goes-up-in-tiruchi/article33079717.ece
12 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Temporary bus stands established||Temporary bus stands have been established at a couple of places in the city in view of the Deepavali festival with a view to reduce congestion. The temporary bus stands which were inaugurated on Wednesday would function up to November 17 at Mannarpuram roundabout and near the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation depot close to the Sona Mina theatre. Buses proceeding on the Thanjavur route from here would be operated from the temporary bus stand near the TNSTC depot close to the Sona Mina theatre, while those proceeding on the Pudukottai and Madurai routes from here would be operated from the temporary bus stand at Mannarpuram roundabout. Chennai-bound government buses from southern districts and those coming from the Pudukottai route via Tiruchi would halt at the temporary bus stand in Mannarpuram roundabout for passengers to alight and board and proceed on the national highway to Chennai. A press release said there was no change in the route of buses proceeding to other destinations from here as they would run from the Central bus stand as usual. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation has made arrangements for operation of circular buses from the Central bus stand to Mannarpuram temporary bus stand and back. Police personnel would be deployed at the temporary bus stands and basic amenities such as drinking water and toilet facilities would be provided by the Corporation. Arrangements have also been made to make announcements through the public address system at the temporary bus stands. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) R. Vedarathinam inaugurated the temporary bus stand at Mannarpuram on Wednesday in the presence of city police and State Transport Corporation officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-bus-stands-established/article33079723.ece
12 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Solar power plant comes up at Panjappur||The 2 MW solar power plant being established at Panjappur will be commissioned in December or January, according to Collector S. Sivarasu. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday after inspecting the progress of various projects being undertaken by the Tiruchi Corporation, along with its Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian, Mr. Sivarasu said that the plant would come up on 13 acres of corporation land. A sum of Rs. 13.75 crore had been earmarked for the project. Establishing ground mounted solar panels had reached an advanced stage. Once the project is commissioned, the electricity would be linked with the grid of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation. The revenue generated from the project would be adjusted with the electricity bills of the corporation. It would save Rs. 2.33 crore a year. The amount spent for the project would got back within five years. He said the solar power plant work would come to an end in the second or third week of December. Reviewing the progress of constructing a new terminal at Chathiram Bus Stand at an estimate of Rs. 17.34 crore, the Collector said that it would have 30 bus bays for accommodating about 225 city buses being operated from the Chathiram Bus Stand to various destinations in Tiruchi and its suburbs. Construction of a two-wheeler parking lot, 30 shops, a food court and a control room was part of the project. Construction of a ticket counter, a clock room, two sanitary complexes was also going on. It was being progressing well. As per the plan, it should be completed within April, 2021. It was expected that all works would be completed before March, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solar-power-plant-comes-up-at-panjappur/article33079727.ece
12 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Full-time BBA programme in aviation launched||The Bishop Heber College here and the Madras Flying Club Aviation Academy have joined hands to offer a full-time BBA programme in Aviation and Ground Handling. The three-year programme was launched on Tuesday when a copy of the syllabus was unveiled by the Bishop, CSI Tiruchi- Thanjavur Diocese and the chairman, secretary of the College Governing Board Rt. Rev. D. Chandrasekaran in the presence of the college principal D. Paul Dhayabaran, and Captain Jacob Selvaraj, honorary secretary, Madras Flying Club, Tiruchi Airport. A six-month diploma courses on Cabin Crew and Hospitality Management, Airport Ground Handling Management and Flight Operation Management were also launched. The syllabus for the BBA Aviation programme has been prepared jointly by the college and the Madras Flying Club Aviation Academy. The college has provided the necessary infrastructure for the conduct of the UG programme and diploma courses. The language papers and management subjects would be handled by the college, while the aviation-related courses would be handled by a team of well-trained instructors of the Madras Flying Club Aviation Academy. The intake for the BBA programme would be 60 students per year and the programme would comprise theory and practical sessions. Under the BBA Aviation programme, 70 % of the courses would be handled by the faculty members of the Department of Management and the remaining 30 % by the Aviation Academy, says Dr. Michael David Premkumar, Head, Department of Management, Bishop Heber College. This is the first of its kind programme that is being offered in Tiruchi, says Michael David Premkumar. Provisional admissions for the programme is expected to start soon through online mode. The degree would be awarded by the Bharathidasan University, while the diploma certificates would be awarded by the college. The Madras Flying Club which runs the Aviation Academy shifted its operations from the Chennai International Airport to Tiruchi Airport last year. It has been provided with a room at the Tiruchi airport where theory and practical sessions for the students would be held. Some of the aviation-related subjects include familiarisation of airport and aircraft, introduction to cabin crew profession, air regulation, aviation security and general navigation, Captain Jacob Selvaraj said. This Madras Flying Club would establish an Aero Lab at the college during next academic year for the students to know about the crucial parts of aircraft in its possession and its functioning. Capt Selvaraj said the Flying Club had in its possession six single engine Cessna and Hansa aircraft, adding that plans were afoot to buy a new two-engine aircraft. The administrative office of the Flying Club had already been shifted to the Tiruchi airport and the aircrafts in its possession would be moved once the hangar was ready at the airport. Capt. Jacob Selvaraj said the BBA Aviation programme would be beneficial to students as it would make them familiar with aviation related aspects coupled with management subjects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/full-time-bba-programme-in-aviation-launched/article33080467.ece
12 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 206 fresh cases||The central districts recorded 206 COVID-19 cases for the viral infection on Wednesday, a significant dip since Tuesday’s 247. Three deaths - one each in Pudukottai, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi - were reported. A 45-year-old man suffering from acute respiratory failure from Pudukottai, a 30-year-old woman with a fibroid complicating pregnancy and septic shock in Tiruvarur and a 68-year-old male from Tiruchi with co-morbidity of diabetes died of the viral infection on Wednesday. Nagapattinam recorded the highest number of cases in the region, with 42 patients testing positive for the infection. There was a slight increase in the number of patients in the district compared to the previous days. Among them were primary contacts and interdistrict travellers. Thanjavur meanwhile recorded 41 new cases for COVID-19. Tiruchi reported 39 new patients testing positive for the viral infection while Pudukottai reported 27 fresh cases. Patients in both districts were primary contacts, patients with a history of respiratory illnesses and local index cases. Meanwhile, a total of eight patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from COVID-19 on Wednesday. Tiruvarur and Karur districts reported an equal number of COVID cases on Wednesday with 23 patients reporting positive. In Karur, the patients included residents of Puliyur, Anna Nagar and Gandhigramam tested positive for the viral infection. Interdistrict travellers from Dindigul and Thanjavur too reported positive. In Ariyalur, seven COVID-19 cases were reported while in Perambalur four patients reported positive for COVID-19. Among the seven in Ariyalur were two patients from Andimadam, and one each from Ariyalur, Thirumanur, Sendurai, Jayankondam and Jayankondam urban. Meanwhile, the total number of containment zones were reduced to 10 across the district. In Perambalur, among the four patients who tested positive, two hailed from the Ariyalur block and one each from Veppanthattai and Alathur. Meanwhile, a total of 484 throat swabs were lifted at the government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for processing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-records-206-fresh-cases/article33079749.ece
12 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers asked to insure ‘pisanam’ paddy||Farmers of the district have been asked to pay the premium for insuring the ‘pisanam’ paddy before December 15. In a statement, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said the Prime Ministers’ Crop Insurance Scheme has been introduced to bail out farmers in the event crop loss due to natural calamities. In Tirunelveli district, 320 revenue villages will be covered under the ‘pisanam’ paddy insurance scheme and hence, farmers of these villages should pay the premium of Rs. 444 per acre for insuring the crop. While paying the premium, the farmers should submit their application with copies of ‘adangal and chitta’ given by the Village Administrative Officer concerned, first page of bank passbook and Aadhaar card. The farmers should get the receipt for the payment of the premium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-asked-to-insure-paddy/article33079747.ece
12 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Thatchanallur Zone office moves to main office premises||The Thatchanallur Zone Office of Tirunelveli Corporation has been shifted to the main office premises on the S.N. High Road as Smart City project work has been started on the zone office premises. In a statement, Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan said the Thatchanallur Zone Office of Tirunelveli Corporation behind Arasan Bakery has been shifted temporarily to the Corporation’s Central Office premises opposite the Exhibition Grounds in the wake of ‘Smart City’ project being implemented there. Hence, residents living in Thatchanallur Zone may come to the Left Block of the Corporation Central Office to pay their property, water and profession tax and underground drainage charges and get the computerised receipts, Mr. Kannan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thatchanallur-zone-office-moves-to-main-office-premises/article33080476.ece
12 November 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||DVAC books Avinashi Tahsildar, seize unaccounted cash||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) registered a case against Avinashi Tahsildar G. Santhi after seizing unaccounted cash worth Rs. 60,510 from the Avinashi Taluk Office on Wednesday. Sources in the DVAC said its team led by DVAC Deputy Superintendent of Police (Tiruppur) C. Datchinamoorthy began the surprise check in the taluk office around 6 p.m. The search lasted for around four hours, during which the unaccounted cash was seized. The DVAC booked Ms. Santhi under Section 7 (Public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Further investigation is on into the seizure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-books-avinashi-tahsildar-seize-unaccounted-cash/article33079794.ece
12 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three held for burglary||The City Police on Monday arrested three men, including a lawyer, in Karur district for their alleged involvement in a burglary in Tiruppur. The police said on Wednesday that a five-member gang broke into a house at M.S. Nagar early morning on November 1 and decamped with gold jewellery weighing 87 sovereigns and Rs. 12 lakh cash. The Tiruppur North police registered a case and formed a special team who were on the lookout for the accused. Based on a tip-off, the special team visited Pettavaithalai, near Kulithalai, in Karur district and arrested three men, who were allegedly part of the gang. They were identified as S. Manojkumar (31), D. Annamalai (30) and T. Manikandan (30). Among the accused, Manojkumar was a lawyer based in Tiruchi, according to the police. The police recovered 53 sovereigns of jewellery and Rs. 3.03 lakh cash the accused. They were remanded in judicial custody. Efforts to nab the remaining two accused are under way, the police sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-burglary/article33079793.ece
12 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Woman, son arrested for murder||The Alangiyam police on Tuesday arrested a woman and her elder son on charges of murdering her younger son using a wooden pestle ( ulakkai in Tamil) at Thalavaipattinam, near Dharapuram. According to the police, the deceased Chidambaram (27) was allegedly in an inebriated state and demanded money from his mother Tamilarasi (52) at their residence on Tuesday evening. As he allegedly started attacking his mother, his elder brother Sathishkumar (30) stopped him and the siblings engaged in a physical altercation. Chidambaram then threatened both of them using a knife, following which Sathishkumar and Tamilarasi hit him using the pestle, the police said. A relative, who visited the house and found Chidambaram lying in a pool of blood, went to the Alangiyam police station and informed them, following which the police arrested Tamilarasi and Sathishkumar. They were booked under Section 302 (Murder) of the IPC and remanded in judicial custody. Idol stolen Miscreants broke into a private temple and stole a bronze idol of a goddess near Vellakoil on Tuesday. The police said that the idol was about one foot tall and worth around Rs. 5,000. Based on his complaint, Vellakoil police registered a case and are on the lookout for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-son-arrested-for-murder/article33080265.ece
12 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Ruddy shelducks spotted at Uthukuli tank||Birdwatchers spotted around 15 Ruddy shelducks ( Tadorna ferruginea ) at Nanjarayan Tank near Uthukuli in Tiruppur district for the first time in recent years. President of Nature Society of Tiruppur K. Ravindran said the migratory waterfowl, which comes from parts of Europe and Central Asia, is not generally spotted in Tamil Nadu during the migration season. There have been a few instances in the past where Ruddy shelducks were spotted in Chennai and Madurai, but have never been seen in Nanjarayan Tank in recent times. “They have come in a flock of 15 to Nanjarayan Tank. This is a big number as far as Ruddy shelducks are concerned in Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Ravindran told The Hindu.  Mr. Ravindran said that Manoj, a member of the Society, first spotted 15 Ruddy shelducks in Nanjarayan Tank on Tuesday evening, following which he visited the spot on Wednesday morning to confirm and photographed about eight of those. Ruddy shelducks are typically spotted in northern and north eastern areas of India following its migration, said G. Prakash, an office-bearer of Coimbatore Nature Society. “Normally, it won’t occur in South Indian wetlands,” he said, adding that the spotting in Nanjarayan Tank is indeed a rare occurrence. These birds are “gregarious” as they generally land in large groups during migration, Mr. Prakash said. Every year, migratory birds will arrive at Nanjarayan Tank from the first week of October and leave by the beginning of March. According to Mr. Ravindran, other migratory birds that have arrived from other parts of the world so far include northern shovelers, garganeys, Temminck’s stints, sandpipers and common teals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ruddy-shelducks-spotted-at-nanjarayan-tank/article33079782.ece
12 November 2020||vellore,TAMIL NADU||Police install 270 CCTV cameras across city||In a move to bring every nook and corner of Vellore city under electronic surveillance, the district police installed a total of 270 CCTV cameras on Wednesday. In the next phase, the district will get Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras. The district has already been covered with 4,000 CCTV cameras and the police is now conducting an audit to understand how many are working. Control room set up Meanwhile, these 270 cameras have been installed under the Self Sufficiency Scheme and they will be monitored from a control room set up at the North Police Station in Vellore. “The cameras have a resolution of 8 mega pixels and also have UPS back up. Earlier, the cameras installed would work only for a few months, but this time we have ensured that an annual maintenance contract is given for a period of five years,” said N. Kamini, Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG), Vellore Range. She said that these cameras will be helpful in crime prevention and help in proper utilisation of manpower. “In the next phase, we will be installing the ANPR cameras at all the traffic junctions to monitor movement of vehicles,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-install-270-cctv-cameras-across-city/article33080488.ece
12 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Pedestrian underpass to come up on Chennai-Bengaluru highway||In a bid to reduce accidents on the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) along with Larsen & Toubro Ltd (L&T) will begin construction of a pedestrian underpass on the highway in Sathuvachari, Vellore district. Residents are elated as many people, including children, have lost their lives while crossing the road, as an existing smaller subway is unsafe to use. The groundbreaking ceremony for the new pedestrian underpass was conducted on Wednesday. Similar underpasses will be coming up in three other places in Vellore district. The underpass, to be constructed at a cost of around Rs. 2 crore, will be 25 metres in length, 5.5 metres in width and 3 metres in height. It will have equipment to pump out water, CCTV cameras and will be well-illuminated. “The work is expected to be completed in six months,” said an official from L&T. Vellore MP D.M. Kathir Anand, who attended the ceremony, said the Sathuvacheri point on the highway has been a problem for over a decade. “A lot of accidents take place at this place as pedestrians cross the road through a gap in the barricades. After the road was widened, vehicles ply at a very high speed,” he said. Mr. Anand said he met Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, and submitted a representation for the underpass, which was more feasible than a flyover. “A feasibility study was also conducted,” he added. Similar underpasses will be constructed in Perumugai, Kandaneri and Vettuvanam. “The proposal for the facility in Perumugai is already approved and work is expected to begin next month,” said an NHAI official. Residents happy Sathuvacheri residents said the underpass will be of great help. “Two of our students died in road accidents a few years ago while crossing the road. It is a very dangerous point as vehicles zip past the stretch at great speed. There is a vehicle underpass situated some distance away... But a sewer line runs inside it and people cannot use it,” said Selva Ganesh, a teacher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pedestrian-underpass-to-come-up-on-chennai-bengaluru-highway/article33080483.ece
12 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||91 new COVID-19 cases reported||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 18,549, with a total of 91 new cases reported on November 11. While a total of 17,913 people have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 317. The district’s death toll is 319. In Ranipet district, a total of 16 new cases were reported, taking the total to 15,194. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stands at 6,934, with 19 new cases reported on Wednesday. In Tiruvannamalai district, a total of 21 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 18,104. Out of this, 17,463 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 373.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/91-new-covid-19-cases-reported/article33080490.ece
12 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 49,300 seized from procurement centre||Sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized Rs. 49,300 from a Direct Paddy Procurement Centre in Vellore during a surprise check conducted on Tuesday. According to sources, based on information that some officials of the Direct Paddy Procurement Centre, Nemili, Vellore were indulging in corrupt activities, DVAC officials from the Vellore detachment, along with Inspection Cell Officers, conducted a surprise check at the centre. During the raid, as much as Rs. 37,000 was seized from the supervisor/junior assistant, and Rs. 12,300 was seized from a temporary employee at the Nemili centre, as unaccounted for money. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-49300-seized-from-procurement-centre/article33080481.ece
12 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Education should make students good citizens’||Tamilisai Soundararajan, Governor of Telangana, virtually inaugurated two new women’s hostel blocks — Marie Curie block and Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy block — and a vermi-composting unit at the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Vellore, on Wednesday. After the inauguration, the Governor said that students should have confidence and courage in life so that they can achieve a lot. “Don’t give excuses in life but be committed because when you are committed, you will do things even though you don’t like those things,” said Dr. Soundararajan.  ‘Teachers’ value’ Pointing out that education should reform people, Dr. Soundararajan said that education should develop and cultivate students as good citizens. “Whenever I go to an education institution, I always salute teachers as they are dedicated and teach us good things and because of them we are in top positions in life today,” she said. Free higher education G. Viswanathan, Chancellor, VIT, said that the government should provide free higher education to all and if that was not possible, at least girls should be given free higher education. He said that this would prevent child marriages and also increase the percentage of the workforce of women. “About 30 countries in the world are offering free education and I want India also to provide free education. Giving a place for women in the State Assembly and Parliament is one of the ways to empower women in the country. We have been discussing this for a long time. A Bill for this was tabled in Parliament 20 years ago and it is still pending. I hope the present Central government will take interest in this and pass the Bill to empower women in the country,” he said. Hostel blocks He pointed out that at VIT, the hostel blocks are named after top leaders and scientists to inspire students. “For example, we have Jhansi Rani ladies hostel block, Indira Gandhi ladies hostel block. Now we have named two new ladies hostel blocks with names of Madame Marie Curie and Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy,” Mr. Viswanathan added. Kadhambari S. Viswanathan, assistant vice-president, VIT, Sankar Viswanathan, vice president, Rambabu Kodali, vice-chancellor, S. Narayanan, pro-vice chancellor and K. Sathiyanarayanan, registrar, VIT were present during the virtual inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/education-should-make-students-good-citizens/article33080485.ece
12 November 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Minister lays foundation stone for underground drainage work||Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Wednesday laid the foundation stone for underground drainage work to be taken up in Tindivanam and Villupuram municipalities at an estimated cost of Rs. 531 crore. Official sources said that administrative approval had been given for the projects — Rs. 268 crore for Tindivanam municipality and Rs. 263 crore for Villupuram municipality and it would be laid keeping in mind the probable population by 2052. The projects would be executed by the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department. In Tindivanam municipality, all the 33 wards would be fully covered with underground sewer system while in the Villupuram Muncipality, the project would cover newly annexed areas of Valuthareddy, Salamedu, Kakuppam and Erumanathangal. Sewer lines are proposed to be laid to a distance of 174.5 km covering the 33 wards in Tindivanam. Three pumping stations and four lifting stations would also be established. Nearly 20,000 households and 3,000 shops and commercial establishments would be connected to the underground sewer system in Tindivanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-lays-foundation-stone-for-underground-drainage-work/article33080401.ece
12 November 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Stalin shedding crocodile tears for political gains’||Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Wednesday charged the Leader of Opposition and DMK president M.K. Stalin with making immature statements and criticisms against the government off the cuff without understanding the basic facts of the matter. Talking to newsmen here after laying the foundation stone for the underground sewerage scheme in Panampattu in Villupuram Municipality, the Minister said, “I would only wish that Mr. Stalin understood the basic facts of issues instead of making criticisms off the cuff.” It was only when the DMK was part of the Ministry at the Centre, the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) was approved and introduced. But the DMK president has now been making untenable charges against the State government and shedding crocodile tears for political gains. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was handling several issues practically and the introduction of 7.5% quota for government school students in medical admissions was a laudable step of the government. But Mr. Stalin seems to be trying to take the credit, he also said. On the criticism of Mr. Stalin in the context of the release of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, he said that former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa took several steps for their release. But the DMK has no moral right to speak about this issue, he said. When the DMK was in power, a resolution was adopted in the cabinet recommending the commutation of death sentence of only Nalini, wife of Murugan and not the others. On the other hand, the AIADMK will never shy away from protecting the rights of the State, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-is-shedding-crocodile-tears-for-political-gains/article33080332.ece
12 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Govt.’s actions have brought COVID-19 under control: CM||Infections in Tamil Nadu have been brought under control after various preventive steps were taken by the State government, said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Speaking at a meeting to review COVID-19 preventive measures and development works in Virudhunagar district on Wednesday, Mr. Palaniswami said around 75,000 persons were being tested each day in the State. The Chief Minister said the State government was following guidelines of the WHO and the Central government, and was taking all preventive measures. Virudhunagar district was conducting 103 fever camps, every day, and so far, 10,173 camps had been held and 4.55 lakh persons tested. A total of 24 containment zones were set up in the district. Door-to-door checks for fever, cough and other symptoms of COVID-19 was being conducted, he said, adding that the infected were being taken to hospitals, treated and cured, he said. Similarly, prompt action was being taken in areas where cases were reported and contact tracing of infected persons was being taken up. Adequate facilities The State government has also provided adequate medical facilities at all hospitals and maintained stocks of drugs and equipment.  Kabasoora kudineer was being distributed among the people to prevent the infection’s spread, Mr. Palaniswami said. As a result, infection rate in the State was coming down, even as it was on the rise in neighbouring States, like Karnataka, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, and in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govts-actions-have-brought-covid-19-under-control-cm/article33079742.ece
12 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||New welfare board for fireworks, match industry workers||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday announced that a separate workers’ welfare board under unorganised sector would be set up for workers of fireworks and match industries. He made this announcement while interacting with the reporters after reviewing the development works in Virudhunagar district. Representations Mr. Palaniswami said that he had received representations from the local Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, other elected representatives to form a separate welfare board. The new welfare board would provide social security to 4 lakh workers from the cracker and safety matches industries, he said. Mr. Palaniswami recalled that he had written to the Chief Ministers of Rajasthan and Odisha to reconsider their decisions to ban bursting of crackers during Deepavali. Mr. Rajenthra Bhalaji, Minister for Information and Publicity Kadambur C. Raju, Collector R. Kannan, MLAs M. Chandra Prabha and M.S.R. Rajavarman were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-welfare-board-for-fireworks-and-match-industry-workers/article33079720.ece
12 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Demand for government medical college fulfilled in Virudhunagar district’||The long-pending demand for a Government Medical College with hospital had been fulfilled now by the State Government, said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Reviewing the development works in the district here on Wednesday, the Chief Minister said that a maternity and childcare centre at a cost of Rs. 18 crore was under construction on the Government Headquarters hospital Similarly, a students’ hostel for nursing school was also under construction. Out of the 8,251 petitions received under Chief Minister’s special grievance redressal camp, issues regarding 4,131 petitions were resolved. A total of 5,822 house site pattas were issued and old age pension was given to 1,178 persons. A total of 1,705 petitions seeking patta name transfer were disposed of. Public Works Department took up kudimaramathu works in 126 tanks at a cost of Rs. 65 crore completed in 2019-20. In 2020-21, 40 tanks were selected for desilting at a cost of Rs. 17.60 crore. A total of 14 tanks were taken up for repair, renovation and restoration, at a cost of Rs. 11.89 crore and the works are under way. The construction work of an anicut across Gundar river in Kariyapatti to take water to Pandanendal tank at a cost of Rs. 10.10 crore would be taken up soon. Similarly, a check dam at a cost of Rs. 2.5 crore would be taken up across Arjuna river in Vadugapatti village under Watrap taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-govt-medical-college-fulfilled-says-cm/article33079760.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plan to construct road from Kurangani to Top Station||The Highways Department engineers here have embarked upon a mega road project -- to step up tourism from Bodi to Top Station, by saving tourists at least 75 kilometres of road travel, and also to help the tribals in the Kurangani Hills. Presently, tourists visiting Top Station from Theni have to drive 105 kilometres through Munnar in Kerala. With the planned new road spanning 14 km from Kurangani, tourists could reach Top Station in less than 90 minutes. “As a first step, the Highways engineers have completed a field survey, by spending Rs. 13.29 lakh,” said E. Murugesan, Divisional Engineer, Highways, Theni district. The project would cost Rs. 50 crore in all. The Tamil Nadu government has to earmark funds for the project and give its stamp of approval. As and when there is a green signal, the tender process would be in place by January 2021, he said. The land to be acquired is lying with the Revenue and Forest Departments, officials said and added that Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam had supported the project from the nascent stage after the tribal population submitted representations for better road access from the hills to plains. ‘Double delight’ Balamurugan, a tourist operator in Bodi, said the project would be a double delight for both the tourism and agriculture industry. Day tours to Top Station would become a reality from Theni district. From the farmers side, this would facilitate faster movement of the produce grown by tribals to the markets here, he said. After the roads were laid to Megamalai from Chinnamanur, the number of tourists climbing up the hill increased significantly from what it was five years ago, he said and added that good connectivity would give an impetus to the tourism sector. John Bosco, who works as a marketing executive in a private resort in Bodi, said that to reach Top Station, a destination within Tamil Nadu, people had to take a circuitous route by going to Munnar in Kerala. The road project from Kurangani to Top Station would be a boon, he said. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam told The Hindu on Tuesday that the road would fulfil a long-pending demand of the tribals as many people especially, women and the elderly, found it difficult to even reach the Primary Health Care centres with ease. The project should bring cheer to the people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-lay-road-from-kurangani-to-top-station/article33079752.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Daily cases in Coimbatore below 200-mark for third day||Coimbatore district’s daily caseload of COVID-19 remained below the 200-mark for the third consecutive day on Wednesday. The district had 1,038 patients under institutional care as on Wednesday, including the 189 persons who tested positive for the disease on the day. The Health Department said that 168 persons from the district got discharged from treatment centres. The district's death toll increased to 582 with the addition of five more deaths due to the disease as per the media bulletin issued by the department. Tiruppur district reported 94 fresh cases, taking its overall tally to 13,983. The district did not report any deaths. Of the 13,983 cases, 982 were active. The total number of deaths stood at 199. As many as 102 patients from the district were discharged from various hospitals. Erode district reported 96 new cases taking the tally to 11,365. While 108 persons were discharged, 783 continue to be under treatment. Salem reported 87 new cases taking the tally to 28,484. While 106 persons were discharged, 1,017 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 428. Krishnagiri reported a total of 55 new cases, with 31 persons discharged after treatment. In Namakkal, 50 cases were reported taking the tally to 9,701. Dharmapuri recorded a total of 11 new infections and 18 persons were discharged after treatment. In the Nilgiris, 13 persons tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases stands at 7,013. The death toll in the district stands at 40. The district administration said that 246 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dharmapuri-dist-records-lowest-single-day-tally/article33079774.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three of family found shot dead in Chennai||Police sources said a nearby CCTV camera had captured an unidentified man near the house in the evening. While Mr. Chand had a bullet wound on his chin, his wife had a similar wound on her forehead. Their son had suffered a gunshot wound to his head. Other residents of the apartment complex told the police that they did not hear any gunshots. Calls not answered According to the police, on Wednesday evening, the couple’s daughter, Pinky, tried to reach them over the phone. She grew suspicious when they did not answer the calls. She sent her husband to check on them. On reaching the house around 7.30 p.m., he was shocked to find his in-laws lying in a pool of blood in the hall. On receiving information, the Elephant Gate police rushed to the spot and confirmed that all three were dead. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Mr. Shirshith had separated from his wife and children, and a divorce case is pending in court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-of-family-found-shot-dead-in-chennai/article33079743.ece
12 November 2020||Bangalore,KARNATAKA||Award for Vedanta||Vedanta’s Iron Ore Karnataka division has bagged the ‘Subh Karan Sarawagi Environment Award’ of Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI), in recognition of environment management initiatives at mines in Karnataka. The award was presented by Anil Kumar Jain, Secretary, Union Ministry of Mines and Coal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award-for-vedanta/article33079827.ece
12 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Damage to statue accidental’||Investigation has revealed that the damage to the statue of Basaveshwara in Bijaguppi village near Ramdurga was accidental. Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi issued a release stating that the village residents of Bijaguppi had withdrawn the complainant about the damage to the statue. A few days ago, three farmers who were going to their fields noticed that a shawl had fallen off the statue. They tried to put the shawl back but instead broke its hand. Out of fear, they threw the hand in a nearby field and kept quiet about it. There were protests in the village on Sunday, after some people noticed that a hand of the statue was missing.  Protests continued in Belagavi on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/damage-to-statue-accidental/article33079808.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Investors in IMA can submit claims online||Those who deposited money with the I Monetary Advisory (IMA) group of companies will now be allowed to submit online claim applications to the Competent Authority (CA) for 30 days, from November 25 to December 24, 2020, using Aadhaar-based authentication of the identity of claims, the High Court of Karnataka was informed on Wednesday. Also, the court was informed that the claim applications can also be filed at Karnataka One and Bengaluru One centres, and Atal Janasnehi Kendras across the State. Following this, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty asked the CA to give effective publication in the media to the claimants as required under Section 7 of the Karnataka Protection of Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act, 2004. The CA has informed the court that besides giving a wide publicity, beginning 15 days before accepting application in media, efforts will be made to intimate the individual claimants by sending an SMS to their registered mobile phones and dispatching communication to their address, depending upon the availability of such particulars. The Bench adjourned till December further hearing on PIL petitions related to the IMA case scam, while directing the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate to submit status of their investigation.  The CA has also informed the court that besides giving a wide publicity, beginning 15 days before accepting application in media, efforts will be made to intimate the individual claimants by sending an SMS to their registered mobile phones and dispatching communication to their address, depending upon the availability of such particulars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/investors-in-ima-can-submit-claims-online/article33079826.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Godown fire: Couple, son arrested||A day after a major fire broke out at a godown in Bapujinagar where as many as 1,800 barrels of chemicals used for santisiers and paint thinners were illegally stored, the police on Wednesday arrested the owners and their son. The accused are Sajjanraj, 66, the owner of Rekha Chemical Industries, his wife Kamala Sajjanraj, 60, owner of Rekha Chemicals Corporation, and their son Anil Kumar, 30, who managed the family business. They were arrested from their house in Shankarpuram, said the police. The couple has two factories in Bommasandra Industrial Area and the licence to run both. “But they did not have the required permission or licence to store chemical barrels in the godown. They had not taken permission from the BBMP, Fire and Emergency Services or from the pollution control board. The site was purchased in the name of Kamala Sajjanraj and the GST is in her name,” said Sanjeev M. Patil, DCP (west). The accused were supposed to send eight barrels of isopropyl alcohol to Crescent Chemical Industries at Lingarajapuram on Tuesday. “Each barrel had to weigh 85 kg, but one weighed less. An employee, Biju Singh, who sustained injuries in the fire, had called Sajjanraj over the phone to discuss it with him,” said Mr. Patil. Sajjanraj allegedly asked him to transfer the isopropyl alcohol from another barrel. “But the barrel they used had been exposed to sunlight and was hot. While they were transferring it, the fire broke out due to static charge and spread immediately,” said a senior police official. The police have recorded the statement of Biju Singh, the prime witness in the case. The probe so far has revealed that Sajjanraj established Rekha Chemicals in 1978. They procured raw material from Mumbai, Kochi, and Chennai, which they used to manufacture paint thinners and sanitisers. Five buildings damaged Five buildings were damaged while five cars, a goods carrier, two bikes, and two electricity poles were gutted. A godown storing plastic which was adjacent to the site was also damaged causing the owner losses to the tune of Rs. 45 lakh. Ayaz, the owner of the adjacent godown, and Shambulinga, the goods vehicle driver, filed complaints, following which two FIRs were filed against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/godown-fire-couple-son-arrested/article33080234.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Post-poll testing shows low positivity in both segments||While the number of COVID-19 cases has increased across Karnataka, the test positivity rate in Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira Assembly constituencies that went to the polls recently is lower than that of the State. This was the finding from the first round of “aggressive” testing for COVID-19 after the bypolls. Data provided by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) showed that while the total test positivity rate in R.R. Nagar constituency, consisting of nine wards, was 0.57%, the State average was 2.15% as of November 10. As many as 2,310 election staff underwent testing for COVID-19, six of whom tested positive. Of the 287 police personnel on poll duty, none tested positive. Among the general population, priority in testing was given to senior citizens, those with co-morbidities, and symptomatic individuals, as per advice of the Technical Advisory Committee. Of the 12,417 who were tested, only 78 tested positive in R.R. Nagar. Similarly, in Sira, of the 15,878 who underwent COVID-19 testing, 103 people tested positive. The test positivity rate here was 0.65%. Second phase The second phase of testing will end on November 14. Testing in R.R. Nagar was taken up by 35 teams, five in each of the seven primary health centres coming under the Assembly segment. There also were four mobile units with swab collectors. There were two teams for each ward at the ward offices for testing poll staff. Testing was also done in colleges, where mobile teams were sent. The teams were also sent to 15 police stations for swab collection. As many as 56 RAT and 231 RT-PCR tests were conducted. For the testing of the general public, public announcements were made in all wards, and was also done in business areas, markets, slums and apartments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/post-poll-testing-shows-low-positivity-in-both-segments/article33080230.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DG&IGP told to submit report on probe into malpractice cases against Munirathna||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police to appoint a senior police officer to examine whether proper investigation was conducted in two criminal cases against Rajarajeshwarinagar MLA Munirathna in connection with the alleged election malpractices during elections held to the State Assembly in May 2018. The senior police officer will look into the chargesheet already filed by the jurisdictional Jalahalli police, call up the petitioners to air their grievances in writing, examine all aspects of investigations conducted, and make assessment on whether further probe is required, the court said. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the interim on a PIL petition, filed in February this year, seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation. The Bench also directed the DG&IGP to submit the report of the senior police officer to the court by December 15. The petitioners, Anand Kumar N. and Santosh Kumar G., both sympathisers of BJP and residents of Bengaluru city, had alleged that the investigation was nothing but an “eyewash” as the police have failed to collect several documents and record statement of several witnesses. The final report filed by the police would only help Mr. Munirathna and conducting a trial based on the chargesheet would serve no purpose, the petitioners have claimed.  A senior police officer will look into the chargesheet already filed by the jurisdictional Jalahalli police, call up the petitioners to air their grievances in writing, examine all aspects of investigations conducted, and make assessment on whether further probe is required.Karnataka High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dgigp-told-to-submit-report-on-probe-into-malpractice-cases-against-munirathna/article33079986.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC asks if govt. is willing to hold inquiry into KSPCB’s working||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday asked the State government whether it was willing to hold an inquiry into the functioning of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, which was found to be unaware of some of its statutory powers to prosecute polluters till the court alerted the board on its powers. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S.Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction while observing that the functioning of the KSPCB is a “cause for concern” as it initiated action against violations of environment laws only after the court reminded it of its powers in several instances. The Bench was hearing PIL petitions related to the illegal dumping of garbage at landfills by the Mangaluru City Corporation and the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike in violation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, which mandate processing. For an example, the Bench pointed out that the board was unaware of a Union government notification in 1987, authorising particular officers of the board to lodge complaints before jurisdictional courts for violation of the provisions of the Environmental (Protection) Act, 1986, till the HC in 2020 reminded it.  Meanwhile, the Bench directed the BBMP to submit estimation of increase in waste generation till December 31 and how it is going to put in place infrastructure for lawful processing of garbage by then as the BBMP sought time till December 31 to dump garbage at landfill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-asks-if-govt-is-willing-to-hold-inquiry-into-kspcbs-working/article33079824.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Associations for reopening schools, PU colleges in Dec. in phases||Parents’ and students’ associations have suggested that the government allow schools and pre-university colleges to resume classes in December. The suggestion was made at a meeting held by the Primary and Secondary Education Department with stakeholders on Wednesday to discuss when schools should be reopened and the safety of students. The Recognised Unaided Private Schools Associationsuggested that the department reopen schools from classes 6 to 12 in the first week of December with the option of online classes. It recommended that no more than 15 students be physically present in a class and attendance not be made mandatory. “There is a necessity to convince parents as well. The department, with the help of all the departments concerned, should start preparations,” a release from the association stated. “Those students attending classes online should have provisions for a contact programme twice a week,” said the association. The RTE Students and Parents Association has advised the government to reopen schools and PU colleges in a phased manner after December 15. In the beginning, physical classes for students in Class 10 and second PUC can resume. Classes for students in standard nine and first PUC can resume later, depending on the situation, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/associations-for-reopening-schools-pu-colleges-in-dec-in-phases/article33080225.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 tests in State cross 90 lakh mark||Karnataka’s COVID-19 tests breached the 90 lakh mark on Wednesday and touched 90,43,217. This includes 60,61,585 RT-PCR tests. With this, the test positivity rate (TPR) touched 9.44%. From an average 80 tests a day in March, the State is now testing an average of over one lakh samples a day. On Wednesday, the State tested 1,10,518 samples. New cases The State on Wednesday reported 2,584 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 8,53,796. With 23 deaths, the toll rose to 11,453. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 2,881 people were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,11,581. Of the remaining 30,743 active patients, 824 patients were being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 2.33%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 0.89%. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,665 cases, taking its tally to 3,53,146. With eight deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,977. The active cases in Bengaluru touched 17,872.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-tests-in-state-cross-90-lakh-mark/article33080231.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP makes a clean sweep by winning all 4 Council seats||The BJP, which wrested two Assembly constituencies in the bypolls, made a clean sweep by winning all four Legislative Council seats. While the results of three seats had been declared by Tuesday, the result of the fourth seat was declared on Wednesday night. The South East Graduates’ Constituency whose results could not be declared on Tuesday as counting was still in progress was won by BJP’s Chidnanda M. Gowda. He defeated Janata Dal (Secular) candidate R. Chowda Reddy Thoopalli, whose retirement on June 30 had caused the vacancy, and another former MLC Ramesh Babu of Congress. With the win, BJP’s tally in the 75-member Upper House moved to 31, and is now the single largest party. The Congress and JD(S) have 28 and 14, respectively. Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar told The Hindu that the delay in announcement of result was due to the fact that the counting of votes that had begun early on Tuesday morning could only be concluded by Wednesday evening. “The counting progressed even in the night. This is because there were more number of ballots to be counted and had to be counted multiple times due to first preferential votes.” Mr. Chidananda Gowda defeated his nearest rival D.T. Srinivasa, who rebelled against BJP and contested as an Independent. He is the husband of Hiriyur MLA Poornima Srinivas. While Mr. Gowda polled 30,976, Mr. Srinivasa polled 23,851 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-makes-a-clean-sweep-by-winning-all-4-council-seats/article33079983.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Campaign to be launched today to tackle begging||The Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights will launch ‘Child beggary rescue campaign’ on Thursday with the aim of tackling the problem and rehabilitating children. Over the past few months, there have been an increasing number of children begging for money so that they can pay for their education. The programme will be implemented through various activities from creating awareness to rescuing children who have been forced to beg. The initiative will see the collaboration of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority, Karnataka State Police Department, Integrated Child Protection Scheme, UNICEF, and NGOs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campaign-to-be-launched-today-to-tackle-begging/article33080227.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Notification issued for Dec. 1 bypolls||The Legislative Assembly Secretariat issued a notification on Wednesday for holding byelections to one Rajya Sabha seat from the State Legislative Assembly constituency on December 1. The byelections have been necessitated following the death of Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti on September 17. November 18 is the last date for filing of nomination papers, while scrutiny of nominations would take place on November 19. Polling will be held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notification-issued-for-dec-1-bypolls/article33079984.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||AAP to focus on healthcare||Accessible healthcare, good governance, and education will be the main issues that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will focus on in the polls to the BBMP council. Speaking to reporters during a visit to the free Aam Aadmi Clinic at Shantinagar on Wednesday, Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the party would contest from all wards. The party hopes to open more such clinics across the city to provide accessible healthcare for all. Prithvi Reddy, AAP’s Karnataka State convener, said the party would focus on health and education, while stressing on the need to replicate Delhi model in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aap-to-focus-on-healthcare/article33079821.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cricket betting rackets unearthed; three held||The police, in two cases, have arrested three people for allegedly running cricket betting rackets. Shabbir Khan, 32, was caught by the CCB police accepting bets at a tea stall near Varthur police station. They recovered Rs. 4 lakh and a phone from him. In a similar case, the East Division police arrested Ranganath, 29, and Somashekhar, 30, from Koratagere in Tumakuru district. They were caught near a mall on Old Madras Road. “They were accepting bets from punters on behalf of their contacts in Gujarat and were getting a commission on each bet placed,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cricket-betting-rackets-unearthed-three-held/article33079820.ece
12 November 2020||Bengaluru/Chennai,KARNATAKA||KSRTC allowed to run buses to T.N. for six days||After more than seven-and-a-half months, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) on Wednesday resumed services to Tamil Nadu, ahead of Deepavali. This comes after the Tamil Nadu government issued an order permitting inter-State services from Karnataka for six days — from November 11 to 16 — without e-registration. An official with the KSRTC said services were operated on Wednesday evening with 25 buses to Hosur, Kanchipuram, Vellore, and other destinations. “On the first day, we operated a few services. However, we will increase services on Thursday and also run air-conditioned buses. Online booking for AC buses needs at least four hour’s notice,” said the official. The road transport corporation plans to operate buses to popular destinations such as Chennai and Coimbatore from Thursday. Incidentally, The Hindu had reported about the rising demand from passengers wishing to travel to the neighbouring State. Until Wednesday evening, the KSRTC was running buses only till the Attibele border. From there, passengers had to use Tamil Nadu buses to reach their destination. According to officials, this was a huge inconvenience to people. “We were operating 70 to 80 buses till the border and ferrying 3,000 to 4,000 passengers every day,” said the official. The decision has come as a huge relief for passengers. Some of them said the permit for inter-State travel should be extended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-allowed-to-run-buses-to-tn-for-six-days/article33080226.ece
12 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KRRS, Hasiru Sene plan agitation against new laws||Opposing the Ordinance issued by the State government for giving effect to the new amendments to the Land Reforms Act and what they said other anti-farmer moves, the Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha and Hasiru Sene is all set to launch a State-wide agitation. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, State president of KRRS and Hasiru Sene Badagalapur Nagendra said that by bringing in Ordinance to facilitate amendments to the APMC Act and the Land Reforms Act, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had “served poison” to farmers of the State. Mr. Nagendra said that Mr. Yediyurappa, who had taken oath in the name of farmers, was acting exactly against the interests of farmers and the sangha would vehemently oppose the Ordinance and what he said other anti-farmer moves of the BJP-led government in the State.  Mr. Nagendra said that many sugar mills had not paid pending bills to farmers and urged the government to immediately take steps get pending bills paid to farmers. He also urged the government to fix FRP of Rs. 3,500 per tonne of sugarcane immediately. Taking exception to the reported meagre grants towards flood relief to the State by the Union government, he sought to know why the Union government was meting out injustice to the State, when it [the State] contributed a great deal through taxes to the Central Exchequer. Farmer leader Chamarasa Malipatil and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krrs-hasiru-sene-plan-agitation-against-new-laws/article33079807.ece
12 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Several activities mark 100 years of Mahatma Gandhi’s visit to Dharwad, Hubballi||Day-long activities were held in Dharwad on Tuesday to mark the centenary year of Mahatma Gandhi’s visit to Dharwad and Hubballi. To mark the 100th year of Gandhi's visit to Dharwad, senior linguist Ganesh N. Devy, along with like-minded people and organisations, including Gandhi Peace Foundation, Chair of Gandhian Studies, Chitra Film Society and DASA Trust, organised the programmes in the twin cities. The centenary year programmes began at 6 a.m. with a meeting of pourakarmikas (civic workers) and sweet distribution, followed by all-religion prayer and bhajan rendition at Gandhi Peace Foundation at 7 a.m. It was followed by plantation of saplings on the premises of Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) in Dharwad in a programme organised in association with IIT, Dharwad, and the committee to set up to celebrate Gandhi’s visit. Planting the saplings, Mr. Devy recalled the visit of Mahatma Gandhi. Director of WALMI Rajendra Poddar said that in the present context there was a need for concerted efforts to achieve the Constitutional objectives. Director of Dharwad IIT P. Seshu, Aruna Hallikeri, Surekha Devy, M.A. Khan, I.G. Sanadi, Shankar Halagatti, Sanjeev Kulkarni, Basavaprabhu Hosakeri and others were present. Subsequently, children at Buddha Rakkita School in Dharwad were provided breakfast. A special programme was held at Anjuman College where speakers spoke on Gandhi. A painting expo by Bala Balaga schoolchildren was also held. It was followed by a dramatised reading of Hind Swaraj, written by Gandhi. In the evening, the The making of Mahatma was screened. On Wednesday, student activities were held at Sana College in Hubballi at 9 a.m., followed by a Shramik meeting at the APMC Yard. The statue of Gandhi in front of KIMS was garlanded at noon. It was on November 10, 1920, that Mahatma Gandhi came to Dharwad and visited the house of freedom fighters at Kelageri and Saraswathpur. He also visited Ulavi Chennabasaveshwar Temple and held public gathering to elicit suggestions from people in Dharwad on the course of the freedom struggle. Later, Gandhi visited Siddharoodh Mutt in Hubballi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/several-activities-mark-100-years-of-mahatma-gandhis-visit-to-dharwad-hubballi/article33079806.ece
12 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Four Bidar streets to get new names||The Bidar City Municipal Corporation has in a recent meeting approved of a proposal to rename four streets in the city after great personalities. A 4-km stretch between Basaveshwar Circle at Naubad Cross and Veera Ganachari Sharan Madivala Machideva Circle will be named as Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Marg. Another 4-km road from Basaveshwar Circle to Mailur village will be named after Kittur Rani Chennamma. A 5-km stretch from Shahapur Gate en route Deputy Commissioner’s office and Basaveshwar Circle till Old RTO office will be named as Mahatma Gandhi Marg. A 3.5-km stretch from Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Circle to Chickpet village via Siddharth College is named after Babu Jagjivan Ram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-bidar-streets-to-get-new-names/article33079810.ece
12 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Webinar on Dr. Appa’s contribution to education||Vice-Chancellor of Davangere University Sharanappa V. Halse will inaugurate a one-day national webinar organised by Sharnbasva University on National Education Policy 2020 here on Friday. The webinar is being organised to mark the birthday celebrations of Chancellor of Sharnbasva University Dr. Sharnbaswappa Appa. The webinar will cover the topic: “The contribution of Dr. Sharnbaswappa Appa to Higher Education, especially in establishing a large multi-disciplinary University”. Secretary of the Sharnbasveshwar Vidya Vardhak Sangha Basavaraj Deshmukh will be the guest and Dr. Halse will deliver the inaugural address. Vice-Chancellor of Sharnbasva University Niranjan V. Nisty will preside over the inaugural session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar-on-dr-appas-contribution-to-education/article33079811.ece
12 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||College of Fisheries all set to submit proposal on viable dredging model||The College of Fisheries here is all set to submit a proposal to the State government on a viable model for dredging in the bar mouth through which fishing boats ferry to and from sea. Earlier, Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport Kota Srinivasa Poojary had asked the college to submit such a proposal. At a meeting with fishermen representatives at the college on Wednesday, dean A. Senthil Vel said that the college has collected scientific data, which includes information on the contour of the channel, the extent of capital dredging (dredging done once) and maintenance dredging required, and the place where silt can be deposited. “This information has been sent to the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management in Chennai, which will provide us the model. We hope to get it in a week’s time. We will then place this model before the State government,” he said. Lakshmipathi M.T., head of the college’s Department of Aquatic Environment Management, who studied the issue, said that too much accumulation of silt in the 80 m wide bar mouth (where the Netravathi and the Phalguni join sea) is making it difficult for fishing boats to enter the fishing harbour. The present depth of the channel is 1.8 m as against the required depth of 4 meters for smooth passage of fishing boats. Mr. Lakshmipathi said that dredging has been carried out for five years from 2012-13. For the last two years, dredging has not been taken up. Mr. Vel said that among the reasons for accumulation of silt at the bar mouth and along the channel include negligence on the part of dredging agencies in dumping silt in sea where the depth is 20 m. “As it has been dumped near the bar mouth, the dredged material is coming back,” he said. Agreeing with the suggestion of fishermen representatives, Mr. Vel said that the college will propose dumping of dredged material on an island located 40 m from the bar mouth. “Embankment can be built to this island and it can be used as idling berth,” Mr. Vel said. The State government can set up a dredging corporation for dredging the channel in Mangaluru and other fishing harbours along the 320-km-long coastline, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/college-of-fisheries-all-set-to-submit-proposal-on-viable-dredging-model/article33080346.ece
12 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Congress, SDPI hand in glove, says Kateel||President of the State unit of BJP Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Wednesday that the Congress and the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) are hand in glove and both the parties have forged an alliance to enable the Congress to lead the Bantwal Town Municipal Council while electing the president and vice-president of the council last week. Addressing presspersons, Mr. Kateel said that Congress candidates were elected president and vice-president of the council in the election to the two offices with the support of the SDPI. In the 27-member council, the Congress had bagged 12 seats, the BJP 11 seats and the SDPI had won four seats. Though Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik U. and Mr. Kateel had voted in favour of the BJP candidates, the BJP could not get hold of the council as the SDPI supported the Congress candidates leading to their win. Mr. Kateel said that the Congress has been claiming that it has no links with the SDPI. But election to the offices of the president and vice-president of the Bantwal TMC has proved it otherwise. It exposes the real Congress, he said. He said that the BJP could win the recent bypolls to Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar Assembly constituencies and four seats in the Legislative Council due to the team work by it members. Mr. Kateel said that the Congress projected caste to win the by-polls. But it failed. The results of the by-polls and election to the four seats of the Legislative Council in the State, and by-polls to 59 constituencies in other parts of the country, and the Bihar Assembly election results indicated that people have voted for the good governance of the governments led by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in the State and Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Centre. People have reposed their faith in the leadership of the BJP. The MP said that the election results have shown that people have rejected the Congress. Hitting out at Leader of Opposition in the Assembly and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, Mr. Kateel said that he is a self-styled leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-sdpi-hand-in-glove-says-kateel/article33080339.ece
12 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Another proposal to be submitted on integrated coastal fisheries authority||The College of Fisheries will submit another proposal to the State government urging it to set up an Integrated Coastal and Fisheries Development Authority. It is to address the issues of fishermen and maintain the eco-sensitive nature of the Western Ghats. The proposal is the result of a meeting the College of Fisheries led by its dean A. Senthil Vel had with representatives of fishermen in the college here on Wednesday. Shashi Kumar Bengre, president of Mangaluru Purse Seine Boat Operators Association, said that fishermen continue to be neglected by the successive State governments. Unlike governments in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, the Karnataka government has not been looking at issues concerning fishermen. The fishermen in the State, more so of Mangaluru, have been operating under a lot of constraints. He said that the government has failed to properly dredge the channel leading to the Mangaluru fishing harbour, which is damaging fishing boats. Naveen Bangera, vice-president of Karnataka Purse Seine Fishermen Association, said that fishermen have been facing issues with New Mangalore Port Trust that does not permit entry of fishing boats into its jetties. “As it is difficult to enter the fishing harbour when the sea is rough, we seek entry into the New Mangalore Port during emergency situation. We are being looked at as extremists and are turned away,” he said. NMPT officials want prior intimation about boats entering the port which is difficult to provide, Mr. Bangera added. To prevent the influx of fishermen, NMPT has come forward to build a fishing jetty at Kulai under the Sagar Mala project. “But the way it is being constructed in a curve-like shape, it is unlikely to help fishermen as no provision has been made for regular dredging,” he said. He also pointed out at the discharge of untreated effluents from industries operating along the coastline that has resulted in drastic decrease in the fish yield. “No study has been carried out to find out the reasons for drastic decrease in catch in the Mangaluru region, more so of the shell fish, which was once available abundantly in Bengre,” he said. The fishermen representatives questioned the operations of Bharat Ship Yard, sand mining and construction of vented dams, which, they said, have impacted fishing in the region. Mr. Vel said that the integrated authority which can be constituted under Section 33 of the Environmental Protection Act can address the issues raised by fishermen. The Fisheries Minister can head the authority that will have the Deputy Commissioner, NMPT Chairman, Secretary, Environment (CRZ), and Secretary, Fishing Department, among its members. This authority, which will be on the lines of the one in the Sunderbans, will have legal sanction for its actions. Deputy Director of Fisheries Parshwanath also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-proposal-to-be-submitted-on-integrated-coastal-fisheries-authority/article33080347.ece
12 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Work to fill potholes to be completed by month-end||Member of Parliament from Dakshina Kannada Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Wednesday that the work to fill potholes on National Highway 75 between Adda Hole and BC Road will be completed by this month-end. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Kateel said that pothole filling works are now going on in Mani and Uppinangady areas. Once the works are completed, the entire stretch will be asphalted once again. It will be single-layer asphalting, he said. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, who chaired a meeting with officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) here, said that an additional 35 hectares of land from 680 khata holders will be acquired for the four-lane highway project between Adda Hole and BC Road. This land is spread over 17 villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-to-fill-potholes-to-be-completed-by-month-end/article33080343.ece
12 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held for posing as TTE||The Udupi Police have arrested Ganesh Naika for allegedly taking money from a few people while posing as travelling ticket examiner in the Konkan Railway Corporation. The police said that Naika was accused of taking Rs. 20,000 and some documents from Mathais, a security guard in a private hospital, on October 25. Naika reportedly promised Mathais a job in the Railways. He had earlier taken money from Vanita after giving her a fake appointment letter. Following a complaint by Mathais, a team of Udupi Police, led by Circle Inspector Manjunath, arrested Naika, who is a resident of Honnavar in Uttara Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-posing-as-tte/article33080344.ece
12 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Minister appalled over condition of MMCRI hostel||The dilapidated condition of the boy’s hostel of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) has appalled Minister for Health and Medical Education K. Sudhakar, who, after his visit to the hostel on Wednesday for a first-hand information, promised to act immediately based on the engineers’ report on whether the nearly 60-year-old hostel building should be renovated or demolished for constructing a new hostel building. “It’s sad that the hostel of one of the State’s oldest medical colleges is like this. The hostel building has become old and needs intervention. Therefore, senior officials, including the director of Medical Education and the V-C of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, have accompanied me. The engineers’ report in three days will decide the hostel building’s fate,” he said, after the inspection. The Minister said the hostel building work would be taken up using the funds available with the department and the university. “If necessary, a special grant from the Chief Minister will be sought,” he said, adding that not all hostels of medical colleges in the State are like this and this one is because it is nearly 60 years old. On the closure of COVID-19 care centres here, he said they had been closed with the sharp fall in cases and added that all districts will soon have post-COVID-19 rehab centres. Dr .Sudhakar said he will be sending the COVID-19 Technical Committee to Talakad, like during Dasara festivities, to recommend steps in view of the pandemic ahead of the Panchalinga Darshana from December 14. Single tender Earlier, the Minister, with senior officials from the Medical Education Department and the University, held a meeting at the MMCRI. He directed the MMCRI officials to set right shortcomings in the administration within the timeframe, and directed for a single tender for the outsourcing of manpower in K.R. Hospital, PKTB Sanatorium and Cheluvamba Hospital instead of three separate tenders. The Minister expressed unhappiness over the delay in executing hospital buildings’ maintenance works when the funds were available for the same since past three years.  Dr. Sudhakar announced the renovation and repair of K.R Hospital on the occasion of its completion of 100 years and asked the college authorities to send a Rs. 52 crore proposal soon. The super speciality hospital and the cancer treatment centre here would be set up on PPP model. He asked the MMCRI doctors to take steps for establishing a generic drug outlet on the K.R. Hospital premises and told them not to tell patients to get medicines from outside since all drugs should be made available within the premises. The skill lab at the MMCRI should be set up through the university and four committees would be set up for the monitoring of hospitals under MMCRI, he told the meeting. L. Nagendra, MLA; MMCRI dean and director C.P. Nanjaraj; and senior officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-appalled-over-condition-of-mmcri-hostel/article33079975.ece
12 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘I was helpless when COVID-19 rules were being flouted during campaigns’||Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar on Wednesday expressed his helplessness with regard to the recent violations of government’s COVID-19 guidelines and advisories by political parties during the recent byelections in Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Sira and added that all parties should take collective responsibility in this regard. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, the Minister admitted to participants in the byelection campaigns and roadshows breaking rules that mandated wearing face masks and social distancing. On why the public was targeted and penalised and no action was taken against political leaders, Dr. Sudhakar said the guidelines should apply to all. “It’s sad they were flouted. I’m helpless. I have been telling all to take precautions and follow SOPs. The courts have taken a serious note of the situation. As a government, we took steps and issued SOPs. All of us have to take collective responsibility. We need more civic awareness,” he replied. On selective slapping of penalties, while political leaders are spared, the Minister said the penalty (for not wearing masks and maintaining social distance) should be slapped essentially on everyone who breaks the rules. “If it’s not being done, we shall enforce it stringently now on,” he said. Dr. Sudhakar said the State’s COVID-19 positivity rate had fallen steadily which is a relief. The positivity rate which was between 12 and 19% in various districts a fortnight ago came down to 2% on Tuesday, he said. “Until the vaccine arrives, all of us should follow the rules in toto and combat the pandemic,” he said. He maintained that the COVID-19 vaccine would be the fastest developed vaccine in the history of medicine. “The vaccine trials are proving to be successful and have reached the third stage now. Those into the trials are claiming to have achieved 90% success rate. Let us hope the vaccine is found soon.” Curbs during Deepavali On the curbs over COVID-19 during Deepavali, the Minister expressed his inability to explain about green crackers which the State government had allowed instead of the usual firecrackers as a measure to deal with the pandemic situation. “I am not aware what these crackers are. I’ll check and get back,” he replied. Based on the COVID-19 expert committee report on Deepavali celebrations amidst the pandemic that was submitted recently, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa took the decision accordingly. The crackers are supposed to be burst only between 8 p.m. to 9 p.m., he stated. New medical colleges Dr. Sudhakar said the foundation stone for the four new medical colleges in the State will be laid this year. The colleges are coming up at Chickballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Haveri and Yadgiri, he said, and added that the CM will lay the foundation stones next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-was-helpless-when-covid-19-rules-were-being-flouted-during-campaigns/article33079819.ece
12 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Shortage of labour, higher price for harvesting machines leave paddy farmers in Yadgir district high and dry||Paddy growers who suffered crop loss in the recent rain and floods are again facing problems, including shortage of labour to harvest crops on time, burden in paying higher charges for paddy harvesting machines and also price crash in the open market. As much as 93,000 hectares of land irrigated by the Krishna and Bhima river waters and also from other sources have been taken up for cultivation in the district. And, of these 93,000 hectares, crops have been harvested in around 10,000 hectares so far. Farmers whose paddy is yet to be harvested are worrying about shortage of labour and also paddy cutting machines as a majority of workers who had returned to their native places during lockdown have again migrated to big cities, including Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune and Hyderabad, for livelihood. When compared to last year, the number of paddy harvesting machines that have arrived from Haryana, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and other States are only a few due to the pandemic situation. Owing to shortage of labour and paddy harvesting machines, farmers are in a hurry to harvest paddy by paying higher rent and selling the produce at the available market prices to avoid damage to grain for any reason, including rain. According to a farmer, he was forced to pay Rs. 2,200 per hour to harvest paddy despite the district administration issuing a strict warning to private paddy harvesting machine owners not to charge more than Rs. 1,900 per hour. “If I do not pay as per their demand in a bid to adhere to the district administration’s caution, neither will they allow me to complete harvesting the crop nor will they give me the machine the next year,” he told The Hindu . To address this problem, the Agriculture Department has let out a total of six paddy harvesting machines on rent for Rs. 1,300 per hour. When compared to the area covered, the machines are very few. Officials could have been provided with more number of machines to meet the demand, another farmer said. Low price Even after harvesting, farmers are facing another problem, i.e., low price. The present market price for a bag of paddy weighing 75 kg ranges from Rs. 900 to Rs. 1,300 depending on quality. “This is Rs. 500 to Rs. 600 less than last year's price,” Shivareddy Patil, a young farmer in Kollur village, said. The Karnataka Food and Civil Supplies Corporation has opened five paddy procurement centres under the minimum support price (MSP) scheme for 2020-2021 and asked farmers to register names from November 30 to December 30. “The corporation has been directed to purchase paddy under the scheme which ensures Rs. 1,888 per quintal for Grade A quality and Rs. 1,868 for Grade B produce,” an official of the Food and Civil Supplies Department said. The government’s decision to open procurement centres is causing disappointment to farmers. “Paddy growers who have already harvested their crops are selling grain at lower prices due to delay in establishing procurement centres and completing the online registeration process. By this time, they (officials) could have started registration enabling growers to sell grain at the price fixed under the scheme,” Mallikarjun Satyampet, farmer leader, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shortage-of-labour-higher-price-for-harvesting-machines-leave-paddy-farmers-in-yadgir-district-high-and-dry/article33079804.ece
12 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Bodies of elderly man, wife retrieved from NLBC||The bodies of an elderly man and his wife who, on Tuesday, were washed away in the Narayanpur Left Bank Canal near Malnur village in Hunsagi taluk of Yadgir district after their car tumbled into the canal while taking a reverse turn were retrieved on Wednesday. Their names were given as Sharanagowda Biradar (61) and Janaki Birdar (55). The couple’s son Pawan Biradar (35) drowned and his body was retrieved on Tuesday itself. Meanwhile, Pawan Birdar’s wife Prema escaped with their three-year-old daughter Krithika by swimming across the canal, sources said. The family from Bannatti village in Sindgi taluk of Vijayapura district had come to see land for purchase near Hunsagi. A case has been registered in the Hunsagi Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bodies-of-elderly-man-wife-retrieved-from-nlbc/article33079813.ece
12 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Three medical students killed, two injured in road accident||Three medical students of Navodaya Medical Education Institution were killed and two were injured in a road accident near Manjarla Cross on the Raichur-Mantralayam Road on the outskirts of Raichur city late on Tuesday night. According to police, the victims have been identified as Basavaraj (26), native of Mudgal, Abhishekh (26), native of Sindhanur, and Ganesh (26), native of Bengaluru. Basavaraj was studying in the final year of MBBS, while Abhishekh and Ganesh were studying in the third year. The injured, Siddharth and Bheemanagowda, both from Lingsugur, have been shifted to RIMS Hospital in Raichur. They are studying in the third year of MBBS, the police said. The accident occurred when a car in which the deceased and the injured were travelling from Yergera to Raichur after dinner collided with another car from Telangana and then, rammed a roadside tree. One of the drivers of the vehicles involved in the road accident fled from the scene, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-medical-students-killed-two-injured-in-road-accident/article33079816.ece
12 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||GESCOM relief cheque handed over||Gurmitkal MLA Naganagowda Kandkur handed over a Rs. 5 lakh compensation cheque from GESCOM to Sabamma of Kanekal village in Gurmitkal taluk on Wednesday. Sabamma’s husband Mallappa was electrocuted recently and Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company (GESCOM) had announced the compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gescom-relief-cheque-handed-over/article33079814.ece
12 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||25 child workers rescued in Raichur district||In a swift action against child labour, officials of the District Child Labour Project, the Education Department, the Women and Child Welfare and other departments concerned have rescued 25 children being carried in vehicles for labour in farms near Manvi Cross, Sirwar Town, Nagadadinni village and other places in Raichur district, according to a release on Wednesday. The release stated that these children were being taken for field work in four goods vehicles which were seized during the rescue operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/25-child-workers-rescued-in-raichur-district/article33079812.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. to incentivise rural service of doctors: Sudhakar||The State government is working on a policy to incentivise rural service by doctors, Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar has said. Delivering the 11th convocation address of JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSSAHER) here on Wednesday, he said the government would also give them early promotions. “If a doctor working in Bengaluru is promoted after six years of service, a doctor serving in Yadgir will be promote in three years”, said Mr Sudhakar adding that the government was committing to removing the disparity in medical facilities between urban and rural areas so that healthcare reaches all. Also, the State government was planning to appoint 2,500 new doctors from various medical disciplines through direct recruitment by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. This will also help provide healthcare to all nooks and corners of the State. Referring to the disparities in availability of healthcare personnel in rural and urban areas, Mr. Sudhakar said medical facilities are concentrated in urban areas. “70 per cent of the healthcare professional like to live in urban areas, but 70 per cent of the population lives in rural areas or villages.” Mr. Sudhakar, who is also the Minister for Medical Education, said the government has introduced compulsory rural service scheme for medical graduates and postgraduates from this year. “About 2,500 graduates and postgraduates, after completion of their course, should work in government facilities or in those places where the government posts them for a minimum period of 12 months.” Pointing out that a few doctors had challenged the government’s policy, Mr Sudhakar appealed to them to withdraw the case from the court and work in rural areas, which will help them earn a lot of goodwill for the rest of their lives. Contending that the government was committed to build a robust healthcare system in the State by concentrating on primary and secondary healthcare instead of tertiary care, Mr. Sudhakar said Karnataka had just one doctor for every 11,000 to 12,000 population against the World Health Organization (WHO) recommendation of one doctor for every 1,000 people. Also, the 1.1 bed for every 1,000 population is grossly insufficient against the global average of 2.7 beds for every 1,000 population. Mr. Sudhakar also pointed out that there was an acute shortage of paramedical medical staff in the State. So, he said the number of seats and colleges imparting paramedical education should increase. “Every teaching hospital should have a nursing and paramedical institution”, he said adding that increasing the number of paramedical institutions will help make healthcare robust. A total of 1,436 students were conferred their degrees on the occasion. Seer of Suttur Mutt Sri Shivarathri Deshikendra Swamiji, Pro-Chancellor of JSSAHER B. Suresh, and Vice-Chancellor of JSSAHER Surinder Singh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-incentivise-rural-service-of-doctors-sudhakar/article33079981.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru zoo strikes another major deal||Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, the Mysuru zoo has struck yet another major international animal exchange deal. After the African cheetahs that arrived here from South Africa and are now among the zoo’s star attractions, it’s the turn of orangutans. The zoo management has struck an animal exchange deal with the Singapore Zoo, which has agreed to spare a pair of orangutans. Once displayed, the Mysuru zoo will become the country’s lone zoo to house the great ape. An orangutan housed at Nandankanan zoo in Odisha died last year. According to the records, the last time the zoo displayed orangutans was in the 70s and the zoo authorities’ best efforts thereafter to get an orangutan pair did not materialise. In return for the orangutans, the zoo is giving two male giraffes to the Singapore Zoo. Mysuru zoo executive director Ajit Kulkarni told The Hindu that the orangutans are expected to be brought here in February-March next year. “This moment was long-awaited since the zoo had not displayed orangutans for over five decades. They are going to be the biggest attractions the coming year. The arrangements to receive them are on,” he said. The zoo will soon start the construction of an enclosure for orangutans. “If we had the enclosure ready, we could have brought the animals by year-end,” Mr. Kulkarni said. The Bank Note Paper Mill India, Mysuru, has contributed Rs. 70 lakh for the construction of the enclosure under its CSR initiative. The Mysuru zoo has become the second Indian zoo to house African cheetahs, the fastest land animal, as it got a male and two females from the Ann Van Dyk Cheetah Centre, a cheetah conservation centre in South Africa, in August this year. Gorillas next? After two back-to-back international animal exchange deals this year, the days may not be too far when the Mysuru zoo will be displaying gorillas. Indian zoos do not have gorillas, and Mysuru zoo was the only one that once housed a gorilla. The western lowland gorilla Polo died a few years ago. Last year, Zoo Authority of Karnataka member-secretary B.P. Ravi had urged European Association of Zoos and Aquaria Gorilla European Endangered Species Programme coordinator Neil Bemment, who was in Mysuru in connection with a workshop for Indian zoo veterinarians, to spare a gorilla pair for Mysuru zoo. Polo was gifted to Mysuru zoo by the Dublin zoo in 1995. It passed away in 2014, after having lived without a companion for 18 years though the zoo tried to bring him a mate under animal exchange programmes from abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-zoo-strikes-another-major-deal/article33079972.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||MoRTH to fund ORR maintenance, widening of underpasses||The 4-lane Outer Ring Road (ORR) which converges to a two-lane stretch at the intersection of railway lines at four places, will be widened with funding by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH). The 41.5 km long ORR – which is now part of the national highways – converges to a two-lane road at the intersection of the Mysuru-Bengaluru, Mysuru-Nanjangud, Mysuru-Hassan and Mysuru-RBI printing press railway lines and poses threat to motorists. The road widening could not be taken up all these years due to various issues including funding. The issue was was pending before the authorities since many years with the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) washing its hands off the issue as the ORR has now been transferred to NHAI for maintenance. But senior MoRTH officials were apprised of the imperatives of rectifying the lacunae during their visit to Mysuru last month and it has now transpired that the four junctions will be identified as “Black Spots’’ and funds will be released for their widening on a priority basis. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha said the MoRTH has a policy to identify accident prone areas or ‘’black spots’’ along the NH so as to rectify the anomaly – pertaining to geometrical design or other factors – that compromises the safety parameters. Under this policy permanent remedial measures can be taken up including junction improvement by way of constructing underpass, overpass, flyover or improving the curvature and alignment. The NHAI will also take up the asphalting and maintenance of the ORR which is pending since many years. The asphalting work has already commenced along short stretches and the MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajiv told The Hindu that the work is expected to cost around Rs. 120 crore. The ORR itself was completed at a cost of nearly Rs. 350 crore and though developed and laid by the MUDA, the local body had expressed its inability to bear the cost of annual maintenance of ORR and transferred it to NHAI almost 3 years ago. ORR is officially part of NHAI and connects NH-275 near Hinkal village, NH-150A near Columbia Asia Hospital, and NH-766 near APMC Bandipalya, as per the NHAI route map. Mr. Rajiv said the current work entails complete asphalting of the ORR and it is the first major work undertaken by the authorities after the road was thrown open for traffic a few years ago. Though the road will be maintained by NHAI the MUDA and the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) will bear the electricity charges of lighting which works out to nearly Rs. 2.5 crore per annum. He said plans are afoot to replace the conventional bulbs of the streetlights along ORR with LED bulbs and this is expected to reduce power consumption and lead to savings in energy bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/morth-to-fund-orr-maintenance-widening-of-underpasses/article33079978.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Case against coracle operator||After a young couple from Mysuru met a watery grave at Mudukuthore near Talakad in the district during a pre-wedding photoshoot on Monday, the Mysuru District Police, which is investigating the case, has decided to write to the Irrigation Department to take a serious view of the tragedy and take measures that stop people from endangering their lives. Mysuru Superintendent of Police C.B. Rhyshanth told reporters that a case has been booked against the operator of the coracle that capsized killing the couple, Shashikala (20) and Chandrashekar (30), who were on a pre-wedding photoshoot ahead of their wedding on November 22, for negligence. The SP said an inquiry is on to find out who gave permission for the shoot and also using the coracle without safety precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-against-coracle-operator/article33079979.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Creating awareness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/creating-awareness/article33080349.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Penalty collected||The Mysuru City police has booked a total of 17,961 cases against people for defying the rule on compulsory wearing of face mask. According to Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) Geetha, the traffic police had collected a penalty of Rs. 41.25 lakh by booking 17,961 cases till November 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/penalty-collected/article33079976.ece
12 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha logs 521 cases||The district recorded 521 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. The fresh cases include 505 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of another 14 people remains unknown. The district also reported one COVID-19-related death. The deceased was identified as a 63-year-old man from Mannancherry. The 521 cases include 94 logged from Alappuzha, 29 from Aryad, and 26 from Cherthala South. Meanwhile, 716 people tested negative for the disease. The number of active cases in the district stands at 8,504. Ward 10 in Kavalam and parts of ward 13 in Kainakary grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-logs-521-cases/article33079928.ece
12 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Body exhumed for autopsy in Alappuzha||The body of a youth who died around five years ago was exhumed from the graveyard of Varavukadu Juma Masjid at Thrikkunnapuzha on Wednesday for post-mortem examination. Officials said the body of Mohammed Mustafa, 34, of Thrikkunnappuzha was disinterred as per an order of the Kerala High Court. Recently, his wife and a relative lodged a complaint alleging mystery in his death. The body was taken out by a team led by Chenngannur Revenue Divisional Officer G. Ushakumari. Parts of his body, including bones, hair, and teeth, along with soil were collected for chemical and DNA examination. A forensic team also collected evidence. After completing post-mortem examination, the body was buried again, said an official. Mohammed Mustafa died on November 15, 2015. Initially, his family maintained that he died of cardiac arrest. His body was buried without conducting legal and medical examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-exhumed-for-autopsy-in-alappuzha/article33079929.ece
12 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Move to close Alappuzha MW station flayed||A.M. Ariff, MP, has alleged that the move to close down the 200-kW Alappuzha Medium Wave (MW) transmission (relay) station of the All India Radio (AIR) is aimed at handing over the property to real estate lobbies. “Prasar Bharati is shutting down radio stations including in Alappuzha without any reasons. Attempts are being made to hand over the property to real estate lobbies. The Prasar Bharati should retreat from the move to hand over the land of Alappuzha station to the private sector,” Mr. Ariff said in a statement issued here on Wednesday. On November 6, the Prasar Bharati issued an order for decommissioning of “old and outlived 200 kW MW transmitter” in Alappuzha with immediate effect. However, a day after issuing the order, it deferred the decision for a week following protests from various quarters. The Alappuzha MW station was established in 1971 with an initial capacity of 100 kW as a relay station of the Thiruvananthapuram AIR station. It was later upgraded to 200 kW. Although it is not a broadcasting station, the 200kW transmitter in Alappuzha is responsible for the transmission of signal to an extended area. According to the MP, the 200-kW transmitter in Alappuzha is thus responsible for the transmission of signal to an extended area covering 93% of the territory of Kerala and faraway places such as Lakshadweep, Tirunelveli, and Madurai outside the State. Mr. Ariff threatened to launch protests if the decision was not withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-close-alappuzha-mw-station-flayed/article33079915.ece
12 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Nod for construction of two railway station roads||Administrative sanction has been accorded for the construction of two railway station roads in the district. Metalling and tarring of the Alappuzha and Haripad railway station roads will be done utilising Rs. 40 lakh and Rs. 10 lakh respectively allocated by A.M. Ariff, MP, under the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme for 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-construction-of-two-railway-station-roads/article33079927.ece
12 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||UDF will comfortably win polls: Mullappally||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran on Wednesday said certain political parties, including the Communist Party of India (Marxist) {CPI(M)], were trying for a Congress-free country and their attempts would not succeed. Mr. Ramachandran said that his party was going through a crisis and the electoral defeat in the State of Bihar was a lesson. Talking to mediapersons at Thodupuzha, he said the United Democratic Front (UDF) would register a comfortable victory in State local body elections. Befitting lesson The people of the State would give a befitting lesson to the corrupt Left Democratic Front government. Mr. Ramachandran alleged a conspiracy to torpedo the gold smuggling case as well as the drug trafficking-related money laundering case involving Bineesh Kodiyeri. BJP State president This was evident from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president reaching New Delhi, according to him. If the latter case involving the son of the CPI(M) State secretary was defeated, its entire responsibility was with the BJP, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-will-comfortably-win-polls-mullappally/article33079916.ece
12 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Title deed holders can cut trees except sandalwood||The government has issued a new order allowing farmers having title deeds to cut all categories of trees except sandalwood grown on the plot. The order issued by Revenue Principal Secretary A. Jayathilak says action will be taken against officials who prevent farmers from felling trees grown on the land having title deeds. The new order says as per the Kerala Preservation of Tree Act, 1986, cutting trees from the title deed land needed permission from the authority concerned. Another order was issued in 2017 stating that farmers could cut the trees grown by them. This had created confusion as verification and permission from the Forest Department were needed for cutting the trees and whether permission was required to cut trees such as teak. The new order says that no permission is required to cut the trees except sandalwood trees grown on title deed land. As per the new order, the ownership of trees in the title deed land is entrusted with the title deed holder. If an official intervenes, it recommends action against the official. District Collector H. Dineshan on Tuesday said the new order was applicable only to the title deed land. The Cardamom Hill Reserve (CHR) is exempted from the purview of the new order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/title-deed-holders-can-cut-trees-except-sandalwood/article33079960.ece
12 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Woman trampled to death by elephant||A 52-year-old woman was trampled to death by a wild elephant at Elamblasery, near Mamalakkanda, on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Vazhayil Nalini, a resident of Mamalakkandam. The incident occurred around 1 p.m. when she was looking for her cow which grazed near the forest area. She was unaware of the presence of a wild elephant there which suddenly charged on her. She died on the spot. Her body was found by the family members who went in search of her as she did not return for long. The body was shifted to Adimali taluk hospital for an autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-trampled-to-death-by-elephant/article33079945.ece
12 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||For Wayanad farmer, paddy field turns canvas||A 3D replica of two birds, on the lines of Japanese rice paddy art, is taking shape on a paddy field in Wayanad district. Praseed Kumar, a progressive farmer from Sulthan Bathery, has created the art work on his paddy field at Kazhambuvayal near Nambikolly under the Nenmeni Krishi Bhavan in the district, with the aim to encourage local youth to take up agriculture. A few decades ago, Wayanad was known as ‘vayal nadu’ (the land of paddy fields), but later farmers turned to cash crops such as areca nut and the nendran variety of plantain or left their paddy fields fallow due to low profits, said Mr. Kumar. The farmers in Japan, especially those in Inakadate village, began using paddy art to beautify their fields three decades ago. It attracted tourists from various countries and the farmers earned a huge income from tourism, besides the income from rice cultivation, added Mr. Kumar. This is the fourth consecutive year that Mr. Kumar is creating art works on his rice field. He said he had spent about Rs. 6,000 for the art work on 40 cents. S. Prasad, an artist from Sulthan Bathery, drew the outline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-wayanad-farmer-paddy-field-turns-canvas/article33079838.ece
12 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Ryots stage dharnas over disparity in fixing MSP||Hundreds of farmers under the aegis of the Wayanad Samrakshana Samithi took out separate marches and staged dharnas in front of Krishi Bhavans in the district, raising a slew of demands, including an end to the discrimination meted out to farmers in the district in fixing the minimum support price (MSP) for the “nendran” variety of plantain. Speaking after inaugurating a district level dharna at Pulpally on Wednesday, P.M. Joy, general convenor of the organisation, said that when the government had fixed the minimum support price (MSP) for 16 varieties of vegetable produce all over the State, it had discriminated against the farmers in Wayanad in fixing the MSP for “nendran”. While the MSP for 1 kg of nendran was fixed at Rs. 30 a kg in the 13 other districts of the State, the government had fixed only Rs. 24 a kg for it in Wayanad, a major nendran cultivating area in the State, Mr. Joy said. Such a discrimination was unscientific as there was no Wayanadan variety of plantain. Thousands of farmers were engaged in plantain cultivation after the massive destruction of cash crops such as pepper and ginger owing to various diseases. Falling prices Moreover, it would put the farmers in a tight spot at a time when the price of the commodity would decline drastically in the market, he said. Hence, the government should fix a common MSP for the produce in the entire State, he said. The farmers staged dharnas in front of all the 25 Krishi Bhavans in the district. The protesters also demanded steps to ensure safety for their lives and property from wildlife attack. They urged the government to declare wild animal which raid crops as vermin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ryots-stage-dharnas-over-disparity-in-fixing-msp/article33079847.ece
12 November 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 9.19 lakh seized||In another gold seizure at the Kannur International Airport, the team of air customs officials seized gold worth Rs. 9.19 lakh. The effort to smuggle in the gold in the form of candy was thwarted by the officials. Mohammed, 60, a native of Mulleria in Kasaragod, was arrested in connection with the case. Gold weighing 175 gram was seized by the customs officials. Mohammed had arrived from Dubai on Tuesday night and the gold was seized when the officials noticed suspicious behaviour during the checking of the baggage. The gold concealed in wrappers was kept in a chocolate box.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-rs-919-lakh-seized/article33079858.ece
12 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Antigen test must for govt. staff: Collector||District Collector D. Sajith Babu has said that all government employees in the district should undergo antigen test once in 14 days. Speaking at a district-level corona core committee meeting organised through videoconferencing on Wednesday, he said the services of the mobile testing unit headed by the District Medical Officer could be availed for the purpose. He directed the DMO (Health) to ready an inspection plan in this regard. The Collector said although the number of COVID-19 cases in Kasaragod was less compared to other districts, caution should be maintained. Bus service It was also decided to resume the KSRTC service on the Deli-Paravanadukkam route on national highway from Monday. District Police Chief D. Shilpa, Sub Collector D.R. Meghashree, ADM N. Devidas, DMO A.V. Ramdas, and District Information Officer M. Madhusoodanan attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/antigen-test-must-for-govt-staff-collector/article33079846.ece
12 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Nod for more self-financing courses under MG varsity||The Higher Education Department has sanctioned nearly 50 self-financing courses in unaided colleges under the Mahatma Gandhi University for the academic year 2020-21. The department has also given its nod for starting additional batches in three self-financing colleges in the new academic year. Some of the areas in which the new self-financing undergraduate and postgraduate courses have been sanctioned include Cinema and Television; Geology; Multimedia; Co-operation; Psychology; Finance and Taxation; Fashion Technology; Food Technology and Quality Assurance; Cyber Forensics and Visual Communication. The other new courses under the self-financing mode include English Literature, Communication and Journalism; Economics; Social Work; Animation and Graphics; Apparel and Fashion Technology; Artificial Intelligence; and Hotel Management. The additional batches were sanctioned for courses including Bachelor of Computer Applications and Bachelor of Business Administration. Onus on managements The go ahead for new self-financing courses was given on the condition that the managements concerned will submit the documents to prove that their institutions have adequate infrastructure, human and physical capabilities to conduct the courses as required by the government. The educational agency has to set apart 50% of the seats of the course to be filled up by the government or such authority as determined by it on the basis of merit and reservation policies prescribed. The remaining 50% of the seats can be filled up by the management on the basis of merit. The educational agency should collect the fee determined by the government for each course. It should institute adequate number of scholarships on merit-cum-means basis for students. The managements must publish details related to their governance, admission, fee, courses, results, teaching and other staff on the college website. The no-objection certificate issued by the Higher Education Department will be valid up to the end of the academic year 2020-21. It will be renewed subject to the compliance of the conditions published by the government. The colleges have to get accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council by 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-more-self-financing-courses-under-mg-varsity/article33079940.ece
12 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||New ornamental shrimp discovered||Scientists from the National Bureau of Fish Genetics Resources have discovered new varieties of ornamental shrimp in the Lakshadweep coral reef environment, which will be a boon for the growing ornamental fish industry in the country. Scientists said that the ornamental shrimp industry could gain substantially from the discovery. At present, an ornamental shrimp costs about Rs. 1,000 a piece. The move now is to reduce the cost to spread the culture of ornamental shrimp keeping. Both conservation of the species and livelihood can be ensured by relying on steady supplies. Twenty women from Agatti on the Lakshadweep islands are being provided training now in rearing the new species so that they will be able to establish backyard units for supplies in the future. The discovery will help boost marine ornamental aquaculture and aquarium keeping, which is a multi-million dollar industry. High demand The demand for marine invertebrates such as soft corals, sea anemones, shrimps, crabs, and sea lilies was increasing, said a communication from the group of scientists involved in the discovery. Increasing value At present, the marine ornamental trade is worth around 362 million dollars and its value is increasing at an average rate of 14% a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-marine-ornamental-shrimp-species-discovered/article33079841.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Sharp fall in road accidents, fatalities||A combination of factors has led to road accidents in Kerala decreasing by 34% and fatalities by 40% during the January-September 2020 period, as compared with the corresponding period in 2019, due to what MVD officials said was fewer number of heavy vehicles being on the road and stricter rule enforcement. The number of accidents fell from 30,751 to 20,091, while the number of deaths too lessened, from 3,398 to 2,036, during the nine-month period, as per data shared by the MVD. The noticeable fall in accidents and fatalities occurred even as there was a phenomenal increase in the number of private vehicles on roads, corresponding to the fall in the number of buses and other modes of public commute following the pandemic situation, said the nodal officer for MVD’s Safe Kerala Project, Shibu K. Itty. Hitherto, buses and goods carriers used to cause a disproportionate number of accidents, especially those involving fatalities. Mr. Itty spoke of how stepped-up traffic rule enforcement, even amidst the pandemic situation played a key role in reining in rule violators and thereby accidents. “A dedicated team of enforcement personnel were deployed under the Safe Kerala Project (SRP) in highways and other roads to initiate action against drunk driving, chatting over the cell phone and driving sans helmet/seat belt. Automated rule enforcement too was stepped up during the period since the Supreme Court’s road safety committee has been monitoring the functioning of the SRP. The driving licence of a substantial number of people caught for these offences, rash driving, overloading, and those who caused accidents, were suspended, apart from levying of enhanced fine amounts. Automated enforcement has helped prompt and faster action. Over time, all this became a deterrent to rule violators”. Automated enforcement is set to intensify since control rooms will be established in all districts by February 2021. Personnel manning them will monitor a minimum of 50 artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled cameras that are being installed in each district. The functioning of these portable, wireless cameras will improve with age, since the self-learning process of these machines will improve their accuracy as years pass by. Enforcement will further be tightened since the MVD has deployed personnel in 65 e-cars to keep tabs on rule violations. Adherence to lane discipline too will be emphasised. “We have set a target to halve the number of road accident fatalities and to reduce road accidents by 30%, by 2025,” Mr. Itty said. Joint Transport Commissioner (Retd) Shaji Joseph said that rule violations and accidents involving youth riding new-generation/altered motor bikes and overloaded goods carriers was a cause for concern. “Most youths wake up late from sleep and indulge in rash driving to reach their destination to make up for the lost time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-records-sharp-fall-in-road-accidents-fatalities/article33079853.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Matsyafed to launch online fish sales||The Kerala State Cooperative Federation for Fisheries Development (Matsyafed), the apex fisheries cooperative in the State, is set to expand online fish sale in Ernakulam and other districts after the service was launched on November 6 in Thiruvananthapuram. The cooperative is marketing fresh fish under the brand “Matsyafed Freshmeen” with a view to reaching the best quality fish to customers across the State. The venture is meant to ensure quality fish supply as well as sustainable income for the fishing community, said a Matysafed official. The supply of favourites such as sardines, mackerel, tuna, anchovy, and king fish will be made to customers once a message is sent to the Matsyafed number 8086380862. Orders can also be placed throughwww.matysafedfreshmeen. com. The application “Matsyafed Freshmeen” for placing orders can be downloaded from Googleplay. Matsyafed already has a chain of 67 fresh fish outlets across the State and six mobile fish units under the brand name “Anthipacha”. The apex cooperative’s efforts have been to ensure fresh fish supplies of high quality in hygienic conditions. Free cleaning and cutting as per the customer’s requirement is one of the services being offered while value added products such as curry, pickles, and cutlets are also available through the online service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/matsyafed-to-launch-online-fish-sales-across-state/article33079839.ece
12 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC directive to demolish bund||The Kerala High Court has ordered the Kochi Corporation and Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) to remove the temporary bund constructed across the Chilavannoor Lake for the proposed Padmasarovaram project. Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar passed the directive on a petition filed by G. Mohandas of Vyttila. According to him, the corporation had decided to construct a cycle track and walkway under the proposed Padmasarovaram project across the Chilavannoor Lake, and entrusted the construction with KMRL. The corporation has constructed a temporary bund across the lake to facilitate the construction of the cycle track and the walkway. He said that on account of the construction of the temporary bund, the areas on either side of the lake were flooded during the rainy season. The petitioner also sought to demolish the bund as it was constructed unscientifically, by spending huge amounts from the public exchequer. As the Padmasarovaram project had already been dropped by the corporation, the bund could be removed, he argued. When the petition came up for hearing, the counsel for KMRL submitted that as the Chilavannoor Lake was a waterbody included in CRZ-I category, approval of the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority ( KCZMA) was required for the project. The construction of the bud was started even before obtaining approval from the KCZMA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-to-demolish-bund/article33080315.ece
12 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||LDF completes seat talks in Angamaly||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has gone a step ahead of the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the seat-sharing talks for the election to the Angamaly Municipality. The UDF began its final round of parleys with its alliance partners on Wednesday. A decision is expected soon, according to representatives of the mandalam committee. The LDF, which ruled the council with a comfortable majority, expects a keen contest in all the 30 wards. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) will field its candidates in 21 wards. Its alliance partners, including the Communist Party of India (CPI) and the Janata Dal (S), will have its candidates in three and five wards respectively while the new entrant, Kerala Congress (M), will contest in one ward. Adjustments The CPI(M) had won 16 seats in the previous election while the corresponding figures for Janata Dal (S) and CPI were two and one respectively. The CPI(M) made a few electoral adjustments this time to accommodate its alliance partners. It has decided to exchange two wards with CPI and Janata Dal(S). Stakes remain high for the UDF as it has to stay clear of group rivalry and eliminate chances of rebel threat to wrest control over the municipality. It had won only nine seats in the previous election. The P.J. Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress (M) has asked for two seats. A decision on whether to field sitting councillors will be taken by the District Congress Committee. The presence of Independent candidates is almost certain in this election. Two Independent candidates had won the election held for wards 18 and 23 last time. BJP list Bharatiya Janata Party mandalam committee leaders said that they had declared candidates in 15 wards. Discussions for the remaining wards were almost over. The final list of candidates would be announced soon, they said. The campaign is expected to gather momentum by Thursday when candidates start filing their nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-completes-seat-sharing-talks-in-angamaly-municipality/article33080319.ece
12 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘We changed face of city’||On her last day as Mayor, Soumini Jain said that she was satisfied about having completed some welfare work like the construction of a new building for the Snehabhavan orphanage at Palluruthy, but lack of proper backing had kept other projects from materialising. “The biggest gain in five years was that we changed the face of the city,” she said in a press briefing. Looking back on five-years’ worth of work, she listed the completion of a women’s hostel at Pachalam, a free facility for physiotherapy for the elderly at Thuruthy, footpaths that can be accessed by differently abled persons and a 60% improvement in drinking water supply as the council’s achievements. “While I am proud about having completed some projects, I cannot say that I am fully satisfied. Lack of backing and the absence of conducive circumstances lead to difficulties in completing some work,” she said. The construction of the corporation’s new office was around 80% complete and its completion had been stalled by the delay in taking a loan to finish parts of the work, Ms. Jain said. The delay in taking another loan of Rs. 35 crore had created hurdles in the implementation of the PMAY-LIFE housing project, but 2,500 to 3,000 houses were already complete under the scheme, she said. On waterlogging The corporation had been criticised from various quarters for the waterlogging that the city had witnessed, but the floods were a problem that was not unique to the Kochi Corporation in three years, and a disaster management mechanism had not been in place then to handle it, she said. On the Padmasarovaram project, Ms. Jain said that 550-m cycle track and walkway would be a ‘facelift’ for the city. While the project did not initially receive clearance from the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority, requests had been made to reconsider it, she said. From 2010 to 2015, Ms. Jain had been the chairperson of the Standing Committee for Works. “When I stood for the election in 2010, I had no idea about politics. There were few women in politics then and parties were looking for candidates since seats were reserved, and I got the opportunity,” she said. While a decision on contesting the election this time would be made by the party, she would continue with the party and public work irrespective of the decision, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/we-changed-face-of-city/article33080321.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Traco Cable gets conductor supply order from KSEB||The State-owned Traco Cable has been given an order worth Rs. 143 crore for conductor production by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). This is the first time the public sector company has received such a big order in one bulk, said a communication from the company here on Wednesday. The KSEB order takes the total volume of orders with the company to Rs. 334 crore, Managing Director Prasad Mathew said. He said the total volume of business in the company would now exceed Rs. 250 crore for the current financial year. Capacity raised The public sector company had been able to increase its capacity through modernisation and expansion of its facilities. Traco Cable had a turnover of Rs. 156 crore last year. The cooperation and understanding between the management and the workers had helped substantially increase production and increase the turnover, he said. The Traco Cable units at Irupanam in Ernakulam, Pinarayi in Kannur, and Thiruavalla in Pathanamthitta had registered operational profit during these months when production was curtailed by the lockdown and restrictions, he added. Traco Cable, besides providing devices and equipment to the Kerala State Electricity Board, is also supplying conductors to electricity boards of Karnataka, Punjab, and Rajasthan. Housing sector The company has also been able to make its mark in housing cable production and sales. The housing electricity cable from Traco Cable is much appreciated and the company has appointed dealers across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traco-cable-gets-conductor-supply-order-from-kseb/article33079926.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kalamassery police bust three-member vehicle theft racket||The Kalamassery police on Wednesday busted a three-member vehicle theft racket that allegedly sold the vehicles they took on rent. The arrested were identified as Abdul Najeeb, 46, of Malappuram; Jinu John Daniel, 36, and Sajad, 22, both of Kayamkulam. The police said that the members of the racket used to approach those who advertised online about vehicles available on rent out of their desperation after being hit hard by the pandemic. The accused used to win their trust and take the vehicles on rent. Then they would sell the vehicles to unsuspecting victims, mainly from outside the State, on the strength of forged registration certificates. Before selling the vehicles, the second accused Jinu, a mechanical engineering graduate, would fit them with Global Positioning System using his expertise. “The gang then traced the same vehicles they sold and later stole them,” the police said. Jinu used to run a travel agency and rent-a-car business on his return from abroad. Abdul Najeeb has many cases for cheating young job aspirants from places like Mattannur, Sulthan Bathery, North Paravur, Thripunithura, and Muttom by promising them jobs abroad. He has many cases against him in various police stations and has served prison terms. He is also accused of selling fake gold ornaments in places like Kadavanthra, Koothattukulam. The police said that a hunt was on for a resident of Kondotty who used to arrange him the fake gold. The police have registered a case invoking IPC Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention). A team led by Kalamassery Station House Officer P.R. Santhosh, sub inspectors Suresh, Madhusoodhanan, Joby, and Mahin, assistant sub inspector Binu, and senior civil police officers Harikumar, Dinil, and Anilkumar made the arrest. The probe was conducted under the supervision of Deputy Police Commissioner (Kochi City), P.B. Rajeev, and Thrikkakara Assistant Commissioner K.M. Jijimon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalamassery-police-bust-three-member-vehicle-theft-racket/article33080313.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Parents of special children protest cut in scholarship||Parents of special children are set to hit the protest path against the proposed move by the local self-government department (LSGD) to cut back on the annual educational scholarship for their children. A meeting of the State coordination committee for decentralised planning held on October 21 had directed local bodies to withhold the travel allowance (TA) as schools were remaining closed and to restore it when schools reopen. Over 1.25 children afflicted with autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and multiple disabilities are eligible for an annual scholarship of Rs. 28,500. Of this, TA accounts for Rs. 12,000 at the rate of Rs. 1,000 a month. Educational assistance of Rs. 12,000, dress allowance of Rs. 2,000, books Rs. 1,500, and tour allowance of Rs. 1,000 make up the rest of the scholarship components. “This is a body blow to many parents who have been forced to stay back at home at the cost of their jobs to take care of their children owing to the pandemic. At a time when the government is even door-delivering other welfare pensions, this move reeks of discrimination towards the special children,” said K.M. George, State president of the Parents’ Association for Intellectually Disabled Kerala (PAID Kerala). Social Justice Department sources said that though the welfare of special children came under its mandate, the scholarship was routed through the LSGD. Panchayat department sources said that there was no need to give TA when schools were remaining closed and that a circular in this regard by the LSGD was being awaited. PAID Kerala points out that if it is audit objection that has prompted the government to withhold the TA, then it could be distributed as a COVID-19 package to the families of special children. “The allocation is already accounted for and set apart and, therefore, the local bodies need not even find funds,” said Mr. George. The scholarship is funded in the proportion of 50% by the grama panchayat, 25% by the district panchayat, and the remaining 25% by the block panchayat concerned. PAID Kerala has written to the Chief Minister and the Ministers of Finance and the Social Justice besides all the local bodies. The organisation is planning to hold a token strike in front of the Secretariat if there is no favourable response from the government in another fortnight before launching an indefinite stir. For families of special children, this comes close on the heel of a purported Union government move to scrap the National Trust Act governing children with the four afflictions and to subsume it in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, covering 21 different categories of special children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parents-of-special-children-protest-cut-in-scholarship/article33080312.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||District records 977 cases||As many as 977 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. Eight health workers were newly infected, and the source of infection of 282 people remained unknown. A total of 684 people contracted the infection through local contact. Kumbalangi registered a spike in cases with 40 people testing positive on Wednesday. Edavanakkad, Chellanam, Kizhakkambalam, Rayamangalam, Cheranalloor, and Chengamanad recorded over 20 new cases of the infection each on the day. With 758 people testing negative, the district’s active caseload stands at 10,532. Around 7,565 people are recovering at home, 956 people being monitored at FLTCs and 104 patients are at SLTCs. A total of 6,240 samples were sent for testing from both government and private facilities on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-records-977-cases/article33080320.ece
12 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Landowner charged with spreading infectious disease||The Kunnathunadu police have registered a case on charges of spreading infectious disease and polluting water sources against a landowner at Kummanod near Pattimattom after waste water from his property leaked into a nearby agriculture field, leading to a public outcry. The incident was reported last Friday when a tanker lorry belonging to the landowner’s son, used reportedly for transporting edible and fish oil, was washed on the plot and the water leaked into the nearby plots, including an agriculture field, generating a sharp foul smell. “We will seize the lorry as soon as it is back from its trip outside the State and will arraign in its owner also as an accused. We have also collected samples of the slurry for chemical analysis,” said V.T. Shajan, Station House Officer, Kunnathunadu.  Samples not sent Health officials with the Kumbalanghi panchayat, however, chose not to send samples for analysis citing that it would not have stood legal scrutiny in the face of the landowner’s insistence that he would pay any compensation if anything other than oil residue was found in the slurry. “The dark slurry in the semi-solid state had spread to a part of the agriculture field that had been remaining shallow for many years. Collecting samples from there would have anyway given the landowner enough legal room to claim that the sample was corrupted with substance already there,” said a senior panchayat health official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landowner-charged-with-spreading-infectious-disease/article33080311.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man hacked multiple times, shot at||A man was hacked multiple times before being shot at by a gang in the early morning hours at Thandekkad near Perumbavoor on Wednesday. The Perumbavoor police have taken into custody five suspects in this connection though their arrest is yet to be recorded. The victim was identified as Adhil S., 24, of Okkal, who remains critical at the Intensive Care Unit of a private hospital in the city where he was rushed shortly after the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-hacked-multiple-times-shot-at/article33080316.ece
12 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Pleas against reserved wards dismissed||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday dismissed a batch of 87 writ petitions challenging an order of the State Election Commission on selection and allotment of reserved seats in local bodies for the coming elections. The court observed that there was no need to interfere in the election process. It pointed out that the term of the local bodies was due to expire on November 11 and as mandated by Articles 243E and 243U of the Constitution, the election to constitute new local bodies had to be conducted before the expiry of the term of the present ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pleas-against-reserved-wards-dismissed/article33079946.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Online quiz winners||Suraj Menon and Venkatesh, working professionals in Hyderabad and Bengaluru, and Jyotesh Singh and Preetham Upadhya from IIM Bengaluru and SJSOM, IIT Mumbai, emerged the joint winners of the ‘Illuminati Quiz’ conducted online by the Quiz Club at the Government Model Engineering College, Thrikkakara, here. The second prize was not adjudged since the first prize was won by two teams jointly. The third prize was tied between the team of Samanth Subramanian from London and Varun Rajiv of Bengaluru, both working professionals and the team of Gokul S. from Delhi and Rithwik K. of Kozhikode. The winners were awarded cash prizes worth Rs. 50,000, according to a release by the organisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-quiz-winners/article33080462.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Migrant killed||The Perumbavoor police on Wednesday arrested two migrants on the charge of murdering their room-mate reportedly in a drunken brawl on Tuesday night. The arrested were identified as Raja, 36, and Bharath Veerasami, 34, both residents of Kumbakonam in Tamil Nadu. They stand accused of murdering Ganeshan, also a resident of Tamil Nadu. Held under POCSO Act The Hill Palace police have arrested a 60-year-old man on the charge of attempting to sexually molest a six-year-old girl. The accused was arrested on Tuesday on a petition by the child’s mother a day before. A case was registered invoking relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-killed-in-drunken-brawl/article33080317.ece
12 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Woman given Rs. 1-lakh compensation||The Kochi Corporation has granted a compensation of Rs. 1 lakh to a software professional who fell into an uncovered drain at Jose Junction in 2017. The compensation was granted on the basis of an order issued by Antony Dominic, Chairman of the State Human Rights Commission, in June this year. The Commission had asked the corporation to grant compensation within six weeks. The corporation secretary was also required to submit a report on the matter. The corporation council recently approved the decision to grant compensation. Since the drain was not covered, the commission had held the corporation responsible for the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-given-compensation/article33079941.ece
12 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Non-bailable warrant issued against Egyptian||A non-bailable warrant for the extradition of Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, an Egyptian native and former finance head of the UAE consulate, Thiruvananthapuram, was issued by a trial court here on Wednesday. It was on a plea from the Cochin Customs that C. Deepu, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, who is also the presiding officer of the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, issued the order. The Customs case is that Shoukry had taken out dollars worth around Rs. 1.30 crore to Muscat from the Thiruvananthapuram international airport by concealing the currencies inside his handbag. Shoukry was arraigned as the third accused in the case. The request for extradition of the accused shall be made in writing and despatched through diplomatic channels with documents, including the warrant of arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/non-bailable-warrant-issued-against-egyptian/article33079961.ece
12 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Laurels for four scientists of Amrita vidyapeetham||Four scientists of Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham have made it to the ranking of top 2% scientists in the world in a global study conducted by researchers from Stanford University. Maneesha Ramesh of Amrita Centre for Wireless Networks and Applications, Amrita School of Engineering (Amritapuri Campus), has been recognised among the world’s top scientists in the field of networking, telecommunications, artificial intelligence and image processing. Shanti Nair and R. Jayakumar, both from the Centre for Nanosciences and Molecular Medicine, Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (Kochi campus), figure on the Stanford list for their work in the areas of polymers, nanoscience and nanotechnology. Madhav Dutta, from Amrita School of Engineering (Coimbatore campus), has been included in the ranking for his pioneering research in the field of energy. The findings were published in the journal PLOS Biology. Momentous occasion P. Venkat Rangan, Vice Chancellor, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, said that this was a momentous occasion for the institution as the high calibre of the scientists and researchers had been recognised globally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laurels-for-four-scientists-of-amrita-vidyapeetham/article33079914.ece
12 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Move to ensure COVID-free election||The Kottayam district administration has kick-started efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19 during the upcoming election season. Addressing a meeting of representatives of various political parties at the District Collectorate on Wednesday, District Collector M. Anjana called upon political parties and candidates to maintain special care right from the level of nomination filing, campaigning, meetings to the counting of votes. “More than three persons, including the candidate or the nominee, should not assemble during the submission of nomination papers. Hand-washing or sanitising should be done before entering the paper submission centre. Moreover, physical distancing should be ensured and the mask and sanitiser should be used properly while arriving to submit nomination papers. Candidates can be given a time schedule in advance to file their application if required,” she said. If more than one candidate arrives to submit nomination at the same time, separate seating facilities should be arranged. The Returning Officer or Deputy Returning Officer must wear a mask, gloves and a face shield when receiving the application. After receiving the nomination papers of each candidate, the officials should sanitise their hands. Candidates can submit challan or receipt after the paying security amount in treasury or the local bodies concerned. One vehicle They are also directed to use only one vehicle and should avoid procession, gathering or convoy at the time of submission of nomination papers. Those from the containment zones and those staying in the quarantine should inform in advance for submitting the application. The authorities concerned should allot them special time and take necessary precautionary measures. If the candidate is virus-infected or in quarantine, the nomination can be submitted through a nominee. The number of persons in groups visiting homes as part of the campaign should be limited to a maximum of five persons, including the candidate. Road shows The number of vehicles for road shows and vehicle rallies should be limited to three vehicles. Public and family gatherings should be conducted only in compliance with COVID-19 regulations. The use of social media should be encouraged for campaigning instead of notices and pamphlets. The exchange of garlands, bouquets and shawls to felicitate candidates has been banned. If any candidate tests positive or enters the quarantine as directed by the Department of Health, he or she should immediately withdraw from the campaign and avoid contact with the public. Following recovery, further action can be taken only with the permission of the Health Department. District Police Chief G. Jaidev, Additional District Magistrate Anil Oommen, and Election Deputy Collector Geo T. Manoj also attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-ensure-covid-free-election/article33079917.ece
12 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Face mask must for pilgrims attending Petta Thullal ritual||Pilgrims participating in the Petta Thullal ritual at Erumeli this pilgrim season should wear face masks while maintaining physical distance. As the annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku season is slated to begin next week, authorities have drawn up an action plan for Kottayam with the temple town, a major stopover en route to the hill shrine, at its centre. The plan, according to officials, has been formulated with the Primary Health Centre at Erumeli as the baseline hospital. According to District Medical Officer Jacob Varghese, stepdown kiosks will be opened across the town, which is expected to receive around 40% of the visitors to Sabarimala. The Petta Thullal ritual, according to him, is among the biggest challenges in the efforts to contain COVID-19. Hence, a strict ban has been imposed on renting or transfer of materials for the ritual, besides limiting participation to five persons per group. “The chances of oral cavities and nostrils getting exposed are highly likely while attending Petta Thullal and this raises the risk of a COVID-19 surge manifold. In this context, pilgrims will be required to wear face masks and maintain physical distance while attending the ritual,” he says. The Directorate of Health Services is expected to deploy at least three doctors at the Community Health Centre at Erumeli, which will operate round the clock throughout the season. Meanwhile, a health team along with an ambulance will be stationed at Kanamala - a black spot that witnessed several accidents involving pilgrim vehicles during previous seasons. The activities at all stopovers in the district will be coordinated from a control room to be manned jointly by the stakeholder agencies. “In view of COVID-19, a detailed health plan, involving testing of pilgrims and deployment of staff from the Homeo, Ayruveda, and Health Departments, is being drafted. First Line Treatment Centres too are being arranged in case pilgrims test positive for the viral infection,” M.Anjana, Kottayam Collector, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/face-mask-must-for-pilgrims-attending-petta-thullal-ritual/article33079931.ece
12 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||580 cases in Kottayam||As many as 580 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Wednesday. According to officials, all persons contracted the disease through local contact. With 68 cases, Kottayam municipality witnessed a rapid surge, followed by TV Puram panchayat with 26 cases. Pallikkathodu and Changanassery reported 24 cases each. With 353 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,677 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/580-cases-in-kottayam/article33079933.ece
12 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Online news channel of college launched||CMS News, an online news channel by CMS College, Kottayam, was officially launched here on Wednesday. The news channel, to be run by students with assistance from faculty members, will be available on the YouTube platform. The activities of the channel have been designed to impart practical knowledge in journalism for students in Malayalam and Communicative English. Gigi Joseph, a faculty member, has been appointed as editor-in-charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-news-channel-of-college-launched/article33079932.ece
12 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Dumping of septic waste turns rampant in Kozhikode city||Residents in several parts of Kozikode city wake up these days to the smell of toilet waste deposited on the roadside. With the vigilance unit of the corporation health wing being allegedly lax during the pandemic, such incidents have become rampant, and efforts to nab the culprits have failed in most cases. Waste dumping usually takes place at night, and the dumping spaces include the lonely stretches at Elathur, East Hill, Edakkad, bypass, and Pottammal-Palazhi road. “This was not an issue earlier when we had a designated squad to check such illegal activities. But in the present circumstances, all our officials are engaged in COVID-19 duty, and we are not in a position to depute any one for the purpose,” said K.V. Baburaj, health standing committee chairman of the corporation. The civic body had earlier nabbed culprits in such cases with the help of vigilance squads comprising local people. Later, CCTV cameras were set up to track such activities. However, miscreants managed to dupe the cameras with fake number plates. The corporation had recently released video footage showing dumping of toilet waste on the roadside near East Hill from a truck, with a car in the background for protection. However, the culprits could not be traced. The septage treatment plant (STP) of the corporation coming up near the Government Medical College is expected to be solve problem. However, the construction of the Rs. 14-crore plant is likely to take yet another year to complete. “The plant is enough to handle the requirements of the entire city. It can handle up to 20 loads of waste a day,” said R.S. Gopakumar, health officer in the corporation. The civic body’s efforts to set up a mobile STP also failed due to technical reasons. The system, which was temporarily used to clean up septic tanks at schools following the 2018 floods, was a success though.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dumping-of-septic-waste-turns-rampant-in-kozhikode-city/article33079857.ece
12 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Test positivity rate in Kozhikode around 13%||The test positivity rate (TPR), the number of people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 per 100 samples, seems to be hovering between 10% and 13% in Kozhikode district. An ideal situation is below 5%. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, the TPR on Wednesday was 12.18% when 830 people tested positive for the virus and 6,814 samples were tested. In the past few days, there had been occasions when it went below 10% and around 13%. There were 836 recoveries as well, and the number of active cases from the district is 8,796. There were 812 cases of locally acquired infections, and the source was unknown in 10 cases. Kozhikode Corporation had 217 cases of local transmission of the infection, Thalakkulathoor 52, Vadakara 42, Feroke 33, and Kunnamangalam 31. As many as 5,594 people are in home isolation. Meanwhile, a 75-year-old man from Puthiyangadi in Kozhikode district passed away at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Wednesday. According to a medical bulletin from the hospital, three other persons died on Tuesday as well. In Wayanad A total of 159 persons tested positive for the virus in Wayanad district on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 978. Of the new cases, 158 patients, including three health workers, acquired infection through local contact, while one person came from Madhya Pradesh. There were 83 recoveries on the day. In Malappuram While 527 people tested positive for the virus in Malappuram district on Wednesday, 661 persons recovered from the disease. As many as 486 of the new cases were found to have contracted the virus through local transmission. The source of infection in 29 cases could not be traced. Three health workers are among the newly infected. While six cases came from abroad, three came from other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-rate-in-kozhikode-around-13/article33079843.ece
12 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||K.M. Shaji quizzed for second day||Enforcement Directorate (ED) sleuths continued to quiz Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) legislator K. M. Shaji in connection with a bribery case on the second day on Wednesday. Sources said that the ED officials were examining the documents Mr. Shaji presented pertaining to the construction of a house in the city which the Kozhikode Corporation has estimated at Rs. 1.62 crore. . Besides, the financial transactions including his real estate business and investments in gold jewellery Mr. Shaji had carried out in the past decade were examined. They wanted to ascertain the sources of his income other than salary and emoluments provided to a legislator. The ED had collected details about his villa in Kannur as well. His quizzing which began in the morning went late into the night. Mr. Shaji is learnt to have told the ED officials that he had inherited a share of ancestral property in Wayanad and also secured financial assistance from his in-laws. He had taken a loan for the construction of the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/km-shaji-quizzed-for-second-day/article33079942.ece
12 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Beaches to be reopened for visitors from today||Beaches in Kozhikode district will be thrown open to tourists from Thursday in line with the COVID-19 protocol. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao permitted admission of the public into the beaches after a gap of eight months on condition that all necessary precautions to prevent the spread of the pandemic would be taken by the implementing authorities. Visitors will be allowed into the beaches after checking body temperature and proper hand sanitisation. They should wear masks, follow physical distancing norms, and use sanitisers at regular intervals. The ‘Do’s and Dont’s’ associated with the COVID-19 protocol will be exhibited on beaches. Domestic tourists are to register with the COVID-19 Jagratha portal as well. Besides prompting the public to follow the protocol, the authorities have been advised to sanitise walkways, hand-rails, seating arrangements, and restrooms at definite intervals every day. Officials on duty on beaches can seek the help of the tourism police, if needed. They should make sure that the contact details of every visitor are recorded. Those with COVID-19 symptoms will be denied entry. Earlier, the district administration had stayed away from opening beaches, citing difficulty in implementing the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beaches-to-be-reopened-for-visitors-from-today/article33079845.ece
12 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML’s patriarchal nature questioned||Challenging the patriarchal functioning of the party, a section of women leaders in the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) have demanded that their voices be heard in the selection of candidates for the three-tier local body polls. Sources said women members of the party had been reportedly kept out of the parliamentary board either in the lower-rung units or at the district level. “Women are able to contest only because of the rule that 50% of seats have been reserved in local bodies and panchayats,” a party functionary said. The women leaders alleged that the party leadership had deprived them of the chance to participate in discussion forums, despite the fact that they were cleverly manoeuvred to stage protests and take out rallies. “No seats have been offered to women either for the Assembly or Lok Sabha polls,” the functionary said. “After the defeat of Qamarunnisa Anwar from Kozhikode-II Assembly segment in 1996, the leadership has perceived an excuse that women cannot pull off victories in male-dominated elections,” she said, adding that the bias had been there for quite some time. The disgruntlement among IUML women members comes close on the heels of Muslim Youth League leaders seeking better representation for youth leaders in the Assembly and Parliament. In fact, party legislator K.M. Shaji even urged the leadership to extend the three-term limit for party candidates in local body, Assembly and Lok Sabha elections. However, IUML national committee member Noorbina Rasheed, who was a council member of the Kozhikode Corporation from 1995 to 2005, felt that women were marginalised in the political spectrum worldwide. “This is the case with all political parties. More than 50% of voters are women in the State, and they are the force behind getting party leaders elected to the Legislature and Parliament,” she said. IUML State working committee member P. Kulsu said the leadership had already tasked women with responsibilities in the organisational set-up of the party. It is for the leadership to take a collective decision on choosing candidates, she added.  Women are able to contest only because of the rule that 50% of seats have been reserved in local bodies and panchayats A party functionary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iumls-patriarchal-nature-questioned/article33079855.ece
12 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode, Thrissur AM stations may fall silent soon||“ Namaskaram . Akashvani Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Thrissur, Kozhikode...”. Lakhs of radio listeners in central and northern parts of Kerala are likely to miss this daily intimation very soon. Prasar Bharati, the country’s public service broadcaster, is planning to shut down the Amplitude Modulated (AM) transmission from its Kozhikode and Thrissur stations. The decision to stop the AM transmission from Alappuzha station was temporarily suspended recently after the intervention of A.M. Ariff, MP. According to sources, this is part of a nationwide move to cut down on the functioning costs of the institution and is based on a proposal by a private consultancy. The plan is to retain only the FM segments in some places. A big loss It will, however, be a huge loss for listeners, both young and old, who grew up on a steady dose of entertainment and information provided by these stations. For those associated with the Kozhikode station, which is celebrating its 70th anniversary now, it will turn out to be a moment of grief as well. This station has a glorious past with many big names in arts and literature being associated with it. Officials told The Hindu on Wednesday that AM stations are not always looked upon in terms of commercial viability. “They always offer a blend of social and commercial messages. It helps the Central and State governments reach out to a large group of people, especially those in backward regions. Our programmes on agriculture, education, and rural development always have had an impact on lower middle class sections. The support we have given to educational projects in Malappuram district is a case in point,” they say. Listeners have been advised now to use the AIR’s web application. There are, however, people who believe that this may not work always owing to network problems. Technical experts point out that the transmitters used at these AIR stations are age-old machines that use valves and thus are outdated. It would not be possible to replace them. DRM machines Instead, Digital Radio Mondiale (DRM) machines could be used. AIR sources, however, claim that the stations in Kerala are given short shrift here as they are not allowed to have such machines. Those in Tamil Nadu (Chennai and Tiruchirappalli) and Karnataka (Bengaluru and Dharwad) have been given permission to use them, they add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-thrissur-am-stations-may-fall-silent-soon/article33079944.ece
12 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Digital life certificate valid for 12 months||The Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner has said that pensioners whose pension payment orders have been issued in 2020 and those who have updated their digital life certificate after January 2020 need to update their life certificate after 12 months. All EPF pensioners have been advised to submit digital life certificate/non-remarriage certificates every year online through Jeevan Pramaan Portal. Digital life certificate can now be done round the year and will be valid for 12 months from the month of submission, a press statement said. Pensioners may approach their pension disbursing banks with their pension payment order number, Aadhaar card, bank pass book, and mobile phone to submit digital life certificates. Now, this facility is also available at Akshaya centres and post offices. Collection at houses In view of the pandemic situation, the Postal Department has introduced a new scheme to collect digital life certificates at the pensioners’ residences through the postman. Pensioners who wish to avail the facility should contact the post office concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-life-certificate-valid-for-12-months/article33079851.ece
12 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||BJP begins campaign in Kozhikode||Moving ahead of its political rivals, the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has started announcing the list of candidates and begun campaigning for the three-tier local body polls in Kozhikode district slated for December 14. The party released its list of candidates for 54 out of 75 divisions in the Kozhikode Corporation. Last time, it managed to win seven seats which, many believe, was due to the Narendra Modi factor, after the Lok Sbaha polls in 2014. BJP district president V.K. Sajeevan said the party had formalised the seat-sharing process with its allies and modalities worked out for the selection of candidates in grama panchayats and block panchayats. “The first list of candidates for all local bodies, except the Kozhikode District Panchayat, has been released,” he added. Meanwhile, BJP State general secretary M.T. Ramesh on Wednesday inaugurated a get- together of candidates in the Kozhikode North Assembly segment. The outcome of the Bihar Assembly elections and the bypolls in various States will negatively impact the Congress party in the three-tier local body polls, he said. He claimed the development agenda of the second Modi government helped the BJP not only retain its existing seats in strongholds but made inroads into minority- dominated segments as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-begins-campaign-in-kozhikode/article33079854.ece
12 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Man found dead||The man, whose wife and children were found dead a few days ago at Pothukal near Nilambur, ended his life on Wednesday. Bineesh Sreedharan, 36, was found hanging from a tree. His wife, Rahna, 35; sons Adityan, 12; Anandu, 11; and Arjun, 8; were found hanging in their house on Sunday. Call for probe Rahna’s family had demanded an investigation into the role of Bineesh in their death. Family issues The police said some family issues led to the mass suicide. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available from the State’s health helpline 104, Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline of Maithri (0484-2540530), Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre (0495-2760000) and Direction Interventions System for Health Awareness (DISHA – 1056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-found-dead/article33079850.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,KERALA||AAP appoints State panel||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday appointed a six-member State election committee for the Kerala local body polls to be held next month for which candidates will be identified through a selection process on a digital forum. P.C. Cyriac, a bureaucrat and former Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu, was made the coordinator of the State election committee of AAP in Kerala, MLA and party’s Kerala in-charge Somnath Bharti said. Vincent Philip, an educationist and entrepreneur, Thufail P.T., who served as secretary and convener of the State unit of AAP, Binoy Pullathil, a lawyer-turned-activist, Padmanabhan Bhaskaran, a social entrepreneur and IT consultant, and V. Ummar, an RTI activist, are the other members of the committee. A digital form is available on the official Facebook page of AAP Kerala and on the website linkhttp:// kerala.aamaadmiparty.org. The same would be shared on all social media platforms. Interested candidates could apply from November 11 afternoon onwards till November 16, Mr. Bharti said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aap-appoints-state-panel/article33080440.ece
12 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||All eyes on Palakkad municipal polls||Election to the Palakkad municipal council is likely to be not only a heated one, but also one of the keenly watched battles in the State. All eyes will be on Palakkad as the Bharatiya Janata Party, the United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front engage themselves in a triangular fight. Palakkad is the only municipality in the State which has been under BJP rule. The no-trust motions introduced by the Opposition UDF and LDF had failed to unseat the BJP despite it being in minority. The BJP had 24 representatives in the 52-member outgoing municipal council. It ruled the municipality for five years as the single largest party. Hopeful of bettering tally The BJP is going to the polls with the confidence of having ruled the municipality for five years by circumventing the UDF-LDF broadsides. BJP leaders said that they were hopeful of improving their tally in the next council. Both the UDF and the LDF are approaching the people by targeting the BJP for “miserable governance” in Palakkad. The UDF had 17 members while the LDF had nine in the outgoing council. When an Independent member supported the UDF, the Welfare Party member supported the LDF. Although the Opposition parties unseated the standing committee chairpersons, they failed in bringing down the BJP’s chairperson and vice chairperson. The Opposition backlash had caused many hurdles for the BJP for a smooth rule. The chairmanship is reserved for a woman in Palakkad this year too. The BJP’s outgoing chairperson Prameela Sasidharan is likely to be fielded for the post this time as well. The LDF and the UDF have begun their hunt for a woman with leadership qualities. The voters in the civic body traditionally used to support the UDF. Upbeat over the victory of Congress district president V.K. Sreekandan, MP, in the previous Parliament election from Palakkad, the UDF has taken a pledge to wrest the municipality back from the BJP. Apart from Mr. Sreekandan, Palakkad’s MLA Shafi Parambil too is likely to focus on the municipality. The work carried out under the AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) project is the trump card of the BJP for seeking a second term. Outgoing vice chairman C. Krishnakumar, BJP’s State general secretary, will lead the party in the election. LDF’s charges The LDF brought out a chargesheet against the BJP highlighting its failures in the past five years. Corruption in AMRUT project and failure to find a solution to the issue of waste disposal are focused in the LDF chargesheet. Former MLA T.K. Noushad will lead the LDF in Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-eyes-on-palakkad-municipal-polls/article33080464.ece
12 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad case burden goes up by another 424||When 424 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad on Wednesday, 506 infected persons recovered from the disease. The higher number of recovery is giving relief to the health authorities in the district. District officials said that 260 of the newly confirmed cases were found to have contracted the disease from direct contact with the infected people. However, the source of infection could not be established in 158 cases. Health workers Among the new cases were three health workers. Three cases came from across the borders. The number of infected cases currently under treatment in the district came down to 6,208 on Wednesday. Also, a total of 181 people from Palakkad are being treated for COVID in other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-case-burden-goes-up-by-another-424/article33080392.ece
12 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||230 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 230 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, 200 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Among the local bodies, Aranmula reported 18 cases, followed by Eraviperoor with 11 cases. 165 recoveries Meanwhile, a 59-year-old Kuttoor native, who had committed suicide the other day, tested positive post-death. With 165 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,881 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/230-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article33079936.ece
12 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Symposium on future materials and molecules||A symposium on ‘Future materials and molecules’ (ISFM2-2020), being organised by the Postgraduate and Research Department of Chemistry, Mar Thoma College, Thiruvalla, in association with the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE), has begun here. Johan Martens, head of the Division of Surface Chemistry and Catalysis, Leuven University in Belgium, inaugurated the event. The symposium will draw to a close on November 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/symposium-on-future-materials-and-molecules/article33079934.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rebel scare for UDF in polls||Even on the day before the filing of nomination papers for the upcoming local body elections, the United Democratic Front (UDF) was struggling to finalise its list with multiple contenders in the fray for some wards in the city Corporation. One of the seats in which there has perpetually been a rebel candidate for the UDF is Vallakadavu, where posters of a young Congress leader appeared some days ago, even though the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) had staked a claim for the same earlier. The IUML has contested from this seat for the past many years, but it has failed to win it in recent times partly owing to the presence of rebels. Another seat that has a possible rebel trouble is Beemapally East, where the sitting councillor has also raised a claim, even though a fresh candidate was preferred by the party. In the coastal wards, Valiathura had three contenders at a time, with past councillors all demanding seats. Vettukad, Harbour, and Puthenpally are other seats with a chance for one or two rebels, who were expecting to contest. Status quo Though the local IUML leadership had earlier angled for more seats, they later settled for the five seats as usual, considering a decision by the State leadership to follow the status quo regarding the number of seats in all local bodies. The stormy seat discussions over the past few days even led to physical fights. In the Thampanoor ward, there was a dispute over the candidate suggested by a former councillor, who was opposed by the constituency committee, which had its own choice of a candidate. The dispute later led to a fight, in which a leader got injured too. The rebels in some seats had hurt the UDF quite badly last time around, when its seats in the Corporation council fell almost by half to 21. In wards like Pattom, the seats were lost by a narrow double-digit margin as the rebel candidate scooped up a considerable number of votes. On Wednesday, several members of the Congress ward committee in Kinavoor submitted their resignations in protest against the District Congress Committee's decision to choose a different candidate from the one suggested by the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rebel-scare-for-udf-in-polls/article33080443.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||484 new cases in capital||The district has reported 484 new COVID-19 cases when 5,365 tests were performed over the past 24 hours, the district administration and health officials said on Wednesday. The number of active cases dipped to 7,240, even as 704 recoveries from the infection have been newly reported in the district. Of Wednesday’s caseload, local transmission alone accounted for 396 cases. In 81 cases, the source of infection was not known. The list included five health-care workers and two persons who had travelled to the district. Eight more recent deaths were attributed to COVID-19. The deceased included a 60-year-old woman from Pappanamcode; a 72-year-old man from Nedumangad, a 56-year-old man from Mukkola, a 65-year-old woman from Mariyapuram, a 72-year-old man from Chala, a 56-year-old man from Vallakkadavu, a 68-year-old woman from Chenkal, and a 64-year-old man from Vellayambalam.  1,765 more quarantined On Wednesday, 1,765 more persons were quarantined after they displayed symptoms of COVID-19. At present, 25,425 people are in home isolation and 197 others in institutional quarantine. As many as 1,742 persons completed the quarantine period without developing further symptoms. Action was initiated against 553 persons in the district on Wednesday for flouting COVID-19 containment measures, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. Cases were registered against 18 persons while 18 others were fined. The police imposed fines on 55 persons and 451 persons were let off with a warning. Since October 4, action has been initiated against 26,003 persons for violation of COVID-19 containment measures in the district.  Meanwhile, the following areas in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits have been excluded from the list of containment zones: Kanjirampara, PTP Nagar, Jagathy (Kurukuvilakam, Kannetumukku regions), Nemom, Pappanamcode, Estate ward (Perekonam, Sathyan Nagar, Chavinjivila, Malamelkunnu), Melamcode, Vanchiyoor (Cherukulam colony, Ambujavilasam), and Palkulangara (Thengapura lane and Kavaradi lane). Kalippara (Padappara region) in the Kallikad grama panchayat, Peringamala in venganoor panchayat, and Mariyapuram and Vlathankara in Chengal panchayat have also been excluded from the list of containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/484-new-cases-in-capital/article33080455.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s total case burden crosses 5 lakh mark||The State reported 7,007 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 64,192 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden of the State over the five lakh mark. Of the 5,02,719 COVID-19 patients till date, 4,22,410 have recovered from their infection. The test positivity rate remained steady at 10.9% The State also registered more recoveries than cases, with 7,252 persons getting discharged from hospitals. The active case pool of the State came further down on Wednesday to 78,420. At no point in disease transmission did the active case burden cross the one lakh mark. The State COVID-19 toll rose to 1,771 with the addition of 29 more deaths to the official list of COVID deaths in the State. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for eight of these deaths, Kottayam six, Kollam three, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod two each, and Kozhikode, Palakkad, Ernakulam, and Alappuzha one each. The Health Department reported that at present, 927 persons were critically ill and were being treated in ICUs with 230 requiring ventilator support. Of the new cases reported on Wednesday, 6,921 cases or all cases except 86 cases are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining unknown in 717 cases. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 52. ‘Maintain vigil’ Health Minister K.K. Shylaja in a statement here said that the public should continue the vigil against COVID-19 and strictly follow all precautions to prevent any flare-up in disease transmission, especially with the upcoming local body elections and the Sabarimala pilgrimage. She said that despite warnings that the daily case burden could easily go up to 30,000, the State could keep a check on disease transmission because of the vigil maintained by the public and the strong containment strategies of the Health Department. However, at this stage of the disease transmission too, anyone could be a potential disease carrier and hence physical distancing and universal masking should be followed strictly, she added. Among districts, Ernakulam reported 977 cases, Thrissur 966, Kozhikode 830, Kollam 679, Kottayam 580, Malappuram 527, Alappuzha 521, Thiruvananthapuram 484, Palakkad 424, Kannur 264, Pathanamthitta 230, Idukki 225, Wayanad 159 and Kasaragod 141 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-total-case-burden-crosses-5-lakh-mark/article33079964.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NEP: panel concerned at move to drop reservation||The expert panel constituted by the Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) to study the impacts of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 has expressed concern over the Centre’s purported plan to abandon reservation in the higher education sector. The committee, which submitted a 49-page report to the government on Wednesday, emphasised the need for Kerala to continue the policy of reservation in both admissions and appointments. This is necessary to ensure social justice and excellence. Speaking while releasing the report, committee chairman Prabhat Patnaik pointed out that the NEP was silent on the issue of reservation and this paved way for fear of withdrawing from affirmative action. The panel termed unjustifiable the attempts being made to dismantle the affiliating system on the ground that it existed only in India. Steps should, instead, be taken to correct the flaws in the system so as to ensure greater access for all marginalised sections, especially the rural poor and SC/ST sections, to higher education. The committee faulted the manner in which the NEP sought to bifurcate the student community into two groups — vocational and general education. Opining that such attempts went against the principle of universal education, the panel called for ensuring a minimum amount of general education for all students. Prof. Patnaik feared that the policy legitimised dropouts in colleges as several points of free entry and exit were built into the structure of higher education programmes. The emphasis of private, philanthropic investment in the sector was bound to make education expensive. The KSHEC executive committee approved the report on Wednesday. Other members of the expert panel are council vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal P.M., member secretary Rajan Varughese, academicians Gangan Prathap and Kumkum Roy and writer K. Satchidanandan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nep-panel-concerned-at-move-to-drop-reservation/article33079953.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ED filing puts govt. on back foot||The State government appeared to face unexpectedly strong political headwinds on Wednesday. The sworn statement by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) that M. Sivasankar, the former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, and his team in the Chief Minister’s Office were fully aware of the illegal import of gold via the diplomatic channel of the UAE consulate here has put the government in an arguably awkward position in the run-up to the local body polls. The development has also triggered intense speculation that the multiple investigations into the gold smuggling case would ultimately lead to the apex of the government in the election year. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) reportedly scrambled to make sense of the legal and political implications of the ED's deposition. It also strived to mount a robust defence of the government's record at the election hustings even as the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) renewed their calls for the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The LDF felt it had a customary edge in local body polls. It controlled a majority of the local bodies, which had spearheaded COVID-19 management, infrastructure development, social welfare measures and pandemic relief initiatives with some measure of success. Cautious note However, an LDF insider said the front could scarcely afford to take an overwhelming victory for granted. The United Democratic Front (UDF) had come top in the byelections held in 27 wards in various local bodies across the State in September last, notching up victories in 15 of them. The BJP had gained one seat, he pointed out. As the drumbeat of the polls grows closer, the LDF desperately needed a narrative to counter the adverse publicity set off by the Central investigations. The front required to instruct election workers on how to counter the Opposition's "vilification" campaign at the booth and household level to pre-empt any erosion of votes. The LDF activists were also reportedly sceptical about how far the particular messaging that the Central agencies were acting in a politically biased manner against the State government would resonate among voters given the spectacle of the arrests of Mr. Sivasankar and Bineesh Kodiyeri on money laundering charges by the ED.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-filing-puts-govt-on-back-foot/article33079965.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP hopeful of capturing Corpn., district panchayat||The Bharatiya Janata Party is confident of capturing not just the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, but the district panchayat as well, in the upcoming local body polls, senior party leaders said on Wednesday. The BJP has announced its decision to field a number of senior hands, including party State secretary S. Suresh, in the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat divisions. “The 2016 Assembly elections and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections have proven that the BJP has enough vote share to seize power in the district panchayat,” BJP State president K. Surendran said on Wednesday. “The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is fielding candidates in the district panchayat who are capable of achieving this. The political scenario in the State is also conducive for a BJP victory,” Mr. Surendran said. In 2015, the BJP lost the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation by a whisker, and this time, the BJP-led NDA hopes to capture the Corporation by a huge majority, he said. Mr. Suresh will contest in the Venganoor division. Other prominent names in the list announced by BJP district president V.V. Rajesh on Wednesday included Athiyannoor Sreekumar (Balaramapuram division), Mukkampalamoodu Biju (Pallichal), Mulayara Ratheesh (Vellanad), Kallayam Vijayakumar (Karakulam), and B.L. Ajesh (Kunnathukal). The other candidates for the district panchayat divisions are as follows: Shiji (Chemmaruthy), Deepa (Navayikulam), S. Pradeep Kumar (Kilimanoor), Laly Satheesan (Kallara), Anjana (Venjaramoodu), Akhila B.S. (Anad), Sangeetha Kumari (Palode), Shiny Rajendran (Aryanad), Surendran (Vellarada), Renjith Lal (Murukumpuzha), Vishnupriya S. (Kizhuvilam), Vakkom Ajith (Chirayinkeezhu), and J. Haripriya (Manamboor). Third list The BJP also announced its third list of candidates for elections to the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation council. Sunil S.S. (Sreekaryam), Jaya Rajeev (Kadakampally), D.G. Kumaran (Karikkakom), Balu G. Nair (Anamugham), Shaju V. (Akkulam), Nanda Bhargavan (Nettayam), Akhila P.S. (Vattiyurkavu), R. Mini (Sreevarahom), Lakshmi M. (Thycaud), Saraladevi S. (Poonkulam), Satyavathi V. (Thiruvallam), Athira J.R. (Kalippankulam), V. Sivakumar (Kaladi), Asha Nath G.S. (Pappanamcode), R.C. Beena (Ambalathara), Konchiravila Sunil (Attukal), Manju G.S. (Karamana), and Nedumom Mohan (Vellar).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-hopeful-of-capturing-corpn-district-panchayat/article33080445.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||File nomination papers following protocol: Collector||With the nominations for the local body elections set to be accepted from Thursday, District Collector Navjot Khosa, who is also the District Election Officer, has reminded candidates that the COVID-19 protocol is to be strictly observed when filing their papers. The nominations will be accepted from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on all working days till November 19. For filing the nomination papers, the candidates should arrive in a single vehicle. Processions and vehicle rallies are prohibited. Only three persons, including the candidate, would be allowed inside for filing the papers. All persons should wash their hands with soap/sanitiser before entering the hall. They should wear face masks and take care to maintain physical distance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/file-nomination-papers-following-protocol-collector/article33080446.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Aviation-related electronics yet to get prominence||The basic electronic solution for navigation, guidance, and control, which comes handy to the pilot or an air traffic controller, holds the key to safety in aviation. But, the Air Traffic Safety Electronics Personnel (ATSEP), who play a pivotal role in providing the best and unparalleled service for smooth and efficient air navigation, still remain unknown. As International ATSEP Day is observed on November 12, the role played by this elite group of technocrats, challenges of new technologies, improvised safety philosophies, and the growing needs in aviation has come into focus. The day is being observed by International Federation of Air Traffic Safety Electronics Associations (IFATSEA) to commemorate its formation, to bring forth safety, efficiency, and regularity in international air navigation. In India, ATSEP comes under the communication, navigation, and surveillance (CNS) department in the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Apart from the core areas of communication, navigation, and surveillance and Automation, ATSEPs maintain the airport system electronics such as X-Ray baggage inspection systems, explosive trace detectors, in-line baggage handling systems, door-frame metal detectors, handheld metal detectors, flight information display system, surveillance CCTVs, and various sophisticated equipment for bomb disposal and detection squad. Backbone of aviation By providing and maintaining a big bunch of equipment and facilities for safe air navigation, this field has proven to be the backbone of aviation. But, the ATSEP personnel, who also holds the key to air safety, remain less celebrated. V. Muruganandam, general manager, CNS, Chennai international airport, says young electronics engineers should be encouraged to join CNS. In an era of substantial technological advancement, ATSEPs have to shoulder responsibilities of increased magnitude. Joint General Manager (CNS), Calicut international airport, Muneer Madampat envisages the future of ATSEPs in a totally different path: “The navigation system will mature in near future to a single-source-reference-navigation system, which will take reference from an augmented satellite-based system and interconnected servers throughout the country or may be even across the borders. That may pave the way for an aviation philosophy with less active participation of air traffic controllers and pilots. Air navigation will get largely automated by then.” ATSEPs will be mostly looking after networked servers giving augmented navigational data and data communication transmitters and receivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aviation-related-electronics-yet-to-get-prominence/article33080450.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Strict norms in place for access to fuel stations||Stringent norms are in place for the issuance of licence for access to fuel stations from State Highways (SH) and major district roads (MDRs) in the State. The guidelines for access permission to fuel stations and stipulations for ensuing road safety have been worked out by the Public Works Department since the Indian Roads Congress (IRC) IRC: 12-2016 Unified Guidelines for access permission to fuel stations was withdrawn from December 1, 2019. The guidelines are based on the report of the expert committee headed by Chief Engineer, Roads, Ajith Ramachandran and Ashok Kumar, Chief Engineer (NH), Darlene Carmelita D’cruz, Chief Engineer (KSTP), and Roji Jacob Alex, Executive Engineer, RSW, as members. The person or entities that apply for access licence will have to submit a self-certified proposal for obtaining access permission to the Highways Authority-Executive Engineer, Roads, PWD, to whom the highway is entrusted. On breach of any of the conditions imposed by the Highways Authority, the officer authorised will terminate the licence. However, before any such action is taken, a notice will be issued to the licensee concerned. Construction The fuel company can construct the fuel station as per the approved drawings at their own cost within 12 months from the date of issue of provisional permission for access. After the construction, the applicant may apply online for issue of the final permission for access. The fuel companies shall have to enter into an agreement for signing the licence deed for access permission from SH&MDR for 15 years with the Highways Authority. The licence for access permission will be issued to the fuel company on payment of Rs. 3 lakh (for SH) and Rs. 2 lakh (for MDR) as one-time licence fee. The licence fee and all other fees, penalties, etc., mentioned will be increased 5% every year.  The norms, notified by the government, are applicable to all fuel stations and service stations along all categories of SH and MDRs under the PWD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strict-norms-in-place-for-access-to-fuel-stations/article33080456.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for hassle-free building tax management system||The Kerala building tax management system is to be implemented in the State by integrating the Sanketham and Suvega software for hassle-free collection of building tax, luxury tax, and one-time building tax, the major revenue sources of the exchequer. The system is being rolled out in the wake of suggestions put forth by citizens in the wake of hardships faced by them, to curb revenue loss to the government, and avoid delay in assessing and collecting luxury tax and one-time building tax. Besides speeding up tax collection and ensuring transparency, the one-time luxury tax for buildings and one-time building tax assessment and file work done manually by the Revenue Department will be done through the Kerala building tax management system software and the tax will be collected online. The government has given the nod to the Land Revenue Commissioner to implement the Kerala building tax management system, official sources said. The Land Revenue Commissioner has been asked to issue necessary guidelines for executing the software of the system. The Principal Secretary, Revenue, has asked the Labour Commissioner to take steps to collect luxury tax and one-time building tax online also along with land tax and pokkuvaravu fee (transfer of registry). Already, the Revenue Department has ReLIS, a web application enabling online integration with the Registration and Survey Departments, creating an electronically enabled backbone for effective management of land records in the State. The Integrated Revenue e-Payment System, an online payment system, is an added feature of ReLIS, enabling citizens to remit various taxes online, which has come in handy for Non-Resident Keralites. The amount collected gets transferred to exchequer efficiently and accounts are managed digitally in revenue offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-hassle-free-building-tax-management-system/article33079947.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Health action plan ready for Sabarimala||The Health Department has formulated a detailed action plan utilising all hospitals, human resource and ambulances in government hospitals and empanelled private hospitals to provide the best of medical facilities to pilgrims. Available human resource and infrastructure of private hospitals and COVID-19 brigade are also being utilised for the same. Strict protocols would be enforced everywhere keeping in mind the threat of superspreader events during religious congregations, an official statement issued by the Health Department on Wednesday said.  Operation theatre The department has proposed that health staff be deployed at the health facilities at the Sannidhanam, Charalmedu, Pampa, Nilackal and Erumely. An emergency operation theatre will also function at the Sannidhanam. Treatment facilities have been made available at Pathanamthitta General Hospital, Erumeli Community Health Centre and Kanjirappally taluk headquarters hospital. Kottayam Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) is also put on stand by as the MCH nearest to Sabarimala. Doctors (Assistant Surgeons), specialists (Cardiology, Orthopaedics, Anaesthesiologists and Physicians), staff nurses, pharmacists, lab technicians, radiographers and other support staff – approximately 1,000 Health Service employees -- will be pooled from districts and deployed at Sabarimala in phases throughout the pilgrimage period from November 15 to January 19, 2021. Specialists are being sought from medical college hospitals also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-action-plan-ready-for-sabarimala/article33079949.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Only green crackers can be sold and used for Deepavali||Only green crackers can be used and sold in the State for the festival of Deepavali. The green crackers can be burst only between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. on Deepavali day. This has been decided by the Home Department based on a recent order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the advice of the Kerala State Pollution Control Board, a statement from the board here on Wednesday said. The board had informed the government that the ambient air quality in the State fell in the moderate category. Accordingly, as per the NGT order, only sale of green crackers has been permitted and the timings for bursting them have been restricted to two hours on Deepavali day. Importantly, the use of firecrackers has been banned within 100 m of ‘silence’ zones such as hospitals, educational institutions, courts, and places of worship. Banned Many States have already banned firecrackers this year. The NGT had also directed that sale or use of firecrackers would be banned in urban centres that recorded ‘poor’ or worse air quality in November last year. Air Quality Index (AQI) between 101 and 200 is considered moderate, while that between 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. AQI between 0 and 50 is taken as good and that between 51 and 100 satisfactory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-green-crackers-can-be-sold-used-for-deepavali/article33079952.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Model code to be strictly enforced||District Collector Navjot Khosa, who is also the District Electoral Officer, has directed strict enforcement of the model code of conduct in the city Corporation limits. Ms. Khosa had on Wednesday convened a meeting of officials to discuss enforcement of the model code of conduct. Returning officers for the city Corporation and model code of conduct and anti-defacement squads attended the meeting. Deputy Collector (Election) John V. Samuel was present. District Planning Officer V. Jagalkumar is the returning officer for wards 1 to 25 of the city Corporation. District Supply Officer Jalaja G.S. Rani is the returning officer for wards 26 to 50. Sub Collector M.S. Madhavikutty is the offficer for wards 51 to 75, while District Labour Officer B.S. Rajeev will be in charge of wards 76 to 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/model-code-to-be-strictly-enforced/article33080442.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM must quit, says Oppn.||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday said it was only a matter of time before the multiple investigations into the various aspects of the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case knocked at the door of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had deposed in its special court in Kochi that M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Mr. Vijayan, had passed the particulars of several mega projects to Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the smuggling case, and her associates. Mr. Vijayan should save the government and further public embarrassment by resigning forthwith. BJP State president K. Surendran said there was a groundswell of resentment against the LDF government. He said propriety demanded that Mr. Vijayan resign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-must-quit-says-oppn/article33079966.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Home nurse, accomplice arrested for stealing||The police arrested a home nurse and her male accomplice for stealing gold ornaments and money from an aged couple residing at Mannanthala. The accused have been identified as Shirley, 37, of Mancha, Nedumangad, and Zakeer Hussain, 28, of Chenkavila, Karode. They were arrested by the Mannanthala police on charges of theft of seven sovereigns of gold and Rs. 14,000 from the residence of 75-year-old C.P. John of Mannanthala. Shirley was hired as home nurse through an agency.  From hotel She had contacted Zakeer Hussain and made off with the ornaments and money. They were arrested from a hotel in the capital city by a police team led by Cantonment ACP Suneesh Babu. The accused were presented before the court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/home-nurse-accomplice-arrested-for-stealing/article33080457.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One improvement||The State government has issued notification for the Plus One higher secondary improvement/supplementary examinations. The examinations will be held from December 18 to 23. Regular students can register if they want to improve their scores in up to three of the six subjects in which they appeared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-improvement/article33079950.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF poll convention today||The Left Democratic Front’s Corporation convention will be held at the CPI(M) district committee office at Mettukada here at 4 p.m. on Thursday. It will be inaugurated by LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan. The convention will decide the roadmap to ensure that LDF candidates secure victory in the city Corporation polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-poll-convention-today/article33080441.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||UDF candidate dead||K. Girijakumari, a candidate of the United Democratic Front (UDF) for the upcoming local body elections, died after a tree fell on her while she was out campaigning on Wednesday. The 35-year-old was contesting as the UDF candidate in the Uchakkada ward in the Karode grama panchayat. According to the Pozhiyoor police, parts of a tree that was being cut fell on her while she was campaigning with her husband and others at Pulluvatti, near Uchakkada, around 11.45 a.m. Though she was rushed to hospital, she could not be saved. The body is kept at the mortuary in the Government Taluk Hospital in Parassala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/candidate-dies-after-tree-falls-on-her/article33079937.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PMI award for Krishna Kumar||The Project Management Institute (PMI), USA, has awarded PMI Eric Jenett Project Management Excellence Award 2020 to Krishna Kumar T.I., a resident of the district. Dr. Krishna Kumar, president of PMI Kerala Chapter and CEO of the Technopark-based TravelSpoc, was selected for the award for his outstanding contribution to the project management profession. He is the third recipient of the award from India and the first Keralite. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran presented the award to Dr. Krishna Kumar. PMI Kerala chapter secretary Harikuttan K., treasurer Akhila Gowrishankar, and vice president Jayakishore were present on the occasion, according to a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pmi-award-for-krishna-kumar/article33080447.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Tree doctor’ to visit Model school||Anish Nellickal, popularly known as ‘tree doctor’ for his ‘Rejuvenation therapy in trees’ will visit Government Model Boys Higher Secondary School, Thycaud, on Thursday morning. Owner of Nellickal nursery at Veliyamcode in Ponnani, Malappuram district, Mr. Nellickal will inspect the condition of over 100 fruit trees planted on the school campus by former teacher Devaki Devi in 2019 at a cost of Rs. 1 lakh. He will also provide necessary ‘treatments’ to the trees, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tree-doctor-to-visit-model-school/article33080453.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NoRKA-Roots to issue Pravasi ID card||NoRKA-Roots, the field agency of the Department of Non-Resident Keralites, will issue Pravasi identity cards to Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) above 18 years and having labour and resident cards for more than six months. Students above 18 years and pursuing academic courses abroad can also apply for the student identity card. The applications for both the identity cards can be submitted online on the website www.norkaroots.org, according to NoRKA-Roots. The validity of the Pravasi ID and student identity card, priced at Rs. 315, is for three years. Both cardholders will get Rs. 4 lakh accidental insurance cover in case of death and a maximum of Rs. 2 lakh cover in case of partial disability due to accidents. Further details can be had from toll-free number 1800 4253939 (within the country), 009188020 12345 (missed class service from abroad) and through emailidhelpdesk@norkaroots.net.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norka-roots-to-issue-pravasi-id-card/article33079962.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Power supply disruption||Electricity supply to the Raj Bhavan, Jawahar Nagar, and Manmohan Bungalow areas in the Vellayambalam electrical section limits will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Thursday. Supply to the areas near the Thaliyal transformer in the Thycaud section limits will also be hit from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-supply-disruption/article33080451.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM condoles demise of Bahrain Prime Minister||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has mourned the passing away of Prime Minister of Bahrain Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa. In a condolence message, he said the departed ruler had cultivated good relations with India during his tenure of almost 50 years. Mr.Vijayan recalled his role in steering Bahrain away from the dependence on oil revenue and modernising the country and his appreciation of the role played by Keralites in his country's progress. The message said Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa had taken the initiative for collaboration between Bahrain and Kerala in Ayurveda, education and tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-condoles-demise-of-bahrain-prime-minister/article33079957.ece
12 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ICT second-semester practical examination||The second semester ICT practical examination of the DLED course will be held on November 25, 26, and 27, an official press note issued here on Wednesday said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/practical-examination/article33079938.ece
12 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHPAPURAM,KERALA||UDF announces 24 more candidates||The United Democratic Front (UDF) on Wednesday announced 24 more candidates for the city Corporation in the upcoming local body elections. With this, the UDF has declared 80 candidates. The candidates include T.R. Rajesh (Medical College), Attipra Santosh (Pallithura), K.P. Sudheer Raj (Palayam), Anilkumar (Kudappanakkunnu), Vimalalayam Sasi (Thirumala), Sajeer (Ponnumangalam), Serafin Freddy (Shanghumughom), Jyothy Andrew (Vettucaud), T.P. Prasad (Manacaud), Manacaud Rajesh (Kuriyathi), and B. Sureshkumar (Sreevaraham). The others are Kalady Suresh (Kalady), Panathura Purushothaman (Vellar), Krishnaveny (Thiruvallam), N.V.Anas (Puthenpally), Sheela Ramani (Nanthencode), Prashasth (P.T.P. Nagar), Goureeshapattom Mohanan (Pattom), Peroorkada Ravi (Muttada), Sreeja (Pathirappally), Manjusha (Chettivilakam), Manju (Peroorkada), Mary Pushpam (Kunnukuzhy), and Muttathara Soman of Communist Marxist Party (Muttathara).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-announces-24-more-candidates/article33080444.ece
12 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||At 966, Thrissur tops State tally||Thrissur recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the State on Wednesday — 966. With 943 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases is 9,078. Also, 92 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 48,580 COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in the district and 39,145 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 952 people, including five health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on the day. The patients include 139 above the age of 60 and 53 children below 10. In all, 5,816 patients are under home observation. A total of 276 patients were admitted to hospitals in the district on the day. As many as 7,900 samples were collected on Wednesday. So far 3,65,903 samples have been tested in the district. Post-COVID OP A referral out-patient wing will start functioning at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, on Thursday. The facility at OP annex will function from 10.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. on all Thursdays and can be utilised by patients referred from taluk/district and general hospitals. Patients should bring the referral letter. The referral letter can be sent to covid19referralmctcr@gmail.com to make the functioning of the system more efficient. As 20 of the 115 workers at the Paliyekkara toll plaza who underwent tests on Tuesday tested positive, the District Collector asked the company to close the plaza. According to a report submitted by the District Medical Officer, the rest of the 95 workers are in the high-risk primary contact category. The DMO suggested to shift all the workers currently working in the plaza to first-line COVID treatment centres (FLTC) or quarantine facilities. On the basis of the report, the Collector directed the Guruvayur Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., the operating company, to shift all their staff currently working at the plaza to FLTCs, home isolation or quarantine facilities. The Collector told the company to sanitise the plaza before commencing toll collection with a fresh team of workers. The company was directed to provide assistance to test the remaining 40 workers who could not attend the test on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-966-thrissur-tops-state-tally/article33080391.ece
12 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||All-party meet discusses steps for nomination filing||A meeting of representatives of various political parties was held here on Wednesday to discuss the filing of nomination papers which will begin on Thursday. Nomination papers can be submitted from November 12 to November 19 from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. As the election is being held at the time of COVID-19 pandemic, all parties should strictly adhere to the guidelines, District Collector S. Shanavas told the meeting. “This election has to be conducted in a totally different manner in the wake of the pandemic. COVID-19 guidelines should be maintained throughout the campaigning and till the polling. Door-to-door campaign groups should not have more than five persons. Processions and grand finale of campaigns should be avoided. Vehicle rally and roadshows should not have more than three vehicles. Permission of the police is mandatory for public meetings,” the Collector said. Avoid garlands Candidates should create awareness of the use of masks and sanitiser in their campaign. Bouquets, garland, currency notes or ponnada should not be presented to candidates at receptions. If any candidate tests positive during the campaign he/she should keep away from the programmes immediately and go into quarantine. They can continue campaign only after the permission of the health officials. Poll booths There are 3,331 polling booths in the district, including 26 newly formed, for the coming local body elections. The 86 grama panchayats in the district, with 1,469 wards have 2,824 booths. The Thrissur city Corporation with 55 divisions have 211 booths. Booths in various municipalities are as follows: (In the order municipality, wards and polling booths): Chalakudy (36, 37); Irinjalakuda (41, 43); Kodungallur (44, 46); Chavakkad (32, 32); Guruvayur (43, 58); Kunnamkulam (37, 38); Wadakkanchery (41, 42). Guruvayur municipality has 15 new polling booths this time. Two special booths have been set up for leprosy patients.  Door-to-door campaigns should not have more than five persons Processions, grand finale of campaigns should be avoided||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-party-meet-discusses-steps-for-nomination-filing/article33080461.ece
12 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||41.09% increase in ESAF bank profit||ESAF Small Finance Bank Limited, one of the leading small finance banks in the country, has posted a 41.09% jump in net profit to Rs. 130.42 crore for the half year that ended September 30, 2020, as against Rs. 92.44 crore in the same period last year. K. Paul Thomas, managing director and CEO of ESAF, said: “The bank has performed well during the period and I believe the results show that the micro-entrepreneurs are in recovery mode after the COVID-19-induced slowdown, indicating a positive sign for the economy altogether.” The total business during the period increased by 35.06% to Rs. 15,582 crore. The deposits increased by 35.38% to Rs. 8,208 crore and advances increased by 34.70% to Rs. 7,374 crore. Gross NPAs as a percentage of gross advances decreased from 1.76% as on September 30, 2019 to 1.32% as on September 30, 2020 and net NPAs as a percentage of net advances came down from 0.62% as on September 30, 2019 to 0.19% as on September 30, 2020. The provision coverage ratio improved to 93.45% from 81.53% during the period. The bank opened 29 branches in the half year. Now, it has 483 branches in 19 States and two Union Territories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4109-increase-in-esaf-bank-profit/article33080460.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Medical college to run COVID centre||District Collector T.V. Subhash, who is also the Chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), ordered that the Kannur Medical College at Anjarakandy, which was converted into a COVID-19 treatment centre, be handed over to the management. The order was issued on the directions of the Kerala High Court following a petition filed by postgraduate medical students. The college authorities should now prepare a detailed action plan for resumption of hospital operations, including COVID-19 treatment, and submit it to the DDMA. It has been proposed to treat at least 200 COVID-19 patients and set aside 15 ICU beds and five ventilators at the COVID-19 care centre. The centre should be run by the hospital staff.  COVID-19 patients should be given free treatment at the medical college. Those admitted after the transfer of the facility will be charged only the Karunya Health Insurance Scheme (KASP) rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-to-run-covid-centre/article33079836.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Once a dredger, now scrap||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/once-a-dredger-now-scrap/article33079925.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Flavours of the season||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flavours-of-the-season/article33079849.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival of lights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festival-of-lights/article33080310.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Farewell smiles||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farewell-smiles/article33080449.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Squaks and squeaks||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/squaks-and-squeaks/article33080459.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No quarter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-quarter-given/article33079959.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In its abode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-its-abode/article33080395.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Standing witness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/standing-witness/article33080466.ece
12 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur witnesses highest rise in groundwater table in 20 years||Anantapur district witnessed the steepest rise in the groundwater table of 10.78 metres during the South West Monsoon, with the current (as of November 1) average water availability remaining at 12.28 metres below ground from 23.06 metres as of May 1. The groundwater level last year as of October 31, 2019, was 19.44 metres and 25.96 metres on May 1, 2019. Excess rainfall This is the first time ever in the last 20 years that the groundwater has come up to this level, all thanks to incessant rains which were recorded at 47.6% excess as of October 31. Against a normal of 461 mm, the district received 680.5 mm from May 1 realising 459.67 tmcft of water of which 40% evaporated, another 40% was lost as runoff, 8% retained as soil mixture, and only 12% got into groundwater table as recharge. According to the Groundwater Deputy Director K. Tippeswamy, water was available at more than 15 metres of depth in only 18 out of 63 mandals in Anantapur . The exploitation of groundwater is, however, very high and 33 out of 63 mandals are categorised as Groundwater Stress areas falling in the - Over Exploited bracket (21 mandals). The others fall under categories of Critical (5) Semi-Critical (7). Only 30 mandals are in the safe category. The last major spike in the groundwater level of 10 metres was witnessed in the year 2002 and 9.71 metres in the month of October, 2011. The overexploitation can be gauged from the fact that the water table had been falling continuously from October 2010 to September 2018 and that was the sharpest fall of 27 metres with only minor insignificant recoveries, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-witnesses-highest-rise-in-groundwater-table-in-20-years/article33079673.ece
12 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Share ideas to mitigate crop damage by animals’||The Atal Incubation Centre at Sri Krishnadevaraya University functioning under the Atal Innovation Mission programme has announced an innovation challenge, Rakshak 2.0, to encourage people come up with smart solutions to mitigate crop damage by wild animals. Incubation Centre Director K. Nagabhushan Raju said animals causing damage to crops was a common phenomenon around forest areas in Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Chattisgarh, to tackle which there was a need to invent a method which is non-fatal yet effective and one which can be implementable in all geographical areas. The competition is slated for November 18 and the last date for applying the same is November 15. Animals being protected by law under Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 they cannot be injured or killed in retaliation by the aggrieved farmer. Currently, poisoning of water sources, putting up snares and leg traps, live electric wire, etc. are the general methods used, but the damage can be co-lateral as sometimes leopards, tigers, and bears, which are not the crop-raiding ones, get killed too. Meanwhile, live electric wires too have led to loss of lives, both of humans and animals. Website Mr. Raju said the participants can be students, or those working with startups (registered or non-registered), entrepreneurs. Further details can be had from the link: http://aic-sku.com/progre ss/events/innovation-chal lenge-3-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/share-ideas-to-mitigate-crop-damage-by-animals/article33079671.ece
12 November 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizagites welcome curbs on cracker sale, time limit||The State government has directed dealers of fireworks to sell only non-polluting and soundless crackers in the State. Bursting of crackers on Deepavali will be allowed only between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. These decisions come as a big relief to patients in the city undergoing treatment for COVID-19. “The noise and smoke caused by the burning of fireworks make those recovered from COVID-19 susceptible to infections. Their immunity will be low, and those who had experienced severe symptoms could have suffered some extent of lung damage. The smoke from fireworks may aggravate their condition,” says B. Ramachandra Rao, an Associate Professor in the Government ENT Hospital. “Those suffering from allergic conditions, asthma and flu may experience their condition aggravated due to the pollution,” says K. Rambabu, State Nodal Officer for COVID-19. Meanwhile, District Collector V. Vinay Chand appealed to citizens to adhere to the State government’s instructions on celebrating Deepavali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizagites-welcome-curbs-on-cracker-sale-time-limit/article33080512.ece
12 November 2020||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram oustees stage dharna||The displaced persons of the Polavaram irrigation project, led by TDP Rampachodavaram Assembly segment in-charge V. Rajeswari, on Wednesday took out a rally and staged a dharna in front of the Chintoor Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) office here seeking completion of rehabilitation colonies and fresh survey of youth who attained the age of 18 for the purpose of paying them compensation. At least 300 residents representing Yetapaka, V.R. Puram, Kunavaram and Chintoor mandals took part in the rally in a bid to highlight their plight due to displacement and delay in the grant of the compensation. Addressing the gathering, Ms. Rajeswari said, “The State government should carry out a fresh survey of the youth in the 18-year age group. Many youth who attained 18 years at the time of the previous survey have not receive compensation till date.” The protesters later submitted a memorandum to ITDA Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polavaram-oustees-stage-dharna/article33080364.ece
12 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tearful adieu to jawan killed in Machil encounter||Residents of Reddyvaripalle gathered in large numbers to pay last respects to Jawan Praveen Kumar Reddy, who was one among four army personnel killed in an encounter in Machil sector in Jammu and Kashmir on November 8. The slain soldier’s mortal remains were brought to his native village in Irala mandal by the army officials, where the final rites were performed at the martyr’s farm. His colleagues from not only his field station, but also officials from Chennai and Bengaluru arrived in large numbers to bid adieu to him. After the soldiers fired thrice in the air as a mark of respect, the deceased Jawan’s father Pratap Reddy performed the traditional rites and consigned the body to flames. Chittoor district Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, who participated in the series of ceremonies that lasted for two hours, called the soldier’s death an irreparable loss to the country as well as his family. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, Member of Parliament (Chittoor) N. Reddeppa and Puthalapattu MLA M.S. Babu had called on the bereaved family on Monday to convey their condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tearful-adieu-to-jawan-killed-in-machil-encounter/article33079680.ece
12 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Glowing tributes paid to economist||Glowing tributes were paid to L.S.N. Prasad, former economics professor of Hindu College, Guntur and executive council member of Indian Economic Association, who passed away recently. In an online condolence meeting, former MP Yelamanchili Sivaji said that Dr. Prasad was an exemplary teacher of economics, who had invited the likes of former RBI Governor C. Rangarajan to Guntur to speak at a national-level economics seminar. Recalling his long association with Dr. Prasad, Dr. Sivaji said that the latter was the first to inculcate the culture of seminars in affiliated colleges. Former HoD of Commerce C.S.N. Raju said that Dr. Prasad had also excelled as a sportsperson during his college days. Though he had come from an agricultural background, Dr. Prasad shone as a national-level sportsperson and later excelled in athletics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/glowing-tributes-paid-to-economist/article33079674.ece
12 November 2020||JAGGAIAHPET (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||13 injured in road accident||Thirteen persons of a marriage party suffered injuries when a car hit an auto in which they were travelling, at Gouravaram village in the district on Wednesday. The condition of two children, Sri Harika and Tirupati Rao, who suffered head injuries is stated to be critical. The Chillakallu police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-injured-in-road-accident/article33080508.ece
12 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Official inspects land sought by Vedanta||Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik on Wednesday inspected the 9.88 acres of land the Vedanta group sought for exploration of oil and natural gas near Katrenikona in East Godavari district. The Vedanta group urged the government to allot the land under Survey No. 971 on three-year lease for its operations. “The drilling activity will be done on the proposed site as a part of the exploration of oil and natural gas near Katrenikona,” an official communication from the Vedanta group said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/official-inspects-land-sought-by-vedanta/article33080365.ece
12 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||No holy dip at ghats during Tungabhadra Pushkaram||The Tungabhadra Pushkaram, scheduled to be organised from November 20 to December 1, is caught in the dilemma of religious beliefs and the COVID-19 protocols. Political leaders, the district administration, and all wings of the public services are busy making the arrangements for the Puskaram, which is scheduled to be organised between Mantralayam and Kurnool city, where the Tungabhadra river flows after entering Andhra Pradesh and eventually merges with the Krishna River. On the other hand, the endowments and health departments have issued instructions to exercise caution for the coronavirus pandemic. They have allowed only pujas related to the rituals for paying homage to the dead at the ghats. Even for the visit, one needs to book a time slot at a particular ghat and follow all COVID-19 protocols. As per the State government’s decision, no holy dip or holy shower would be allowed at the Pushkar ghats. The government is spending lakhs of rupees to regulate the large influx of devotees during that fortnight. Collector G. Veerapandian on Wednesday inspected several ghats to ascertain the status of the works. More than Rs. 230 crore has been spent on the construction of 21 new ghats and lakhs is being spent on the creation of other infrastructure to cater to the needs of the devotees. RTC bus services The Andhra Pradesh State Roads Transport Corporation (APSRTC), Kurnool Region has planned to ply 47 additional special buses to various ghats in Kurnool city, Mantralayam, Sunkeshula, and Gundrevula. The RTC is also constructing 11 water-proof sheds at different locations, Regional Manager T. Venkataramam said. The RTC, Anantapur region, which runs 38 regular services to Kurnool daily has planned eight additional services if there is demand, said Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni. Tourism Regional Joint Director B. Eswaraiah, the nodal officer for cultural events, has planned some programmes on each day of the Pushkaram at Sankal Bagh in Kurnool, the main venue. The Sri Raghavendra Swamy Matha (Mutt) will manage two ghats and organise religious rituals. What the legend says Legend has it that Lord Shiva had granted a boon to a brahmin who had done severe penance that he could live in water and purify the holy rivers. The brahmin was known as Pushkara (the one who nourishes). Bṛihaspathi (Jupiter) had requested the brahmin to enter one of the 12 sacred rivers when he travelled from one zodiac sign to another. Hence, Pushkaram is celebrated at shrines along the banks of 12 major sacred rivers in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-holy-dip-at-ghats-during-tungabhadra-pushkaram/article33080379.ece
12 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 has a telling impact on tobacco cultivation this rabi season||Tobacco growers in Prakasam and Nellore districts have begun cultivation of the principal commercial crop on a cautious note in the wake of the debilitating effect of the COVID-19-induced prolonged lockdown during the last cropping season coupled with labour shortage now. The Tobacco Board has already cut down the crop size by about 15% for this rabi over the previous year’s crop size of 136 million kg for the State anticipating reduced global demand in the wake of the pandemic. “Transplantation of seedlings is going on a slow pace. The extent of crop may come down by 20 to 25% this rabi,” said Southern Black Soil regional manager R. Srinivasulu Naidu after taking stock of the situation at the grassroots level. Farmers have burnt their fingers as the marketing season coincided with the incidence of coronavirus. Market remained shut during the early phase of the lockdown leading to discolouration and loss of weight of the produce. As a result, farmers incurred additional unexpected losses, apart from poor grade out-turn due to untimely rains in the month of January as the auctions prolonged for more days, explained former Tobacco Board member P. Bhadri Reddy. The crop regulator has fixed a crop size of 71.34 million kg – 37.91 million kg for Southern Light Soil (SLS) region and 33.43 million kg for Southern Black Soil (SBS) region in the two districts. Farmers have taken up cultivation of tobacco so far only in 7,879.80 hectares in the SLS region and in 7,000.08 hectares in the SBS region against 14,911.20 hectares and 12,232.80 hectares respectively during the corresponding period the previous year. Labour shortage Farmers also faced acute shortage of labour this season. Losing interest in tobacco, a labour-intensive crop, a majority of farmers switched over to, among other crops, chilli, bengal gram and black gram, said V.V. Prasad, a farmer from Chekurapadu village. “Those who opted for tobacco will have to spend an additional 20% for engaging workers,” he explained. Last year, the cost of cultivation was about Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 1.10 lakh per acre. With farmers losing interest, the lease rent for tobacco barn dropped to about Rs. 50,000 and land tenancy rent to Rs. 16,000 per acre. Meanwhile, the Tobacco Board urged growers to go for timely plantation after raising seedlings in plastic trays to get quality produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-has-a-telling-impact-on-tobacco-cultivation-this-rabi-season/article33080367.ece
12 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Breakthrough achieved in property offences||Prakasam Police nabbed four members of a gang of thieves who had struck at several locked houses and also lifted motorcycles in the State and also in Telangana and recovered stolen property worth Rs. 18 lakh from them. In the wake of series of thefts in the district in the last couple of days, three special teams were formed under the supervision of Markapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police G.Nageswara Reddy to crack incidents, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal told the media here on Wednesday evening. With the backing of IT core team, the police personnel examined the prison monitoring system and collected details of the convicts released from Ongole jail recently. The special teams zeroed in on some of the convicts, whose involvement was suspected. Vehicle checks were organised in three different junctions. The four accused were nabbed during one such vehicle check when they were moving towards Markapur. After a hot chase, they were nabbed at noon on Wednesday. Probe revealed they were involved in 75 property offences in the twin Telugu-speaking States. After conducting a recce, they had struck at different places in Markapur, Cumbam, Ulavapadu, Kandukur in Prakasam district and also in Chilakuluripet and Vinukonda in neighbouring Gutur district and in Nalgonda in Telangana. The seized valuables included gold jewellery valued at about Rs. 6 lakh, nine motorcycles worth Rs. 8.05 lakh, a car, worth Rs. 2.5 lakh, four mobile phones valued at Rs. 40,000 and two computer laptops worth Rs. 80,000. The SP asked all habitual offenders to mend their ways as a close watch was being maintained with the help of latest information and communication technology tools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/breakthrough-achieved-in-series-of-property-offences/article33079678.ece
12 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. logs over 100 new cases||The health situation improved in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as fresh cases came down to 113 in Prakasam and SPSR Nellore districts, while one patient succumbed to the pandemic in Nellore taking the toll in the region to 1,064 in the last 24 hours. Of this, Nellore district accounted for 489 deaths, while Prakasam for 575, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Wednesday night. The cumulative confirmed cases rose to 1,22,863 in the region as 113 persons tested positive for the disease in the two districts during the period. With 185 patients recovering from the illness, the number of active cases came down to 2,241. As many as 1.2 lakh have recovered from the disease so far. In Nellore district, the number of cumulative confirmed cases rose to 62,174 as 89 persons tested positive for the disease. The number of active cases was static at 1,420 as an equal number of patients were discharged from hospitals. With a mere 24 new cases, the total number of positive cases rose to 60,689 in Prakasam district. As many as 96 patients were recuperated during the period, bringing down the caseload to just 821. So far, 59, 293 patients had returned home following recovery in the district. As many as 6.89 lakh persons have been subjected to testing in the district so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-reports-one-death-over-100-new-cases/article33079676.ece
12 November 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||RPF conducts checks to foil transportation of fireworks||Officials of the South Central Railway (SCR) have appealed to passengers not to carry fireworks or any kind of inflammable material into railway premises or on board running trains. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel and SCR officials conducted joint raids at the railway station and on running trains on Wednesday. Carrying of fireworks will endanger the lives of people, the officials cautioned. The RPF officials checked the luggage on the platforms and on some originating and transit trains at Vijayawada Railway Station. Transportation of dangerous and offensive goods is prohibited and punishable under Section 164 and 165 of the Railways Act, 1989, the railway officials said. Special teams will be formed to prevent transportation of fireworks and other inflammable material ahead of Deepavali festival, officials said. Passengers can alert railway officials over security helpline 182 if they notice any passengers carrying inflammable material, said Chief Public Relations Officer Ch. Rakesh. “RPF has formed special teams and quick reaction teams at all major stations to maintain vigil on illegal transportation of fireworks and inflammable material. Besides, the railway officials will monitor suspected baggages on platforms, waiting halls, queue lines and on moving trains,” Mr. Rakesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rpf-conducts-checks-to-foil-transportation-of-fireworks/article33079689.ece
12 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police take up road repairs||The Srikakulam police department is taking up road repairs on a war footing to prevent accidents at many ‘black zones’ in the district. The department is taking the help of National Highway Authority of India, Roads and Buildings and Panchayat Raj Department in mobilising material and men while encouraging youth and locals to participate in the repairs. Srikakulam Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar said that the defects in road engineering and damage to many stretches due to recent rains were leading to many fatal accidents both on the national highway and State highways. Srikakulam has a 170-km stretch of NH-16 where accidents are rising in frequency. It is observed that at least 200 accidents are taking place per month on various roads. According to officials, a higher number of accidents are occurring at junctions which connect both NH-16 and State highways and Panchayat Raj roads. The accidents have reduced with the laying of speedbreakers at Mogilipadu and Kosangipuram junction under Kasibugga police station limits. Potholes were covered between Raktakanna village and Itchapuram town. Roads and culverts which were damaged at Kottaguda village of Bhamini mandal were also repaired with the initiative of the Battili police. “Many two-wheeler riders are getting involved in road accidents due to damaged roads although they observe traffic rules. We decided not to leave anything to chance. Fortunately, we got a good response from concerned government departments as well as from the public in many areas. We roped in youngsters for the repair works since they need to know more about road safety norms. They are also taught to wear seat belts and helmets compulsorily while driving cars and bikes. Some of them actively participated in flash mob programmes to create awareness among people about road safety,” said Mr. Bardar while speaking to The Hindu . According to him, the department is taking inputs from all station house officers in the district to prevent road accidents in all roads including the tribal belt. The department has observed that many people are opting for personal vehicles for long distances to avoid COVID-19 infection by travelling in buses and other public transport facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-take-up-road-repairs-to-prevent-accidents/article33080388.ece
12 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Dubbaka win will have ripples in both Telugu States’||BJP candidate M. Raghunandan Rao, who won the fiercely-fought by-elections to the Dubbaka Assembly constituency in Telangana, termed his victory a result of the collective efforts of the dedicated and disciplined party workers. Mr. Raghunandan Rao said he directly drove to Tirumala soon after the final election results were declared on Tuesday night. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Mr. Rao said that the youth played a pivotal role in his victory and pledged to raise his voice on the floor of the Assembly in favour of the poor and downtrodden communities of his constituency. When asked how he felt about winning the elections after having lost twice in the past, Mr. Raghunandan Rao said that it is the desire to serve people that matters more in politics rather than success and failure. In reply to another question, Mr. Raghunandan Rao said that the Dubbaka election results will have a cascading effect in both Telugu-speaking States as well as in the entire South India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dubbaka-win-will-have-ripples-in-both-telugu-states/article33080368.ece
12 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man injured in accident at TTD guesthouse||A devotee sustained severe bleeding injuries on his head and suffered fractures in his lower limb when he accidentally fell from an elevator at one of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams guest houses at Tirumala on Wednesday. Though the exact reason for the mishap is yet to be ascertained, it is suspected that a technical snag in the locking device and erratic power supply might have led to the incident. The incident reportedly took place when the devotee from Nellore, along with his family members, took the elevator to reach the ground floor. The staff at the TTD-run Aswini Hospital where the devotee was admitted could not give a proper reason for the incident. He was shifted to Tirupati for better treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-injured-in-accident-at-ttd-guesthouse/article33080380.ece
12 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVBC employee sacked for sharing ‘shocking’ link||In a shocking incident, an employee of Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) reportedly shared the link of a pornography site to a devotee, causing outrage among the devout. Though the incident took place a few days ago, it came to light only after the Hyderabad-based devotee, Venkata Krishna, lodged a complaint with the TTD which ordered an internal enquiry. An attender on contractual employment was found to have erroneously sent the obscene link to the devotee instead of ‘Sathamanam Bhavathi’ programme through the official address sb@svbcttd.org. The vigilance and cybercell sleuths zeroed in on the channel’s administrative office and sieved through the computers, hard disks, cameras, pen drives and other storage devices for filthy content, if any. The officials took screen shots of certain objectionable content, online games, chats and social media buzz, which many employees were reportedly engaged in during office hours. The contract of the said attender was immediately terminated by the SVBC Chief Executive Officer, while others with a similar dubious track record were brought under scanner. Speaking to The Hindu , highly placed officials in the TTD said the unfortunate incident should be taken as an opportunity to initiate reforms to remove the chaff from the grain. CB-CID probe sought Meanwhile, the TDP lost no opportunity to nail the ruling YSRCP for the incident that caused ‘loss of sanctity’. Tirupati LS constituency in-charge G. Narasimha Yadav and State secretary Soora Sudhakar Reddy led a demonstration in front of SVBC office here on Wednesday for making the TTD and its official channel a ‘rehabilitation centre’ to accommodate its political followers. Telugu Desam vice-president Parasa Ratnam demanded a CB-CID inquiry into the incident. “Employees drawing pay from Sri Venkateswara’s Hundi should behave in a responsible manner. The TTD should henceforth choose the right people for such jobs,” demanded its former city president R.C. Munikrishna. Women’s wing leaders N. Vijayalakshmi and K. Pushpavathi, TNSF national coordinator A. Ravi Naidu and district president R. Anand Goud took part in the demonstration. Srikalahastheeswara Devasthanam former chairman P.R. Mohan urged the government to check if it was the handiwork of non-Hindus employed in the SVBC. Congress leader P. Naveen Kumar Reddy appealed to the TTD to initiate tough action against such erring employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/svbc-staff-shares-porn-site-link-sacked/article33079610.ece
12 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karthika Brahmotsavams begin at Padmavathi temple||The annual ‘Karthika Brahmotsavams’ was off to a colourful start at the Padmavathi temple at Tiruchanur on Wednesday, with the hoisting of the ‘Dhwajapatam’ on the temple flag post. As per the ‘Pancharatra Agama’, the priests performed special puja to the flag bearing the imprint of an elephant, the celestial carrier of the Goddess, and hoisted it atop the post as part of the ‘Dhwajarohanam’ rituals. The rituals lasted for two hours during the auspicious ‘Dhanurlagnam’. However, the proceedings of the nine-day event will be conducted in private (ekantham) in view of the coronavirus pandemic, said TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy. TTD Joint Executive Officer P. Basant Kumar, Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Gopinath Jatti, Deputy Executive Officer Jhansi Rani took part in the rituals. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy presented the silk ‘Vastram’ to the temple on behalf of the State government, which was received by Mr. Jawahar Reddy and the priests. The ‘vastram’ will be adorned to the goddess during the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karthika-brahmotsavams-begin-at-padmavathi-temple/article33080382.ece
12 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police outpost opened||Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy formally inaugurated a police outpost at Sree Vidyanikethan educational campus at A. Rangampet here on Wednesday. Mr. Reddy advised the students against rash driving and bickering on the campus. The outpost was necessitated to ensure safety of the neighbouring villages. Actor and educational group chairman M. Mohan Babu said the outpost and the presence of policemen would be of great help to the thousands of students and the inhabitants of the surrounding villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-outpost-opened/article33079681.ece
12 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||New road to cut down commuting time to Tirumala||A new road is being developed from the TTD Welcome Arch on Renigunta road to Hotel Guest Line on Karakambadi road, for which the foundation stone was formally laid by MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy on Wednesday. This road will drastically cut down commuting time for the visiting devotees going to Tirumala. Running parallel to the existing Sri Krishna Devaraya road between Ramanuja Circle and Leela Mahal junction, the 60-feet road will pass through Kothapalli and Chintalachenu areas to provide vital connectivity between two major traffic bottlenecks in the city. “In view of the rising traffic snarls in the city, this road will help one travel from Renigunta road arch to Leela Mahal junction in ten minutes, which normally would take more than 30 minutes,” Mr. Karunakar Reddy added  ‘Land value will rise’ Along with MLC Y. Srinivasulu Reddy and MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha, he also inaugurated the ward secretariat developed at a cost of Rs. 28 lakh near, DBR Hospital, falling under the fifth ward. While thanking the farmers for voluntarily giving away their land for the proposed 3.5 km-long road, Mr. Gireesha predicted that the land value would grow manifold in the vicinity. MCT Additional Commissioner D. Haritha, Superintending Engineer M.Mohan were among the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-road-to-cut-down-commuting-time-to-tirumala/article33079682.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book policemen for murder in Nandyal suicide case, says TDP||The State government, in an attempt to scuttle the investigation into the Nandyal family suicide case, is trying to silence the next of kin of the victims by offering them a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh, TDP MLC Buddha Venkanna has alleged. Demanding that a murder case be immediately filed against the policemen accused of abetting Abdul Salaam and his family members to suicide, Mr. Venkanna told the media here on Wednesday that the selfie video purportedly shot by the victims moments before taking the extreme step should be considered as evidence and as their dying declaration. The entire family perished because of the harassment it was subjected to allegedly by Nandyal DSP Chidananda Reddy, Circle Inspector Somasekhara Reddy and head constable Gangadhar Reddy, the TDP leader alleged. “The policemen had filed a false case of robbery against Abdul Salaam based on a false complaint lodged by Bhaskar Reddy in an attempt to favour a close follower of YSRCP MLA Silpa Kishore Reddy,” he alleged. ‘Cancel bail’ Mr. Venkanna demanded that the case be probed under Section 302 as the accused policemen “harassed the family based on a false complaint, and it amounted to a criminal conspiracy to murder the family.” The bail granted to the accused should also be cancelled, the TDP leader demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-policemen-for-murder-in-nandyal-suicide-case-says-tdp/article33080369.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 positivity rate decreases||The State once again reported less than 2,000 new COVID-19 infections and 14 new deaths in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. Two days ago, the State reported only 1,392 cases, lowest in four months. With 1,732 new cases, the tally increased to 8,47,977  and death toll went up to 6,828. The death rate and recovery rate remains at 0.81% and 96.73% respectively. As many as 1,761 patients were discharged in the past day and the number of recoveries increased to 8,20,234. There are 20,915  active cases currently. The daily positivity rate at 2.46% of the 70,405 samples tested was also one of the lowest in the past few days. The overall positivity rate slightly came down to 9.58%. Continuing to report more number of deaths every day, Krishna district’s death toll crossed the 600-mark as it reported three new deaths in the past day. Chittoor’s death toll crossed 801 as it reported two new deaths. Anantapur, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari also reported two new deaths each while East Godavari, Guntur and Nellore one new death each. Five districts reported no deaths. Meanwhile, eight districts reported less than 100 new infections. East Godavari reported 344 cases, the highest, and was followed by Krishna with 246, West Godavari with 227, Chittoor with 198 and Guntur with 195. Anantapur reported 97 cases, Nellore 89, Kadapa 88, Visakhpatham 75, Vizianagaram 66, Srikakulam 59, Kurnool 24 and Prakasam reported 24. Guntur's tally crossed the 70,000-mark and is the fourth such district. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,19,501), West Godavari (89,428), Chittoor (81,360), Guntur (70,182), Anantapur (65,819), Prakasam (60,689), Nellore (60,608), Kurnool (59,815), Visakhapatnam (56,989), Kadapa (53,369), Srikakulam (44,820), Krishna (42,394) and Vizianagaram (40,108).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-positivity-rate-decreases/article33080362.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work for realising ideals of Abul Kalam, appeals Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday paid rich tributes to freedom fighter Maulana Abul Kalam Azad on the occasion of his birth anniversary. In a statement, Mr. Naidu said Abul Kalam, along with the makers of the Constitution, had dreamt of a society that would not discriminate against or suppress the minorities in the country. “But in Andhra Pradesh, everything is going contrary to his ideals. Attacks on minorities and their illegal detention in false cases are being witnessed in the State,” Mr. Naidu alleged. Calling upon the people to work for achieving the ideals of equality and fraternity that Abul Kalam stood for, the TDP chief said everybody should rededicate themselves to the cause of ensuring the rights of the minorities. “Abul Kalam Azad, the country’s first Education Minister, had made outstanding contributions to the fields of literature and education, Mr. Naidu said. During the freedom struggle, Abul Kalam had opposed fundamentalism and advocated the significance of secularism, the TDP president said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-for-realising-ideals-of-abul-kalam-appeals-naidu/article33080371.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hand over Viveka case records to CBI: High Court||In a significant development in the former MP, Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, murder case, the High Court, in response to a petition filed by the CBI, on Wednesday directed the Judicial First Class Magistrate of Pulivendula in Kadapa district to hand over the articles of crime in his custody to the investigating agency. The CBI had approached the High Court following the Magistrate’s refusal to give access to the articles of crime and records, which it wanted for the purpose of investigation. Justice U. Durga Prasad Rao allowed an interim application filed by the CBI, ordering the Magistrate to give the material requested by it. The High Court had ordered the State government in March this year to entrust the investigation into the former MP’s murder to the CBI saying that the SIT could not dig out the facts in spite of having enough time at its disposal. The former MP was murdered on March 15, 2019 ahead of the general elections. The slain leader’s wife Sowbhagya had raised several doubts on the circumstances under which he was done to death and the persons involved in the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hand-over-viveka-case-records-to-cbi-high-court/article33080372.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire breaks out at timber workshop, no loss of life||Fire broke out at a sanitary and timber workshop at Two Town area in the early hours of Wednesday. No one was injured in the mishap. The workshop was functioning out of an old cinema theatre which was leased out to the present owners. Furniture damaged Furniture and other material worth lakhs of rupees was damaged in the fire mishap, the A.P. State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department personnel said. According to Krishna District Fire Officer (DFO) M. Srinivas Reddy, fire erupted at the timber workshop and the fire control personnel received the call at around midnight. Five tenders from Kothapet and other stations rushed to the spot and doused the flames. “Firemen prevented the fire from spreading to nearby shops and extinguished the flames after three hours. The operation was completed at around 3.15 a.m.” Mr. Reddy said. Probe on The reason behind the blaze is being investigated. A case has been registered, the DFO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-breaks-out-at-timber-workshop/article33079685.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employees of IMASQ testing buses seek payment of wages||Staff working on COVID-19 Intelligent Monitoring Analysis Service Quarantine (IMASQ) buses staged a protest at Dharna Chowk here on Wednesday, demanding that the government pay them their salaries immediately. Staff of around 20 IMASQ buses organised a protest and raised slogans urging the government to clear their dues. Salaries were not paid to the staff for the last three months, and though the matter was taken to the notice of the District Collector, there was no response for the last few days, they alleged. The government had rolled out the IMASQ buses in June in order to increase COVID-19 testing. The increase in testing facilities was necessitated due to the huge demand, as well as several government establishments like the Railways making it mandatory for their staff to get tested. The IMASQ staff have been conducting tests at bus stands, railway stations and other public places in the district. “The government is paying Rs. 18,000 to data entry operators, Rs. 20,000 to lab technicians and Rs. 22,000 to linemen on each bus. However, salaries have not been paid since August, and there is no response from the government despite several representations,” said an IMASQ employee. The IMASQ staff collect around 3,000 samples every day. However, due to non-payment of salaries, services were suspended temporarily and the public are forced to visit private hospitals for treatment, said a passenger Ch. Venkata Swamy, at the Vijayawada railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employees-of-imasq-testing-buses-seek-payment-of-wages/article33080376.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APCO executes online orders worth Rs. 5.15 lakh||Minister for Industries and Commerce Mekapati Goutham Reddy disbursed Rs. 21.37 crore to 8,903 beneficiaries under the second phase of the ‘YSR Nethanna Nestham’ on Wednesday. On the occasion, Mr. Goutham Reddy said the government launched the scheme to provide a financial assistance of Rs. 24,000 per weaver family (owning a handloom) per year for five years. For the first year (2019-20), a sum of Rs. 196.28 crore was given to 81,783 families. After the first phase, the APCO procured cloth from weavers’ cooperative societies to the tune of Rs. 10 crore. Mr. Goutham Reddy said the launch of an exclusive online store of APCO - apcohandlooms.com - last month was a significant step. As of now, APCO executed 150 online orders worth Rs. 5.15 lakh, he said. Besides, APCO entered into MoUs with e-commerce platforms such as Amazon, Myntra, Flipkart, Paytm, Gocoop, Mirraw and Loomfolks for providing the weavers the much-needed avenues for marketing their products. With the government support, weavers started production of quality fabrics by using modern techniques such as Jacquard loom, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apco-executes-online-orders-worth-rs-515-lakh/article33080373.ece
12 November 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC Bharat Darshan Yatra from December 12||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will organise ‘Bharat Darshan–Dakshin Bharat Yatra’ from Hyderabad and Secunderabad from December 12 to 18. The theme of the yatra, which will cover Sri Rangam (Ranganathaswamy temple), Brihadeswara temple at Thanjavur, Rameswaram, Madurai Meenakshi and Kanyakumari, is to ‘Show India to Indians’, said IRCTC Deputy General Manager (DGM) D.S.G.P. Kishore. Giving the details of the ‘Bharat Darshan Yatra’ to the media here on Wednesday, the DGM said facility to board and de-board the special tourist train will be provided at Secunderabad, Warangal, Khammam, Vijayawada, Ongole, Nellore and Renigunta. The train will have 12 sleeper coaches, one three-tier AC coach and a pantry car. The standard tariff (for sleeper coaches) will be Rs. 7,140 and Rs. 8,610 for comfort (three-tier AC ), said Mr. Kishore. IRCRC Vijayawada Manager Murali Krishna said night stays and fresh up for all tourists would be arranged at dharmasalas or dormitories on sharing basis. Morning tea, breakfast, lunch, dinner and water bottle will be provided. Tourists can contact IRCTC zonal office at Secunderabad, by dialling 040-27702407, 9701360701 or 8287932227, Vijayawada 0866-2572280 or 8287932311 and Tirupati 0877-2222010 or 8287932313. For details, they may visitwww.irctctourism.com, Mr. Kishore added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctc-bharat-darshan-yatra-from-december-12/article33080384.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bandar port will be ready in three years, says Minister||Minister for Transport and I&PR Perni Venkataramaiah said that the construction of Bandar port costing Rs. 5,835 crore will be completed in three years once it is taken up. He said that the government has finalised the detailed project reported submitted by the RITES and Rs. 1,000 crore has been sanctioned. In a meeting with AP Maritime Board officials, he asked them to immediately call tenders as all the government had cleared all the hurdles. He said the government had issued administrative sanction for construction of the greenfield port at Rs. 5,835 crore in three years in 800 acres. He said the Maritime Board would have to raise loans for Rs. 4,745 crore. Mr. Venkataramaiah said the government had also permitted for pooling of 225 acres of land for setting up the basic amenities to facilitate the construction of the port and Rs. 90 crore has been sanctioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bandar-port-will-be-ready-in-three-years-says-minister/article33080377.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Testing 6,000 samples a day’||District Medical and Health Officer M. Suhasini said that the absence of iMASQ mobile COVID testing buses provided by private firm Vera Health Care has no impact on the number of tests being conducted on a daily basis. In a press release, Ms. Suhasini said that more than 6,000 samples were being tested per day in the district and in the past week. As many as 43,050 samples were tested at primary health centres, hospitals and schools across the district. She said people with COVID symptoms can visit their nearest PHC for tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/testing-6000-samples-a-day/article33080507.ece
12 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only ‘green’ fireworks allowed||Collector A. Md. Imtiaz said that only sale of green fireworks will be allowed in the district as per the orders of the State government and National Green Tribunal. He said that people will be allowed to light environment-friendly fireworks between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. He said that people should avoid the use of sanitisers while selling and lighting fireworks. Stalls selling any other fireworks would be seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/only-green-fireworks-allowed/article33080363.ece
12 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘kidnapped’ by uncle, rescued||A man from MVP Colony was allegedly kidnapped by his uncle over financial disputes on Tuesday. Prompt response from the police teams following a complaint, the kidnapped person was rescued near Kadiyam area in East Godavari. According to the police, Rakesh, a native of Vinukonda in Guntur district and a resident of MVP Colony, Visakhapatnam, works in a real estate office in the city. On Tuesday, Rakesh was forcibly picked up in a vehicle near Venkojipalem by his uncle Pichayya, who had financial disputes with him. Based on a complaint from family members of Rakesh, the police registered a case. The police alerted their counterparts in East Godavari district. Rakesh was reportedly rescued near Kadiyam area by the local police. Pichayya was taken into custody. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kidnapped-man-rescued-accused-held/article33080385.ece
12 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||25-year-old murdered||A 25-year-old youth was allegedly murdered by some unidentified persons at Kondaveedhi, Gangavaram, under New Port Police Station limits on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as Yeripalli Raju (25), a resident of Peda Gantyada. According to sources, unidentified miscreants have allegedly murdered Raju by hitting him in the face with bricks. Police have allegedly taken several suspected persons into their custody for interrogation and are yet to ascertain reasons for the murder. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/25-year-old-murdered/article33080414.ece
12 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP seeks CBI probe into ‘land scam’ in Vizag||Former Minister and senior leader of the TDP Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy has demanded a CBI probe into the alleged land scam in Visakhapatnam. Addressing a media conference here on Wednesday, he sought early completion of the investigation by the SIT, appointed by the YSR Congress Party government into land scam in Visakhapatnam and publication of the report. Referring to the allegations of YSRCP leader and Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy that insider trading had taken place in Visakhapatnam, the TDP leader alleged that Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy’s son-in-law had taken possession of lands at several areas in Visakhapatnam. He alleged that Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy was indulging in insider trading.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-seeks-cbi-probe-into-land-scam-in-vizag/article33080518.ece
12 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven arrested, ganja worth Rs. 1.3 crore seized||In a major haul, the district police arrested seven persons when they were allegedly transporting around 1,300 kgs of dry ganja in a container lorry and a four-wheeler at Narsipatnam town on Wednesday. The seized contraband is estimated to be worth over Rs. 1.3 crore in the upcountry market. Among the accused are two persons from Uttar Pradesh and five from various parts of Chintapalle mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency. According to Narsipatnam (town) police, the accused have allegedly procured the contraband from Darakonda area and were trying to transport it to Uttar Pradesh. In a bid to escape police, two persons acted as pilots and rode motorcycles ahead of the lorry to alert in case of any police checking. The ganja was stuffed in gunny bags. Acting on credible information, police teams intercepted the vehicle near Jogunadhapalem Jjunction and seized the contraband. Cases have been registered. Further investigation is on. 3,000 kgs of dry ganja seized in 10 days This is the third major catch reported from the district in the last 10 days. More than 3,000 kgs of dry ganja worth Rs. 3 crore was recovered in three cases. On November 7, the Araku police arrested 12 persons while the latter were trying to transport around 1,000 kgs of ganja worth more than Rs. 1 crore, in Dumbriguda area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-arrested-ganja-worth-rs-13-crore-seized/article33080383.ece
12 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies in scuffle||A 50-year-old man died when he reportedly tried to intervene in a scuffle between his son and his son’s alleged girlfriend, at Tagarapuvalasa under Bheemili police station limits, on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as Rowthu Venkata Rao, a resident of Tagarapuvalasa. According to the police, Venkata Rao’s son Vamsi Krishna reportedly had a relationship with a woman from Visakhapatnam. On Tuesday night, the woman along with tw persons reportedly intercepted Vamsi Krishna and Venkata Rao at Tagarapuvalasa. The accused reportedly had a scuffle with them. Venkata Rao died when he fell down after being reportedly pushed, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-in-scuffle/article33080515.ece
12 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hand over TIDCO houses to beneficiaries: CPI||CPI State Secretary K. Ramakrishna has issued an ultimatum to the State government to hand over the TIDCO houses to the beneficiaries by Deepavali, failing which the party would make the beneficiaries occupy them by performing ‘Griha pravesam’ on November 16. He visited the TIDCO houses here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hand-over-tidco-houses-to-beneficiaries-cpi/article33080517.ece
12 November 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Overhead electrification work inaugurated||The 25KV AC overhead electrification works for Railway Controlled Tracks of East Cost Railways in Central Dispatch Yard (CDY) area of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant was inaugurated by P.K. Rath, CMD of RINL, and C.K. Srivastava, DRM, E.Co. Railways, here on Wednesday. Central Dispatch Yard (CDY) is a unique project of RINL-VSP which improves the inbound and outbound logistics. The project was built at a cost of Rs. 320 crore and spared in 200 acre-area inside the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/overhead-electrification-work-inaugurated/article33080386.ece
12 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transport Dept. to crack whip on erring motorists||The Transport Department has decided to crack the whip on erring motorists. The licence of motorists violating the road safety rules will be suspended from three to six months. Those indulging in driving under the influence of liquor, using cell phone while driving, overspeeding, racing, dangerous driving, driving a two-wheeler without helmet, pillion rider without helmet, driving in wrong route, not giving way to ambulances and emergency vehicles would all lead to suspension of licence, Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam said in a statement on Wednesday. The licence of those attending training classes, to be conducted by the Transport Department, would be returned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transport-dept-to-crack-whip-on-erring-motorists/article33080513.ece
12 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolated thunderstorm likely||Thunderstorm along with lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in north and south coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam on Thursday. Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in south coastal A.P., According to the IMD. Thunderstorm along with lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in south coastal A.P. and Rayalaseema on November 13 and at isolated places in south coastal A.P. on November 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/isolated-thunderstorm-likely/article33080514.ece
12 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 75 new COVID cases and two deaths||The district reported 75 fresh COVID-19 infections and two deaths in the last 24 hours, as on Wednesday evening, taking the tally to 57,501 and death toll to 490 since the outbreak of the pandemic. This 75 cases are said to be the second least single-day tally reported since the last one week. On Monday, the district reported 42 cases. 113 recovered As many as 113 persons recovered from coronavirus. With the new cases and discharges, the number of active cases and discharges stands at 1,518 and 55,493 respectively. 319 clusters The district has 319 clusters among which six are very active, 19 active and 294 are dormant. Already 627 clusters were denotified by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-75-new-covid-cases-and-two-deaths/article33080516.ece
12 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five Maoist militia members surrender||Five Maoist militia members from Pedapadu Vykunthapali village in GK Veedhi mandal in the Agency area of Visakhapatnam district surrendered before Chintapalle Assistant Superintendent of Police Vidyasagar Naidu on Wednesday. The militia members were reportedly participating in various Maoist activities such as mobilising people for Maoist meetings, and providing information about police combing operations. The surrendered militia members were identified by police as K. Lakshmana Rao, T. Tilusu, T. Bangarraju, K. Robin and P Lakshmana Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-maoist-militia-members-surrender/article33080510.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP loyalist secured bail for policemen, says Jagan||Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said his government disbursed a financial assistance of Rs. 3,428 crore to minorities under several schemes in the last 17 months. Efforts were being made to maintain communal harmony. Due priority was given to education and health of the minorities, a vast majority of whom languish below the poverty line. At the same time, steps were taken for protecting the properties of Wakf Board and of the Christian missionaries. Honorarium for Imams and Muezzins would be increased and honorarium paid to pastors along with YSR Pelli Kanuka from next year. In tune with the path-breaking reforms which Abul Kalam Azad had initiated as the country’s first Education Minister, the YSR Congress government undertook infrastructure augmentation in schools and colleges in a mission mode through Nadu-Nedu programme while improving the standards of teaching and equipping the students with skills required by the industry. Deputy Chief Minister Shaik Amzath Basha Bepari, Ministers Mekathoti Sucharita, Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao and K. Kannababu and Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-loyalist-secured-bail-for-policemen-says-jagan/article33080360.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lakshmi Haram procession on Nov. 15||The golden Lakshmi Kasula Haram will be taken out in a procession between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m. at Tirumala on November 15. The Haram is adorned to the presiding deity Lord Venkateswara at the hill temple. The jewellery is adorned to goddess Padmavati at the Tiruchanur temple in Tirupati every year on the fifth day of the Karthika Brahmotsavams which began with Dhwajarohanam rituals on Wednesday. The Haram will be adorned to the goddess during the Gaja Vahanam seva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lakshmi-haram-procession-on-nov-15/article33079608.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Burdensome||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/burdensome/article33079687.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR bats for drone policing||Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Wednesday urged the police to don the garb of ‘cyber warriors’ to thwart efforts of cyber criminals, even as he made a case for drones being ‘first responders’. Mr Rao was speaking at the inauguration of the Telangana State Police Public Safety Integrated Operations Centre and Data Centre, where he suggested that the Home Department enter into a dialogue with the Director General of Civil Aviation and take requisite permissions to implement drone policing. “Talk to the Director General of Civil Aviation. Say that we would like to use police drones,” he said, adding that these drones, which would have a siren and camera installed, would be the first responders. This, he said, would drastically reduce time taken to reach the scene of crime, and the the second responder can be officers in-person. “It is imperative that we have to stay on that cutting edge of technology to ensure we remain proactive and not reactive,” he added. Cyber crime The IT Minister said that while the crime rate has witnessed a drop, cyber criminals use the advantage of anonymity and that police should become cyber warriors. “Telangana Police should be adequately upskilled and reskilled on the technologies which perpetrators of cyber crime are using so that they can thwart their efforts, and make our city and State safe,” he said. Mr Rao said the Police Public Safety Integrated Operations Centre and Data Centre would integrate all line departments, and is backed by a tier-3 data centre. He added that the Police Command and Control Centre with a budget of Rs. 600 crore would be ready in two months. The building, he said, would be iconic. Touching upon a recent survey on CCTV cameras in the city, Mr Rao said Hyderabad has 65% of CCTV cameras in the country, and reiterated the need for 10 lakh cameras for the city. Ambulance routes He suggested that a system be developed which would calculate shortest and most efficient route for ambulances to reach hospitals during ‘golden hours’ and integrate it with police systems. The Public Safety Integrated Operations Centre is spread over two floors with the ground floor housing operations and real-time monitoring, emergency response systems. CCTV footage The first floor houses the Data Centre. Footage from as many as 15,000 CCTVs can be monitored. The new facility will use big data, artificial intelligence, computer vision and facial recognition. Home Minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali, Education Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy, Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy and Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar were present at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-bats-for-drone-policing/article33080290.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Defective divisions in GHMC: FGG||Forum for Good Governance (FGG), the non-government organisation, has urged the TS State Election Commission (SEC) and GHMC commissioner to immediately rectify the “glaring errors” in the “uneven division” of voters in the 150 wards before elections are held to the urban local body in the capital. In a communication to the SEC, GHMC Commissioner and the Principal Secretary of the Municipal Administration & Urban Development department on Wednesday, Forum secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy disclosed that at least 68 divisions had unequal distribution of voters from among the 150. This was brought to the notice of the SEC and other authorities in 2015 also but no rectification was done and the same errors were sought to be continued for the forthcoming elections because no reorganisation of divisions or votes was proposed to be taken up. Mr. Reddy pointed out that as per the division-wise draft electoral rolls released last week in GHMC, there were 74.04 lakh voters in the twin cities and they should be distributed equitably by 49,360 voters in each division as each division was expected to have about 50,000 rounded of to the nearest thousand. However, the draft rolls showed that only 10% divisions conform to this and the rest of the 140 municipal divisions either had more than the average limit or less than the average limit. In exceptional cases like field problems in unable to demarcate boundaries due to lack of landmarks, a 10% deviation was generally allowed on either side “but this has to be an exception and not a rule”, he contended. If the 10% deviation was allowed, each division should have either about 45,000 voters each on the lower side or 55,000 voters each on the higher side. Applying this criteria shows 68 divisions to be having either more or less than the prescribed average number of voters. For instance, division 59 - Mylardevpally has 79,290 voters whereas division 112 - Ramachandrapuram has 27,831 voters only. “The haphazard work done earlier is being repeated again despite being pointed out then. GHMC had five years to rectify the obvious errors but did not do it. We feel it goes against the rules of natural justice and conducting polls with such defective division is a violation of law”, the secretary added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/defective-divisions-in-ghmc-fgg/article33080291.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘BJP will win up to 100 divisions in GHMC polls’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in a position to win up to 100 divisions of the 150 in the forthcoming GHMC polls as the Dubbak by-election has given a boost with Telangana people deciding to put an end to the TRS family rule, said party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday. “Our own survey before this poll verdict showed we stand a chance to win upto 75 divisions and it will only increase after this result. Both Mayor and Deputy Mayor will be from our party. People have put additional responsibility on us as they see it as an effective alternative to TRS,” he claimed in a virtual press conference. “Intellectuals and citizens from across all sections of the society have welcomed the by-election result. People are no longer ready to trust KCR and his government for not fulfilling a single election promise,” he said. His advice to the Chief Minister was to “take note of the resentment among people, stop using the police to harass the Opposition and come down from the ivory tower as his dictatorial attitude is harming Telangana.” Mr. Sanjay Kumar said that the party was “ready to cooperate with the government on development but first he and his ministers have to give appointment to the Opposition and listen.” The by-election win has been a “team effort” and the party will fight GHMC elections in a planned manner, he said. The twin cities has been neglected in the last six years as was reflected in the recent flooding and paltry compensation offered, which was also usurped by the TRS activists, had only added insult to injury to the scores of affected families, charged the party chief. He repeated his charge of the TRS government not providing succour to the common people either in COVID management or during the floods. “Farmers, government employees, private sector employees, unemployed youth, every section has been under stress but there has been no help from the government,” he claimed. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy also accused the TRS government of failing to provide relief and rehabilitation to the affected families of the recent floods and for COVID-19. “The TRS government should stop spreading disinformation about the Centre not providing any funds and reeled out money allotted in recent times under various schemes. Even the Kaleshwaram project has been funded by the central financial institutions,” he said. “The KCR government has pushed TS into a debt trap and is yet to submit a report to the Centre for flood relief,” he claimed. The issue of phone-tapping of BJP leaders during the Dubbak poll campaign will be taken up with the Election Commission, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-to-win-up-to-100-divisions-in-ghmc-polls/article33080296.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stabilisation of Mission Bhagiratha water supply by December-end||The State government has decided to take steps to stabilise supply of safe drinking water through its flagship programme Mission Bhagiratha to remote areas including thandas and tribal habitations by December-end. Completion of stabilisation works would ensure supply of drinking water to all households across the State. Secretary in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) Smitha Sabharwal said that high standards in line with the norms set by the World Health Organisation (WHO) were adopted in water treatment under Mission Bhagiratha as a result of which water supplied through the Mission was better than mineral water available in the market. Reviewing the progress of Mission Bhagiratha works with chief engineers and superintending engineers on Wednesday, she sought feedback from the districts and expressed satisfaction over the pace of stabilisation works at village level. All thandas and tribal habitations from Adilabad to Amrabad were receiving water supply through Mission Bhagiratha and steps should be taken to expedite works on supply of safe water to the remaining 126 isolated habitations. Steps should also be taken to see that Rythu Vedikas and Viakuntadhamams being constructed by the government were given connections to supply Mission Bhagiratha water. She appreciated the officials concerned for utilising water bottles with Mission Bhagiratha labels in the meeting and directed them to follow the practice in all the meetings related to the prestigious project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stabilisation-of-mb-water-supply-by-dec-end/article33080298.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Decisive win for AIMIM even as it ups its nationwide tally||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s (AIMIM) impressive victory in Bihar is perhaps the most significant, outside its home turf of Hyderabad. The party fielded candidates for 20 seats in the recent polls, even as Akhtarul Iman, its Bihar State president, supplanted a six-time Congress legislator in Amour, and won by a margin of over 52,000 votes over his nearest rival. The party, with its headquarters at Darussalaam in Hyderabad, managed to bag five seats – Amour, Kochadhaman, Jokihat, Baisi and Bahadurgunj – in the recently concluded Assembly polls. The winners Akhtarul Iman, Muhammed Izhar Asfi, Shahnawaz Alam, Syed Ruknuddin and Azher Nayeemi arrived in the city on Wednesday to meet party president Asaduddin Owaisi. They were given a rousing welcome at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport. With this win, the AIMIM has become an important player in Bihar, given the current equation of 125 seats with the National Democratic Alliance and 115 with the Mahagatbandhan. It is believed that the Owaisi brothers-led party will exert more pull, despite the fact that it is still to be seen what stance it takes vis-a-vis the Rashtriya Janata Dal and its allies. The AIMIM had allied with Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and others to form the Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF). In a press conference on the night of his party’s victory on Tuesday, Mr Owaisi said that the outcome was the opposite in connection with the performance of the GDSF, but thanked BSP chief Mayawati and Mr Kushwaha. Taking to Twitter on Wednesday, Mr. Owaisi lashed out at the Congress for accusing it of being a vote-splitter. He said that on the 20 seats which the AIMIM had contested, his party won five, the Mahagatbandhan won nine, and the NDA bagged six. “On the seats where NDA won, the victory margin was higher than our votes. NDA would have won regardless on these seats. In Sherghati, RJD fielded a candidate from extremist Durga Vahini, but still won. What does this say about radicalisation & vote cutters? (sic)” he said. With its tally in the Bihar polls, the AIMIM across the country has two members of Parliament — meaning one each in Hyderabad and Aurangabad — nine legislators (including two members of Legislative Council) in Telangana and two legislators (Malegaon and Dhule) in Maharashtra. It has several representatives in local bodies in Telangana State, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. For instance, in Uttar Pradesh, the party has 33 representatives in local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/decisive-win-for-aimim-even-as-it-ups-its-nationwide-tally/article33080437.ece
12 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Wales to hone job skills of TS youth||To promote research, entrepreneurship, and innovation and improving employability and skills among students in Telangana, the Government of Wales and the Telangana government signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) here on Wednesday. Education Minister P. Sabitha Indra Reddy was present on the occasion while Education Minister of Wales, Kirsty Williams joined online for the ceremony. Barbara Wickham OBE, Director India, British Council; Janaka Pushpanathan, Director, South India; T. Papi Reddy, Chairman of Telangana State Higher Education Council; R. Limbadri, vice chairman, TSCHE and Sreenivas Rao, secretary, TSCHE were among present. The MoU will facilitate the development of collaborative and mutually beneficial programmes in Telangana and contribute to increased research and social linkages in the field of Higher Education between the two entities and is a result of longstanding collaboration between the Telangana government and the UK. Ms. Sabitha Indra Reddy said the programmes planned under the MoU will ensure long-lasting academic and social linkages with the higher education institutions in Wales. Ms. Wickham said this first-of-its-kind partnership between an Indian state and Wales will help strengthen international exchange between the higher education sectors of India and the UK, leading to greater research, innovation and stronger education systems. Prof. Papi Reddy felt the Welsh Government’s global outlook and expertise were invaluable while Prof. Limbadri said the programmes will ensure that our students are trained as per the global assessment standards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wales-to-hone-employability-skills-of-telangana-students/article33080287.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Elderly couple awaits news of son washed away in Musi||Shaik Mehtab saw the last of his son on a video clip. The video shot on a mobile phone showed Musi River in a swirling rage, carrying away his son, Shaik Amir, in its current. Twenty-year-old Amir’s head was a black speck, bobbing up and down along the flow before fading away, near Bahadurpura, about four kilometres from his home at Asad Baba Nagar in Kishanbagh. “It was a Sunday, and my son who worked as a painter, took the day off. He came to me around 11.30 a.m., asking for Rs. 20. That was the last I saw him. At about 2 p.m., I got a call from his friends informing that he was washed away in Musi,” recalled his mother Khatija Begum, breaking down in sobs. The incident was reported on October 18, when, after two intensive bouts of incessant rain, Hyderabad experienced severe inundation across various localities. Flood water was being released from the Himayatsagar reservoir into the Musi River downstream. Visited grandfather’s grave Mr.Mehtab recalls Amir went to the graveyard on the river bank to place flowers on his grandfather’s tomb. Nobody at the spot could clearly say what happened later, but only that within seconds, heavy inflows came into the river, and in the next blink, Amir was seen floating away. His knowledge of swimming was evidently not of much use. Twenty-five days after his disappearance, there is no trace of either him or his body. Complaints were made at Bahadurpura and Chaderghat Police Stations, but to no avail. “I was working as a rickshaw-puller before I was operated on for a stomach problem. After staying in Osmania General Hospital for over a month, they said I should not pull rickshaw anymore. My son was the only breadwinner of the family. All my four daughters are married, and have their own families. Who will look after us in this old age,” asked Mehtab, who looks much older than his 55 years. No income The family has had no income since the day Amir was washed away, and is now panicking about payment of rent for the house they are staying in. “There is no money to buy medicines for the old man either. We are in the midst of an ocean. No leader has visited us or offered any help,” wailed Amir’s mother. Amir was not the only one to have been washed away in Musi. Two bodies were fished out from the river near Valigonda in the past 20 days. Valigonda police said the bodies were checked by their counterparts in Hyderabad, but could not be tallied with that of any missing person in their limits. Both were registered as unidentified bodies, and buried.  (With inputs from B.Pradeep in   Nalgonda)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/elderly-couple-awaits-news-of-son-washed-away-in-musi/article33080289.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spotlight on State’s tourism potential||Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar has stressed the need to tap the huge tourism potential in the State in view of its heritage sites, flora and fauna and attractive locales. He said the State witnessed significant progress in water supply and management, irrigation, power, law and order situation and improved ease of doing business besides reducing pendency of business litigations on account of quicker disposal of cases through commercial courts. Mr. Vinod Kumar was interacting with the Ministry of External Affairs Officer on Special Duty (States) C. Rajasekhar on Wednesday. Mr. Rajasekhar explained that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had directed the External Affairs Ministry to work with different States to ensure better coordination and growth in relationships of States with other countries. The initiative was aimed at working synergistically with different States to build effective relationships. The meeting discussed the avenues and scope for improving ties and promoting all-round progress and prosperity. Discussions were also held on the process for substantially enhancing foreign tourist footfalls that would lead to improving employability and entrepreneurship in Telangana. Mr. Rajasekhar, who hails from the State, said a joint high-level meeting of the External Affairs Ministry with Telangana government could be planned in Hyderabad for developing an action plan to facilitate better interaction and interface between the two. Mr. Vinod Kumar, according to a press release, congratulated the officer for his keen interest to work with States and hoped that investment possibilities and potentials would emerge from such interactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/turning-the-spotlight-on-states-tourism-potential/article33080285.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Uniform mutation fee for transactions of all non-agricultural properties in GPs||The State government has announced that the mutation fee for different transactions on non-agricultural properties in gram panchayats would be uniform across the State. Accordingly, the gram panchayats are directed to collect mutation fee of 0.1% of the registration value of the property or Rs. 800, whichever is higher, at the time of registration of non-agricultural immovable properties by way of sale, succession, gift and other modes. The development follows insertion of a new section, Section 65A, introducing the concept of instant mutation by registration department through online mode in Dharani portal. The new section was inserted to ensure that wherever there was a transaction in respect of any non-agricultural property, the mutation of the property in the gram panchayat records would take place automatically and through online mode in the Dharani portal. However, the Panchayat Raj and Rural Employment Commission represented that there was no specific procedure prescribed for fixation of mutation rates as per the gram panchayat resolution. As a result, rates of mutation were being fixed differently in different gram panchayats without any uniformity. The government had accordingly decided to bring in uniformity in the collection of mutation fee across the gram panchayats. The Panchayat Raj and Rural Employment Commissioner and the Inspector General of Registration and Stamps department were directed to take necessary steps in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uniform-mutation-fee-for-deals-of-all-non-agricultural-properties-in-gps/article33080297.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Junior doctors at Gandhi boycott duty||Junior doctors from Gandhi Medical College have boycotted COVID-19 duties from Wednesday demanding that non-COVID services be resumed at the State government hospital. Post-Graduate students and House Surgeons (MBBS Interns) come under the umbrella term ‘Junior Doctors’. Around 600 PGs and 200 House Surgeons have boycotted the duties. From the end of March, only COVID-19 are being admitted at the tertiary care centre. Starting from newborns to the elderly , all COVID patients with any health complication such as cancer, kidney failure, are treated at the hospital. The junior doctors, faculty, nurses, Class-IV workers are engaged in attending only COVID-19 patients. As per the media bulletin issued by Health department, out of 1,890 beds in the hospital, 351 were occupied on Tuesday, including 221 patients in ICU. The junior doctors stated that they are losing out on clinical exposure from the past seven months. Earlier, Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA)-Gandhi Medical College (GMC) unit members submitted representations regarding this issue to the officials in the State Health department, and Health Minister Eatala Rajender. President of the TJUDA GMC unit Dr K Shashidhar Reddy said that they will join duties after non-COVID services in all departments are resumed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/junior-doctors-at-gandhi-boycott-duty/article33080284.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Irrum Manzil metro skywalk to mall opened||L&T Metro Rail-Hyderabad CEO and managing director K.V.B. Reddy inaugurated the skywalk at Irrum Manzil metro station connecting L&T Next Galleria mall in the area on Wednesday. “This is a good way to avoid traffic and pollution, and also to hop and shop. This is in addition to skywalks at Punjagutta metro station connecting L&T Next Galleria-Punjagutta, and Hitec City metro station connecting L&T Next Galleria-Hitec City malls,” he said in a press release. “Efficient, reliable and comfortable public transportation system with emphasis on a transit-oriented development contributed significantly towards improving the liveability index of Hyderabad. The skywalk at Irrum Manzil metro is an example of this, “ he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/irrum-manzil-metro-skywalk-to-mall-opened/article33080424.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Marginal dip in State’s daily COVID cases||Telangana recorded 1,196 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 2,53,651. While 44,635 people were examined, results of 555 were awaited. Five more patients died. The new cases include 192 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 121 from Rangareddy, 101 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 89 from Nalgonda and 81 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem. The lowest of three cases were from Narayanpet while Jogulamba-Gadwal and Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district reported four cases each. Of the 44,635 people who were tested, 41,600 chose government health facilities. From March 2 till November 10, a total of 47,29,401 samples have been put to test. Of the total cases, 18,027 are active while 2,34,234 have recovered. The death toll stands at 1,390. At the 61 government hospitals, there was an availability of 4,586 oxygen beds and 1,401 ICU beds on Tuesday. In the 225 private hospitals, 2,897 oxygen beds and 2,233 ICU beds were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/marginal-dip-in-states-daily-covid-cases/article33080422.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Body of unidentified man found||The body of an unidentified man was found on Wednesday near the Dargah Crossroads, Cyberabad police said. The victim, aged between 35 and 40, was suspected to have been hit on the head by unknown persons. His body was covered with a white sheet. The victim was wearing gray trousers and a blue vest. The body had names ‘Vanaja’, ‘Chinni’ and ‘Anusha’ tattooed on them. The Raidurgam police booked a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/body-of-unidentified-man-found/article33080292.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Deccan Dialogue to be held on November 16||The third edition of the Deccan Dialogue is scheduled to be held on November 16. The event is being organized by the Indian School of Business in partnership with the External Affairs Ministry with the theme – “ Crisis and Cooperation – Imperative in times of the pandemic ”- and the event would be conducted on virtual platform. The Deccan Dialogue is an annual flagship event of the ISB aimed at promoting multi-stakeholder conversations on various aspects of diplomacy and the country’s external engagement. The meeting to be held on a virtual platform would be inaugurated by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/deccan-dialogue-to-be-held-on-november-16/article33080430.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sandalwood trees chopped and stolen||As many as 13 sandalwood trees were chopped off and smuggled out of the Indira Park, Gandhinagar police said on Wednesday. Police, said the incident took place late on Sunday night when unidentified persons cut the trees and managed to smuggle out the logs. “ On Monday, we got a complaint from the Forest Range officer. The sandalwood trees are 70 kg in weight. There are two gates with security guards at each gate. We began investigating the case and are examining CCTV footage,” Gandhinagar inspector N Mohan Rao said. Since there are CCTVs installed and the gates are closed, police are suspecting role of park staff, Mr Rao said. A theft and trespass case was booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sandalwood-trees-chopped-and-stolen/article33080295.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Passenger detained||An passenger who arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport was detained after customs officials allegedly found gold bars concealed on his person. The passenger arrived on flight number G8 6652. The gold bars weighing 233.06 grams are valued at Rs. 12.22 lakh were allegedly concealed in specially tailored pockets in the passengers jeans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/passenger-detained/article33080294.ece
12 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Bhatti faults new farm laws||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka alleged that the detrimental provisions of the Centre's new farm laws will inflict irreparable harm to the farm sector virtually allowing crony capitalists to monopolise it and fleece farmers flagrantly, eventually weakening the national economy. The TRS dispensation is dictating terms to farmers in the State on cultivation of crops by thrusting unilateral policies, he charged, slamming both the Central and State governments for allegedly pursuing "anti-farmer" policies thereby "exacerbating" the plight of farmers. Mr Vikramarka was addressing a huge gathering of farmers at Tanikella in Konijerla mandal near here on Wednesday evening after leading a mega tractor rally involving scores of farmers to protest against the "anti-farmer" policies of the persons at the helm. Earlier, Mr Vikramarka led a huge cavalcade of tractors, driving a tractor with a host of senior Congress leaders on board the vehicle, from Gollapudi in Wyra mandal to the venue of the public meeting covering a distance of around 30 km. Addressing the gathering, he said scores of farmers took part in the tractor rally christened "Rythu Polikeka" from far and wide to express their dissent against the "anti-agriculture farm laws." "The Centre unilaterally passed the three farm acts heedless of the widespread opposition from the Congress party and other Opposition parties besides almost the entire farming community," he flayed. He said the "anti-farm measures" sounded a death knell for the agricultural sector making the farmers vulnerable to the "exploitative tactics" of the big corporate entities. This would in turn undermine food security, destabilise the lives of crores of farmers and pose a huge burden on consumers as the crony capitalists are bound to create artificial scarcity of food grains and other agricultural commodities, he further alleged. "The TRS regime in the State is acting in a dictatorial manner depriving the farmers of minimum support price for the Sanna variety of paddy (a superfine variety of rice) and leaving the recent unseasonal rain affected farmers in dire straits," the CLP leader criticised. AICC secretary Srinivasan Krishnan, TPCC working presidents A Revanth Reddy, Ponnam Prabhakar and Kusum Kumar, former PCC presidents V Hanumantha Rao and P Lakshmaiah, among others took part in the tractor rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhatti-faults-new-farm-laws/article33080439.ece
12 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||BRF||As many as six new two-wheelers were inducted into the women’s safety wing of the Khammam police commissionerate on Wednesday. The bikes were flagged off by Police Commissioner Tafseer Iqbal. Additional DCP (Administration) Injarapu Pooja and women safety wing personnel were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33080304.ece
12 November 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Ex-prisoner booked for eight house-breakings||A former prisoner at the Nalgonda jail was booked in eight cases of house-breaking and theft, and Rs. 17 lakh worth gold and silver articles were seized from him, the Nalgonda one-town police said on Wednesday. Vangala Saidulu, a resident of Kethepally mandal, had a history of stealing and had served his punishment. Displaying good conduct, he has since been working at the food court outside the district jail, being maintained by the prison authority Presenting the accused before media persons, the police said the 27-year-old targeted locked houses and used an iron rod to break in. The police probe into the thefts began in August, when an aggrieved resident of Chaitanyapuri colony reported missing of gold articles and about Rs. 8 lakh from his house, Inspector N. Suresh said. Apart from several residential colonies in the town, the accused had targeted houses in Munugode, Nakrekal and Shaligowraram. Including a theft in 2019, he was involved in nine instances this year, the police said. “He had presented himself as a reformed prisoner, but continued with theft, even while working in the store just outside the prison and at the fuel-filling station,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ex-prisoner-booked-for-eight-house-breakings/article33080428.ece
12 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Swarnajayanti Fellowship for IITH associate professor||Dr. Chandra Shekhar Sharma, associate professor, Department of Chemical Engineering and Creative & Advanced Research Based On Nanomaterials (CARBON) Laboratory, IITH, has been awarded the prestigious Swarnajayanti Fellowship 2019-2020 for his proposed work on Metals CO2 battery. Dr. Sharma will receive due support from DST and SERB to further develop this concept which can play a pivotal role in India’s 2024 Mars Mission and fixing the CO2 emissions that cause global warming. His work has two major aspects. First, an appropriate energy storage system especially suitable for the extreme environment which has always been a challenge for all space agencies. Since Mars atmosphere primarily consists of CO2, the broad objective of this concept is to scientifically explore and develop a working prototype of Metal (M)-CO2 battery technology to explore the feasibility of this technology in the Mars mission particularly for the surface landers and rovers by using the CO2 gas (95.32%) abundantly available in its atmosphere. Development of Metal-CO2 batteries will provide high specific energy density with the reduction in mass and volume which will help the reduction of payload mass and launch cost in planetary missions. A real battery prototype will be developed as an outcome of this fellowship and ISRO and DRDO will be brought on board in the early phase of the project for timely inputs. The second important aspect of this proposal is to develop Metal-CO2 battery technology also as a clean strategy for restraining the climate effects of CO2 emissions on earth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/swarnajayanti-fellowship-for-iith-associate-professor/article33080432.ece
12 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||IITH start-up wins award||The Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad students’ startup IBRUM Technologies co-developed by Design department research scholar Priyabrata Rautray and former CfHE fellow of IITH Nibedit Dey has won the best 10 start-up awards (product category) at 28th Annual Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) Awards for Swatchh Air. They were guided by Prof. Deepak John Mathew, Head of the Department. Swatchh Air is a low-cost air stabilisation system that reduces the overall viral load in the air. The solution is a UVGI (Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation) and negative ionization based system to sterilise rooms with the possible presence of harmful pathogens like coronavirus. The product also received one-year associate membership of TiE Hyderabad along with mentoring. “We are all proud of the team and we wish them to bring out many more innovative products,” said Prof B.S. Murty, director, IITH. The product was conceptualized under the BUILD (Bold and Unique Ideas Leading to Development) project scheme initiated by the director to support the start-up spirit and entrepreneurship among students. A working prototype has been deployed at IITH. There are two variants of the product, one is for air sterilization and another for surface sterilization. Air sterilization can be done in infected places, isolation wards, quarantine centres, and prevent further transmission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iith-start-up-wins-award/article33080431.ece
12 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Dynamics change post-Dubbak results||The by-poll ‘surprise’ thrown by voters of Dubbak has many ramifications not only in the constituency but across the State. The victory of BJP candidate M. Raghunandan Rao, though with a slender margin of 1,079 votes, has shocked many political parties and observers. Everybody had guessed that ruling TRS candidate S. Sujatha would emerge successful with at least a small margin if not with a majority it got last time, which was about 62,000 votes. But, BJP workers proved them wrong with their meticulous planning. They worked at the field and interacted with voters non-stop and were confident till the last minute. “About 5,000 BJP activists from different parts of the State had arrived here, stayed in function halls, spent money from their own pockets and worked for the party voluntarily. The victory was not easy and has the sweat of one and many,” commented a BJP worker at the counting centre. It seems the sympathy factor worked after seizure of money from the house of a relative of BJP candidate Raghunandan Rao at the district headquarters one week before polling. But, despite all this, TRS president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had openly said that the ground was very clear for the party in Dubbak. “For reasons best known to them, the TRS leadership left the entire responsibility of campaigning on the shoulders of Finance Minister Harish Rao. Neither Mr. KCR nor his son and TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao campaigned in Dubbak. They had double advantage. If the party won, they could have claimed that the State government schemes attracted voters and people had rejected the farm Acts introduced by the Union government. Now, that they have lost, the entire blame will be put on Mr. Harish Rao, who had already accepted that he is responsible for the defeat,” said a party leader, recalling how he was kept outside the Cabinet for more than six months. “Mr. KCR has been wanting to clear ground for Mr. Rama Rao to become the next Chief Minister and this is the godsend opportunity. Tough times are ahead for him,” commented another leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dynamics-change-post-dubbak/article33080301.ece
12 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||TRS worker ends life||A TRS worker committed suicide late on Tuesday night by hanging himself from a tree after the defeat in the Dubbak by-election. According to sources, Bokkala Swamy (32) was a die-hard TRS supporter, and like many others, was shocked at the Dubbak result. Unable to digest it, he hanged himself at Konayipally village of Daulatabad mandal. Finance Minister Harish Rao along with Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy and Forest Corporation chairman Onteru Pratap Reddy rushed to the village and consoled the family. The Minister also took part in his last rites. “Victory and defeat are part and parcel of all polls,” he said and gave Rs. 2 lakh to his kin.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-worker-ends-life/article33080302.ece
12 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BRF||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao helped two youth, who were injured in a road accident at Masaipet, reach hospital on Wednesday. According to sources, while Mr. Harish Rao was returning to Hyderabad from Daulatabad in the afternoon, he found the duo who had fallen from a motor-cycle. He immediately stopped his vehicle and called the local police. He then instructed the police to shift the injured to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-helps-2-hurt-youth-reach-hospital/article33080303.ece
12 November 2020||V. GeetanathHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGRI develops drone-based geographical survey system||CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) has developed a unique drone-based geophysical survey system based on in-house design useful for mineral exploration, mapping of basement topography and also for aquifer mapping of different geological terrains. Director V.M. Tiwari informed on Wednesday that besides the ground magnetic surveys, in recent times, heliborne or airborne magnetic surveys are being frequently conducted using a magnetometer aboard or towed behind an aircraft or a helicopter. A magnetic system is required on ground to record variations. The Drone – the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)-based magnetic exploration system can provide an effective, fast and economical alternative as it is more versatile and economical compared to other aerial methods, such as manned aircraft and helicopters. Also, they can be used for remote inaccessible areas as they are small and lightweight. As a pilot project, NGRI has used a lightweight and sensitive magneto-meter towed behind an indigenously developed UAV for acquisition of high-resolution magnetic data, explained the director. It was tested near Yacharam off the Hyderabad–Nagarjunasagar road, about 51 km from here and was flown at a speed of 5 metres/sec about 35 metres above the ground. “The present study has successfully demonstrated the capability of UAV-Magnetic survey, which is cost-effective, faster and reliable,” he said. The demonstration was part of the ‘CSIR Mission Mode project on Drone based Electromagnetic and Magnetic System (DREAM)’ and the technology is to be used on a larger scale to map natural resources in the newly formed Union Territory of Ladakh, said Dr. Tiwari. CSIR-Director General Shankar C. Mande, during the recent virtual diamond jubilee celebrations of the institute, remarked that this could be the game changer to know about the underground water availability for better management. This is also because NGRI had earlier demonstrated that it is possible to do aquifer mapping of different geological terrains and had shown the depletion of water resources too with the help of satellite data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ngri-develops-drone-based-geographical-survey-system/article33080429.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Winter wares||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/winter-wares/article33080434.ece
12 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana CM unveils ‘Project Air Care’ for Gurugram||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Wednesday unveiled ‘Project Air Care’, under which 65 Wind Augmentation Purifying Units will be installed across Gurugram through public-private partnership. “The rising levels of air pollution in Haryana, especially Gurugram, is a case of serious concern. As we move towards the festive season, we would like to bring some relief to citizens with the installation of multiple air purifiers at strategic junctions,” said Mr. Lal. He also inaugurated a project for the beautification of the Gateway of Gurugram on the Mehrauli-Gurugram Road. In a bid to put the Millennium City on the world map, Gurugram will be developed as the “smartest city” in the country and for this a new municipal corporation in Manesar has been proposed, said the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/haryana-cm-unveils-project-air-care-for-gurugram/article33079999.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Daily COVID-19 cases cross 8K for first time||The Capital on Wednesday witnessed the biggest single-day spike in the number of new infections with 8,593 fresh COVID-19 cases being reported in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. As many as 85 deaths were reported in a single day, taking the death toll to 7,228. Tuesday had also witnessed a record number of new COVID-19 cases.  Of the total 4,59,975 cases, 4,10,118 people have recovered and there are now 42,629 active cases. “Three times more tests are being done now as compared to the last peak. It is clear this is the third wave,” Health Minister Satyendar Jain told reporters. “On September 10, we had issued an order to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals for COVID-19, but the Delhi High Court stayed that. On Thursday, the High Court will hear the case and we hope to get relief, he said when asked about shortage of beds for treatment. Of the total 16,511 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 51.4% were occupied, as per government data. Also, 86.3% of the ICU beds with ventilators are occupied and 83.6% of the ICU beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate was 13.4% and the overall positivity rate till now is 8.74%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/daily-covid-19-cases-cross-8k-for-first-time/article33080273.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhiites get respite from ‘severe’ pollution, but it may not last long||The air quality of Delhi and Noida improved to ‘very poor’ category on Wednesday after remaining in the ‘severe’ category for six consecutive days while Gurugram’s air quality entered ‘poor’ category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The CPCB has also directed hot mix plants and stone crushers to remain closed in Delhi-NCR till November 17. The air quality of Delhi is expected to again deteriorate on Friday. Very high air pollution levels can cause respiratory illness on “prolonged exposure”, said the CPCB.  Farm fires “Punjab and Haryana must take immediate stringent action to curb stubble burning. Biomass burning in Delhi and other NCR towns must also be strictly checked,” the order said. The CPCB also said that different agencies must ensure compliance of court orders regarding ban on sale and use of firecrackers. “Easterly winds are forecast in the first half of tomorrow [Thursday], which is likely to improve Air Quality Index (AQI) further towards the middle-end of the ‘very poor’ category, which would be short-lived. Deterioration is expected on Friday towards the higher end of ‘very poor’ category. This is mainly due to expected calm winds and a shift towards north-westerly direction,” said government-run monitoring agency System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) in a statement. The PM2.5 level in Delhi was 170.5 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3) at 7 p.m. on Wednesday — about three times the safe limit of 60 ug/m3, as per Indian standards. The 24-hour average AQI of Delhi was 344 on Wednesday, the values for Gurugram and Noida were 288 and 309, respectively.  The stubble burning fire count in Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring border regions of Delhi reduced slightly to reach 4,528 on Tuesday. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi reduced to around 3% on Wednesday, as per SAFAR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-gets-respite-from-severe-pollution-but-it-may-not-last-long/article33079991.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Do not encourage use of firecrackers, Rai tells BJP||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said the city government has decided to extend the ‘Red light on, Gaadi Off’ campaign to curb vehicular pollution till November 30. He also urged the BJP to not encourage people to burst firecrackers. ‘Mute spectator’ “Firecrackers have been banned but BJP leaders do not seem to support this decision. Statements by BJP leaders are encouraging youngsters to burst firecrackers. The Centre has been a mute spectator for the past two months and has not taken any action [to curb air pollution]. I want to appeal to the BJP with folded hands to not encourage youngsters of Delhi to burst crackers,” Mr. Rai said during a press conference. The campaign was to continue till November 15 but has now been extended. It will be called ‘Phase 2’ of the campaign, he said.   Around 2,500 marshals will be deputed at 100 junctions across the Capital. “The Delhi government has sprayed bio-decomposer solution developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, on 2,000 acres of land across Delhi. This solution has converted stubble into manure to prevent burning of stubble,” Mr. Rai said, adding that a 15-member panel will prepare a report on the impact of bio-decomposer and it will be submitted to the Chief Minister on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/do-not-encourage-use-of-firecrackers-rai-tells-bjp/article33079996.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Man surrenders to police after killing sister-in-law||A 26-year-old man allegedly killed his sister-in-law and surrendered to the police in north-east Delhi’s Karawal Nagar, officials said on Wednesday. The incident took place on Tuesday afternoon. The police said that one Rohit came to the DCP office around 3.30 p.m. on Tuesday and said that he had killed his sister-in-law. “The SHO and other officials of Karawal Nagar police station went to the accused’s house and found the body,” DCP (North-East) Ved Prakash Surya said. Mr. Rohit said that he and the woman, who was his brother’s wife, used to fight frequently. His elder brother had died by suicide three years ago and the woman used to live with the accused. The woman had asked Mr. Rohit not to live with his mother and they used to fight over this issue often, a senior police officer said. On Tuesday, an argument had ensued between them. Around 2.30 p.m., Mr. Rohit strangled her, they said. A case was filed and Mr. Rohit was arrested, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-surrenders-to-police-after-killing-sister-in-law/article33079998.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Businessman arrested for forging ASI letter||A 49-year-old businessman was arrested for allegedly forging a letter bearing the name of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to sell his property located in Panchsheel Park, the police said on Wednesday. The accused, Varun Krishan Vij, is a resident of Panchsheel Park. In 2012-13, he had started his consultancy firm. However, since the last seven-eight years, his business was not doing well and he wanted to sell his property in Panchsheel Park . He forged an NOC issued by the ASI to sell the property, situated at a distance of 40.5 metres from a protected monument of the ASI. Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) O.P. Mishra said that a case was registered against Mr. Vij on the complaint of one Ajay Chaudhary, wherein he alleged that in 2011, he wanted to purchase a property in Panchsheel Park, during which the accused approached him. After due negotiations, Mr. Chaudhary observed that the property is in the vicinity of a protected monument. “The accused produced a copy of letter dated February 2, 2012 issued by the ASI, confirming that the property is situated at a distance of 200.5 metres from the protected monument and said that the competent authority had directed him to submit an application for construction,” he said. Mr. Chaudhary entered into an agreement to buy his property Rs. 21.21 crore. In pursuance of this agreement, he paid a sum of Rs. 7.21 crore from his personal account and Rs. 1.10 crore from his company’s account. However, after receiving the payment, the accused did not transfer the property. As per the agreement, the sale deed was to be executed by April 2013, but the accused on one pretext or the other, did not execute the sale deed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/businessman-arrested-for-forging-asi-letter/article33079997.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 2,000 residents of unauthorised colonies granted ownership rights: DDA||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday said that ownership rights have so far been given to as many as 2,193 residents of unauthorised colonies. The online scheme, launched in last October to grant ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi, has seen nearly 3.51 lakh registrations and over 42,000 applications under it. “The process of applications is completely online. Applicants have to register on the DDA portal and file applications for ownership rights, following which they can contact designated GIS agencies to carry out the mapping of plots. Upon confirmation by the DDA, applicants can make online payment of charges. They are required to visit the processing centres only in the end for execution of the conveyance deeds or authorisation slips,” said a DDA official. To increase awareness and facilitate the application process, 1,375 Common Service Centres and 28 help desks have been made operational by the urban body. “Training and awareness programmes were conducted for councillors of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Monday. Similar workshops are scheduled for the South and East civic bodies,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2193-residents-of-unauthorised-colonies-granted-ownership-rights-says-dda/article33079992.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||From today, get waiting times at metro stations online||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Wednesday said it will share online the real-time average waiting times at busy stations during peak hours from Thursday onwards. The facility will be available for Chandni Chowk, Chawri Bazar, Patel Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Central Secretariat, Huda City Centre, Lal Quila, Barakhamba Road, JLN Stadium and Saket metro stations among others. Updates will be posted on the official social media handles of the DMRC during peak hours (8.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m.; and 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.), said officials. Over 20 minutes “The operations employees at these stations will monitor the crowd during peak hours and assess waiting time. This will be conveyed to commuters if it goes beyond 20 minutes through official social media pages of the DMRC. In case of any fluctuation in traffic or crowd, the waiting time will be modified accordingly,” DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal said. Currently, commuters can enter metro stations if they strictly adhere to prescribed norms. The number of passengers on trains are also restricted to maintain social distancing. “The selection of these stations for providing updates has been done on the basis of traffic observed during peak hours. This is being started on an experimental basis and will be considered for implementation on more stations if required, on the basis of the feedback received from commuters,” Mr. Dayal added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/from-today-get-waiting-times-at-metro-stations-online/article33079993.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Delhi govt. should compensate traders hit crackers ban move’||Senior BJP leader Vijay Goel on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to the National Green Tribunal urging it to direct the Delhi government to compensate traders hit by the decision banning firecrackers in the city. “The Delhi government issued licences and its Environment Minister said green crackers would be allowed, but then all crackers were banned” Mr. Goel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-should-compensate-traders-hit-crackers-ban-move/article33079994.ece
12 November 2020||Mumbai,||Arnab moves court for anticipatory bail||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami has filed for anticipatory bail before the City Civil and Sessions Court in a case charging him with deterring the police from discharging their duty when they came to arrest him on November 4. The FIR was filed at the NM Joshi police station under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 (mischief causing damage to public property) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. Under Section 353, he can be punished with imprisonment that may extend to two years, or with a fine, or both. Mr. Goswami was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court on Wednesday in the 2018 case of abetting the suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik. A suicide note believed to have been written by Naik mentioned that Mr. Goswami did not pay him Rs. 83 lakh for the “Bombay Dyeing studio project.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/arnab-moves-court-for-anticipatory-bail/article33079910.ece
12 November 2020||Mumbai,||Arjun Rampal’s girlfriend appears before NCB||Actor Arjun Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella Demetriades appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday as part of its probe into the alleged drug use in Bollywood, an official said. Ms. Demetriades reached the NCB’s zonal office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai in her car just before 12 p.m.. A large number of media persons gathered outside the office.On Monday, the NCB had carried out a search at Mr. Rampal’s residence. It had asked Mr. Rampal and Ms. Demetriades to join the investigation on Wednesday. However, sources said that Mr. Rampal is likely to be questioned by the NCB on Thursday. Producer’s wife held The search at the residence of the model-turned-actor came a day after the NCB arrested Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife Shabana Saeed after ganja was allegedly found at their residence in Juhu. The NCB had seized electronic gadgets like laptops, mobile phones, and tablets during the search at Mr. Rampal’s residence and questioned the actor’s driver. Last month, Ms. Ms. Demetriades’s brother Agisilaos Demetriades was arrested by the NCB from a resort in Lonavala in a drugs case, the official had said. It was alleged that he was in touch with drug peddlers. Last Thursday, a court had awarded the anti-drugs agency his custody along with that of executive producer Kshitij Prasad in another drugs case in which four gram of cocaine was recovered from a Nigerian national Uka Emeka in Andheri last month. The NCB had launched a probe into the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs. The Central agency had earlier arrested Rajput’s girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late filmstar, and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act. Ms. Chakraborty and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/arjun-rampals-girlfriend-appears-before-ncb/article33079908.ece
12 November 2020||Pune,||Bihar polls: people don’t care for Cong. leadership any more, says Ambedkar||The Congress’s dismal performance in the Bihar Assembly polls clearly showed that people did not care for the party’s leadership, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) chief Prakash Ambedkar said on Wednesday. Mr. Ambedkar, the grandson of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar, further said that a united front of regional parties like the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) was required to halt the ‘Modi wave’ in the country. “The Congress could barely win 19 of the 70 seats it contested on. It is a telling indication that people today do not hanker for its leadership any more. It is time for regional party leaders like Tejashwi Yadav [RJD] and Mamata Banerjee [TMC] to head an opposition coalition against Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party [BJP],” he said. Claiming that there was widespread public anger against the Modi government at the Centre, the VBA leader said that the Hindutva issue cut no ice with voters today. “Ultimately, the BJP has failed to achieve a decisive victory in Bihar and voters have rejected its divisive politics. With West Bengal going to polls next year, there is a need for a strong coalition of opposition parties to stop the BJP,” Mr. Ambedkar said. Mr. Ambedkar censured the Congress, particularly for the latter branding his own VBA, which contested the polls, as a ‘vote-breaker’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bihar-polls-people-dont-care-for-cong-leadership-any-more-says-ambedkar/article33079909.ece
12 November 2020||Washington,||America is going to be back, says Biden||President-elect of the U.S. Joe Biden spoke to heads of government and state of four European countries on Tuesday, as per a press release from his transition team. Congratulatory calls are customary after an election victory but they are especially significant this year as Mr. Biden has said he will renew transatlantic relationships, which have frayed under President Donald Trump. “When I’m speaking to foreign leaders, I’m telling them: America is going to be back. We’re going to be back in the game,” Mr. Biden tweeted on Tuesday. Mr. Biden, however, will be facing a world much changed since his time as Vice-President (2008-16) in the Obama administration. Mr. Trump has run an ‘America First’ administration that has pulled back from the central role the U.S. used to play on the world stage and in multilateral forums. On a call with French President Emmanuel Macron, Mr. Biden discussed “his interest in reinvigorating bilateral and trans-Atlantic ties, including through NATO and the EU”. Also discussed were COVID-19 and a sustainable economic recovery, Iran’s nuclear programme, climate change and human rights. Mr. Biden had said earlier that as President, he would offer Iran “a credible path back to diplomacy” — potentially helping to re-instate the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (which collapsed after the U.S. withdrew from it). He has also said he will rejoin the Paris Accord. He also discussed the conflicts in Ukraine and Syria with Mr. Macron, as per the press release. Mr. Biden also spoke with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and “praised her leadership”. Topics Mr. Biden and Ms. Merkel discussed included COVID-19, climate crisis and the sustainable global economic recovery. Mr Biden “also welcomed the opportunity to cooperate on a shared agenda with the EU”. Mr. Trump’s relationship with Ms. Merkel was tense — the two were at loggerheads over tariffs, NATO and their different approaches to immigration. Good Friday Agreement Mr. Biden also spoke with Irish TaoiseachMicheál Martinand British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, with whom Mr. Trump has a warm relationship. Mr. Biden reaffirmed his commitment to the Good Friday Agreement (the Northern Ireland peace agreement) with both leaders. This had been a point of discussion when British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab visited the U.S. in September . “We can’t allow the Good Friday Agreement that brought peace to Northern Ireland to become a casualty of Brexit,” Mr. Biden said at the time. “Any trade deal between the U.S. and the U.K. must be contingent upon respect for the Agreement and preventing the return of a hard border. Period.” “The President-elect [Biden] noted [on his call with Mr. Johnson] that he especially looks forward to working closely together on global challenges as the United Kingdom prepares to host the 2021 G-7 and the UN Climate Change Conference (COP26),” the press release said. Mr. Johnson also announced the congratulatory phone call on Twitter, saying the two had discussed “shared priorities”. Several world leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have congratulated Mr. Biden for his electoral victory since Saturday. Mr. Trump has made unsubstantiated claims of large-scale electoral fraud and has not conceded the election. The New York Times reported that some American Embassy officials have been told not to help with calls between foreign leaders and Mr. Biden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/america-is-going-to-be-back-says-biden/article33079600.ece
12 November 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka yet to take a final call on container terminal||Although the Sri Lankan government  is yet to  declare its  final  position on developing the strategic East Container Terminal (ECT) at the Colombo Port jointly with India and Japan — agreed in May 2019 by the previous government — Port worker unions, which are resisting the project, think Sri Lanka might “concede”. “Colombo seems to be under great pressure from New Delhi to go ahead with this project. We think our government will concede,” Palitha Athukorala, president of the National Union of Seafarers Sri Lanka, told The Hindu . In May 2019, Sri Lanka’s Sirisena-Wickremesinghe administration signed a memorandum of cooperation (MoC) with India and Japan to jointly upgrade the terminal with the aim of enhancing Sri Lanka’s status as a maritime hub. As per the MoC, the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) was to retain 100% ownership, while a jointly-owned Terminal Operations Company — 51% stake with Sri Lanka, and 49% with India and Japan — would run the terminal. Despite the tripartite understanding, the former government was unable to take the deal forward. After President Gotabaya Rajapaksa assumed office in November 2019, the resistance to the project grow louder, including from some opposition parties and port workers opposed to foreign involvement in “national assets”. In July this year, The Hindu Business Line reported that Adani Ports was eyeing the Colombo terminal project, with the Indian government’s backing. More recent international and local media reports on the Gujarat-headquartered Adani Group being the “front-runner” for the project, has put the controversial ECT is under the spotlight again. “We hear that the Adani group is close to the Indian PM and hence the pressure,” Mr. Athukorala said.  Committee of experts However, when contacted, SLPA chairman R. M. Daya Ratnayake, a retired General from the Sri Lankan Army, denied the reports. “The matter would be discussed at the government level, but the SLPA is not aware of any such development,” he told The Hindu . Concurring with him, Cabinet spokesman Keheliya Rambukwella said: “The government has appointed a committee of experts to evaluate the different options to upgrade the Port, but there is no final decision yet.” The SLPA recently sought government approval to operationalise the ECT — only 40 % is complete — to handle the traffic, especially with staffing difficulties due to the pandemic. “We decided to use cranes meant for another terminal at the ECT to deal with the congestion,” Mr. Ratnayake said. Sri Lanka has repeatedly acknowledged the growing shipping traffic in the region and the need to expand operations at the Colombo Port with improved facilities. Over 70% of the transhipment business at the Port is said to come from India. India’s interest in the project has well-known commercial and strategic motives. The ECT adjoins the Colombo International Container Terminal (CICT), the SLPA’s joint venture with China Merchants Port Holdings Company that holds an 85% stake. A deep-water container terminal, the CICT is the busiest at the Colombo Port. The ECT is also located near the China-backed $1.4 billion Port City coming up at reclaimed land at Colombo’s sea front. New Delhi has more reasons to pin its hope on the ECT, especially after the Rajapaksa administration ruled out any Indian involvement in developing the Mattala airport, located near the Chinese-built Hambantota Port — leased to China for 99 years — in the island’s Southern Province. Japan, one of Sri Lanka’s biggest donors over the years, is also keen to help develop the ECT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-yet-to-take-a-final-call-on-container-terminal/article33079596.ece
12 November 2020||Manama,||Bahrain PM, world’s longest-serving, dies at 84||Bahrain’s Prince Khalifa bin Salman al-Khalifa, the world’s longest-serving Prime Minister who had held the post since Independence in 1971, died on Wednesday at the age of 84, the state media announced. Prince Khalifa was a controversial figure during his five decades in office — and deeply unpopular with the Sunni-ruled kingdom’s Shia population. When Shia-led protesters occupied Manama’s Pearl Square for a month in 2011, before being driven out by Saudi-backed security forces, their main demand was for the prince to step down. Quashing opposition He played a key role in Bahrain’s political and economic affairs, including setting the stage for a referendum that put paid to the Shah of Iran’s claims to the tiny Gulf archipelago. But the Prime Minister, who was accused by dissidents of opposing reforms and cracking down on activists, adopted a lower profile in recent years as his age advanced and as Crown Prince Salman played a more prominent role. Prince Khalifa died at the Mayo Clinic Hospital in the United States, the official Bahrain News Agency said. The burial will take place after his remains have been transported home, and in line with coronavirus restrictions only a limited number of relatives will attend. The country will hold a week of official mourning, during which flags will be flown at half-mast. Government Ministries and departments will be closed for three days. Gulf leaders paid tribute, hailing the veteran leader’s long career “that has shaped Bahrain’s recent history”, according to Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bahrain-pm-worlds-longest-serving-dies-at-84/article33079591.ece
12 November 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong disqualifies four pro-democracy lawmakers||Hong Kong’s pro-democracy lawmakers said on Wednesday they would all quit in protest at the ousting of four of their colleagues by the city’s pro-Beijing authorities. The four were disqualified in line with a resolution adopted earlier in the day by China’s Parliament authorising the local government to expel any politician it deemed a threat to national security. The resignations will reduce the semi-autonomous city’s once-feisty legislature to a gathering of Chinese loyalists, effectively ending pluralism in the chamber. They also mark another blow to Hong Kong’s beleaguered pro-democracy movement, which has been under sustained attack since China imposed a sweeping national security law earlier this year. “We... will stand with our colleagues,” Wu Chi-wai, convener of the 15 remaining pro-democracy legislators, told a press conference. “We will resign en masse.” Earlier on Wednesday, Hong Kong authorities ousted the four members just minutes after one of China’s top lawmaking committees ruled the city’s government could remove any legislator deemed a threat to national security without going through the courts. Hong Kong's leader is chosen by pro-Beijing committees, but half of its legislature’s 70 seats are directly elected, offering the city's 7.5 million residents a rare chance to have their voices heard at the ballot box.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-disqualifies-four-pro-democracy-lawmakers/article33079589.ece
12 November 2020||London,||U.K. launches Bill to deter ‘malicious’ takeovers||Britain on Wednesday unveiled plans for new powers to prevent foreign companies snapping up strategic assets in “malicious” takeovers that are deemed to threaten national security. The U.K. government said that its new National Security and Investment Bill will “protect (the) U.K. from malicious investment” and strengthen its ability to investigate and intervene in mergers, acquisitions and other types of deals. The new powers come as increasing Chinese investment has sparked calls from lawmakers for Prime Minister Boris Johnson to take a stronger stance on Beijing. The draft Bill is aimed at updating a 20-year-old law that is no longer sufficient to tackle modern threats, according to a statement from the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. The Bill, which will be introduced before Parliament on Wednesday, will compel companies to inform the government of merger and acquisition activity in sensitive sectors such as defence, energy and transport. ‘No back door entry’ “The U.K. remains one of the most attractive investment destinations in the world and we want to keep it that way,” Business Secretary Alok Sharma said in a statement. “But hostile actors should be in no doubt — there is no back door into the UK.” “This Bill will mean that we can continue to welcome job-creating investment to our shores, while shutting out those who could threaten the safety of the British people.” The Bill — which names 17 strategic areas, including artificial intelligence, nuclear power, robotics and the space industry — mirrors similar measures in Australia, Italy, France and the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-launches-bill-to-deter-malicious-takeovers/article33079594.ece
12 November 2020||Yangon,||Myanmar Opposition rejects ‘unfair’ election||Myanmar’s military-aligned Opposition party on Wednesday rejected the results of this week’s election as “unfair” and called for a fresh vote — a demand immediately rebuffed by the election authorities. Official results are still trickling in, but Aung San Suu Kyi’s ruling party has already declared a landslide victory based on its own tallies from across the country. The polls are only the second since the country emerged from outright junta rule in 2011. Observers said voting went smoothly on Sunday but criticised the lack of transparency, widespread disenfranchisement and coronavirus restrictions they said benefited Ms. Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy (NLD). The Opposition Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) went further, however. “We reject the election because it was unfair,” spokesperson Win Win Aung said, alleging that many ineligible people had cast ballots. “We call on the election commission to hold a new, disciplined election in cooperation with the military as soon as possible.” ‘We had no bias’ At a press conference held in the capital, Naypyidaw, the Union Election Commission (UEC) said the election was transparent. “We had no bias ... it was conducted fairly, within the law,” UEC spokesman Myint Naing said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-opposition-rejects-unfair-election/article33079593.ece
12 November 2020||Lahore,||Shahbaz Sharif, his son indicted in money laundering case||Pakistan’s Opposition leader and PML-N president Shehbaz Sharif and son Hamza were indicted in a money laundering case by an accountability court here on Wednesday. Mr. Sharif, who is the younger brother of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, told the court that his political opponents, referring to Prime Minister Imran Khan, had instituted false cases against him and his family members. He said the National Accountability Bureau, which framed the charges against him, was being used for political engineering against the Opposition.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/shahbaz-sharif-his-son-indicted-in-money-laundering-case/article33079598.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Trumpism still remains unvanquished||In his first speech after winning the election as the 46th President of the United States, Joseph R. Biden promised to rebuild the middle class as the “backbone of the nation”. A “middle class” presupposes a political centre, a vantage point from which policies could be determined to secure the greatest good to the greatest number. That centre could be difficult to find after a bitter election campaign and a contest much closer than predicted. Mr. Biden brings rectitude to the White House after four years of rampant ugliness and untruth. Restoring a semblance of equity will be harder, when the system has drifted far from that ideal and the drivers of inequality are deeply rooted. President Donald Trump’s singular achievement, touted till the bitter end, was the “greatest economy in history”, a bit of hyperbole resting on the thin foundation of the stock market. Other boasts, such as a massive stimulus to U.S. manufacturing output, refuse to die though long since proven hollow. Effects of tax code changes By 2019, the U.S. economy was coming off the sugar boost from Mr. Trump’s signature policy initiative, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, passed a few days before Christmas on a strictly partisan vote. This most far-reaching change to the tax code raised exemption limits on estate duty and reserved many other favours for high-income individuals and corporations. The few concessions to the middle class and low-income earners, were largely neutralised by lower allowances and deductions. The tax cuts sparked a flurry of share buybacks by corporate beneficiaries, sending prices soaring. In August 2018, Apple Corporation hit a market valuation of $1 trillion, followed in quick order by others from the fabled quartet of new age scrips: Amazon, Microsoft, and Google. As the animal spirits remained unabated, Apple’s market valuation doubled in just two years, hitting a stratospheric $2 trillion amidst the pandemic gloom. By all conventional metrics, these valuations defy logic. Today’s ratio of share prices to earnings stands near the levels touched between 2007 and 2008, just ahead of the abrupt collapse heralded by the global meltdown. A redistribution and politics This perverse economic redistribution through assets price inflation, contrary to traditional Keynesian processes of progressive taxation, has been underway for four decades. The 1980s began under the shadow of the “Volcker shock”, an overnight increase in interest rates that pushed the U.S. into recession, playing no small part in propelling Ronald Reagan to a decisive win in the presidential election. The interest rate shock also had the effect of transforming incentives: investment now flowed increasingly into financial assets, while much fixed capital was taken out of commission as the U.S. lost global manufacturing competitiveness. High interest rates attracted large inflows of foreign capital, sustaining and causing the enormous U.S. external deficit in a process of cumulative causation quite unlike anything foreseen by “equilibrium theory”. Events on the stock markets also foreshadowed much that was to come, with the excesses of “junk bonds” causing a buoyancy in excess of anything warranted by the real economy. As the markets began a shake-out, the U.S. slipped into recession in the early 1990s, heralding the ouster of Reagan’s successor, George H.W. Bush, after just one term. Bill Clinton sought a conventional remedy with a tax hike, but showed his fealty to the new ethos with a thorough deregulation of financial services. With the Internet then sparking innovation and perhaps a greater frenzy of speculation, the markets went into a giddy spiral. And even as the government managed to curtail borrowing, households and the corporate sector eagerly began picking up enormous liabilities on their collective balance sheets. As both parties tacked to the right in matters of economics, culture became a terrain of battle. That afforded the leverage for George W. Bush to win back the presidency for the Republicans by a majority of one in the Supreme Court, after losing the national vote. He inherited a budget in near balance, which he regarded as a luxury to be shared with his constituency of “haves and have-mores”. It mattered little that Mr. Bush was then taking the U.S. into a war of indefinite duration and global expanse. One bubble to another The “dot com boom” turned bust just as the Bush tax cuts showed up as record new deficits. A new bubble had to be conjured up to sustain the mirage of economic buoyancy, and it was by pumping up prices of existing real estate stock and selling dreams of home ownership to millions whose earnings had languished for years. That bubble burst in 2008 and in elections held within two months of the catastrophe, the U.S. elected for the first time, a person of African origin as President. Barack Obama brought conventional Keynesian remedies back, but the massive rescue package he shepherded through Congress, was soon transmuted into record bonuses paid out to the bankers who brought on the crisis. Mr. Obama issued a moral reprimand but admitted helplessness. He did return to a marginally more equitable taxation regime, but his legacy finally was a more rapid growth of inequality, measured by the Gini coefficient, than during prior Republican tenures in the White House. Research over the last two decades of soaring asset values has focused on how these influence consumer spending. In 2002, a member of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board, spoke of the “wealth effect” as a significant economic force in the U.S. and the United Kingdom. A 2012 study based on 37 years of data by future Nobel laureate Robert J. Shiller and associates, found consumption expenditure linked with both increases and decreases in housing equity. But there was little correlation detected between stock market wealth and consumption, which seemed counter-intuitive, since shares are a more liquid form of wealth than home ownership. Household wealth as a multiple of income fell dramatically in 2008, when the financial meltdown hit. It then fluctuated at the lower level, before beginning a sustained rise from the first quarter of 2013. Through all four quarters of 2019, it was well above pre-meltdown peaks of 2008. Trump and troubles Both inequality and household debt have continued growing under Mr. Trump. Even before the novel coronavirus pandemic, credit card and automobile loan delinquencies were showing a troubling upward trend. Increasing asset prices in the context are a source of solace for households struggling to get by. Middle class anxiety could be measured in direct proportion to the size of the gap between household assets and liabilities. And when none of the political choices on offer has credible proposals that assuage these anxieties, they tend to be transformed into cultural and identity wars. Mr. Trump was a candidate who disregarded conventional niceties to crudely articulate the status anxieties that many among the white middle class feel. He may have lost, but the 71 million votes he garnered — the most for any candidate, winning or losing, other than the person he actually lost to — shows that Trumpism still remains unvanquished. Sukumar Muralidharan teaches at the school of journalism, O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/trumpism-still-remains-unvanquished/article33079575.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Republic and its discontents||First, it must be said loud and clear, so the ‘nation may know’, that even though Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic Media Network, may have been disrespectful, rude, obnoxious and mean on his channel to people who may well be innocent, even though he may be a kind of lyncher in the media in cahoots with his camera storm troopers with utter disregard for the privacy and dignity of the people whom he tramples on with sadistic pleasure, police vigilante justice in retaliation to his vigilante journalism cannot be condoned. Let me qualify this statement. We cannot prejudge the arrest of Mr. Goswami by the Maharashtra Police. The police may have a legitimate case. The wife and daughter of the contractor, who left an incriminating suicide note accusing Mr. Goswami, among others, for not honouring payment for his contract work, may feel that his arrest was justified. I am merely stating an inviolable principle: media excess cannot be met with police excess. A murder, even a heinous one, cannot be avenged by a state-sponsored killing. A media house, howsoever irresponsible and provocative, headed by anchors who seem to be on steroids, even when it goes rogue, has to be reined in by adhering to the rule of law. A republic will not hold when those who are supposed to uphold the law themselves opt for retributive justice against private entities, even if such entities, like ‘Republic TV’, run amok. The irony There are many who may adore the ‘Republic TV’ anchor who panders to an audience with a narrow, bigoted and jingoistic outlook on men and matters. There are others who subscribe to a broader, pluralistic and an inclusive idea of a genial, assimilating India — an India which is amorphous, indeterminate, yet has a unique civilisational identity; that is diverse, yet unifying. The so-called liberals, in the widest sense of the word, may abhor him for his polarising style. He was arrested in a cruel twist of irony by a ruling party which has a history of muscular and fiery politics, which espoused religious identity politics, which was seen to be intolerant of other faiths and cultures and wary of outsiders, which discriminated against those who did not belong, and which never shied away from using strong-arm tactics to browbeat opponents. This is the very brand of politics that ‘Republic TV’ practises: combining hysteria with histrionics while spewing venom and vitriol and dividing the republic. The channel, until Wednesday, was crying itself hoarse that its anchor’s arrest was a threat to free speech and strikes at the very foundations of democracy by muzzling the freedom of the press. This is also ironic considering that the channel is notorious for shouting down those who hold an opinion at variance to the anchor. The channel that never raised its voice in defence of many of their journalist colleagues when they were arrested, assaulted, some jailed on improbable charges of sedition, and a few even killed began taking refuge in amnesia. It showed no remorse and is even now crying foul and accusing the Shiv Sena, the ruling party in Maharashtra, of terrorising the press and arresting a ‘nationalist’. Despite all that, none of us can succumb to the temptation of saying, ‘It served the bounder right. He was served his own medicine.’ Mr. Goswami is not the only anchor who practises aggressive, noisy and a blatantly partisan brand of journalism; there are many. But he is the archetype of a television gladiator. Such anchors are vulgar and gross as they bully people while interviewing them. Mr. Goswami, though, stands out among them, whipping himself into a frenzy. He sees and prides himself as a media Rambo, who is in the forefront of the media to ‘save the nation’. The more his victims squirm under the glare of the television cameras, the more he rants and raves and revels in it. He exults in intimidating some, while surrounded by cheerleaders on his hand-picked panel who join the raucous chorus he orchestrates. Many like Arnab Mr. Goswami chooses carefully the ‘enemies of the nation’, both imagined and real, and then pursues them with single-minded obsession like a vulture. He goes after them relentlessly. He sees himself as the self-anointed custodian of nationalist interest, the pompous and sanctimonious crusader who has arrogated to himself the role of investigator, judge and executioner, sanctioning himself the right to heap abuses. If these were actions of an unhinged media house rousing emotions, purveying gossip, witch-hunting Bollywood stars, and business tycoons caught in the crosshairs of the banks for defaulting loans, or singling out Opposition leaders caught in scandals, then one can ignore ‘Republic TV’. But there are scores of other channels who are trying to outdo ‘Republic TV’ in stirring the communal pot, taking blatantly partisan stands by shutting one eye and brazenly taking political sides. There are also a few channels perceived to be favouring the Opposition parties and leftist intellectuals and are seen to be ‘anti-government’. When parties on either side of the political and social divide split and range themselves behind various TV channels and align with one media house instead of the other, there is danger to the stability of the republic. The freedom of the press is sacred. The media’s conduct and functioning in a free, fair and fearless manner underpins a vibrant democracy. Media houses cannot be loyal to the ruling party or to the party in the Opposition or to one community or ideology while wilfully ignoring facts. Their fidelity has to be to an overarching fealty to truth and to the larger common weal. Mr. Goswami of ‘Republic TV’ can go on a witch-hunt and sow discord. He may ill-treat his guests on his show and behave ignominiously. But the institutions of the republic cannot emulate him. Mr. Goswami was granted bail by the Supreme Court on Wednesday. Bail should have been granted by a lower court. He must be given a fair trial and treated with dignity as anyone who is an accused must be treated. Such a gesture may have a salutary effect on not only Mr. Goswami, but on other sections of the media. It is hoped that this will turn many into decent, humane anchors who treat others with respect; anchors who moderate impartially and, in the future, give voice to fellow journalists who are languishing in jail or are under prosecution in many States. Such a ‘Republic’ will be an asset and a strong fourth pillar of democracy. Captain G.R. Gopinath is a writer and founder of Air Deccan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/republic-and-its-discontents/article33079586.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Myths and the reality of election forecasts||Richard Charnin’s 2010 book, Proving Election Fraud : Phantom Voters , Uncounted Votes , and the National Exit Poll , investigated possible irregularities in Democrat John Kerry’s defeat in the 2004 United States presidential election. While political pundits struggled to explain the election outcome and claimed the polls “behaved badly”, Mr. Charnin considered the possible phantom voters and uncounted votes in the election procedure. However, the final national exit poll was the real “Smoking Gun”. The difference between the vote shares of John Kerry and George W. Bush was 6.5% more than the actual. Global examples Interestingly though, such was the credibility of exit polls even one and a half decades ago. Take the example of the Venezuelan recall referendum of 2004 to determine whether Hugo Chávez, then President, should be recalled from office. A huge discrepancy with the exit poll created a massive uproar worldwide. The “Orange Revolution” in Ukraine during late November 2004 to January 2005 was also in the immediate aftermath of the presidential election. The allegations of electoral fraud were strengthened by several exit polls exhibiting a substantial lead for Viktor Yushchenko. Similarly, widespread protests over the disputed parliamentary elections of 2003 triggered the “Rose Revolution” in Georgia, and culminated in the ousting of President Eduard Shevardnadze. One wonders if polls predictions are still so trustworthy. Certainly not. In 2020, U.S. (President-elect) Joe Biden won the election, and not many people are looking back to the predicted margin in nation-wide popular vote share which was huge (mostly within 8-12%), but never materialised. Also the credibility of pollsters must have been undermined quite a bit in between. People possibly learned to listen to them, but not to keep much faith in their predictions. In reality, the difference in popular vote shares in this U.S. election is just about 3%. And, in most of the States, the difference between the predicted percentage of votes for Mr. Biden and U.S. President Donald Trump compared to Mr. Biden’s final lead is more than 3%. Should not this be regarded as a huge failure to gauge the pulse of the electorate? The Bihar mandate What about Bihar? Pollsters performed miserably in Bihar in 2015 in one of their worst performances in Indian elections. Although the opinion polls mostly predicted a victory by the National Democratic Alliance this time, very few of them could guess the quantum. The exit polls, on the other hand, mostly predicted a Rashtriya Janata Dal+ victory. A funny thing is that the minimum and maximum predictions for the RJD+ were 76 seats (a range of 71-81) and 180 seats (a range of 169-191), out of 243 seats. One wonders whether the RJD+ securing anything less than 71 or more than 191 was at all practicable. Thus, there will be some pollster or other to claim a perfect or near-perfect prediction. Surveys and lessons learnt Yes, poll predictions have failed miserably on many historical occasions including some which were in the developing process. For example, before the 1936 U.S. presidential elections, a reputed magazine, the Literary Digest , conducted an opinion poll survey with a massive 24 lakh samples, and predicted 57% vote share for Republican Alfred Landon, and 43% for President Franklin Roosevelt. In reality, Roosevelt got 62% votes against 38% favouring Landon. This episode was a lesson about the importance of ‘selection bias’, as the individuals under study were affluent people having a telephone, club memberships and magazine subscription in that era; Roosevelt had less support among such people. Also, people understood the importance of ‘non-response bias’ as only 24% of the people who were approached actually responded to the survey. Similarly, the severe failure of Gallup’s poll prediction of the 1948 U.S. election taught pollsters about the importance of ‘random’ sampling. In 2016, Mr. Trump supporters were under-counted. Later, there was an attempt to label that “shy Trump factor” or “hidden Trump vote”, similar to the “shy Tory factor” in the United Kingdom — a term which became popular after John Major’s victory in the 1990s. Certainly, the winner of opinion/exit polls is not necessarily the winner in the election. Hillary Clinton, Ed Miliband or Atal Bihari Vajpayee could vouch for that. Most of the opinion polls of the 2009 and 2014 Lok Sabha elections either failed to project the winner or to foresee the margin of victory. A small State like Delhi has caused misery for pollsters, be it in 2015 or 2020. In the U.K., for example, no major survey could predict the victory of Conservatives in 2015. And the history of the Brexit referendum is a part of folklore, for sure. Over decades, pollsters around the world have transformed poll prediction into a funny game. When Warren J. Mitofsky conducted an exit poll in a local election in Kentucky in 1967 for CBS News and also conducted the first national exit poll in 1972, he never envisioned such a future within half-a-century, for sure. Posing the questions Do present-day pollsters, in general, properly follow the underlying statistical principles in designing, sampling, and analysing their data? Do they go to remote corners of the country and cover sensitive booths for their surveys? Do they maintain the requirements for standard ‘3 percentage points margin of error’? Are their samples ‘random’? Do the samples represent the population by approximately maintaining the proportions across gender, age, income, religion, caste, and other important factors? How do they handle possible non-response? Sample size, sampling frame, method of sampling and estimation, and of course summary statistics across different margins of variability are not provided by most of the pollsters. Thus, it is almost impossible to comment on the quality of their predictions, from a statistical point of view. The Literary Digest never attempted to predict the outcome of the U.S. elections after its 1936 debacle. That was never its main task. However, unless strong regulations enforce today’s pollsters to publish their methodology and summary statistics across different variables, poll predictions may not regain the trust of the people. Atanu Biswas is Professor of Statistics at the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/myths-and-the-reality-of-election-forecasts/article33079578.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A churning in Bihar politics||After a long day of counting on November 10, the results of the Bihar Assembly election are finally clear. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Janata Dal (United), the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and the Vikassheel Insaan Party, with Nitish Kumar as its chief ministerial candidate, emerged as the winner in a very close contest against the Mahagathbandhan, an alliance of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress, and the Left parties, led by RJD chief Tejashwi Yadav, a young and energetic leader. The NDA is set to form the government. But despite being the leader of a winning alliance, Mr. Kumar’s JD(U) suffered heavy losses. And despite losing the overall electoral battle, the RJD emerged as the single largest party in the Bihar Assembly with 75 seats, with the BJP being the second largest with 74. Another important feature of the election is that the Left parties performed very well and demonstrated an impressive strike rate. All this may have larger implications for Bihar politics.  Reasons for the NDA’s victory He may become Chief Minister for a fourth term, but the results show deep anti-incumbency on the ground against Mr. Kumar. Despite the promises of the RJD — 10 lakh government jobs, reinstating government pension, loan waiver for farmers, etc. — the NDA won the election. How can we decipher the complexities of the result? The first reason for the NDA’s victory is that the alliance of parties worked together to mobilise women, forward castes, a few Other Backward Classes, and Mahadalits. The Pachpaniya (a group of about 55 Extremely Backward Classes) remained a stronghold for Mr. Kumar. It is true that even among these communities, there were votes that went the Mahagathbandhan’s way, but not at a level which may have caused the ouster of the NDA from power. The voters of most of these social groups are considered not vocal but chuppa (silent) voters whose opinions could not be documented well by pollsters and political analysts. The second reason may be that despite Mr. Yadav’s economic agenda, the election was still polarised along caste lines. The NDA managed to successfully form a larger rainbow alliance of castes compared to what the Mahagathbandhan was able to do. The youth, many of whom were moved by the promise of jobs, also seemed fragmented in their vote along caste lines at the time of voting; this benefited the NDA. It is true that issues like mismanagement of the pandemic and of the migrants cost Mr. Kumar votes and seats, but it looks like these feelings could not transform into votes for the Opposition as required and ultimately failed to produce a wave of change. Though Mr. Kumar lost some influence among women voters, and despite poor implementation of some Central government schemes such as Ujjwala Yojana, the NDA still managed to get a substantial percentage women's votes. More women than men voted in this election, which saved the NDA. The third factor is that the Congress failed to make an impact on forward caste voters. The Muslim votes also got divided to a certain extent, especially in Seemanchal, and moved towards the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen. That is why the Congress won merely 19 seats. Major implications This election has many implications for the future of politics in Bihar. One, the BJP has become more significant in the State. Mr. Kumar’s party has already diminished in stature and may become less significant. He also has less influence now in the coalition. Two, the future of Bihar politics is going to revolve between two poles: the BJP and the RJD. Three, despite his defeat, Mr. Yadav has proved that he has emerged as a future alternative in the State. Four, there has been a revival of Left politics and this could be significant. The Left parties got 18 seats, just one less than the Congress. The Left parties have their clusters of influence in a few parts in Bihar. They have also developed their base among sections of the poor, the marginalised and Dalit communities. The absence of towering Dalit leaders like Jagjivan Ram and Ram Vilas Paswan has left these parties with more space and opportunities to mobilise Dalits in their favour. This election result has also given us a clear indication that the parties which have committed cadres, either ideological cadres or caste-based ones, do well and may thrive in the future. The politics of Bihar is going to evolve around the BJP, the RJD and the Left parties. The results provide a hint that democratic politics may become more challenging and competitive in the coming days. Badri Narayan is Director of the G.B. Pant Social Science Institute, Allahabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-churning-in-bihar-politics/article33079583.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A time for cautious optimism||The first interim analysis of the Phase-3 trial of Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine (BNT162b2) calls for cautious optimism. The results of the Phase-1 trial, announced in August, showed that the vaccine induced neutralising antibodies and specific T cell (major components of the adaptive immune system) responses in younger and older adults. Neutralising antibodies in younger adults (18-55 years) were 3.8 times more than those in convalescent plasma and 1.6 times more in older adults (65-85 years) in the Phase-1 trial. Neutralising antibodies and T cell responses were also seen in pre-clinical trials on rhesus macaques. Safe, so far Though the first interim results of the Phase-3 trial do not provide details, it is likely that neutralising antibodies and T cells responses would have played a vital role in preventing disease in many vaccinated participants — the vaccine showed more than 90% effectiveness in preventing disease. So far, the vaccine appears to be safe as no serious adverse events were reported in the over 43,000 Phase-3 trial participants. Ninety-four confirmed cases of COVID-19 in trial participants were evaluated in the analysis, but the break-up of how many were among the vaccinated group has not been spelt out. The over 90% effectiveness reported is basically against symptomatic infection. But the nature of infection — mild, moderate or severe — that the vaccine can protect against is not clear. The efficacy, which was evaluated seven days after the second dose, indicates that protection is achieved 28 days after administration of the first dose, which is again encouraging; the second dose was given 21 days after the first. The endpoint to evaluate vaccine efficacy is when 164 trial participants get infected, irrespective of whether they received the vaccine or a placebo. The company expects that endpoint to be reached by the end of this month. By then, trial participants would have been followed-up for an average of two months — a Food and Drug Administration (FDA)safety requirement for COVID-19 vaccine approval. While over 90% vaccine effectiveness is much more than what scientists had expected, the effectiveness might change as more cases get reported. In all likelihood, it might drop marginally, but not below the FDA cut off of at least 50% vaccine effectiveness to prevent disease or decrease disease severity. The vaccine will be seen as being truly effective if it has the potential to prevent severe disease and thereby prevent deaths. The over 90% vaccine effectiveness is based on symptomatic infection. Since not all trial participants have been tested for the virus, it is unclear if the vaccinated participants have been asymptomatically infected. While the inability of the vaccine to prevent asymptomatic infection might not matter for protecting individuals against severe disease outcomes, it might matter in its ability to cut down on transmission. The duration of protection The interim results do not reveal how effective the vaccine is in older adults, who are more likely to progress to severe disease and even die. Also, how long the protection lasts after vaccination is not known. It is therefore essential that the trial continues for several more months even when the vaccine is given emergency use authorisation by the FDA. Meanwhile, one way of knowing the duration of protection is by analysing the immune responses of individuals who participated in the Phase-1 trial, which took place a few months ago. Pfizer is not the only company to use the mRNA platform for COVID-19 vaccine. The COVID-19 vaccine candidate of Moderna and NIAID, which is at an advanced Phase-3 trial, too uses the same mRNA platform; Novavax, Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline are other vaccine candidates using the same mRNA platform. It is likely that these vaccines too may show similar outcomes. The encouraging results of Pfizer’s vaccine is good news for vaccines that use other platforms, as well. The Oxford University vaccine being tested by AstraZeneca and other vaccines too produced immune responses similar to Pfizer’s in early stage trials and may show encouraging results in Phase-3 trials. prasad.ravindranath@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-time-for-cautious-optimism/article33079581.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Weak at the top||The NDA has won a slender victory in Bihar, with the BJP displacing the JD(U) as the bigger party within it. The HAM(S) and VIP, with four seats each, are both critical for the alliance to sustain its margin of three seats in the 243-strong Assembly. Nitish Kumar is set for a fourth straight term as Chief Minister, this time at the mercy of the BJP. His initial success in Bihar politics came from his ability to aggregate disparate communities on a promise of enhanced social justice and good governance. Diminished as he is, the fact that he survived is no mean feat, considering the popular anger against him that was unmistakable throughout the campaign. He faced the electorate with a battered image, and a partner that made its own plan and a partner’s partner who queered the pitch for him. In the end, the victory of the NDA is considerably an outcome of the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the State and the BJP’s election engineering. This victory flips the equation between Mr. Modi and Mr. Kumar. This brings a new dynamic to the alliance, and consequently governance in Bihar. As the BJP waits for the opportune time to occupy the top post, it will want to keep Mr. Kumar on a tight leash. Therein lies the paradox of this victory for Mr. Kumar. He was a trailblazer in Bihar 20 years ago when he dictated terms to the BJP, but has now been reduced to the status of a subordinate ally. He may not easily reconcile to the new situation and is likely to formulate a strategy to deal with the BJP. Devoid of a strong governance agenda, the BJP campaign boasted about depriving Kashmir of its special status and the ongoing construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The BJP’s surge in Bihar is clearly indicative of the continuing resonance of its Hindutva agenda. It is also a demonstration of its election management, as it came on top even as one of its allies at the Centre, the LJP, successfully undermined another, the JD(U). As the BJP pursues its next plan to capture power in Bihar, the State will witness new social realignments. The Grand Alliance of the RJD, Congress and the Left parties put up a spirited fight but they could not match the BJP in terms of resources and popularity. The consolation for the RJD is that it is the single largest party even in defeat and its leader Tejashwi Yadav who began as an unsure leader emerged as an authoritative one by the end of this election. But that is no guarantee of a path to power in Bihar. Mr. Yadav’s popularity still does not appear wide spectrum. The outcome will also force a renegotiation of the terms of engagement among anti-BJP parties and the role of the Congress. Also noteworthy is the performance of CPI-ML-L and other Left parties that boosted the alliance and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen that spoiled its plans. That Prime Minister Modi can still win State elections is an indication that in terms of ideology, organisation and leadership, a viable alternative to the BJP is still some distance away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/weak-at-the-top/article33079569.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to the House||By-elections do not necessarily generate the same buzz as Assembly elections in India. After all, they are typically held to replace incumbents who might have moved on to other public roles or are deceased or incapacitated, preventing them from representing their constituencies. This lack of enthusiasm has generally rendered bypolls as contests where the ruling party in a State is hugely favoured. There is little desire by voters to upset the apple cart. More so in States where the politics of patronage influences voter decisions, voting the representative of the party in power can be understood as a rational choice. It is therefore not surprising that the BJP and other ruling parties have won a large majority of the Assembly bypolls — their results were announced on Tuesday. Yet, the story in Madhya Pradesh had an additional wrinkle. The 28 seats were keenly contested because these had elected Congress MLAs in 2018 and the vacancies arose on their defection to the BJP in an event orchestrated by senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia. The defections had shifted the government to the BJP within months of the Assembly elections. The BJP’s wins, in 19 seats, were made possible by Mr. Scindia’s clout in the Gwalior-Chambal belt besides the BJP’s added strength. The Congress can take some solace in the fact it could wrest back nine seats lost to defection. But with these wins, the BJP has won an absolute majority and secured its government. A defection of a significant number of MLAs elected on one ticket and then overturning governments is bad advertisement for governance in India. These events were once common in smaller State Assemblies but have occurred in two large States, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, recently. Here, the defectors have returned to the Assembly via the bypolls, a fact that could raise the question whether voters are concerned about defections as a moral issue. One charitable reason for this preference could be that voters might not want yet another churning and instability, in turn helping defectors retain their seats. The other reason could be that legislators in States such as M.P. and Karnataka have been chosen to represent parties less due to ideological or principled positions and more for abilities to run electoral campaigns and make use of social equations in their respective seats. So, it could be understood that voters have found little differentiation in representation from ruling and Opposition parties even in the aftermath of defections. As required by the anti-defection law, the defectors returned to voters for a fresh mandate, and many obtained it too. Clearly, defections cannot just be done away with through legislative action unless they are seen as immoral by voters as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/back-to-the-house/article33079570.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Preparing for world peace (From an editorial)||After winning the war that was fought to end all war the triumphant politicians of the West have spent about two years of their vaunted reconstruction in furiously preparing for the promised peace. But, as is obvious from the prevailing conditions at the present day, the expected era seems to recede as remote as ever from the reach of struggling humanity. The wounds of war have gone deep into the heart of the world and threaten to defy all practised forms of political surgery. The nerve centres of the old-world equilibrium have been shaken to their very root and human sentiments have reached a high pitch of sensitiveness dangerous alike to all aggressive ambitions of militarist domination or peaceful penetration. The sudden emancipation of minor nationalities in Europe, the irresistible awakening of dormant nationalism in Asia and the intensive manifestation of colour prejudice, combined with the universal unrest of labour engaged in its struggle either for existence or domination have helped to create a situation which is as complex in its nature as it is difficult to handle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/preparing-for-world-peace-from-an-editorial/article33079579.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Defences against unemployment (From an Editorial)||There has been considerable anxious discussion of the problem of unemployment in the country. It is not as if the malaise has reached uncontrollable dimensions. But it is not wise to let it deteriorate by not taking timely and effective steps to solve the problem. Mr. G. D. Somani pointed out the other day in an address at the Bombay Productivity Council that there was a time when it was felt that the food problem was insoluble, but with the advent of the new farm strategy of improved cultivation practices, a potential was being activated which would make the country self-sufficient in food with a margin for exports. Likewise, given the right approach, it should be possible to provide job as well as training facilities in the measure necessary. It is important to assess both the aggregate volume of unemployment, current and prospective, and its scatter among the different categories – age groups, skilled and unskilled categories. The besetting headache here is that the backlog of unemployment has been mounting from Plan to Plan despite the efforts to contain it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/defences-against-unemployment-from-an-editorial/article33079580.ece
12 November 2020||MUMBAI,||GDP shrank 8.6% in Q2 pushing economy into recession: RBI||India’s economy rebounded sharply in the wake of the reopening from lockdowns, slowing the pace of its contraction to 8.6% in the second quarter of the current fiscal year, the RBI ‘nowcast’ in its monthly Bulletin released on Wednesday. Still, the estimate implies that India is likely to have entered a technical recession in the first half of 2020-21 for the first time in its history with two successive quarters of GDP contraction, the central bank said. “At a time when global economic activity is besieged by the outbreak of the second wave of COVID-19... data for the month of October 2020 have brightened the near-term outlook for the Indian economy and stirred up consumer and business confidence,” the RBI noted. “There are, however, formidable downside risks that confront the path of recovery,” it added. As per an Economic Activity Index, which tracks real-time data from 27 monthly indicators, the economy rebounded sharply from May/June with the reopening, with industry normalising faster than contact-intensive service sectors, pointing to a short-lived contraction. “The index nowcasts GDP growth at (-) 8.6% in Q2, implying that India is likely to have entered a technical recession in the first half.” Preliminary estimates showed a jump in household financial savings to 21.4% of GDP in Q1, up from 7.9% a year earlier and 10% in the preceding quarter. “The sharp increase... may be attributed to the COVID-19-led reduction in discretionary expenditure or the associated forced saving and surge in precautionary saving despite stagnant/reduced income,” the RBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-shrank-86-in-q2-pushing-economy-into-recession-rbi/article33079550.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virtual offices may be a reality by 2030, Ericsson survey finds||With the pandemic acting as a digital tipping point, virtual office experiences including being able to touch things at the office while sitting at home, could be reality by 2030, a report by Ericsson reveals. “India is in a very good position to take the lead in such technologies due to the high interest levels compared to most other countries,” said Michael Björn, head of Research Agenda at Ericsson Consumer and IndustryLab, and author of ‘The Dematerialized Office’. New technologies “When you introduce new technologies in companies, the perspective of the employee is going to be very important,” he said, adding that there was a big opportunity for companies in India to be at the forefront of such types of technologies, including AR/VR, going forward. The report, which compiles the findings of a July online survey of 7,842 white collar workers in countries including Australia, China, India, Japan, Russia, UAE, the U.K. and the U.S., shows that half of the respondents wanted a digital workstation allowing full-sense presence at work from anywhere. The report noted that office work would not go back to the way it was before the pandemic and that employees would spend more time working digitally, with six in 10 respondents anticipating a permanent increase in online meetings including with customers, suppliers. Mr. Björn, however, added that security and privacy were key barriers, and that both security and privacy were set to be critical challenges going forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/virtual-offices-may-be-a-reality-by-2030-ericsson-survey-finds/article33079547.ece
12 November 2020||MUMBAI,||ICICI Bank sees surge in home loan demand||ICICI Bank said it had seen a ‘record’ surge in its home loan portfolio in September and October with people rushing to buy homes at lower prices and at low interest rates. It added that it had seen more demand coming from places other than the top eight cities. Loans in the range of Rs. 30-Rs. 35 lakh were in demand with the salaried class, given that stable income had been taking the plunge. In a statement on Wednesday, the bank also said it had crossed the milestone of Rs. 2 lakh crore in its mortgage loan portfolio, making it the first private sector bank in the country to do so. The first milestone of Rs. 1 lakh crore was achieved in 2016. Anup Bagchi, executive director, ICICI Bank, said, “The next milestone of Rs. 3 trillion will be achieved in less than 4 years.” He added that the bank had expanded its footprint and was now “present in 1,100 locations, including tier 2, 3 and 4 cities [and] fast-growing outskirts of metros. We have scaled up our credit processing centres from around 170 to over 200 in the past two years in these new markets.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/icici-bank-sees-surge-in-home-loan-demand/article33079551.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Social infra PPPs eligible for viability gap funding||The government on Wednesday expanded the provision of financial support by means of viability gap funding for public private partnerships (PPPs) in infrastructure projects to include critical social sector investments in sectors such as health, education, water and waste treatment. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs approved the continuation of the scheme for financial support to PPPs in infrastructure that has been in place since 2006, till 2024-25, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, stressing that the scheme had been revamped. A total of Rs. 8,100 crore has been allocated under this programme between 2020-21 and 2024-25, of which Rs. 2,100 crore will be devoted to social sector projects. “Now, under two new schemes, private sector projects in areas like waste water treatment, solid waste management, health, water supply and education, could get 30% of total project cost from the Centre,” she said, adding that States could chip in with another 30%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/social-infra-ppps-eligible-for-viability-gap-funding/article33079560.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Maruti S-Presso scores zero in NCAP’s crash test||Maruti Suzuki S-Presso received zero stars, while Hyundai Grand i10 Nios achieved just two stars for adult occupant protection in the latest round of crash tests conducted by the Global New Car Assessment Programme (Global NCAP). Kia Seltos, which was also tested, got a three-star rating. As part of the ‘safer cars for India’ campaign, Global NCAP tested the entry-level version of all three cars. All three cars got two-star rating for child occupant protection. “The Maruti Suzuki S-Presso has achieved a disappointing zero star rating in Global NCAP’s new round of #SaferCarsForIndia crash tests,” the U.K.-based charity said. It added that the S-Presso was only fitted with a driver airbag as standard, while the other models offered both driver and passenger airbags as standard. Global NCAP said it currently tests only frontal crash protection for occupants and not side impact and pedestrian protection. “It is very disappointing that Maruti Suzuki, the manufacturer with the largest share of the Indian market, offers such low safety performance for Indian consumers,” Alejandro Furas, Secretary General of Global NCAP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-s-presso-scores-zero-in-ncaps-crash-test/article33079562.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||GMR Infra reschedules capex plan||GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GIL) on Wednesday said its businesses were on a recovery path, and that the firm was focussing on cash conservation by rescheduling its capex plan to mitigate challenges. It had also extended the Delhi airport plan to June 2023, instead of the scheduled September 2022, the company said. The firm on Tuesday reported its consolidated net loss widening to Rs. 750 crore for the quarter ended September 30. GMR was continuously adapting to the situation and has focussed on several measures to mitigate challenges including cash conservation through rescheduling of its capital expenditure (capex) plan, the company said in a statement. “Delhi airport’s original plan was September 2022; now targeting to complete by June 2023, though we have taken approval up to September 2023,” GMR Infra added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gmr-infra-reschedules-capex-plan/article33079567.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SpiceJet loss worsens negative worth||SpiceJet on Wednesday reported a net loss of Rs. 105.6 crore for the quarter ended September, resulting in the worsening of its negative worth to Rs. 2,286.6 crore. Its auditors warned that its losses would have been more than double had the airline not included compensation sought from Boeing for the grounding of its 13 737 MAX aircraft, but regarding which there was no certainty. While the airline’s revenues declined 62.9% from a year earlier, it was also able to tighten its operational expenses and employee costs. The carrier said it was currently operating at 52% of its pre-COVID schedule and that the seat occupancy on its aircraft was at 73% on an average. Almost 30% of its passenger revenue came from charter services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/spicejet-loss-worsens-negative-worth/article33080216.ece
12 November 2020||Mumbai,||Indices scale fresh peaks on foreign inflows||The BSE Sensex defied gravity for the eighth straight session to close at another record high on Wednesday as positive global cues and robust foreign fund inflows fuelled risk-on sentiment. The Centre approving a Rs. 2 lakh crore production-linked incentive package for various sectors also buoyed investors, traders said. The 30-share index settled 316.02 points, or 0.73%, higher at 43,593.67. The NSE Nifty vaulted 118.05 points or 0.93% to close at a record 12,749.15. Both the indices scaled record highs for the third session on the trot. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging 7.39%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indices-scale-fresh-peaks-on-foreign-inflows/article33079548.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Apollo Hospitals to raise Rs. 1,500 cr.||Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd. (AHEL) is planning to raise up to Rs. 1,500 crore for acquisitions, inorganic growth and to reduce debt. The company plans to raise the funds either by way of preferential issue of securities, QIP, or any other equivalent capital-raising method. In a regulatory filing, AHEL said the funds would be used for acquiring the balance 50% stake in Apollo Gleneagles Hospital Ltd. (AGHL), Kolkata, for Rs. 410 crore, for inorganic growth, reduction of debt, technology upgradation and digital initiatives, and other general corporate purposes. Currently, 50% equity stake is held by Gleneagles Development PTE Ltd, Singapore. Consequent to this development, AGHL will become a wholly owned subsidiary of AHEL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/apollo-hospitals-to-raise-rs-1500-cr/article33079554.ece
12 November 2020||Chennai,||Five lakh bank staff to receive 15% increment||Salaries of about five lakh employees of 29 banks will witness a 15% increase, following the wage pact that the IBA signed with unions and officers’ associations. This would impose an annual burden of up to Rs. 3,385 crore on banks. Applicable from November 2017 to October 2022, the revision will benefit employees and officers in 12 public sector banks, 10 private banks and 7 foreign banks. For the first time, uniform basic, DA, HRA, special allowance and transport allowance were being offered, major unions said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/five-lakh-bank-staff-to-receive-15-increment/article33079555.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Sundaram HF arm to raise Rs. 2,000 crore||Sundaram Home Finance, the home finance subsidiary of Sundaram Finance Ltd., is planning to raise Rs. 2,000 crore in the second half of the current fiscal through a mix of debt and bank borrowings to fund its growth plans. “After a nervous start to the year, we have been witnessing some green shoots in the last two months in the housing sector, especially in Tier-II towns in south India,” Lakshminarayanan Duraiswamy, MD, Sundaram Home Finance, said in a statement. “While the sales cycle is taking a bit longer, the home loan enquiries in October have reached the same level as last year,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sundaram-hf-arm-to-raise-rs-2000-crore/article33079556.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||PV wholesales rose 14% in October: SIAM||Passenger vehicle wholesales in India increased by 14.2% to 3,10,294 units in October against 2,71,737 units in the same month last year, as companies despatched more units to dealers to cater to enhanced demand in the festive season, auto industry body SIAM said on Wednesday. According to the latest data by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), two-wheeler sales also increased 16.9% to 20,53,814 units, compared with 17,57,180 units in the same month last year. Motorcycle sales rose 23.8% to 13,82,749 units compared with 11,16,886 units in October 2019. Scooter sales also increased 1.79% to 5,90,507 units from 5,80,120 units a year earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pv-wholesales-rose-14-in-october-siam/article33079564.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||OVL acquires Australia’s FAR Ltd stake in Senegal block for USD 45 mn||ONGC Videsh Ltd. on Wednesday announced the acquisition of Australian firm FAR Ltd.’s stake in the $4.2-billion Sangomar oil project off Senegal’s shore for $45 million. This is the first acquisition by OVL, the overseas investment arm of ONGC, in two-and-half-years. Sangomar is a JV with Australia’s Woodside Petroleum and Senegal’s national oil firm Petrosen.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ovl-acquires-australias-far-ltd-stake-in-senegal-block-for-usd-45-mn/article33079563.ece
12 November 2020||Melbourne,||Australia to go indigenous against India||The Australian men’s cricket team is set to wear specially-designed indigenous shirts in the upcoming Twenty20 series against India, a move aimed at recognising and encouraging the Indigenous Australians’ role in the sport. Cricket Australia on Wednesday unveiled the design, a collaboration between manufacturer ASICS and two indigenous women, Aunty Fiona Clarke and Courtney Hagen. “Clarke is a direct descendent of late cricketer ‘Mosquito’ Couzens (known as Grongarrong), one of the Aboriginal players who toured England in 1868 as part of the first sporting team from Australia to play abroad,” cricket.com.au reported. The design is an ode to the ancestors and past, present and future aboriginal cricketers. Emulating the women The Australian men’s team members, thus, will be following their women counterpart, who first wore an indigenous shirt in a match against England earlier this year. Australia’ premier fast bowler Mitchell Starc, who displayed the first look of the jersey, said he was excited about sporting the new shirt. “...it’s really exciting to have the chance as a men’s team to wear our first indigenous jersey,” he was quoted as saying by the website. India’s tour of Australia will begin with three ODIs starting November 27 in Sydney, followed by three T20 Internationals and four Tests. The T20 series will begin at Manuka Oval on December 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-to-go-indigenous-against-india/article33079696.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Built to operate at peak efficiency, MI has cracked the T20 code||With a dominant IPL title run, Mumbai Indians laid the blueprint for Twenty20 success. Save for a couple of role players, the team was packed with pure match-winners. Every department — batting, bowling, fielding and backroom tacticians — oozed quality, making it tough to spot and exploit even a single weakness. The top-order — consisting of Quinton de Kock (503 runs), Ishan Kishan (516 runs) and Suryakumar Yadav (480 runs) — bagged five man-of-the-match awards among them. Skipper Rohit Sharma came to the party when it mattered with a crucial 51-ball 68 in the final against Delhi Capitals. The finishers — Kieron Pollard and Hardik Pandya — smashed their way to tournament strike-rates of 191.42 and 178.98 respectively. Their destructive force was best demonstrated in an unbroken 23-ball, 67-run stand which simply flattened Kings XI Punjab. Deadly with the new ball With devastating new-ball spells, Trent Boult and Jasprit Bumrah regularly put the contest to bed inside the PowerPlay. Bumrah and Boult ended the campaign as the second- and third-highest wicket-takers of the tournament respectively, behind DC’s Kagiso Rabada. Boult finished with three man-of-the-match trophies — the most for a bowler in the competition. To complete the already impressive package, Rohit proved to be a shrewd leader, and the coaching staff — led by head coach Mahela Jayawardene — ensured that the team entered the field armed with the right tactics. MI, the well-oiled machine, was built to operate at peak efficiency. Another traditionally strong side, Chennai Super Kings, faltered badly. The CSK batsmen — Ambati Rayudu, Kedar Jadhav and captain M.S. Dhoni — often meandered along, putting far too much pressure on the others. Faf du Plessis was the exception to this drudgery, but he was left with too heavy a burden to bear. Only a complete overhaul can redeem the three-time champion’s mighty reputation. While CSK was never in contention, Kolkata Knight Riders and Kings XI Punjab only narrowly missed out. KKR lost out on a playoff spot to Sunrisers Hyderabad and Royal Challengers Bangalore because of net run rate — a cruel way to exit. KXIP, two short of the magic 14-point mark, will rue missing out on a couple of close encounters. With the team needing one run off three balls against DC, Mayank Agarwal, after an exceptional innings, could not finish the job, resulting in a Super Over loss. Against KKR, Glenn Maxwell’s last-ball hit landed just inches inside the fence. A six would have resulted in a Super Over and, perhaps, a victory and a playoff spot. For RCB, it was an all too familiar script of underachievement. A great start to the campaign raised hopes of a maiden IPL title win, but a four-match losing streak to end the league stage, followed by a defeat to SRH in the Eliminator came as a rude reality check. RCB captain Virat Kohli’s repeated failures, compared to Rohit’s record-breaking five titles, have led to suggestions that the latter is better suited to lead the Indian limited-overs teams. Perhaps the biggest takeaway from the tournament was that all players, support staff and officials returned to their homes safe and healthy. The organisers deserve high praise for successfully pulling off a mighty effort in these testing times.   Rohit’s five IPL titles as captain has led to suggestions that he should replace Kohli as India’s captain in the game’s shorter formats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/built-to-operate-at-peak-efficiency-mi-has-cracked-the-t20-code/article33079656.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||IPL and the question that needs to be revisited||Now that another IPL has passed into history, it is time to ask the question that has been dancing on the edges of the tournament for many years: when will Pakistani players be allowed to take part? Their finest, Babar Azam, is the No. 2 batsman in the T20 format while Imad Wasim is among the top 10 bowlers. Other exciting players like Shaheen Afridi, Mohammed Amir, Naseem Shah may or may not have set the stadiums alight in the UAE, but they would have added another dimension to the IPL. It is unlikely that the two countries will play a bilateral series any time soon; the Pakistan Cricket Board chief executive doesn’t see that happening till 2031 at least. The precise year because that is when the next Future Tours Programme (FTP) cycle ends (2023-2031). India has a good argument for insisting that there cannot be normal sport played against an abnormal society. But the IPL is another matter. Here, players take part in their individual capacities and not as representatives of their national teams. It is not ‘Pakistan’ playing, but a bunch of young men born in that country. India host the T20 World Cup in October next year. Four years ago Pakistan played the tournament when it was held in India, just as they played the 50-over World Cup which India won at home in 2011. Political and diplomatic relations between the countries have lurched between disastrous and unrecoverable in the decade since, and no one who suggests that bilateral tours should be resumed is likely to get a New Year card from either government. No one is suggesting that either. Currently, if not at its nadir, the relationship is close to it. So that’s out of the question. Security concerns There are always concerns about security when the national teams meet, and as the Sri Lankans whose bus was shot at when they toured Pakistan in 2009 will tell you, that is not worth taking a chance on. Pakistan didn’t host a Test for a decade till Sri Lanka returned to play two last year and Bangladesh a one-off earlier in February this year. Zimbabwe and West Indies played T20 series there in that period. But the IPL is a different kettle of fish. The tournament is comparable to Formula One racing, where the drivers don’t represent their countries but their commercial teams and sponsors. World champion Lewis Hamilton is a Mercedes driver; that he is from Britain is merely incidental. Likewise, Kimi Raikkonen drives for Alfa Romeo. He was a Ferrari man when he won the title more than a decade ago. He is from Finland, but that matters only on his passport. To digress, that might be the direction sport is moving in, with commercial and club interests, however temporary, becoming more significant than nationality. In Formula One, team owners ask two questions of their drivers: Can he drive? Can he win? Answered in the positive, the former gets you a job. But if it emerges that the answer to the latter is negative, then out you go. It is that simple. No middle path The IPL is similar. Cricket is a team sport, but you either deliver or you move on. There is no middle path. Even legends like Rahul Dravid, Sourav Ganguly and Dale Steyn, despite their excellent international records, were let go by their teams when the answers didn’t appeal to the owners. The IPL franchises were never officially told they couldn’t pick players from Pakistan as public anger rose following the Mumbai terrorist attacks in November 2008. They preferred discretion to valour, and came to an understanding. In the inaugural IPL, Pakistan’s Sohail Tanvir played a key role in Rajasthan Royals’ title triumph with the most wickets, 22, including six for 14 against CSK which remained the record for a decade. Players who were born in Pakistan but represented other countries or had foreign passports have played in the IPL, so the unofficial ban is based on what the passport says. Imran Tahir (South Africa), Owais Shah (England), Usman Khawaja (Australia), Azhar Mahmood (British passport) have all played in the IPL. This year, there was Ali Khan, born in Pakistan, and a US national player who was in the Kolkata Knight Riders squad. Nor does the ban extend to playing each other in ICC tournaments like the World Cups. One does not expect a few players taking part in a cricket tournament to solve outstanding issues between India and Pakistan. And anyway there are more important things needing attention than the advisability of Pakistani players taking part in an Indian domestic tournament. After all, who gets to play is entirely a matter for the IPL and its franchises to decide. But the Pakistan question is one that needs to be revisited annually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-and-the-question-that-needs-to-be-revisited/article33079691.ece
12 November 2020||AUGUSTA,||Champion Tiger Woods prepped for a sixth Green Jacket||Tiger Woods, still feeling the thrill of last year’s Masters victory to complete an epic comeback, says he can contend again this week thanks to his knowledge of Augusta National. Former World No.1 Woods, a 15-time Major champion who turns 45 next month, seeks a sixth Green Jacket to match the all-time record of Jack Nicklaus and a record 83rd US PGA victory to break the mark he shares with Sam Snead. “Do I expect to contend? Yes I do,” Woods said. “It can be done. Having an understanding where to miss it and how to hit the shots around here, it helps. “It gets a little more difficult as I’ve gotten older and I don’t quite hit it as far. You see past champions... able to contend so late in their careers and hopefully I’ll be able to be one of those guys.” Great feeling Woods’ vivid memories of Augusta include his victory last year, feeling the electric atmosphere of the crowd and hugging his children the way he embraced his dad after his first Masters win in 1997. “The same embrace, 22 years apart, pretty good bookends,” Woods said on Tuesday. “I still get chills just thinking about that. Woods has been able to keep his jacket away from Augusta longer than usual because Covid-19 postponed the Masters from April to November that also means no spectators attending. Phil Mickelson, who has five Major titles, takes inspiration from Woods as the 50-year-old left-hander tries to become the oldest Major champion. “It was one of the greatest feats in the history of sports,” Mickelson said. “I thought it was an incredible comeback knowing many of the challenges he has gone through. “I was really happy for him and also I think it provides a little bit of inspiration for a lot of us.”  Four-time Major winner Rory McIlroy plans to get out of his own way and use hard-earned grit to capture the long-sought Masters title that would complete a career Grand Slam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/champion-tiger-woods-looks-to-emulate-jack-nicklaus/article33079653.ece
12 November 2020||Karachi,||Asad Shafiq loses his spot; Amir and Shoaib also fall out of favour||The Pakistani selectors on Wednesday dropped veteran all-rounder Shoaib Malik and pacer Mohammad Amir from a 35-member squad for the upcoming New Zealand tour. Another senior player Asad Shafiq, who has played 77 Tests, was left out “due to lack of form”. The Pakistan Cricket Board announced a combined squad, which includes players for the senior team and the Shaheen’s (Pakistan A) side. It did not specify which player belongs to which squad. Pakistan plays three T20Is on December 18, 20 and 22 before its ICC World Test Championship fixtures to be held in Mount Maunganui and Christchurch from December 26-30 and January 3-7 respectively. The schedule of the Shaheen’s is yet to be confirmed by New Zealand Cricket though it is expected to be played concurrently. The squad will depart for New Zealand on November 23. Babar Azam has already been announced Pakistan captain in all formats. His vice-captain in Tests will be Mohammad Rizwan in the tour which will be staged in a bio-secure environment in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The PCB said both 38-year-old Malik and 28-year-old Amir were left out as the “selectors prefer youth” over them. The dropping of former captain Malik, who now plays only T20 cricket, could mean that the selectors don’t have him in mind for next year’s T20 World Cup in India. Left-arm pacer Amir was also not considered for the recent home white ball series against Zimbabwe. He played in the T20 International series against England in August-September this year.  The squad:   Openers: Abid Ali, Imam ul Haq, Abdullah Shafique, Shan Masood, Fakhar Zaman and Zeeshan Malik.   Middle-order batsmen: Babar Azam (Capt), Azhar Ali, Fawad Alam, Hussain Talat, Haider Ali, Imran Butt, Haris Sohail, Ifthikar Ahmed, Muhammad Hafeez, Khushdil Shah and Danish Aziz.   Wicketkeepers: Muhammad Rizwan, Sarfaraz Ahmed and Rohail Nazir.   Spinners: Imad Wasim, Shadab Khan, Usman Qadir, Yasir Shah and Zafar Gohar.   Fast bowlers: Amad Butt, Faheem Ashraf, Haris Rauf, Muhammad Musa, Muhammad Hasnain, Muhammad Abbas, Naseem Shah, Shaheen Afridi, Sohail Khan and Wahab Riaz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asad-shafiq-loses-his-spot-amir-and-shoaib-also-fall-out-of-favour/article33079699.ece
12 November 2020||New York,||Shortened NBA 2020-21 season gets the nod||The NBA’s board of governors formally approved a deal for a shortened 2020-2021 season on Tuesday, with the new campaign tipping off on December 22. An NBA statement said the league’s board unanimously approved adjustments to the current collective bargaining agreement, which has been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The statement said the league would continue to negotiate with the National Basketball Players Association (NBPA) on other aspects of the upcoming season. Under a deal reached on Monday, the NBPA and the league agreed on each team playing a 72-game schedule. Salary caps The agreement caps possible player salary reductions due to the pandemic to no more than 20% and at that level spread over up to three seasons. In the 2020-21 campaign, the salary cap level for clubs would be $109.140 million with a salary tax on clubs going above $132.627 million. In future seasons, the salary cap and tax level would increase by three to 10% over the prior season, with tax payments trimmed in proportion to income decreases. Free agency negotiations would start on November 20 with signings allowed starting on November 22. The December 22 start date means the NBA is able to retain its lucrative slate of televised Christmas Day fixtures. Starting in December also allows the league to complete the playoffs before the rescheduled Olympics in mid-July, meaning the league’s top players will be available for selection in Tokyo. The new season will tipoff a little over two months after the conclusion of the pandemic-interrupted 2019-2020 season. The Los Angeles Lakers was crowned 2020 champion after the season resumed in July following a four-month hiatus. Although teams restarted the season in a single, secure “bubble” location in Orlando, Florida, the upcoming season is expected to take place with teams playing at their home venues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shortened-2020-21-season-gets-the-nod/article33079706.ece
12 November 2020||Paris,||Never-ending schedule takes it toll||A meeting of the Netherlands and Spain would normally be something to savour, a glamour match-up between two of the great names of European football, but it and this week’s other international friendlies are a nuisance to coaches of Europe’s top clubs concerned about the physical toll a packed calendar is taking on players. “We are going to kill the players,” complained Paris Saint-Germain coach Thomas Tuchel recently. “We have no time for recuperation, not enough time to prepare. Without preparation, everything is fragile. It is not an excuse, it’s the truth.” As it happens, PSG was missing eight first-team regulars against Rennes last weekend, including Neymar and Kylian Mbappe, and lost three more to injury during the match. At least in France, and in many European leagues, teams are permitted to make five substitutions during games instead of three. That is not the case in the Premier League, but there are now growing calls for England to fall in line. Muscular problems By late October, the specialist website Premier Injuries had reported 78 muscle injuries over the first five rounds of matches in England, a 42 percent increase on the same stage last season. In Spain, Pedro Luis Ripoll, a doctor and founder of a specialist sports injury clinic, told newspaper ABC there had also been 78 muscle injuries in the first 50 days of the Spanish season. Nine rounds The Premier League will pack in nine rounds of matches between November 21 and January 2. Teams involved in Europe will have a further three games in that period, and there are also the League Cup quarterfinals. “The teams with international (club) football are in the toughest period ever, because October is like the usual December, November is like a usual December, and December is still like a December! And January will not be much different,” said Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp. Elsewhere, France will play seven rounds of games in under five weeks before the end of December, and Germany is effectively doing away with its cherished winter break.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/never-ending-schedule-takes-it-toll/article33079709.ece
12 November 2020||Rome,||Napoli loses appeal over Juve no-show||Napoli on Tuesday lost its appeal over a 3-0 defeat and one-point deduction for failing to turn up to play Juventus in October. The Italian Football Federation’s appeals board ruled out force majeure as a defence when Napoli refused to travel to Turin for the October 4 game after two of its squad tested positive for COVID-19. The appeal court said the decision not to play was “a voluntary choice”. Napoli is third, three points behind leader AC Milan. Gennaro Gattuso’s side maintained it had to remain in Naples on local health authority instructions. Serie A had ruled “the complaint lodged by Napoli regarding the legality of the match is to be considered inadmissible” as the team had not done everything necessary to respect the protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/napoli-loses-appeal-over-juve-no-show/article33079988.ece
12 November 2020||Lisbon,||Ronaldo available for Andorra friendly||Juventus’ Cristiano Ronaldo is available to face Andorra in a friendly later this week despite suffering an ankle injury in the weekend’s draw at Lazio, Portugal coach Fernando Santos said on Tuesday. Ronaldo, 35, who limped off with 15 minutes to play in Sunday’s fixture in Rome, could also feature against France on Saturday and Tuesday’s trip to Croatia in the Nations League. “He trained normally with his teammates so if I decide it, he’s fit to play the next three games,” Santos said. “He hasn’t complained. I know since Sunday that there’s no problem, nothing that could stop him from training normally,” he added. The former Real Madrid attacker has played three games for his club since recovering from coronavirus before the Nations League holder faces a re-run of the Euro 2016 final against Les Bleus . Ronaldo’s men top their group on goal difference ahead of this weekend’s visitors here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ronaldo-available-for-andorra-friendly/article33079831.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI:,||Bernardini for Chief Minister’s Cup||Bernardini, who has been well tuned, is expected to score in the Chief Minister’s Cup (1,200m), the feature event of the races to be held here on Thursday (Nov. 12).  BULLSEYE PLATE (1,000m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 1-30 p.m.: 1. Awesome Gift (2) Farhan 56, 2. Rajputana (8) Shahar Babu 56, 3. Sunday Warrior (6) Kiran Naidu 56, 4. Wonder Bullet (3) Stephen Raj 56, 5. Lady Zean (4) Jagadeesh 54.5, 6. Naomi (7) C. Umesh 54.5, 7. Regal Tiara (5) Brisson 54.5 and 8. Shalem (1) Yash 54.5.  1. NAOMI, 2. SHALEM,   3. REGAL TIARA   GULF STREAM PARK PLATE (1,000m), 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 45, 2-00: 1. El Politico (10) Zervan 60, 2. Oberon (12) Kiran Naidu 60, 3. Star Fling (5) Brisson 60, 4. Glorious Victory (6) C. Umesh 59, 5. Magical Wish (7) Yash 59, 6. Welcome Winner (9) Farhan 56.5, 7. Star Waves (2) Shahar Babu 55.5, 8. Beauty Of The Turf (11) P. Ajeeth Kumar 55, 9. Exquisite Star (4) S. Shareef 54, 10. Big Treasure (8) P. Sai Kumar 53.5, 11. Haran (1) B. Nikhil 53.5 and 12. Fun Lover (3) Azfar Syeed 51.5.  1. EL POLITICO,   2. GLORIOUS VICTORY,   3. MAGICAL WISH   OCEAN AND BEYOND PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Victory Walk (3) Brisson 60. 2. Absolute Authority (9) Farhan 59.5, 3. Rippling Waters (12) Nakhat Singh 59, 4. Silver Sea (2) K.V. Baskar 56.5, 5. Glorious Flame (5) A.M. Alam 56, 6. Cape Cod (10) Antony Raj 55.5, 7. Parrys Glory (4) P. Surya 55.5, 8. Chalouchi Girl (6) S. Shareef 55, 9. Wild Passion (7) P. Ajeeth Kumar 54.5, 10. Gallant Star (11) Shahar Babu 53, 11. Glorious Wind (1) B. Nikhil 53 and 12. Marcous (8) Muzaffar 53.  1. GLORIOUS FLAME, 2. RIPPLING WATERS, 3. VICTORY WALK   OCEAN AND BEYOND PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 3-00: 1. Beethovan (1) Yash 60, 2. Butterfly (2) Kiran Naidu 60, 3. Towns End (11) Azfar Syeed 60, 4. Song Of Glory (5) A.M. Alam 59.5, 5. Star Templar (4) Nakhat Singh 59.5, 6. Agnes (9) Stephen Raj 58.5, 7. Amicus Curiae (6) Jagadeesh 57, 8. Eyes Of Falcon (10) Antony Raj 56.5, 9. Grey Twilight (3) B. Nikhil 56.5, 10. Amaterasu (12) Zervan 55, 11. Regal Tribute (8) Rajendra Singh 55 and 12. Heart Of Gold (7) Muzaffar 51.  1. BEETHOVAN, 2. BUTTERFLY,   3. EYES OF FALCON   CHIEF MINISTER’S CUP (1,200m), rated 80 & above, 3-30: 1. My Opinion (3) Brisson 61.5, 2. Hope And Glory (9) Antony Raj 61, 3. Bernardini (4) C. Umesh 59, 4. Glorious Destiny (11) Yash 57, 5. Chief Of Command (10) Nakhat Singh 54, 6. King T’Chala (2) Azfar Syeed 54, 7. Tudor Treasure (12) P. Ajeeth Kumar 54, 8. Versallies (1) P. Sai Kumar 54, 9. Golden Fortune (7) M. Carim 53.5, 10 The Champ (5) B. Nikhil 53.5, 11. Apalis (8) Zervan 52 and 12. Kingoftheworld (6) Jagadeesh 50.  1. BERNARDINI, 2. KING T’CHALA, 3. APALIS   FLIRTING VISION PLATE (Div. I) , (1,000m), rated 40 to 65, 4-00: 1. Aachen (7) C. Umesh 60, 2. Rum Runner (1) Antony Raj 59.5, 3. Queen Of Venice (4) Yash 58.5, 4. Lordship (9) Brisson 57.5, 5. Kings Show (2) P. Ajeeth Kumar 56.5, 6. Lady Elise (8) Kiran Naidu 56.5, 7. Admiral Nelson (6) Jagadeesh 56, 8. Star Glitter (12) Farhan 56, 9. Olympicduel (10) S. Shareef 55.5, 10. Areca Cruise (5) B. Nikhil 55, 11. Henrietta (3) P. Sai Kumar 53.5 and 12. Fiat Justitia (11) Zervan 52.5.  1. FIAT JUSTITIA, 2. LORDSHIP,   3. AACHEN   FLIRTING VISION PLATE (Div. II) , (1,000m), rated 40 to 65, 4-30: 1. Lady Ascot (3) Nakhat Singh 60, 2. Pinewood (7) P. Surya 59.5, 3. Red Hot Jet (6) P. Sai Kumar 58, 4. Crown Of Stars (8) Antony Raj 57, 5. Magnificent Star (1) C. Umesh 57, 6. Rush More (12) K.V. Baskar 56.5, 7. My Passion (2) Brisson 56, 8. Palsy Walsy (4) Zervan 55.5, 9. Shadow Of Love (Yash) 55.5, 10. Royal Blues (9) Azfar Syeed 55, 11. Welcome Baby (11) S. Shareef 55 and 12. Arithmetica (10) Muzaffar 53.5.  1. SHADOW OF LOVE, 2. MAGNIFICENT STAR, 3. ROYAL RULES   JEBEL ALI PLATE (1,200m), 4-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25, (no whip) 5-00: 1. Flame Of Diablo (11) Kiran Naidu 62, 2. Beforethedawn (3) Kamigallu 59.5, 3. Bright Script (8) Shahar Babu 59, 4. Orange Pekoe (9) Azad Alam 59, 5. Picture Girl (12) M. Bhaskar 58.5, 6. Be My Light (4) Antony Raj 57.5, 7. Cleona (7) A.M. Alam 57, 8. Heavenly Blue (5) Brisson 57, 9. Kasi Masi (6) S. Shareef 57, 10. Betty Boop (2) P. Ajeeth Kumar 56, 11. Magic Storm (10) Jagadeesh 56 and 12. Tencendur (1) Farhan 56.  1. MAGIC STORM, 2. PICTURE GIRL, 3. BEFORETHEDAWN||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bernardini-for-chief-ministers-cup/article33079692.ece
12 November 2020||Wellington,||West Indies broke COVID isolation rules: NZ official||The West Indies cricket squad repeatedly broke isolation rules inside their team hotel, New Zealand health officials said Wednesday, adding that the tourists' training privileges had been revoked as punishment. The cricketers are undergoing a mandatory 14-day quarantine in Christchurch before starting their tour featuring three Twenty20 matches and two Tests later this month. The players were given special permission to train together during the isolation period, subject to strict bio-secure protocols, but the New Zealand Health Department said the commitment had not been honoured. “Members of the team were confirmed to have repeatedly broken managed isolation rules,” director-general of health Ashley Bloomfield said in a statement. “Many of these incidents have been captured on CCTV and have also been reported by staff. The incidents include groups mingling and sharing food.” Bloomfield said the breaches all occurred within the hotel where the team is based during the quarantine period and there was no risk to the general public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-indies-broke-covid-isolation-rules-nz-official/article33079700.ece
12 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Rohit not on Team India flight to Sydney||Less than 24 hours after the IPL final, an extended Team India entourage, sans key batsman Rohit Sharma, boarded a flight to Sydney from Dubai for the tour of Australia, scheduled to begin with the ODI on Nov. 27. Except for those who featured in Tuesday’s final, all the other members of India’s 31-strong playing crew, including three back-up bowlers selected for the tour, had been moved into a separate bubble in Dubai along with the coaching and support staff. While key personnel from Delhi Capitals joined the group on Wednesday, Rohit was set to return to Mumbai. The Mumbai Indians captain — originally left out of all three India squads after injuring his hamstring in the IPL, before being picked only for the Tests — is expected to travel to the National Cricket Academy in Bengaluru next week, to be assessed by the BCCI medical team. If Rohit and Ishant Sharma, who returned to the NCA midway through the IPL, are certified fit, they will join the squad ahead of the Test series. India is scheduled to play three ODIs, three T20Is and four Tests in Australia. It will be India’s first assignment since the home ODI series against South Africa in March, which was abandoned due to the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-not-on-team-india-flight-to-sydney/article33079654.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Siva Nama Prabhava||The glory of Siva Nama and the Panchakshara japa, meditation on the Namasivaya, is often hailed in the Tirumurais. The true substance of the four Vedas is the Lord’s name Namasivaya, says Gnanasambandar in the hymn ‘Kaadalaahi kasindu.’ He asserts that chanting this name with fervent love and devotion can surely lead one out of samsara. In a discourse, Sri B. Sundarkumar drew attention to the fact that the sacred Panchakshara mantra, comprising the five aksharas Na-Ma-Si-Va-Ya, is kept safely at the heart of the Vedas. As it is Parama rahasya, it is guarded with great care in the core of the Rudram, which is in the core of the Yajur Veda. Siva Nama is at the core of the Panchakshara. All may not be able or eligible to chant the Vedas or the Rudram. But Namasivaya is common to all and is easy to utter. This is also stressed in the Tiruvachagam of Manikkavachagar, a soul stirring hymn that speaks of the Lord’s boundless compassion for the troubled souls caught in samsara. The hymn begins with ‘Namasivaya Vazhgha’ wherein Siva is extolled as the essence of all Vedas. The text acquires sacredness as it is believed to be the very word of the Lord. It is also held that Siva, in the guise of a disciple, had requested Manikkavachagar to recite the Tiruvachagam that can alleviate the sorrow of repeated births. As the saint recited, the Lord wrote down the verse in palm leaves and suddenly disappeared. The songs were later found in the temple of Nataraja in Chidambaram and it is stated in it that Manikkavachagar has recited them and that the scribe is Tiru Chittrambalam. When Manikkavachagar is asked to explain meanings of these verses, he takes the people to the temple and points out to the Lord in the sanctum sanctorum. The saint then merged with the feet of the deity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siva-nama-prabhava/article33079649.ece
12 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Tata Steel chess tournament cancelled||This year’s Tata Steel India Rapid and Blitz chess tournament has been cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the organisers said here on Wednesday. World champion Magnus Carlsen won the tournament last year which was a part of the Grand Chess Tour and had featured 10 Grandmasters, including India’s Viswanathan Anand. “In view of the pandemic and to ensure safety and well-being of chess enthusiasts and sports fraternity at large, we have taken a considered view of cancelling the tournament this year,” Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president corporate services, Tata Steel, said. Local organisers Gameplan Sports Private Limited said they would look forward to bring back the tournament in 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tata-steel-chess-tournament-cancelled/article33079694.ece
12 November 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Rishabh and Shreya win titles||Rishabh Agarwal and T. Shreya won the men’s and women’s singles titles in the Hyderabad Ace tennis tournament at Ace Tennis Academy on Wednesday. India No. 13 Rishab beat 33-ranked G. Sai Karteek Reddy 6-3, 6-1. Shreya, ranked 53, scored a hard-fought 7-6(6), 7-5 win against former national under-18 champion Srivalli Rashmika.  The results: Finals:   Men: Rishabh Agarwal bt G. Sai Karteek Reddy 6-3, 6-1. Women: T. Shreya bt Srivalli Rashmika 7-6 (6), 7-5 .    Muralikrishna Enterprises scored a 27-run win over Kushi Warriors in the GOSPORTS Cup T20 league cricket here.  In another match reduced to 18 overs each, BBXI scored a 50-run win over over Sneha Plywood. Murali Krishna (40) to-scored for BBXI to help the team score a challenging 151 for six in 18 overs and chasing the target, Sneha was restricted to 101 for four despite Karthik hitting a breezy 47.  The scores: Muralikrishna Enterprises 143/6 in 20 overs bt Kushi Warriors 116 in 18.2 overs (Sagar 34, Ravi 4/4); BBXI 151/6 in 18 overs (Murali Krishna 30) bt Sneha Plywood 101/4 in 18 overs (Karthik 47).   Tuesday’s scores: Y Screens 148 in 20 overs (Manoj Kumar 38, Bhuvaneswar 3/33) lost to KK Blasters 151/7 in 20 overs (K. John 41, Manoj Kumar 4/21); Deccan Energy 31 in 15 overs (Chakri 4/14) lost to Young Stars 34 for no loss in 1.2 overs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rishabh-and-shreya-win-titles/article33080359.ece
12 November 2020||CHENNAI:,||CFC’s official app launched||Chennaiyin FC (CFC), on Wednesday, launched its official application to provide the club’s supporters with updates, information, and a fan engagement platform ahead of the 2020-21 Indian Super League (ISL) season. Consisting of football quizzes, trivia games and polls, the CFC official app can be downloaded on the Google Play Store and Apple AppStore, according to a release. The app has been developed by Fanisko, CFC’s official Fan Engagement Partner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfcs-official-app-launched/article33079693.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Judge a gift by its cover||Pardon the drama, but there is something immensely heartbreaking about ripping a gorgeous gift wrapper. It’s worse when it ends up in the waste bin, especially after the gifter has shelled out a fair amount for it. With Deepavali around the corner, here is how you can make sure that your wrap is appreciated and cherished for as long as the gift. Say hello to zero waste gift wraps. Fab wrap Furoshiki, the age-old Japanese technique of wrapping presents in reusable cloth, is steadily gaining steam world over. The hashtag ‘#furoshiki’ has more than 81,000 posts on Instagram with old experts and new enthusiasts of this practical yet beautiful practice sharing their techniques. It is chic, ecofriendly and for keeps. “A lot of my Japanese clients gave me gifts packed in Furoshiki wraps and I was fascinated by them,” says Chennai-based Neesha Amrish, designer and founder of label Aeshaane. A crusader of all things organic, she had been experimenting with this technique for the last two years and finally launched a line of Furoshiki-inspired gift wraps in March this year. “In Japan, this has been used as a way to bundle clothes at public baths, and now with a contemporary spin it’s used to wrap wine bottles, candles, books and boxes,” she says. Furoshiki wraps are made of fabric. Neesha makes them both in cotton (Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 1,500) and silk (Rs. 3,000-Rs. 4,000), with Nature-inspired and geometric prints. Since there are numerous ways to pack them, these wraps are accompanied by a step-by-step illustration and sizing guide. After its primary role is fulfilled, it can transition into a host of things — right from scarf to hair band and accessory for bags. “I make them in three sizes — 40 by 40 centimetre, 60 by 60 cm and 90 by 90 cm. I sell them in sets of two and clients can choose the sizes they want,” says Neesha. With the festive season here, queries have been pouring in not just from the city but also from far flung European countries (around 34 orders for Deepavali and around 50 for Christmas). “It is a versatile and environment-friendly alternative to paper and plastic wrapping. And a wrapper this gorgeous deserves to be saved!” she says. Thought that counts Furoshiki is also a hit with Priyanjoli Basu and Dominique Lopez who launched Oh Scrap! Madras last year. Propelled by queries on reusable alternatives to plastic and paper, the duo launched the Art of Thoughtful Gift Wrapping and Packaging recently. “It is the result of our common concern for the planet and the belief that if more people embark on a sustainable journey, the positive impact will be exponential,” says Priyanjoli. It is all very simple. The team at Oh Scrap! wants you to put a little thought into what you give people and make sure it is not wasteful, even if it is the packaging. “There is already so much waste from plastic gift wrap. According to various sources online, nearly four million tonnes of wrapping paper and shopping bags end up in the trash every year in the US alone,” says Priyanjoli. As part of their new project, Priyanjoli and Dominique have launched three sets of ecofriendly gift wrapping solutions. The first is a set of Furoshiki wraps. These are square fabrics in double layers and look like potli bags with knots. There are also brooches in shapes of origami flowers that can be used to enhance the visual appeal. Everything is made of cotton and cotton silk. The second offers twine made of cotton and silk. These can jazz up gifts packed in plain brown paper or newspaper. “This too comes with a selection of brooches in the shapes of butterflies, birds and flowers. And the third set is a mix of the first two,” says Priyanjoli. With this, the idea is to introduce DIY with reusable materials. With love, by hand Amruta Walvekar, founder of Pune-based Wrapistry (a gift wrapping and stationery company), is currently working on an order of gift sets that includes handmade papers and cards, a paint brush and paint that goes with a personalised message to encourage people to take up a hobby during this pandemic. While there is an emphasis on handmade and self made things created out of sustainable materials, there are also those who feel ecofriendly doesn’t necessarily translate to fun. “On the contrary, eco friendly wraps are anything but boring,” states Amruta who loves muted tones and minimal accessories when it comes to making a gift wrap look fabulous. To further support this, Amruta has over the months posted a bunch of videos on her social media pages that use simple everyday objects to create exquisite gift wraps. “You could use kitchen rolls to make flowers. In the past, I have used newspaper, brown paper, recycled paper/ thread/ burlap string, left over tape ring and leaves to make gift wraps,” she says, adding, “And it can be just any leaf.” Going by her works, there is so much one can do with fresh foliage, basic paper and a little creativity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/judge-a-gift-by-its-cover/article33080210.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Totems from the stolen past||It was from grandma Wilma that Australian indigenous artist Rhonda Brim learned how to weave a dilly bag. A cultural marker of the stolen history of the aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander peoples, the dilly bag made with twisted bark fibres was used as a food strainer and preparation basket. The craft waned during days of the Mona Mona Mission — around 1913 when large numbers of Djabugay people were forcibly taken to a religious congregation in Queensland and in effect robbed of their traditional arts and language. She writes in the description of her work, “The fact that this knowledge has not been lost tells a story of revival, survival and resistance.” This is one of the many artworks that are part of Undercurrents — Cook 2020, an online exhibition that questions the imbalance in written colonial history and the First Peoples’ oral history through varied media. It has been brought to India by the Australian Consulate, Chennai. Running along with this, is CIAF (Cairns Indigenous Art Fair) 2020, which traces the response of indigenous art to climate change. Both exhibits together make for over 500 artworks that are available for interactive, 360 degree viewing, as part of the NAIDOC (National Aborigines and Islanders Day Observance Committee) week: Australia’s yearly celebrations of the history, culture and achievements of the aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. “Indigenous art can draw from tradition. But, it can also draw from one’s lived experiences as an indigenous person in this country [Australia],” says Janine Harding, one of the curators and artistic director of CIAF 2020, speaking at a Zoom conference. The country’s diversity, in terms of communities and languages contribute to the many styles that are seen across different regions. Indigenous artist and educator Aaron Meeks joins in to say, “In the central and desert area, you see the dot style of painting, and then at in Northern territory, on top of Western Australia, you have the ‘rarrk’ design [a crosshatching style done on dried bark] and the X-ray style of painting. It is all about the environment where the work is created, that has an influence on the artwork.” The aboriginal people who live in Pormpuraaw for instance, have no word in their language for ‘art’, ‘community’ or ‘culture’, says Paul Jakabowski from Pormpuraaw Art Centre, whose artists also feature in the display. He continues, “It was all one thing — culture, language... it all comes from the country. So, they are learning to express old ideas through a new language altogether.” Dance and song, much like art, is another form of self-expression through which their stolen history is narrated. While the environment and animals are predominant subjects in indigenous art, most artworks also depict an unending search for one’s own ancestry. This idea manifests prominently here, considering that aboriginal past is filled with colonial atrocities. In Aaron Meeks’ The Gesture, a marriage of the celestial and the earthly, elements that depict ‘ancestral spirits’ are across the canvas. This is another one of the many recurring motifs that appear in indigenous art. Aaron explains, “It is a way we reconnect with our elders and practices. And in effect, our country.”  View the exhibition at naidoc2020.ciaf.com.au. Enter NAIDOC2020 as the password.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/totems-from-the-stolen-past/article33080198.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Not a flash in the pan||Tara Rhine’s culinary skills power her two-month-old, food-based home business. From her home kitchen in Shenoy Nagar, Chennai, Tara serves a variety of Continental and Southeast Asian dishes such as chicken pot roast, chilli pork, vegetable au gratin, Vietnamese noodle soup and more. It was all smooth going, until Chitra Chen, administrator of Homefood Network, a community of 25 home cooks that she belongs to, informed the group that all of them would have to apply for a registration/license from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) to keep their businesses ticking. “She gave us the information needed to apply for the registration. I went to the Corporation office on November 3 to apply for the permits. One of the officers came home the same day to check the premises. They had no complaints about it and now I am waiting for the papers to come through,” says Tara. With the closure of restaurants and absence of domestic help, talented, enterprising home cooks across the country stepped in to fill the vacuum. Some did it as a hobby, some to earn extra cash. A few like Tara, had lost their jobs and turned entrepreneurs on the basis of their expertise in the kitchen. All over India, they flourished, serving signature dishes to appreciative customers. However, many did not know that entrepreneurs in the food-based business must get a registration number or license (depending on their annual turnover) to serve and sell food. This law has been in force since August 5, 2011. Fortunately for them, on account of the inconvenience caused by the lockdown, FSSAI relaxed the rules on March 31 this year, to allow food business operators (FBO) to operate temporarily without the FSSAI registration. Vikas Talwar, Deputy Director (Regulatory Compliance), explains: “As per direction under Section 16 (5) of the FSSAI, food business operators were allowed to operate temporarily on basis of application for license/registration during the period of the lockdown. This was part of measures to ensure that the food chain was not interrupted.” Once the country entered the exit lockdown stages, it became compulsory for home cooks to ensure that they had the required permits. “Once you start selling food, it is no longer a hobby. It affects people’s lives and health,” says Sarthak Gupta, founder of The Soul Spoon, a start-up that provides home bakers with a web-based interface in Delhi and the NCR area, so they can supply fresh desserts at customers’ doorsteps. The Soul Spoon, which was begun in July, takes care of the logistics, accounts and registrations. “Home-based food sellers require the FSSAI permits and Goods and Services Tax registration,” adds Sarthak. Overnight, a number of consultants have sprung up to help home cooks, for a fee. Delhi-based Saundarya Srinivasan, and her mother, Lakshmi Srinivasan, who have been sellingidli-sambar, paniyaram and meals on weekends for nearly a month, sought a consultant to help with the paper work. Anita Dighe-Nair, who specialises in authentic Maharashtrian food in Thiruvananthapuram, on the other hand, applied for a registration online herself. She says, “I paid the fee of Rs. 208 for a two-year valid registration number and, within days, got my registration number,” she says. The online advertisement for her Deepavali box shows off the FSSAI registration number. Nevertheless, the going has not been smooth for many of the home cooks. “The necessity of FSSAI permits sent many of us into a tizzy,” says Saundarya. A race for permits InThiruvananthapuram alone, 2,300 applications were filed to get the necessary permits to run the food units, many of which had sprung up during the lockdown. Even as Soundarya points out that she is still waiting for her registration number, official sources assert that there is no need for any kind of panic: the deadline to secure the mandatory permissions from the FSSAI is December 31, 2020. They add that the since the portal of the FSSAI was being updated, applicants may have experienced difficulties. “All that has been sorted out. All registrations or licenses are to be obtained only online,” says Vikas, explaining that these registrations and licenses are issued by the district office of the Food Safety Department. Anita points out that since she cooks for her family in the same kitchen and has a toddler at home, she ensures that her house and kitchen are spick and span. Meanwhile Tara has more concerns, “But I can’t help wondering about hawkers who come on bikes and sell cooked food. How is the Corporation going to ensure that the food is hygienically prepared and served? It does not make sense to insist on home cooks alone applying for registration and license.” Saundarya adds, “It has been a difficult period. A number of people, for instance those in many apartments and societies, are relying on the food business to pay their rent and put food on the table. While it is true that clean and hygienic premises are a must for home cooks, I feel the authorities must empathise with their plight and educate them before going ahead with any kind of fines.” Despite the flurry of concern, what is important now is understanding the rules. “Home cooks only need a registration number if their turnover is likely to be below Rs. 12 lakh. Licenses are for those who do business above that amount. So, if they applied for the required registration/license, no one is going to disturb them till December 31,” says Vikas, adding, “They can carry on their business without any apprehension.” With inputs fromNahla Nainar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/not-a-flash-in-the-pan/article33080214.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Rolling the dice||Anurag Basu’s Ludo, currently streaming on Netflix, is a genre-blending multi-starrer that discusses life and death, right and wrong. What was his inspiration to write such a seemingly ambitious film after his previous one, Jagga Jasoos , a musical adventure, failed at the box-office? “I had two ideas: to make a fun film or to make one with four-five genres,” Basu explains, “I started writing the second. Initially, for two or three days, I couldn’t think of anything. I wondered if I could pull it off. But it just happened.” It just happened, he says, as if the script wrote itself. But such answers are characteristic of Basu. For, he comes across as a filmmaker, who goes by instinct than intellect. Ranbir Kapoor, the lead actor in Basu’s previous two films, had said in an interview that he would cancel a 40-day shoot on the third day. Abhishek Bachchan, who plays one of the lead characters in Ludo , says he never discloses the entire script to his actors. “Working with dada [Basu] is a bit like opening presents. As an actor, you’re kind of looking forward to going on set the next day to discover what you’re going to do and how you’re going to do it.” All this makes his process interesting. The filmmaker discusses that and more about Ludo in this interview. Excerpts: Actors of your films have said that you don’t disclose the entire movie to them and that you don’t have a script. You are a spontaneous filmmaker... Their performances are good in my films. And, this is because of my process. Giving them less information helps the film. The actors give their 100% and the performance is organic. And, I do have a script. It’s not possible to make a film without one. But I decide on how much I want to share, when to share and with which actors. I think my biggest problem is I don’t commit to the scenes until the last minute. I thrive on some magic happening on set. You suddenly see a table or a window and your scene changes. And, I can’t find this inspiration, sitting at home in front of my laptop.   Ludo is probably your biggest film in terms of the cast. Was this also the most difficult to write and direct?  Writing, yes. But not to direct — that was a cakewalk. Even Life In A Metro had many characters. But that was easier because the genre was the same and the character arcs were similar. In Ludo , every character is different. And, when you watch the film, it should be wholesome — with a beginning, middle and end. It shouldn’t be like you are watching four-five different films within the movie. So, I felt like a music conductor conducting separate pieces and putting it together. There was a risk of this becoming noise and not a melody. Was the film intended as an OTT release? What’s your take on OTT platforms?  Ludo was supposed to be released in theatres. But it kept getting delayed. Then, we gave in. But it was a blessing in disguise because it will reach larger audiences now. And, OTT platforms are improving the taste of the Indian audience. More people are becoming cinema-literate. And, because of that, Indian cinema will change. But theatres won’t go away because cinema is meant for community viewing.  Ludo , due to its multiple storylines and overarching philosophy, reminded one of Thiagarajan Kumararaja’s Super Deluxe . Did you watch the film?  No. Super Deluxe came out when I was shooting Ludo . I heard about it and asked my ADs to go and watch the film and see if anything was similar and we needed to change it. But thankfully we didn’t have to. It’s amusing that a film similar to Ludo released when I was making it. But it’s good that these kind of films are getting made and are being accepted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rolling-the-dice/article33080179.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The action begins||When the opening credits of Tamil film Dharala Prabhu rolled out at Seasons, PVR (formerly Sathyam Cinemas), on Tuesday morning, the applause was nervous, but enthusiastic. The dozen people who gingerly ventured into the hall were finally experiencing something they sorely missed over the last eight months, due to lockdowns to combat COVID-19: watching a film on the big screen. On the next screen, Dulquer Salmaan-starrer Kannum Kannum Kolaiyadithaal was being played. Both films were released earlier this year in the same cinema hall, and did reasonably well, before the pandemic changed the world in March. Both are available on leading OTT platforms. Nevertheless, both drew audiences. Theatre owners and cinema buffs are looking forward to the familiar comfort of re-uniting with the big screen in the coming weeks, albeit in a new normal in a city still in the grip of COVID-19. “It has been a long wait, and finally, we are open,” says Swaroop Reddy, regional director, South, PVR. He adds, hopefully, “We should get back to the good old times soon. People have missed watching films on the big screen, so even older content is getting traction.” Bookings have been open for the nine movies that are playing in their various city properties since Sunday, with ticket prices at the Rs. 150- Rs. 170 range. Movies currently playing include Korean documentary Break the Silence, 1995 Hindi superhit Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge and English film My Spy, but with Deepavali approaching, there might be a few new releases like Santhanam-starrer Biskoth and Irandam Kuthu to watch, in city theatres. Irrespective of what is playing, the theatrical experience has undergone a drastic makeover in these challenging times. Patrons will be required to sanitise their hands and undergo a temperature check before entering the cinema halls. Inside, there will be attempts to sensitise them on the new normal; PVR has a duty officer announcing precautions, while INOX is playing public awareness videos. AGS Cinemas has installed extra CCTV cameras to ensure social distancing among patrons. All cinemas will operate on 50% occupancy; so the seat next to yours will be empty. There will also be extra time between two shows in most halls to ensure thorough sanitisation. Safety precautions are a priority for theatre owners who foresee a slow but steady start to business. Now that the market is more competive than ever before, theatres are also coming up with innovative offers; like PVR’s Private Screening where customers can book an entire hall depending on availability for Rs. 2,750, for a 15-member group. Go digital With the emphasis on digital transactions, the printed ticket might soon become a thing of the past. Only e-tickets will be issued at INOX, which has opened up at OMR’s Marina Mall. “Patrons will receive an all-in-one booking confirmation SMS. The four different links in it will not only have your e-ticket, but also the auditorium’s seat chart and the location of your seat,” says Mohit Bhargava, regional director - South, INOX Leisure. The hall is also updating it’s menu with a host of healthy options, including 2020’s most popular food trend: ‘immunity boosters.’ Besides popcorn, you can also order energy bars, green tea, soup, turmeric lattes and even rasam at your seat. At AGS T Nagar, Vijay’s Bigil is the big attraction. The film released amidst much fanfare last year during Deepavali, on the same screens, and has made a comeback this week . “It was an obvious choice and the response has been great,” says Archana Kalpathi, CEO of AGS Cinemas and the creative producer of the film. Bigil 's ‘new normal first-day-first-show’ had about 40 attendees, compared to last year’s show when it ran to packed houses. The price of a ticket at AGS for the next few days is Rs. 60, with parking charges waived. “This is to welcome audiences back to the screens,” she adds. Just make sure you have your masks on. “Patrons without masks will be treated the same way we treat people who are inebriated.” While most multiplexes have relaunched with old content, some city theatres are choosing to wait for new content before they open their doors. Rakesh Gowthaman has used the last few months to spruce up Vettri Theatres in Chromepet. New seats have been installed in the balcony and an in-house kitchen will be set up. He hopes to open for audiences on Friday with new Tamil releases such as Biskoth and Irandam Kuthu . “We plan to have three shows (morning, matinee and evening) in our two screens,” he says. A packed house might still be a distant dream. But for now, theatre regulars can look forward to fresh content on the big screen to make their Fridays more entertaining. (With inputs from Pradeep Kumar)  We should get back to the good old times soon. People have missed watching films on the big screen, so even older content is getting traction Swaroop Reddy, PVR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-action-begins/article33080187.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||When laddu met jangri||“Gifting is a major part of Deepavali. This year, we were not sure if people were in the mood to celebrate. But it has turned out to be a better season than anticipated,” says Meera Maran of Terra Earth Store. Orders have been steady; the only thing that has changed is mode of delivery. “This year, individuals gave us bulk orders with addresses of friends and families asking us to deliver the boxes on their behalf,” says Meera, adding: “Corporates are trying to connect with their staff who are now working from home. We delivered 8,000 corporate gift boxes across the country for a company.” Terra has three types of thematic gift boxes: the Earth collection (predominantly ragi , red rice, palm jaggery and filter coffee), Go Green (sweets/savouries made of spinach, wheatgrass, green beans, chilies and karpooravalli ) and Sunshine collection where turmeric, besan and carrot dominate. “This year we have a launched a laddu assortment box that has been well-received,” says Meera. Popular options include wheatgrass kudhiravali laddu , thinai fig and honey laddu , sathumaavu -flaxseed laddu , and turmeric cardamom laddu . A box of 20 is priced at Rs. 800.  To order, call 99406 38931    Staff at Subham Ganesan Marriage Catering Services, Mandaveli, are working round the clock packing Deepavali bakshanams for door delivery. “Orders started coming in much ahead of the festival. In fact, we have been receiving more orders this time than last year,” says Subham Ganesan adding that customers are picking up their orders via delivery apps or having them couriered even if they have to shell out more. “We have neither scaled down the quantity nor reduced the number of varieties we usually offer,” he adds. As always, this year too, their popular items such as special mixture, ribbon pakoda , Horlicks Mysorepa and jangri are fast disappearing from their shelves.  To order, call 96000 61064    “For the first time, we got bulk orders from Kenya this year: We shipped traditional sweets and savouries to Indians living there,” says Nalina Kannan, proprietor, Thaligai Restaurant, Mylapore. She says they also packed a large number of thala Deepavali seer bakshanams [sweets for couples celebrating their first Deepavali after their wedding] this week. Many of these were shipped across the country and overseas. “Couples celebrating their first Deepavali are unable to travel to their parents’ homes due to the pandemic. Which is why the parents are sending them sweets,” she says. The restaurant is trying to engage more senior cooks as wedding caterers do not have big events booked this season. There is one more perk this year: a hot jangri counter. “Jambu Nathan from Kanchipuram, has joined our team. He is a jangri, coffee and paal payasammaster ,” says Nalina. The live counter will be open from 3pm to 5 pm till November 14. Well-known for their nokkal andmanoharam, Thaligai has now added dry fruit halwa to its Deepavali sweets menu.    To order, call 9962599151    At Mannvasanai organic store in Kodambakkam, sweets and savouries made of heritage rice and millets steal the show. “Even though we have been supplying Deepavali snacks for the past 10 years, it is only this year that corporates have ordered from us. We assume that this trend is due to an increased awareness on eating healthy,” says E Menaka, the proprietor. At Mannvasanai, the thinai boondhi laddu and thinai adhirasam are a hit. “We have introduced kattuyanam aval navadhanya mixture this year. Popular snacks on our list are kichili samba milagu murukku , mappilai samba laddu and kambu ribbon pakoda, ” she adds.  To order, call 98841 66772.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-laddu-met-jangri/article33080215.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Race with destiny||Pulling a muscle or two as we resume fitness-related activities after the pandemic-induced layoff is to be expected; Nushrratt Bharuccha knows this all too well. The actor, who stars alongside Rajkummar Rao in the Hansal Mehta film Chhalaang , heard her back go “Oh, no!”, she says, laughing, as she took part in dance rehearsals for another film in mid-October. . In Chhalaang , she plays Neelima, a school teacher for whom Rajkummar’s character Montu Singh, who is the school’s physical education teacher, falls. “She is the type of girl who could have had a better life and lived in a city and yet, she chooses to come back to her village to give back to the kids. She sees Montu and realises how lost he is. So, Neelima turns her focus on Montu and through him tries to help the children realise their potential,” she says over phone from Mumbai. Edited excerpts: How difficult was it to attempt the Haryanvi accent for your role? People were sceptical if I could speak the language. The belief is correct to an extent because it is quite a task for actors like me who have grown up in cities to speak a rural dialect with authenticity. I had reading sessions with Raj (Rajkummar Rao) who is from Haryana to understand how he speaks or if he had any tips to share. I also hired a dialect coach and we read scenes of other films that had Haryanvi dialogues to widen my vocabulary. I didn’t want to stick to learning just my lines in Chhalaang . The coach was also present on the set and I had to do retakes, even if the scene was correct, just to get the proper diction. Was it added pressure to work with a National Award-winning director-actor combo?  I admit that I was a nervous wreck. Look, I don’t have a problem accepting my flaws. I have gone up to Hansal and told him that I’m the weakest performer in the cast and he could bring me up to task if he ever thought I was slacking. But he told me that I was taking this far too seriously ( laughs ). He trusted me 100% and did not ever make me feel that I was making a mistake. So, Hansal not only calmed me down, he also gave me the freedom to play my character. He is an actor’s treat. Is sports education the crux of the film?  Yes, but the message is this: that you might not be the fastest runner in the group but it doesn’t mean that you don’t run the race. Is there a personal connection to that message?  Of course. Every single person all my life has told me that I could never be an actor or even be in films. That was my race. So, the start and finish line was out of sight ( laughs ). The fact is I may not be the smartest, fastest or well-trained runner out there, but I will still run the race even if it is not on the track. What are your upcoming projects?  I’ve finished work on Hurdang ; it will be my next release. I have now started work on Chhori . Chhalaang streams on Amazon Prime Video from November 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/race-with-destiny/article33080176.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A cracker of an idea||In the tiny village of Paradsinga, tucked away in Sausar tehsil of Chhindwara district in Madhya Pradesh, a collective of farmers, artists, craftspeople and their families are busy making basketfuls of firecrackers and sweets. But, these are firecrackers and sweets with a difference. The crackers do not emit smoke, light or sound. The sweets will add no calories. Instead, they hold the promise of flowers, vegetables and fruits in them. Plant a firecracker or one of the shinypedasandbarfisand watch them come alive. “Deepavali somehow seems incomplete without sweets, firecrackers and sparklers,” explains Swetha Bhataad, a volunteer with the Gramart Project, an NGO that explores eco-friendly ways to celebrate festivals. She adds, “We felt this was the best time to talk about the environment, food security, health, farmers and so on.” Made to resemble familiar firecrackers and sparklers such as rockets, ground spinners, bombs, flower pots and and roll caps, these bright and shiny fire cracker lookalikes have seeds in them. “The idea is to encourage people to go in for pollution-free celebrations and also foster the habit of growing our food and greening the environment,” says Swetha. So, in the place of the traditional ‘anar’ or flowerpot, theanarmade in Paradsinga will give rise to a ‘golden shower,’ brightening surroundings with golden-yellow flowers ofCassia fistula, which blooms in summer. The popular garlands of red ladis are embedded with seven kinds of seeds including red amaranthus, fenugreek, mustard and spinach and microgreens. Beej Paatra is the commercial wing of the NGO that seeks to empower the women and help them earn a living through sustainable methods, she adds. Beej Parva conceptualises products and methods to have eco-friendly ways to celebrate festivals instead of exploiting Nature or people and reduce consumerism. This year, prior to the festival season, the artisans in the collective trained the women to make these seed crackers and sweets. The women were given the raw materials and asked to make the products in their homes. Paper for the products came from waste collected at paper mills and printing presses. About 50 families are involved in this project. “Before we began training them, we bought the firecrackers and sweets from the market to study them and get the designing and packaging right and make ours resemble the real thing. Then, we organised a small workshop to teach the women to manufacture the seed firecrackers and seed sweets,” explains Swetha. “It is to bring home the message of pollution-free celebrations, organic farming and exploitation-free food.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-cracker-of-an-idea/article33080193.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Rumour has it||The pandemic has been a bane for live theatre. 2020’s inevitable shift to virtual media for survival and to satiate the need to stay in touch with the art form, is steadily evolving to cater to a WFH-weary audience. Actors, directors, and writers are upping their skills to appeal to an on-screen audience. Joining Chennai’s theatre fraternity, is RumourMill Theatre Company, which used the absence of live theatre to their advantage, and launched online. When Zubin Vincent returned to Chennai after graduating from the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland last year, he did not anticipate this dramatic shift. “Ever since the pandemic hit, we have been doing a lot of Zoom theatre. With everything moving online, the overall costs of theatre came down. It made the art form more accessible to everyone, including theatre makers,” says Zubin. A drive to take theatre to more people, and the restrictions that came with the pandemic pushed Zubin and managing director Belinda Peter to launch this online platform. “In online theatre, there is a tendency to just read the play [to the screen]. This is the right opportunity to elevate online theatre,” says Belinda. For now, the focus will be on virtual theatre, and there are no restrictions, genre-wise. “We started off with a monologue workshop last week, where participants were asked to come prepared,” says Zubin. The response to the workshop was surprising, adds Belinda, since all spots were closed within a couple of days. This made them realise that both enthusiasts and beginners are looking for activity within the theatre space. “We are planning to do a writer’s workshop as well for those who want to be part of theatre, but not on stage,” says Zubin. The times also call for a focus on ‘short form’ (in both writing and otherwise), since operations are done online. Ultimately, the mission is to create a community of different kinds of theatre lovers. “We want to widen the circle in the city. There are excellent circles that produce their own theatre in Chennai but these don’t intersect. We want to find a place where it can be a Venn diagram,” says Belinda. And to that effect, RumourMill is actively looking for collaborators.  The second edition of the monologue workshop is on November 28. Those interested can write to contactrumourmill@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rumour-has-it/article33080212.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Another place to race||Even during a raging pandemic, former Formula One (F1) racer Karun Chandhok travels frequently. His television commentary work for F1 requires him to do so. Week after week, the Chennai-based sportsperson moves from one bio-bubble to the other. “I am somewhat of an expert in COVID-19 tests by now,” he jokes about undergoing 29 tests. Apart from talking motorsport on television and writing about it, Karun is also involved in designing new racetracks and modifying old ones. Last year, he helped Driven International, a UK-based motorsport venue architect company, to design the Nanoli Speedway track in Pune. He also helped the firm in modifying the design of Coimbatore’s Kari Motor Speedway, which is being upgraded. The 2.92-kilometre Nanoli track, he says, will be India’s fourth major racing venue after Madras Motor Race Track in Chennai, Kari Motor Speedway, Coimbatore and the Buddh International Circuit, Noida. The location, Karun says, is ideal for racing enthusiasts, supercar owners and automobile companies from both cities. “There are a lot of supercar owners and racers in Mumbai, who don’t have the space to drive. It is difficult and sometimes dangerous to drive those cars within the city. To drive fast, they have to take it to the racing tracks in Chennai or the tracks in the North. But once the Nanoli track launches, it will just be a 90-minute drive for them,” he explains. “Also, one more track is good for Indian racing,” adds Karun, “It helps develop a racing culture in a region. For instance, Narain [Karthikeyan] and I got into racing because our fathers used to race. So, a track can create a racing hub. But we also need more go-karting tracks in the country.” The Nanoli track design, approved by the International Automobile Federation (FIA) and Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India (FMSCI), features two long straights and 12 turns. It can host races up to Formula 3 level. “We visited the site last year and came up with a few design options. I ran these options on my simulator last year and came up with the final design,” says Karun. The track will also feature a pit building, paddock, garage, museum and other amenities like a golf course, tennis court, and an equestrian course among others. “It was supposed to be ready this year. COVID delayed the work. So, hopefully, it should be ready next year,” says Karun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/another-place-to-race/article33080213.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I’m now eager for meaty roles’||Madhoo Shah’s last outing in Malayalam was the Tamil- Malayalam bilingual Vaayai Moodi Pesavum, featuring Dulquer Salmaan and Nazriya Nazim in the lead. She is now set to don the greasepaint for filmmaker Emcy Joseph’s second directorial Ennittu Avasanam ( And In the End ), the announcement of which was made recently. Joseph’s début was the acclaimed Vikruthi, which released last year, starring Suraj Venjaramoodu and Soubin Shahir. “I’m excited because my character [in Enittu Avasanam ] is like a dream role for me. I have played the role of a wife, mother and so on many times, but this one is modern,” says Madhoo over phone. She is currently shooting for the upcoming biographical Thalaivi, based on the life of the late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and actor J Jayalalithaa. The actor, however, is tight-lipped about her character in Ennittu Avasanam, also starring actors Anna Ben and Arjun Ashokan. Madhoo made her Mollywood début with Ottayal Pattalam in 1991. Some of her biggest hits include Neelagiri , Ennodu Ishtam Koodamo and Yodha in Malayalam , and Gentleman, Mr Romeo in Tamil .  She gained prominence in other languages, when Mani Ratnam’s Roja released in 1992. However, looking back, the actor has mixed memories of working in Malayalam. “Back then, I was a new girl [in the industry] and was trying to cope with a busy schedule. Therefore, I was quite stressed. But I’m more relaxed now. Even though I don’t know the language [Malayalam] well, I’m willing to put in extra effort.” So, what can we expect from her in Ennittu Avasanam ? “In the ‘90s, I mostly played characters that were simple, and there were a lot of songs and dances. But now, I’m eager to play meaty roles, perhaps even action roles. It is no longer about singing songs and dancing around the hero any more,” she says. Madhoo hopes to act more in Malayalam. “As an actor, I feel one gets a lot more opportunities to do realistic roles here,” she concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/im-now-eager-for-meaty-roles/article33080174.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Not a flash in the pan||Tara Rhine’s culinary skills power her two-month-old, food-based home business. From her home kitchen in Shenoy Nagar, Chennai, Tara serves a variety of Continental and Southeast Asian dishes such as chicken pot roast, chilli pork, vegetable au gratin, Vietnamese noodle soup and more. It was all smooth going, until Chitra Chen, administrator of Homefood Network, a community of 25 home cooks that she belongs to, informed the group that all of them would have to apply for a registration/license from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) to keep their businesses ticking. “She gave us the information needed to apply for the registration. I went to the Corporation office on November 3 to apply for the permits. One of the officers came home the same day to check the premises. They had no complaints about it and now I am waiting for the papers to come through,” says Tara.  Home enterprise  With the closure of restaurants and absence of domestic help, talented, enterprising home cooks across the country stepped in to fill the vacuum. Some did it as a hobby, some to earn extra cash. A few like Tara, had lost their jobs and turned entrepreneurs on the basis of their expertise in the kitchen. All over India, they flourished, serving signature dishes to appreciative customers. However, many did not know that entrepreneurs in the food-based business must get a registration number or license (depending on their annual turnover) to serve and sell food. This law has been in force since August 5, 2011. Fortunately for them, on account of the inconvenience caused by the lockdown, FSSAI relaxed the rules on March 31 this year, to allow food business operators (FBO) to operate temporarily without the FSSAI registration. Vikas Talwar, Deputy Director (Regulatory Compliance), explains: “As per direction under Section 16 (5) of the FSSAI, food business operators were allowed to operate temporarily on the basis of application for license/registration during the period of the lockdown. This was part of the measures to ensure that the food chain was not interrupted.” Once the country entered the exit lockdown stages, it became compulsory for home cooks to ensure that they had the required permits. “Once you start selling food, it is no longer a hobby. It affects people’s lives and health,” says Sarthak Gupta, founder of The Soul Spoon, a start-up that provides home bakers with a web-based interface in Delhi and the NCR area, so they can supply fresh desserts at customers’ doorsteps. The Soul Spoon, which was begun in July, takes care of the logistics, accounts and registrations. “Home-based food sellers require the FSSAI permits and Goods and Services Tax registration,” adds Sarthak. Overnight, a number of consultants have sprung up to help home cooks, for a fee. Delhi-based Saundarya Srinivasan, and her mother, Lakshmi Srinivasan, who have been sellingidli-sambar, paniyaram and meals on weekends for nearly a month, sought a consultant to help with the paper work. Anita Dighe-Nair, who specialises in authentic Maharashtrian food in Thiruvananthapuram, on the other hand, applied for a registration online herself. She says, “I paid the fee of Rs. 208 for a two-year valid registration number and, within days, got my registration number,” she says. The online advertisement for her Deepavali box shows off the FSSAI registration number. Nevertheless, the going has not been smooth for many of the home cooks. “The necessity of FSSAI permits sent many of us into a tizzy,” says Saundarya. A race for permits InThiruvananthapuram alone, 2,300 applications were filed to get the necessary permits to run the food units, many of which had sprung up during the lockdown. Even as Soundarya points out that she is still waiting for her registration number, official sources assert that there is no need for any kind of panic: the deadline to secure the mandatory permissions from the FSSAI is December 31, 2020. They add that the since the portal of the FSSAI was being updated, applicants may have experienced difficulties. “All that has been sorted out. All registrations or licenses are to be obtained only online,” says Vikas, explaining that these registrations and licenses are issued by the district office of the Food Safety Department. Anita points out that since she cooks for her family in the same kitchen and has a toddler at home, she ensures that her house and kitchen are always spick and span. Meanwhile Tara has more concerns, “But I can’t help wondering about hawkers who come on bikes and sell cooked food. How is the Corporation going to ensure that the food is hygienically prepared and served? It does not make sense to insist on home cooks alone applying for registration and license.” Saundarya adds, “It has been a difficult period. A number of people, for instance those in many apartments and societies, are relying on the food business to pay their rent and put food on the table. While it is true that clean and hygienic premises are a must for home cooks, I feel the authorities must empathise with their plight and educate them before going ahead with any kind of fines.” Despite the flurry of concern, what is important now is understanding the rules. “Home cooks only need a registration number if their turnover is likely to be below Rs. 12 lakh. Licenses are for those who do business above that amount. So, if they applied for the required registration/license, no one is going to disturb them till December 31,” says Vikas, adding, “They can carry on their business without any apprehension.” With inputs fromNahla Nainar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/not-a-flash-in-the-pan/article33079865.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Rolling the dice||Anurag Basu’s Ludo, currently streaming on Netflix, is a genre-blending multi-starrer that discusses life and death, right and wrong. What was his inspiration to write such a seemingly ambitious film after his previous one, Jagga Jasoos , a musical adventure, failed at the box-office? “I had two ideas: to make a fun film or to make one with four-five genres,” Basu explains. “I started writing the second. Initially, for two or three days, I couldn’t think of anything. I wondered if I could pull it off. But it just happened.” It just happened, he says, as if the script wrote itself. But such answers are characteristic of Basu. For, he comes across as a filmmaker who goes more by instinct than intellect. Ranbir Kapoor, the lead actor in Basu’s previous two films, had said in an interview that he would cancel a 40-day shoot on the third day. Abhishek Bachchan, who plays one of the lead characters in Ludo , says he never discloses the entire script to his actors. “Working with dada [Basu] is a bit like opening presents. As an actor, you’re kind of looking forward to going on set the next day to discover what you’re going to do and how you’re going to do it.” All this makes his process interesting. The filmmaker discusses that and more about Ludo in this interview. Excerpts: Actors of your films have said that you don’t disclose the entire movie to them and that you don’t have a script. You are a spontaneous filmmaker... Their performances are good in my films. And, this is because of my process. Giving them less information helps the film. The actors give their 100% and the performance is organic. And, I do have a script. It’s not possible to make a film without one. But I decide on how much I want to share, when to share and with which actors. I think my biggest problem is I don’t commit to the scenes until the last minute. I thrive on some magic happening on set. You suddenly see a table or a window and your scene changes. And, I can’t find this inspiration, sitting at home in front of my laptop.   Ludo is probably your biggest film in terms of the cast. Was this also the most difficult to write and direct?  Writing, yes. But not to direct — that was a cakewalk. Even Life In A Metro had many characters. But that was easier because the genre was the same and the character arcs were similar. In Ludo , every character is different. And, when you watch the film, it should be wholesome — with a beginning, middle and end. It shouldn’t be like you are watching four-five different films within the movie. So, I felt like a music conductor conducting separate pieces and putting it together. There was a risk of this becoming noise and not a melody. Was the film intended as an OTT release? What’s your take on OTT platforms?  Ludo was supposed to be released in theatres. But it kept getting delayed. Then, we gave in. But it was a blessing in disguise because it will reach larger audiences now. And, OTT platforms are improving the taste of the Indian audience. More people are becoming cinema-literate. And, because of that, Indian cinema will change. But theatres won’t go away because cinema is meant for community viewing.  Ludo , due to its multiple storylines and overarching philosophy, reminded one of Thiagarajan Kumararaja’s Super Deluxe . Did you watch the film?  No. Super Deluxe came out when I was shooting Ludo . I heard about it and asked my ADs to go and watch the film and see if anything was similar and we needed to change it. But thankfully we didn’t have to. It’s amusing that a film similar to Ludo released when I was making it. But it’s good that these kind of films are getting made and are being accepted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rolling-the-dice/article33080011.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||When laddu met jangri||“Gifting is a major part of Deepavali. This year, we were not sure if people were in the mood to celebrate. But it has turned out to be a better season than anticipated,” says Meera Maran of Terra Earth Store, in Chennai. Orders have been steady; the only thing that has changed is mode of delivery. “This year, individuals gave us bulk orders with addresses of friends and families asking us to deliver the boxes on their behalf,” says Meera, adding: “Corporates are trying to connect with their staff who are now working from home. We delivered 8,000 corporate gift boxes across the country for a company.” Terra has three types of thematic gift boxes: the Earth collection (predominantly ragi , red rice, palm jaggery and filter coffee), Go Green (sweets/savouries made of spinach, wheatgrass, green beans, chilies and karpooravalli ) and Sunshine collection where turmeric, besan and carrot dominate. “This year we have a launched a laddu assortment box that has been well-received,” says Meera. Popular options include wheatgrass kudhiravali laddu , thinai fig and honey laddu , sathumaavu -flaxseed laddu , and turmeric cardamom laddu . A box of 20 is priced at Rs. 800.  To order, call 99406 38931; delivery countrywide    Staff at Subham Ganesan Marriage Catering Services, Mandaveli, Chennai, are working round the clock packing Deepavali bakshanams for door delivery. “Orders started coming in much ahead of the festival. In fact, we have been receiving more orders this time than last year,” says Subham Ganesan, adding that customers are picking up their orders via delivery apps or having them couriered even if they have to shell out more, just for the pleasure of a sweet. “We have neither scaled down the quantity nor reduced the number of varieties we usually offer,” he adds. As always, this year too, their popular items such as special mixture, ribbon pakoda , Horlicks Mysorepa and jangri are fast disappearing from their shelves.  To order, call 96000 61064; delivery countrywide    “For the first time, we got bulk orders from Kenya this year: We shipped traditional sweets and savouries to Indians living there,” says Nalina Kannan, proprietor, Thaligai Restaurant, Mylapore, Chennai. She says they also packed a large number of thala Deepavali seer bakshanams [sweets for couples celebrating their first Deepavali after their wedding] this week. Many of these were shipped across the country and overseas. “Couples celebrating their first Deepavali are unable to travel to their parents’ homes due to the pandemic. Which is why the parents are sending them sweets,” she says. The restaurant is trying to engage more senior cooks as wedding caterers do not have big events booked this season. There is one more perk this year: a hot jangri counter. “Jambu Nathan from Kanchipuram, has joined our team. He is a jangri, coffee and paal payasammaster ,” says Nalina. The live counter will be open from 3pm to 5 pm till November 14. Well-known for their nokkal andmanoharam, Thaligai has now added dry fruit halwa to its Deepavali sweets menu.  To order, call 9962599151; delivery countrywide    At Mannvasanai organic store in Kodambakkam, Chennai, sweets and savouries made of heritage rice and millets steal the show. “Even though we have been supplying Deepavali snacks for the past 10 years, it is only this year that corporates have ordered from us. We assume that this trend is due to an increased awareness on eating healthy,” says E Menaka, the proprietor. The thinai boondhi laddu and thinai adhirasam are a hit. “We have introduced kattuyanam aval navadhanya mixture this year. Popular snacks on our list are kichili samba milagu murukku , mappilai samba laddu and kambu ribbon pakoda, ” she adds.  To order, call 98841 66772; delivery countrywide||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-laddu-met-jangri/article33079871.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Judge a gift by its cover||There is something immensely heartbreaking about ripping apart a gorgeous gift wrapper. It’s worse when it ends up in the waste bin. With Deepavali around the corner, here is how you can make sure that your wrap is appreciated and cherished for as long as the gift. Say hello to zero waste gift wraps. Fab wrap Furoshiki, the age-old Japanese technique of wrapping presents in reusable cloth, is steadily gaining steam world over. The hashtag ‘#furoshiki’ has more than 81,000 posts on Instagram with old experts and new enthusiasts of this practical yet beautiful practice sharing their techniques. “A lot of my Japanese clients gave me gifts packed in Furoshiki wraps and I was fascinated by them,” says Chennai-based Neesha Amrish, designer and founder of label Aeshaane. A crusader of all things organic, she had been experimenting with this technique over the last two years and finally launched a line of Furoshiki-inspired gift wraps in March this year. “In Japan, this has been used as a way to bundle clothes at public baths, and now with a contemporary spin it’s used to wrap wine bottles, candles, books and boxes,” she says. Furoshiki wraps are made of fabric. Neesha makes them both in cotton (Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 1,500) and silk (Rs. 3,000-Rs. 4,000), with Nature-inspired and geometric prints. Since there are numerous ways to pack them, these wraps are accompanied by a step-by-step illustration and sizing guide. After its primary role is fulfilled, it can transition into a host of things — from scarf to hair band and accessory for bags. “I make them in three sizes — 40 by 40 centimetre, 60 by 60 cm and 90 by 90 cm. I sell them in sets of two and clients can choose the sizes they want,” says Neesha. Thought that counts Furoshiki is also a hit with Priyanjoli Basu and Dominique Lopez who launched Oh Scrap! Madras last year. Propelled by queries on reusable alternatives to plastic and paper, the duo launched the Art of Thoughtful Gift Wrapping and Packaging recently. “It is the result of our common concern for the planet and the belief that if more people embark on a sustainable journey, the positive impact will be exponential,” says Priyanjoli. “According to various sources online, nearly four million tonnes of wrapping paper and shopping bags end up in the trash every year in the US alone,” says Priyanjoli. As part of their new project, Priyanjoli and Dominique have launched three sets of ecofriendly gift wrapping solutions. The first is a set of Furoshiki wraps. These are square fabrics in double layers and look like potli bags with knots. There are also brooches in shapes of origami flowers that can be used to enhance the visual appeal. Everything is made of cotton and cotton silk. The second offers twine made of cotton and silk. These can jazz up gifts packed in plain brown paper or newspaper. “This too comes with a selection of brooches in the shapes of butterflies, birds and flowers. And the third set is a mix of the first two,” says Priyanjoli. With this, the idea is to introduce DIY with reusable materials. With love, by hand Amruta Walvekar, founder of Pune-based Wrapistry (a gift wrapping and stationery company), is currently working on an order of gift sets that includes handmade papers and cards, a paint brush and paint that goes with a personalised message to encourage people to take up a hobby during this pandemic. While there is an emphasis on handmade and self made things created out of sustainable materials, there are also those who feel ecofriendly doesn’t necessarily translate to fun. “On the contrary, eco friendly wraps are anything but boring,” states Amruta who loves muted tones and minimal accessories when it comes to making a gift wrap look fabulous. To further support this, Amruta has over the months posted a bunch of videos on her social media pages that use simple everyday objects to create exquisite gift wraps. “You could use kitchen rolls to make flowers. In the past, I have used newspaper, brown paper, recycled paper/ thread/ burlap string, left over tape ring and leaves to make gift wraps,” she says, adding, “And it can be just any leaf.” Going by her works, there is so much one can do with fresh foliage, basic paper and a little creativity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/judge-a-gift-by-its-cover/article33080017.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A cracker of an idea||In the tiny village of Paradsinga, tucked away in Sausar tehsil of Chhindwara district in Madhya Pradesh, a collective of farmers, artists, craftspeople and their families are busy making basketfuls of firecrackers and sweets. But, these are firecrackers and sweets with a difference. The crackers do not emit smoke, light or sound. The sweets will add no calories. Instead, they hold the promise of flowers, vegetables and fruits in them. Plant a firecracker or one of the shinypedasandbarfisand watch them come alive. “Deepavali somehow seems incomplete without sweets, firecrackers and sparklers,” explains Swetha Bhataad, a volunteer with the Gramart Project, an NGO that explores eco-friendly ways to celebrate festivals. She adds, “We felt this was the best time to talk about the environment, food security, health, farmers and so on.” Made to resemble familiar firecrackers and sparklers such as rockets, ground spinners, bombs, flower pots and and roll caps, these bright and shiny fire cracker lookalikes have seeds in them. “The idea is to encourage people to go in for pollution-free celebrations and also foster the habit of growing our food and greening the environment,” says Swetha. So, in the place of the traditional ‘anar’ or flowerpot, theanarmade in Paradsinga will give rise to a ‘golden shower,’ brightening surroundings with golden-yellow flowers ofCassia fistula, which blooms in summer. The popular garlands of red ladis are embedded with seven kinds of seeds including red amaranthus, fenugreek, mustard and spinach and microgreens. Beej Paatra is the commercial wing of the NGO that seeks to empower the women and help them earn a living through sustainable methods, she adds. Beej Parva conceptualises products and methods to have eco-friendly ways to celebrate festivals instead of exploiting Nature or people and reduce consumerism. This year, prior to the festival season, the artisans in the collective trained the women to make these seed crackers and sweets. The women were given the raw materials and asked to make the products in their homes. Paper for the products came from waste collected at paper mills and printing presses. About 50 families are involved in this project. “Before we began training them, we bought the firecrackers and sweets from the market to study them and get the designing and packaging right and make ours resemble the real thing. Then, we organised a small workshop to teach the women to manufacture the seed firecrackers and seed sweets,” explains Swetha. “It is to bring home the message of pollution-free celebrations, organic farming and exploitation-free food.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-cracker-of-an-idea/article33080020.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Another place to race||Even during a raging pandemic, former Formula One (F1) racer Karun Chandhok travels frequently. His television commentary work for F1 requires him to do so. Week after week, the Chennai-based sportsperson moves from one bio-bubble to the other. “I am somewhat of an expert in COVID-19 tests by now,” he jokes about undergoing 29 tests. Apart from talking motorsport on television and writing about it, Karun is also involved in designing new racetracks and modifying old ones. Last year, he helped Driven International, a UK-based motorsport venue architect company, to design the Nanoli Speedway track in Pune. He also helped the firm in modifying the design of Coimbatore’s Kari Motor Speedway, which is being upgraded. The 2.92-kilometre Nanoli track, he says, will be India’s fourth major racing venue after Madras Motor Race Track in Chennai, Kari Motor Speedway, Coimbatore and the Buddh International Circuit, Noida. The location, Karun says, is ideal for racing enthusiasts, supercar owners and automobile companies from both cities. “There are a lot of supercar owners and racers in Mumbai, who don’t have the space to drive. It is difficult and sometimes dangerous to drive those cars within the city. To drive fast, they have to take it to the racing tracks in Chennai or the tracks in the North. But once the Nanoli track launches, it will just be a 90-minute drive for them,” he explains. “Also, one more track is good for Indian racing,” adds Karun, “It helps develop a racing culture in a region. For instance, Narain [Karthikeyan] and I got into racing because our fathers used to race. So, a track can create a racing hub. But we also need more go-karting tracks in the country.” The Nanoli track design, approved by the International Automobile Federation (FIA) and Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India (FMSCI), features two long straights and 12 turns. It can host races up to Formula 3 level. “We visited the site last year and came up with a few design options. I ran these options on my simulator last year and came up with the final design,” says Karun. The track will also feature a pit building, paddock, garage, museum and other amenities like a golf course, tennis court, and an equestrian course among others. “It was supposed to be ready this year. COVID delayed the work. So, hopefully, it should be ready next year,” says Karun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/another-place-to-race/article33079860.ece
12 November 2020||November 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Thoughtful gifting||Light boxes  Insha-e-Noor in Delhi has Diwali lights in sanjhi (intricate paper cutting) and crochet, inspired by the geometries found in Mughal monuments that dot the Nizamuddin area. There are also hampers, boxes, coasters, dream-catchers and more. A women’s enterprise, Insha-e-Noor, meaning creation of light, began as a self-help group and now operates under the Aga Khan Trust for Culture’s Nizamuddin Basti Urban Renewal Initiative. All the proceeds from the sale of products go to the artisans, with some funds used for production expenses. They also customise products.   Rs. 150 upward, at the Facebook page, @insha.e.noor on Instagram, or at 9205308098||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/thoughtful-gifting/article33080008.ece
12 November 2020||Bhopal,||‘New Congress’ stood up in Gwalior-Chambal: Digvijaya||Rajya Sabha MP and former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Digvijaya Singh on Wednesday said the Congress winning seven of the 16 seats in the Gwalior-Chambal region demonstrated that a “new Congress” had stood up. “People thought after the departure of Scindia ji the Congress would end. But a new Congress has stood up,” Mr. Singh wrote in Hindi on Twitter. The region is the stronghold of BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia whose supporters won all the region’s seats as Congress candidates in the 2018 Assembly election. In the Malwa, the Nimar and the Bundelkhand regions, the results were not in the favour of the Congress, admitted Mr. Singh. “The Congress fought as a unit; there were no complaints of factionalism anywhere,” he said. After the fall of the Congress government in March, the BJP claimed it was a result of internal conflict within the party. Further, Mr. Singh said: “The Congress will have to be given a new form.” He added that struggle was necessary for implementing decisions during the Kamal Nath government such as farmers’ loan waiver, relief in electricity bills to farmers and common families and raise in widows’ and old age pension. While reposing faith in the leadership of the “Nehru-Gandhi” family, he hoped to win the trust of the public again. “The BJP will make full use of ‘money power’ to suppress ‘people’s power’. But we must stand with the poor, workers, farmers and marginalised sections against the falling economy and increasing unemployment under the BJP in the country. And we will succeed.,” he said.  Party bags 9 seats On Tuesday, the BJP was declared winner on 19 seats, which has taken its tally in the 230-member Assembly to 126. The Congress bagged nine and was only partly able to recover its numbers to reach 96. The by-election was precipitated by the resignations of 25 Congress MLAs since March and the deaths of three sitting legislators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-congress-stood-up-in-gwalior-chambal-digvijaya/article33079886.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Third COVID-19 wave is longer than others: Jain||The duration of the third peak of the spread of COVID-19 in the national capital is longer than those of the previous peaks but it may subside in the next few days, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday. The Minister asserted that the city government has significantly ramped up testing by nearly three times on an average per day compared to the number of tests conducted when the second peak had hit around September 16. He also said the city government had filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court after the Delhi High Court did not allow reserving 80% ICU beds for COVID-19 patients at many private hospitals here, and the apex court has asked the government to approach a Division Bench of the High Court.  Delhi recorded over 7,800 fresh COVID-19 cases for the first time on Tuesday, taking the infection tally in the Capital to over 4.5 lakh, and 83 new fatalities, the highest numbers since June 16. Meanwhile, the nearly week-long spell of worsened air quality and a fresh surge in virus cases have proved “doubly detrimental” to people suffering from respiratory ailments, as their complications have increased and many of them have also contracted COVID-19 infection, experts said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/third-covid-19-wave-is-longer-than-others-jain/article33079904.ece
12 November 2020||Jaipur,||Trade groups asked to promote handicraft products in Rajasthan||As part of promotional activities to encourage the use of handicraft and handloom products, the Congress government in Rajasthan has sought the support of associations representing business and trade for endorsing these goods during the Deepavali festivities. The handicraft products are especially being promoted as gift items for Diwali. Governor Kalraj Mishra has also called upon the Confederation of Indian Industry to make institutional arrangements for encouraging entrepreneurs to take up new initiatives and designs. The Industries Department has drawn the corporate sector’s attention to the need for supporting the rich heritage of handicrafts in the State, while pointing out that decorative and utility products could be gifted during the festival. This will provide the much-needed support to artisans during the pandemic. Industries Commissioner Archana Singh said there were over 4 lakh handicraft units, which could make a significant contribution to the local economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/trade-groups-asked-to-promote-handicraft-products-in-rajasthan/article33079889.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||At Dastkar, artisan tries to revive business||Kaluram Meghvanshi, 43-year-old resident, sat at his stall selling paper mache  art pieces, including coasters, showpieces, piggy banks, and name plates, making sure he sells whatever’s left on the last day of Dastkar — an exhibition by artisans from across the country. Pushed into labour work, Mr. Meghvanshi, a resident of Rajasthan’s Nalu village, was here in the Capital trying to get back on his feet after the turbulent eight months post COVID-19 lockdown. 20-year experience The 43-year-old artisan said that he started the craftwork over 20 years ago and used designs women painted on their walls on dried paper for the pieces he created but ever since the virus outbreak and the consequent lockdown, his work shut completely. “For about a month and a half, we were completely holed up at home. Later, when things started opening, there were no orders at all for my pieces,” he said. To be able to run his house of six, Mr. Meghvanshi and his wife enrolled in the 100-day scheme under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act 2005. “For the first time in my life, I worked as a labourer. My wife also worked. We had no other option,” he said, adding that his 100 days weren’t completed and the project ended two weeks before that. Next, the couple took up labour work at a wine factory 30 km away from their house. “We used to get Rs. 200-Rs. 250 a day and spend half of it on petrol to travel 60 km every day on our bike”. In September, Mr. Meghvanshi said, Dastkar team — with whom he has been associated ever since he started — got in touch and asked them if he’d like to exhibit his art. “I denied because I had no money to buy raw material for my art but they helped me and I agreed. My wife started working at a firecracker manufacturing factory to sustain us,” he said. The last 10 days at the exhibition, Mr. Meghvanshi believed, he has managed to break even and felt good he was able to get back into the business again and doing what he loved. Others have same story Not only Mr. Meghvanshi, a few other artisans exhibiting their work at Dastkar also faced hardships during the lockdown and view this as an opportunity to revive their business. For Ghanshyam Sharma, resident of Delhi’s Chhatarpur, it’s better to come out of the house than stay locked up with no work. Mr. Sharma has been manufacturing papercraft for the last 10 years and his daughter lost her professor job during the lockdown. He was able to manage because he lives in a joint family, he said. Zahida Amin, 49, resident of Kashmir’s Baramulla, who was exhibiting her handwork cloth pieces said that her business started picking up last month and all through the lockdown, she was barely managing to pay the salaries of her 56 women employees back home in Kashmir. It’s a women run business, she proudly said. Sunil Poddar, resident of a village in Bihar’s Bhagalpur who is into the wholesale business of tussar silk sarees, also said that he faced hardship during the lockdown but the response at the exhibition was welcoming. During the lockdown, while he faced financial difficulties, he said he joined hands with NGOs in the village and helped the villagers with medical needs.  For the first time in my life, I worked as a labourer. My wife also worked. We had no other option  Kaluram Meghvanshi  Artisan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/at-dastkar-artisan-tries-to-revive-business/article33079894.ece
12 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Cong. slams AAP govt.’s ‘misrule’||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday hit out at the AAP government for failing on all indexes of good governance as it has failed to handle not only the COVID-19 pandemic but also air pollution. Overturned reputation It said that when the Congress was in power in Delhi, it had turned it into a world class city, but the Arvind Kejriwal government has overturned that reputation in less than seven years. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar alleged that according to reports Delhi has become among the most polluted city not only in the country, but also in the world and Delhiites had the misfortune of being governed by people who have no idea about good and effective governance. “The Kejriwal government has been taking only ad hoc measures, instead of creating the necessary infrastructure at the ground level, in tackling air pollution, COVID-19 pandemic and water quality management,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that government has remained in the limelight only through spreading lies and falsehood instead of finding solutions to the problems. It also brought up the issue of the ban on Chhath Puja calling it a gross injustice by the Delhi government to the people of Poorvanchal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-cong-slams-aap-govts-misrule/article33079899.ece
12 November 2020||Guwahati,||Assam MP quits BPF ahead of council polls||Assam’s Rajya Sabha member Biswajit Daimary on Wednesday resigned from the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) ahead of the elections to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC). The BPF, which rules Assam as one of two minor regional allies of the BJP, had been ruling the BTC since 2003 until it was dissolved on April 27. “Having been a member of the BPF from the date of its inception, it is now time for me to move on. I am resigning as the working president of BPF,” Mr. Daimary said in a letter to Hagrama Mohilary, party president and former BTC chief. “To reflect and realise the aspiration of my people and workers, I believe it is best that I now look ahead at a fresh start,” he said. According to Assam Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Mr. Daimary is expected to join the BJP soon for expanding the footprint of the party in the Bodoland Territorial Region that the Council governs. He also said more senior leaders of the BPF would be joining the BJP. Mr. Daimary’s exit is likely to affect the BPF as he was believed to have been Mr. Mohilary’s go-to man for resolving critical situations while dealing with the State administration and New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-mp-quits-bpf-ahead-of-council-polls/article33079888.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks govt. response on bail plea of scribe||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the government to respond to a bail application by freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, arrested in an espionage case under the Official Secrets Act for allegedly leaking sensitive information to the Chinese intelligence. Justice Anu Malhotra asked Delhi Police to file a status report before the next date of hearing on December 2. Mr. Sharma, 61, moved the High Court after his plea for bail was dismissed by a magisterial court on September 28 and by a Sessions court on October 19. The Sessions court had rejected his plea noting that sufficiently grave and incriminating material was available on record against him. The police had said they had received inputs that Mr. Sharma was having links with foreign intelligence officer and had been receiving money through illegal means and Western Union Money transfer following which a case was registered on September 13 and he was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-seeks-govt-response-on-bail-plea-of-scribe/article33079895.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||No Chhath Puja at public places this year: DDMA||Chhath Puja will not be allowed at public places in the Capital this year due to the recent spate in COVID-19 cases, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has decided. In an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijay Dev in his capacity as chairperson of the State Executive Committee of the DDMA, the authority advised residents to observe the festival at home. Spate in virus cases “...the situation of COVID-19 in Delhi had been reviewed and it had been observed that there has been a persistent rise in COVID-19 cases in NCT of Delhi in the recent period,” the order stated. “Considering this, it has been decided that Chhath Puja celebrations may not be allowed in public places and people may be advised to celebrate the festival at their home only,” the order stated. There are over 4,51,382 total virus cases in the Capital. With daily cases this week having maintained an average of around 7,000, even as the number of deaths continue to steadily to rise above the 7,000 mark, the order directed local authorities to ensure that Chhath Puja was not observed at public places, including ghats or river banks, temples and public grounds. It also directed them to convene meetings with religious and community leaders to encourage pilgrims and residents at large to observe the festivities associated with the puja at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-chhath-puja-at-public-places-this-year-ddma/article33079898.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal reviews water augmentation action plan||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday chaired a review meeting on the government’s 24x7 water supply and water augmentation action plan. The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) apprised Mr. Kejriwal of various ongoing and future projects to provide a 24x7 water supply to the people of Delhi. The DJB also gave a presentation on the laying of sewer lines and rain harvesting across Delhi. Mr. Kejriwal said that he will review the monthly progress of these projects. “We have to complete all the projects within the stipulated time frame. The time limit for completion of the ongoing projects has been fixed. This has to be ensured to provide relief to the people and also prevent unnecessary expenditure of money,” Mr. Kejriwal said. At the meeting, the Delhi Jal Board officials said that Delhi will need about 1,500 MGD water by 2031. The efforts to provide water supply pipelines in Delhi’s colonies are continuing at a fast pace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-reviews-water-augmentation-action-plan/article33079900.ece
12 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||AMU V-C volunteers for COVID-19 vaccine trials||The Vice-Chancellor of Aligarh Muslim University has got himself registered for Covaxin trials at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JNMCH) in AMU. An official release said Professor Tariq Mansoor had decided to lead from the front and decided to register himself as the first volunteer for Phase-III trial of the vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech, whose trials began in the university hospital on Tuesday. Seeking active participation from all age groups and socio-economic strata, Prof. Mansoor said, “By volunteering for a trial or study, one gets a chance to participate in groundbreaking research and contribute to developing better treatment options.” Prof. Shahid Ali Siddiqui, principal JNMCH, informed that an ethical committee had been constituted to manage clinical trials and the registration of volunteers had also been started.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amu-v-c-volunteers-for-covid-19-vaccine-trials/article33079891.ece
12 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Varsity senate: Akali Dal seeks Naidu’s intervention||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has urged Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu, who is also Chancellor of Panjab University, to direct its Vice- Chancellor to hold immediate elections to its senate, the highest governing body. The four-year term of Panjab University’s senate got over on October 31 and its elections have been postponed due to the pandemic. Mr. Badal said the senate elections were being put off in the name of COVID-19 for two months after they became due on August 15. “The elections had been put off indefinitely even as other elections, including those to the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA), were held recently. This has lent credence to apprehensions that the University administration wants to scrap the senate and appoint a nominated Board of Governors. While such a move may suit the authorities, it will harm the larger interests of Punjab,” he said. He said a nominated body will no longer be accountable to the people of the region. “It would also not be obliged to further the cause of Punjab and Punjabi studies in the University which elected senate members have fiercely safeguarded and strengthened,” he added.  ‘Lack of governance’ The SAD chief also wrote that the university was suffering due to lack of governance with the senate and syndicate not meeting to discuss important issues. “Even the admission schedule was delayed, colleges were not provided with proper guidelines and teachers suffered after being forcibly relieved. The revival of democratic institutions in the varsity will help to check this downslide,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/varsity-senate-akali-dal-seeks-naidus-intervention/article33079884.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘BJP lied about funds crunch in civic bodies to defame CM’||The Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday alleged that the BJP had lied to the people of Delhi about the fund crunch in civic bodies to defame Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and that they should apologise to the residents. “For the past several months, the BJP-ruled municipal corporation was claiming that they do not have money to pay salaries and was blaming the AAP government, but yesterday, they have promised to release all the pending salaries. This shows that the BJP was lying,” AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said. Released salaries He said that a few weeks ago, the doctors of the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation were protesting against non-payment of salaries and the it had continuously “defamed” the AAP government by saying that they do not have any money to pay the salaries. But eventually, they released the salary of the doctors from their own fund and the protest was withdrawn, the AAP leader said. “From November 9, all the employees of the three civic bodies were on protest against the non-payment of salary. Eventually, the municipal corporations requested all the employees to withdraw the strike and released their salaries,” Mr. Pathak said. “Does the BJP do all these dramas just to defame to the AAP government,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-lied-about-funds-crunch-in-civic-bodies-to-defame-cm/article33079896.ece
12 November 2020||New Delhi,||U.P. districts now under FRRO ambit||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has redefined the jurisdiction of some of the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) for services related to Overseas Citizens of India (OCI). The MHA said in a statement that Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida, Greater Noida) and Ghaziabad districts in Uttar Pradesh, have been brought under the jurisdiction of FRRO, Delhi, for matters relating to receiving and processing of applications for various services in respect of OCI cardholders. “These measures are expected to greatly facilitate foreign nationals residing in the National Capital Region (NCR) for availing visa and OCI-related services,” MHA said. Till now, they had to go to Lucknow for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-districts-now-under-frro-ambit/article33079901.ece
12 November 2020||Agartala,||Age limit relaxed for terminated teachers||Tripura government has relaxed upper age limit of 10,323 terminated teachers to pave way for their recruitment in government jobs. The government has issued a formal notification on age relaxation of the teachers who were terminated early this year after the end of a Supreme Court directed deadline.  Phased recruitment The State’s BJP led coalition government had earlier approved phased recruitment of the teachers. The government offered them posts in Group C and Group D. Officials on Wednesday said upper age relaxation was done in a manner so that teachers could be engaged in government jobs in next two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/age-limit-relaxed-for-terminated-teachers/article33079890.ece
12 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||Rs. 25,000 cr. for Gairsain: Rawat||On the occasion of 21st State Foundation Day, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced that Rs. 25,000 crore will be spent over a period of next 10 years to develop the summer capital Bhararisain, also called Gairsain. Making a number of announcements on Monday, the Chief Minister said making Gairsain the summer capital was an acknowledgement of the pain of the hill people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rs-25000-cr-for-gairsain-rawat/article33079892.ece
