13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. moves to spur demand||Hoping to spur fresh demand of about Rs. 1 lakh crore in the second half of the year, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday unveiled a mini-stimulus of sorts, comprising incentives for the government and public sector employees to spend more on consumer durables and services, and interest-free loans of Rs. 12,000 crore to the States for a 50-year tenure to finance capital expenditure. Ms. Sitharaman also enhanced the Centre’s own capital expenditure plans by Rs. 25,000 crore, from the earlier allocation of Rs. 4.13 lakh crore, for spending on roads, urban development, water supply, defence infrastructure, and domestically-produced capital equipment for defence infrastructure. “Government employees and many organised sector employees have had their jobs and salaries protected [during the pandemic] and some initial indications suggest savings have increased as many couldn’t spend their usual expenditure during the lockdown,” she said, stressing that the idea behind the stimulus was to nudge those whose jobs were unaffected to contribute to revival of demand for the benefit of the less fortunate. With Central government and public sector employees unable to travel during the pandemic, an alternative has been offered to spend their leave travel concession (LTC) benefits that expire in March 2021 on consumer goods, through a two-tiered structure involving LTC cash vouchers. Proof of payment Eligible return fare would be given to employees once they provided proof of digital payment to GST-registered vendors for three times the fare, on items that attracted a GST rate of over 12%. Effectively, this converts the LTC payout into a 33% subsidy for acquiring white goods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-unveils-proposals-to-spur-demand/article32839196.ece
13 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Super-speciality medicine block to come up at Government Wenlock Hospital||An old residential house, which hosted the district offices of tuberculosis prevention, leprosy and blindness prevention, on the premises of the Government Wenlock Hospital here will be demolished to construct a five-storeyed super-speciality medicine block of the hospital under the Smart City Mission. Notices have been served on the district offices asking them to vacate from the old residential building. The old residential building, which is behind the hospital’s Regional Advanced Paediatric Care Centre, belonged to the family of Albuquerque. It was in 1962 that the family gave this house to the District Health and Family Welfare Department for setting up the District Tuberculosis Centre. Subsequently, the district units of leprosy and blindness prevention were also opened in the building. The District Tuberculosis Centre in Mangaluru was among the 400 centres that were opened across the country as part of the National Tuberculosis Prevention programme. Changes were made to the building to make space for stocking first line and second line drugs. Space was also created for holding training sessions for activists, health workers and doctors involved in the prevention of tuberculosis. At present, the District Tuberculosis Centre is monitoring the health of 809 patients. While 685 patients are being seen in government hospitals, including those in the Drug Resistant Tuberculosis Centre in Wenlock Hospital, 124 patients are being seen by private doctors. Mangaluru Smart City Limited will construct the super-speciality medicine block at an estimated cost of Rs. 35 crore. It will have a 30-bed ICU, 12 modular operation theatres and a 100-bed post operative ward. The construction of this new block is part of MSCL's project to develop the whole campus of the hospital. It has been proposed to widen the road connecting the hospital's OPD block and the office of the Indian Medical Association, Dakshina Kannada. The District Tuberculosis office and two other offices are being temporarily shifted to the District Drugs Warehouse. “We are making arrangements to have the District Tuberculosis Centre in the administrative block of the Wenlock Hospital,” Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/super-speciality-medicine-block-to-come-up-at-government-wenlock-hospital/article32839884.ece
13 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||Sirsi-Kumta Road to remain closed for the next 18 months for upgradation work||To facilitate road upgradation work, Deputy Commissioner of Uttara Kannada district K. Harish Kumar has issued an order banning movement of vehicles on Sirsi-Kumta Road for 18 months. The order came into force on Monday to facilitate upgradation of the road from Belekeri/Kumta to Sirsi which forms part of the Belekeri Port Link Road. The order, however, excludes the existing stretch of National Highway 66. Through the notification, the Deputy Commissioner has also specified alternative routes to be taken for inter-district connectivity. The 60-km road connects Uttara Kannada district with Haveri and Dharwad districts. As per the notification, only light vehicles are permitted to travel from Kumta via Siddapur to Sirsi. And, all other vehicles can take National Highway 63 from Ankola to Yellapur and take the State Highway 93 to reach Sirsi. Another route is Honnavar to Siddapur via Mavinagundi to reach Sirsi. With the road being closed now, it will be a circuitous route to reach Sirsi from Kumta.  The order came into force on Monday to facilitate upgradation of the road from Belekeri/Kumta to Sirsi which forms part of the Belekeri Port Link Road  The Deputy Commissioner has also specified alternative routes to be taken for inter-district connectivity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sirsi-kumta-road-to-remain-closed-for-the-next-18-months-for-upgradation-work/article32839351.ece
13 October 2020||Mumbai,||Powerless Monday for Maximum City||An unprecedented power outage brought Mumbai to a standstill on Monday, affected local trains, left several people trapped in lifts, and led to chaos on roads after signals went on a blink. The outage affected the entire city and suburbs including neighbouring Thane, Navi Mumbai and other parts of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) leaving India’s financial capital paralysed for more than four hours. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray ordered a technical audit of the incident in the afternoon. The misery of Mumbaikars bagan around 10.10 a.m. with the tripping at the Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited’s (MahaTransco) Kalwa-Padgha centre. It affected lakhs of domestic consumers of the State government, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport, Adani Electricity Mumbai and Tata Power. Power Minister Nitin Raut said, circuit 1 of 400KV GIS centre at Kalwa-Padgha of MahaTransco was undergoing repair and maintenance and the load was on circuit 2. “Some technical problem in circuit 2 led to problems in power supply to Mumbai and Thane,” he said. The CM met Mr. Raut and private power companies in the afternoon and ordered a technical audit into the incident. “Technical faults need to be identified. Those who are responsible should be identified,” he said. While civic authorities claimed that essential services, especially Covid care centres and hospitals too faced power outage, diesel generators were automatically put into use. Mumbai’s water supplywas hit and is likely to stay affected on Tuesday. The outage affected train services on the western, central and harbour lines. Commuters stuck on trains could be seen walking on the tracks. According to Central Railway officials, harbour line services were restored at 10.55 a.m. and central line on 12.26 p.m. “WR’s suburban train services were restored between Churchgate & Borivali at 12.20 hrs. Services were already on between Borivali & Virar,” a Western Railway official said. CR also rescheduled five long-distance trains — two to Gorakhpur and one each to Darbhanga, Varanasi and Thiruvananthapuram. It was a nightmare for some employees working in an upscale business complex in central Mumbai who found themselves stuck in an elevator during times of social distancing. They were evacuated after some time. Mumbai and metropolitan areas get their power supply through Kalwa sub-station where four 400 kv lines join. In addition, Tata and Adani together supply 1800 mw power. On October 10, 400 kv Kalwa-Talegaon was closed due to a problem with its conductor. Restoration work is on, but there are delays since it is in a remote hilly area. At 4.33 a.m., the Kalwa-Padgha line-1 malfunctioned due to over voltage. The power supply to Mumbai was through the remaining two lines. However, the 400 kV Kalwa-Padgha line-2 too malfunctioned at 10.01 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/powerless-monday-for-maximum-city/article32839908.ece
13 October 2020||MYSURU,||Crowds are yet to return in droves to Brindavan Gardens||Tourist response to Brindavan Gardens near here has remained tepid even four weeks after it was reopened. The gardens reopened on September 16 after remaining closed for almost six months owing to COVID-19. The total number of tourists who visited in September was just 13,667, including 904 children. The turnout was no better during October and the average number of visitors did not cross 1,000 a day during the last one month, regretted officials of Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Limited (CNNL). The poor footfall has been attributed to the general scare over the pandemic as well as the rains lashing the region almost incessantly. “Apart from COVID-19, we have been receiving a lot of rainfall, particularly in the evening during the last few days. How will anybody come?,” asked an official. The poor response now is in contrast to the daily average of 7,000 visitors earlier. “During Dasara, almost 20,000 people visited Brindavan Gardens daily. We normally used to see a spike in visitors during weekends, holidays, and during Dasara,” the official added. There are no crowds despite the KRS reservoir reaching its brim more than a month ago and adding to the glory of the gardens. By sunset every day, the area comes alive with the illumination of the water fountains. There are also boat rides for the visitors. Towards the northern side is the dancing fountain, which has made several appeareances in films. “Nowadays, the lights are switched on around 6.40 p.m. The illumination will be one for about an hour every evening,” said an official. The entry fee remains at Rs. 50 per head and CNNL, which used to earn around Rs. 1 crore every month from entry ticket, parking fee and stall rentals, has lost about Rs. 6 crore owing to lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crowds-are-yet-to-return-in-droves-to-brindavan-gardens/article32839511.ece
13 October 2020||BENGALURU,||Sriramulu loses Health and Backward Classes Welfare||As anticipated, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday effected a minor reshuffle of portfolios, by taking away Health and Family Welfare from senior leader B. Sriramulu and handing it over to Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar for better handling of the COVID-19 situation. In a bid to mollify the now upset BJP leader from Ballari, who was also stripped of the Backward Classes Welfare portfolio, the Chief Minister is set to meet Mr. Sriramulu on Tuesday morning in a bid to convince him of the decision taken. While Health and Family Welfare was allocated to Dr. Sudhakar, the Chief Minister took back the Backward Classes Welfare portfolio. Mr. Sriramulu has been given the Social Welfare portfolio, a notification from Raj Bhavan said. Thanking the Chief Minister for having reposed faith in him and giving him an additional responsibility, Dr. Sudhakar said that controlling the pandemic and reducing the mortality rate were his priorities. He added that it was easy for one Minister to coordinate between the Health and Family Welfare and the Medical Education departments.  Brief meeting Earlier in the day, though Mr. Sriramulu met the Chief Minister a couple of hours before the notification came in to the public domain, the talks remained brief and inconclusive. Timing questioned It is learnt that Mr. Sriramulu questioned the timing of his removal in the midst of COVID-19 management efforts and expressed unhappiness over the decision. “Before the decision to replace him, he was neither consulted nor informed. Mr. Sriramulu was told about the decision over the phone, which has upset him,” a source close to the Minister said. As the decision became official, it is learnt that several party leaders called and advised him not to take any decision in haste. By Monday evening, the Chief Minister also spoke to him over the phone, inviting him for a meeting on Tuesday morning to thrash out the differences. The Chief Minister, it is learnt, told Mr. Sriramulu that he had been given Social Welfare, an important portfolio, and that the minor reshuffle should not be “taken to heart, and that he was with him.”  However, a source close to the Minister said: “He believes that the timing of his replacement was not right when an anticipated Cabinet expansion or reshuffle is being planned right after the byelections. Being replaced in the middle of COVID-19 management sends a wrong signal too. Taking away the Backward Classes Welfare portfolio has hurt him because it was given to him citing that he was a Backward Classes leader.” Already, Mr. Sriramulu is learnt to be upset at being denied the post of Deputy Chief Minister and he was also not made Minister in charge of Ballari. “The justification about Medical Education and Health and Family Welfare has also not cut any ice with him as he feels that if that was the case, it should have been done long ago,” the source added. KPCC response Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar has said that their charge of the State government’s incompetency has now come true. “The Cabinet reshuffle is proof of this government’s miserable failure in handling the COVID-19 pandemic. The fact that the Health Minister has been changed adds credence to our charge that this government’s incompetency has led to massive loss of lives and livelihood,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sriramulu-loses-health-and-backward-classes-welfare/article32839347.ece
13 October 2020||MANGALURU,||MLA says Pili Vesha may be allowed during Dasara||Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath said on Monday that he is hopeful of the Dakshina Kannada district administration allowing Pili Vesha (tiger dance) during the Dasara celebrations this year as per the traditions of temples. In a statement here, he said that leaders of different Sharadotsava Samitis and temples have appealed to the Deputy Commissioner to allow the traditional tiger dance in view of the district administration deciding to ban it during the Navaratri celebrations. The MLA said that he has taken up the matter with the Deputy Commissioner and other senior officials of the government. He has urged them to allow a limited number of tiger dancers to perform during the Dasara celebrations as the culture and traditions of the land should not be compromised with. There is no need for any apprehension among the people, as he is hopeful of the administration allowing Pili Vesha performances, the MLA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mla-says-pili-vesha-may-be-allowed-during-dasara/article32839881.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. signs 14 MoUs to bring in Rs. 10,055 cr. investment||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday signed 14 MoUs entailing investments of Rs. 10,055 crore with potential to generate employment for over 7,000 people. The projects include fresh and expansion investments in locations including Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram, Tiruppur and Tiruvannamalai districts. Tamil Nadu Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam said that at a time when the world economy is gradually recovering from the adverse fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic, Tamil Nadu has been taking all steps to accelerate industrial development by attracting investments. “During 2020 (up to September), the State has signed 42 MoUs worth Rs. 31,464 crore,” he added. A senior official said the Strengthening Guidance (Tamil Nadu’s nodal agency for investment promotion and single window facilitation) team has helped the State bring in more investments. “The CM has been personally viewing each project or firm that evinces interest to invest in Tamil Nadu. These two formulas have worked out well,” he said. According to Neeraj Mittal, MD and CEO of Guidance, “The teams (Guidance, Industries Department and Sipcot) have been working 24/7 and we have broadened the scope of picking up leads. The CM is also reviewing all investment proposals that come in. And this has helped bring in more investment.” Tamil Nadu’s excellent industrial ecosystem, trained manpower, connectivity, connected supply chains and pragmatic policies allows investors to take advantage of global realignment of value chains, he said. On Monday, the biggest investment deal of Rs. 6,300 crore came in from JSW Renew Energy Limited for a hybrid renewable project for 810 MW in Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli and Tiruppur and 50 MW captive wind energy project in Rameswaram. An estimated 2,420 persons could get jobs. Greenbase Industrial Parks, a part of the Hiranandani Group, would establish an Industrial Logistics Park in Oragadam at an investment of Rs. 750 crore. Mantra Data Center (Spain) has agreed to invest Rs. 750 crore in a data centre project near Chennai. Hong Kong-based Aosheng Hitech Ltd (Rs. 200 crore) will manufacture carbon fiber plates. Vans Chemistry, Singapore has proposed to establish an e-waste management facility for dismantling, recycling and precious metals refining project at Rs. 50 crore. Inox Air Products, which the State said played a significant role in supplying oxygen for COVID patients, has signed an MoU for manufacturing of liquid oxygen in Hosur. And Counter Measures Technologies would invest Rs. 51 crore in a project in the Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor. A few companies signed deals for expansion. Apollo Tyres has proposed to establish a Rs. 505 crore expansion project in SIPCOT Oragadam Industrial Park. TPI Composites, USA has proposed a Rs. 300 crore expansion plan for manufacture of wind blades in Oragadam. Biscuit manufacturer Britannia has Rs. 250 crore expansion plans at SIPCOT Gangaikondan. Hyundai Wia, South Korea, will expand its facility in Sriperumbudur at Rs. 109 crore. Li-Energy (Rs. 300 crore) has proposed manufacturing of EV battery packs; LS Automotive Pvt Ltd (Rs. 250 crore), South Korea has proposed manufacture of automotive switches in Tiruvallur; and Grin Tech Motors & Services (Rs. 90 crore) has proposed manufacturing of Battery and BMS in Ambattur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-signs-14-mous-to-bring-in-rs-10055-cr-investment/article32839230.ece
13 October 2020||KOCHI,||NIA hints at terror link of 12th accused||Hinting at the terror connection of an accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said Muhammad Ali, the 12th accused, had made telephone calls to members of proscribed terror organisations, ISIS and SIMI. The counsel for the agency made the revelation at the NIA special court on Monday when the bail applications of some of the accused were considered. According to the agency, the call data analysis of the accused pointed at large money transactions. The agency had obtained mirror images of 17 electronic gadgets seized from various accused in the case. The pandemic had delayed the analysis of the digital devices. The accused needed to be confronted with the evidence obtained from the digital devices and the confessional statement from one of the accused, the agency said. The counsel also submitted that the agency had laid its hands on some of the documents forged by Sandeep Nair, the first accused in the case. The lawyers for the accused argued that those with minimal role in the offence should be released on bail and not kept in jail along with the other accused. The court can ensure the presence of the accused by cancelling the bail, they argued. They also contended that the NIA was adopting ‘delay tactics’ in the court to deny bail to the accused. However, the NIA counsel said the remand of a few accused was necessary till Wednesday for interrogation. The court accepted the contention and extended the remand till Wednesday. The court is likely to pronounce its decision on the bail application of a batch of accused on Thursday. The court has also posted the bail application of P.S. Sarith and Swapna Suresh, the first and second accused in the case, for October 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-hints-at-terror-link-of-12th-accused/article32839390.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Man mows down farmer using tractor||A 49-year-old farmer was allegedly mowed down by a tractor driven by another farmer in a village near Singaperumalkoil. The police said the victim, Rajagopal from Kondamangalam village, had engaged Perumal, 45, for harvesting paddy in his field. The work was completed 10 days ago but Rajagopal delayed paying Perumal his wage of Rs. 3,500 for all these days. On Sunday, Perumal met Rajagopal and a heated wordy exchange followed. Perumal warned Rajagopal that he would seize his tiller machine. When Rajagopal went to his field, he realised that Perumal had towed the tilling equipment away with a tractor. Rajagopal waylaid Perumal on a two-wheeler. When Perumal tried moving the tractor, Rajagopal, who stood in front of the vehicle, was run over and died on the spot. Perumal surrendered at Maraimalai Nagar police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-mows-down-farmer-using-tractor/article32839731.ece
13 October 2020||Kolkata,||CM to inaugurate Durga Pujas virtually||Ahead of the Durga Puja festival, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged people to exercise extreme caution for COVID-19 as she reiterated that community spread of the infection had begun in the State. She said there were instances of the infection being airborne. “Whether one accepts it or not the infections are also airborne,” Ms. Banerjee told journalists. She said Delhi has allowed only one puja at Chittaranjan Park and Uttar Pradesh has not allowed a single Durga Puja, in West Bengal her government had not stopped any Durga Puja. The Chief Minister asked the puja committees not to allow people without masks inside the pandals, stay away from organising cultural programmes and take all steps to prevent overcrowding. “Let the theme for Durga Puja this year be adherence to COVID protocol,” she said. Ms. Banerjee urged television channels to highlight Pujas that were maintaining the COVID protocol. During the day, the Chief Minister inaugurated the special Puja edition of the Trinamool Congress mouthpiece Jaago Bangla and a collection of seven songs “Sristhi,” whose lyrics had been penned by her. She also inaugurated Durga Puja at Chelta Agrani club in south Kolkata. Ms. Banerjee was seen painting the eye of the Goddess. This year, the Chief Minister will inaugurate Durga Pujas virtually from October 15 to 17. Clubs which want her to inaugurate their pujas will have to write to the Chief Minister’s Office. The State government has decided to give Rs. 50,000 to 37,000 clubs that organise community Durga Pujas in the State. Controlling pandemic Meanwhile, the State government announced a number of measures to contain the pandemic. Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said the price for COVID-19 test in private laboratories would be reduced to Rs. 1500 from Rs. 2250. The government would increase 600 ICU beds in State-run hospitals and about 2,500 nurses would be recruited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-to-inaugurate-durga-pujas-virtually/article32839433.ece
13 October 2020||YADGIR,||Newborn found abandoned in Abbetumkur of Yadgir||A newborn was found near Sri Vishwaradhya Gadduge near Vishwaradhya B.Ed College in Abbetumkur village in Yadgir taluk on Monday. The boy wrapped in cloth had been abandoned near the Gadduge. A devotee who went to the Gadduge to offer puja found the baby and informed the authorities concerned. Immediately, officials from the Women and Child Welfare, the Police, the Child Development and Protection Office rushed to the spot and rescued the baby. Deputy Director of Women and Child Welfare Department Prabhakar said that the baby weighing 2.5 kilograms is healthy and is normal. At present, the baby is getting necessary care at the Sick and Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) in the district hospital in Yadgir. This is the second such baby found abandoned in Yadgir in the recent past. As many as 15 days ago, a baby boy was found abandoned near Mundargi village on the outskirts of Yadgir city. Both babies are healthy. The baby that was found on Monday will be shifted to a Kalaburagi hospital on Tuesday, Mr. Prabhakar said.  This is the second such incident in Yadgir with a baby boy found abandoned near Mundargi village 15 days ago||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/newborn-found-abandoned-in-abbetumkur-of-yadgir/article32839350.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||HC orders CBI probe into social media posts on judges||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Monday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe the comments and social media posts by leaders of the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), including Legislative Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam, on some judges, and submit its report in eight weeks. The judges gave liberty to the CBI to register a fresh FIR, if necessary. They expressed displeasure at the alleged inaction of government departments concerned on a complaint lodged by the then Registrar-General of the High Court, while questioning the reason for the alacrity with which the objectionable remarks made on elected representatives of the ruling party were acted upon. ‘Better resources’ The Bench, comprising Justices Rakesh Kumar and J. Uma Devi, observed that the CBI had better resources at its command to dig out the facts. Advocate-General S. Sriram said he would not object if the court did not cast any aspersions on the government or the CID on posts against the judges. The court said the circumstances under which the judges were targeted need to be investigated thoroughly as such personal attacks were an affront to the judicial wing of democracy. Attribute motives It may be recalled that the YSRCP leaders attributed motives to the judges for the orders issued by them in diverse matters which included the “three capitals.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-hc-orders-cbi-probe-into-social-media-posts-on-judges/article32839122.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Depression intensifies, to cross coast today morning||The depression over west central Bay of Bengal moved west-northwestwards, with a speed of 6 kmph, intensified into a deep depression and lay centred about 250 km south southeast of Visakhapatnam, 290 km east-southeast of Kakinada and 330 km east-southeast of Narsapur on Monday morning. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh coast in the early hours of Tuesday between Narsapur and Visakhapatnam, close to Kakinada, as a deep depression with wind speed of 55 to 65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph, according to the Cyclone Warning Centre, Visakhapatnam. Light to moderate rain or thundershowers are likely to occur at most places over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at a few places with extremely heavy rainfall at one or two places in East Godavari, West Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Viziangaram and Srikakulam, districts. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in Krishna, Kurnool, Guntur and Prakasam districts. Fishermen warned The sea condition will be rough to very rough. Fishermen have been warned against venturing into the sea till Tuesday evening. Local cautionary signal number three (LC-III) was hoisted at Kalingapatnam, Bheemunipatnam, Visakhapatnam, Gangavaram, Kakinada, Machilipatnam, Nizampatnam, Vadarevu and Krishnapatnam ports. Srikakulam Staff Reporter writes: Srikakulam district has been on high alert with the heavy downpour in almost all 38 mandals. Haripuram, near Itchapuram, town received the highest rainfall of 115.25 mm. Palasa town received 100 mm, flooding many low-lying areas. Gara and Srikakulam towns also witnessed heavy rain, disrupting life. Srikakulam town received nearly 70 mm rainfall, forcing people to remain indoors. Other areas received rainfall ranging from 53mm to 65mm. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas reviewed the situation and directed revenue officials to be alert since the heavy rain might lead to floods to Nagavali, Vamsadhara and other rivers. Control room Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal directed the officials to be alert for next few days since heavy downpour might continue. According to him, Bhogapuram received the highest rainfall of 31mm. A control room has been set up in the Collector's office (Ph. 08922-236947) to monitor the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/depression-intensifies-to-cross-coast-today-morning/article32839190.ece
13 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Hathras victim’s family records statements in HC||The family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras, who died days after she was brutally assaulted and allegedly raped, appeared before the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court on Monday and recorded their statements. While a detailed written order was still awaited, lawyers for the victim and the Uttar Pradesh government said the court had listed the next hearing for November 2, when the State has been asked to file a response. A division bench of the court was hearing a PIL petition listed by it in the matter after taking suo motu cognisance of the incident and the events leading up to the hurried and alleged forced cremation of the victim. Affidavit filed Uttar Pradesh Advocate General V. K. Shahi said the government filed an affidavit in the court. The court questioned Additional Chief Secretary Home Awanish Awasthi, ADG Law and Order Prashant Kumar and the Hathras District Magistrate, he said after the hearing. The court directed Mr. Kumar and the Special Secretary Home to appear on November 2. Lawyer for the victim’s family Seema Kushwaha said the family had three main prayers in court and all of them were considered. First, the family demanded that the case be transferred out of U.P. Second, it wanted that the details of the probe not be revealed through the media as it “builds a different kind of narrative”. Third, security should be ensured for them till the trial is concluded. Ms. Kushwaha said she would submit an affidavit on behalf of the family before November 2. No answers The police maintained that the cremation took place with the family’s permission but had no answers when cross-questioned by the court. It used “hard language” while asking the officials if they felt that law and order could be affected during the cremation, why didn’t they summon more force, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hathras-victims-family-records-statements-in-hc/article32839193.ece
13 October 2020||GUNTUR,||Nine-hour free power to farmers: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the State Government is committed to providing free, uninterrupted and quality power supply to farmers for nine hours during day time, and asked the electricity department to create awareness among farmers on the benefits of electric meters. “I want you to give wide publicity and dispel doubts over meters. Farmers should be told that the nine-hour power supply is free and they will not be required to pay anything for it. We are providing meters to ensure uninterrupted supply of power during the day, and farmers will be able to check the supply every 15 minutes. The government will credit the bill amount directly into the accounts of farmers, who, in turn, will be required to pay the amount to the Discoms. Ensure that the message is taken directly to farmers through posters at village/ward secretariats,’’ Mr. Jagan said at a review meeting of the Energy Department at his camp office on Monday. Quality power Stating that highest priority should be given to ensuring quality, the Chief Minister said that ISI certification was mandatory in fixing transformers, meters, and, if necessary, talks should be held with EESL. The department had given training to 14,354 linemen over the technicalities of setting up meters. The officials told the Chief Minister that 97.5% feeders had been set up. Mr. Jagan directed the officials to finalise tenders for 10,000 MW solar power supply and said that tenders would be called for after judicial scrutiny. Minister for Energy, Forest Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, CMD, Green Energy Corporation, G. Sai Prasad, CMD of APTransco N. Srikanth, MD, APGenco, B. Sridhar and Secretary, Finance, SS Rawat were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-hour-free-uninterrupted-power-to-farmers-jagan/article32839183.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||I was ready to quit Congress in March itself, says Kushboo||Actor and former Congress spokesperson Kushboo Sundar on Monday joined the BJP, having sent in her resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. She said that she had been contemplating the action since March. Ms. Sundar joined the BJP in New Delhi in the presence of the party’s State unit chief L. Murugan and national general secretary C.T. Ravi, along with two others from Tamil Nadu — journalist Madan Ravichandran and former Indian Revenue Service officer Saravana Kumar. “I promise to carry out any assignment given to me by the party and express faith in the leadership of our honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji ,” she said at a press conference. Later, speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Sundar was more candid. She said she had spoken of the reasons for quitting the Congress in her letter to Ms. Gandhi. In it, she referred to a “few elements, seated at a higher level within the party, people who have no connectivity with the ground reality or public recognition” were “dictating terms”. Ms. Sundar said, “This letter was ready way back in March, and since I had joined the Congress in the presence of Ms. Gandhi, I wanted to hand over the resignation letter in person. But the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown prevented it.” At the time of writing the letter, she said, she was not sure that she would be joining the BJP. “As a person occupying the position of spokesperson, it was my duty to attack the policies of the government even though all Bills have certain flaws. But gradually I felt that the clarity that the BJP has, in terms of its ideology and leadership was important, instead of being in a party where the question of leadership is also in a flux. The trust that people have repeatedly shown in Prime Minister Modi is something that needs to be understood”. At the time of writing the letter, she said, she was not sure that she would be joining the BJP. “As a person occupying the position of spokesperson, it was my duty to attack the policies of the government even though all Bills have certain flaws. But gradually I felt that the clarity that the BJP has, in terms of its ideology and leadership was important, instead of being in a party where the question of leadership is also in a flux. The trust that people have repeatedly shown in Prime Minister Modi is something that needs to be understood”. On the question of how she would deal with the perception that the BJP, as a party, was not exactly considered friendly towards minorities, she replied with a one-liner, “If the BJP is anti-minority, then is Congress anti-Hindu?” She said that she was awaiting an assignment from the State unit and did not elaborate on how she saw the future of the BJP panning out in Tamil Nadu, where the party has a miniscule presence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-was-ready-to-quit-congress-in-march-itself-says-kushboo/article32839232.ece
13 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||VACB may take over Space Park posting case||The Kerala Police on Monday appeared inclined to recommend a Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (VACB) inquiry into the “back-door” appointment of gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh in the IT Department’s Space Park project. The police had in August indicted Swapna for “fraudulently” gaining employment in Space Park by “faking” her academic qualification. The investigation had made little headway. Nevertheless, a prefatory inquiry had reportedly revealed cognisable offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The purported malfeasances included suspicion of nepotism in Swapna’s appointment, an undue pecuniary advantage to the suspect, and corresponding loss to the exchequer. Salary of Rs. 1 lakh Space Park had fixed Swapna’s salary at an estimated Rs. 1 lakh per month, and she had reportedly drawn roughly Rs. 20 lakh from the treasury via a private consultancy during her short tenure there. The police are likely to move the government to transfer the case to the VACB. If so, top officials of Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited (KSITIL), the public sector entity that runs the Space Park project, will come under legal scrutiny for Swapna’s questionable posting. The VACB will probe whether the KSITIL or the private placement consultancy it had contracted for such appointments had notified the job vacancy or fixed the requisite qualification as per government norm.  An anti-corruption probe might examine whether M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, had any role in Swapna’s posting. A panel headed by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta had indicated that Swapna’s employment in Space Park smacked of favouritism. Mr. Mehta said in his report that Mr. Sivasankar had “referred to appoint a person (Swapna) who was working as secretary to the Consul General, UAE, to the post of operations manager/junior consultant for Space Park” project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vacb-may-take-over-space-park-posting-case/article32839391.ece
13 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||More recoveries than new cases||For the first time after the case graph of the third wave of COVID-19 epidemic began to climb, Kerala reported more recoveries than new cases on Monday. However, the dip in cases was because of the dip in testing by nearly half the number of samples, which has been a regular phenomenon following a weekend. The test positivity is still high at 15.4%. When 38,259 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, Kerala reported 5,930 new cases, while the recoveries on the day were 7,836. The cumulative case burden of the State is steadily inching towards the three lakh mark and now stands at 2,95,132 cases. Total recoveries till date being 1,99,634, the number of patients currently undergoing treatment in State’s hospitals has reached 94,388. The State’s toll now stands at 1,025, after 22 more deaths in the past few weeks were added on to the official list of COVID deaths. Of the new cases, 5,157 cases are locally acquired infections, with 195 cases remaining unlinked to a known source of infection. A whopping 195 health-care workers contracted COVID, with 76 of the cases reported in Thiruvananthapuram, 23 in Ernakulam, and the rest across districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-recoveries-than-new-cases/article32839398.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||34 producers move HC to restrain TV channels||Four Bollywood industry associations and 34 leading producers have moved the Delhi High Court seeking to restrain Republic TV, Times Now and other social media platforms from publishing irresponsible and defamatory remarks against Bollywood as a whole. The suit has been filed in the wake of these channels using highly derogatory expressions for Bollywood such as “dirt”, “filth”, “scum”, and “druggies”. Industry veterans The producers who moved the High Court include Dharma Productions, Aamir Khan Productions, Ad-Labs Films, Ajay Devgn Ffilms, Yash Raj Films, Salman Khan Films, Ashutosh Gowariker Productions and Red Chillies Entertainment, Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra Pictures, Reliance Big Entertainment, Rohit Shetty Picturez, Vinod Chopra Films, and Kabir Khan Films. The producers and four Bollywood industry associations — the Film & Television Producers Guild Of India (PGI), the Cine & TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA), Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC) and Screenwriters Association (SWA) — have sought direction to the news channels to abide by the provisions of the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/34-producers-move-hc-to-restrain-tv-channels/article32839771.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Granted bail, still in jail||Noor Mohammed, a 30-year-old resident of Sonia Vihar, has been granted bail in all the nine cases registered against him in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, but he is still lodged in jail because his family is unable to furnish the surety for his release. On October 5, a Delhi court granted bail to Mr. Mohammed in three cases of rioting, vandalisation and causing mischief by fire among other charges, stating that “he cannot be made to incarcerate in jail for infinity just on the ground that the investigations of the cases are going on”. However, seven days after the order, the accused is lodged in jail because his family is unable to arrange a surety of approximately Rs. 1.75 lakh — Rs. 20,000 each for eight cases and Rs. 15,000 for one.  Arrested on March 31 Mr. Mohammed’s advocate Akhtar Shamim said his client was first arrested in a case of robbery, arsoning and damage to public property on March 31 and later “implicated in eight other cases on the basis of his own disclosure statement”. Mr. Mohammed’s wife Fatima Begum, 22, claimed she has no collateral to produce. “I don’t own anything that’s worth this amount and Noor’s parents are not in a position to help. His brothers are also not helping. At the moment, I don’t know whom to ask for collateral  amounting to Rs. 1.75 lakh,” she said. “I am ready to do a job but I have not been able to get anything yet,” said Ms. Fatima, a Class XII passout. She said she cannot take help from her parents because she married Mr. Mohammed against their wishes and they have cut ties. She said she has not met her husband since his arrest and hasn’t been able to speak to him over the phone too.  I don’t own anything that’s worth Rs. 1.75 lakh and Noor’s parents are not in a position to help. I don’t know whom to ask for assistance   Fatima Begum   Noor Mohammed’s wife||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/granted-bail-still-in-jail/article32839775.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China discuss border disengagement||India and China held the 7th round of Corps Commander talks at Chushul on the Indian side on Monday to work out a schedule for disengagement and de-escalation along the disputed border in Eastern Ladakh. The talks were still on at the time of going to print. These are the first senior military-level talks following Beijing’s comments that it has “not recognised” the Union Territory (UT) of Ladakh. The talks began at 12 noon at Chushul on the Indian side, a defence source said. After the 6th round of talks on September 21, both sides, for the first time, issued a joint statement, in which they agreed to “stop sending more troops to the front line” and “refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground.” However, on September 29, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said it “did not recognise” the UT of Ladakh and that the Line of Actual Control (LAC) was “clear” and “that it is the LAC of November 7, 1959”. The MEA responded sharply to this, saying, “India has never accepted the so-called unilaterally defined 1959 LAC.” A day after the sharp exchange of words, the two sides held another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC).  Last round Monday’s talks were the last round of talks headed by Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh as the 14 Corps Commander before he moves out on another posting. He is soon to be replaced by Lt. Gen. P.G.K. Menon, who has been part of the Indian delegation during the earlier round of talks as well. A representative from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) is also present. In the last round of talks, China insisted that disengagement on the south bank of Panging Tso (lake) be discussed first, while India insisted on complete disengagement and de-escalation along Eastern Ladakh. While troops continue to be deployed in several locations on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso, the situation on the ground has been calm since the five- point consensus decided between the two foreign ministers in Moscow on September 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-discuss-border-disengagement/article32839191.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State reports lowest COVID cases, positivity rate||The State has for the first time in around three months reported the lowest daily infections and test positivity rate on Monday. In the 24 hours ending Monday morning, 3,224 new infections, lowest in 86 days, and 32 new deaths were reported. The tally went up to 7,58,951 and the death toll to 6,256. In the past day, 61,112 samples were tested and their positivity rate was 5.28%, which is lowest in the past 95 days. So far, 66.30 lakh samples were tested and the positivity rate was 11.45%. Meanwhile, 5,504 more patients recovered from the disease and the recovery rate increased to 93.38% with a total of 7,08,712 recoveries so far. As many as 43,983 patients are undergoing treatment at present. Meanwhile, only one district reported more than 500 new cases, and five districts reported not more than one death in the past day. Krishna district reported the highest number of new deaths despite reporting the lowest number of new cases. The district-wise new case and deaths are as follows: East Godavari (547 and 3), West Godavari (489 and 2), Guntur (379 and 4), Chittoor (293 and 2), Prakasam (270 and 5), Anantapur (209 and 3), Vizianagaram (191 and 0), Kadapa (190 and 4), Nellore (166 and 1), Kurnool (136 and 1), Visakhapatnam (135 and 1), Srikakulam (133 and 1) and Krishna (86 and 5). Guntur’s COVID infection tally crossed the 60,000-mark, and so far only five districts have more than 60,000 cases. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,06,590), West Godavari (75,489), Chittoor (70,615), Anantapur (61,156), Guntur (60,221), Kurnool (58,241), Nellore (56,844), Prakasam (54,658), Visakhapatnam (52,651), Kadapa (48,209), Srikakulam (41,831), Vizianagaram (37,515) and Krishna (32,036). Recovery rate For the first time ever, the recovery rate of all the districts was more than 90%. Krishna’s recovery rate was lowest at 90.31% while Kurnool’s recovery rate was highest at 96.80%. Krishna's death rate was also the highest at 1.55%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-lowest-covid-cases-positivity-rate/article32839181.ece
13 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Corpn. to stop collecting waste from people if segregation is not done||Mangaluru City Corporation said on Monday that it will stop collecting solid waste from individual houses if segregated waste is not handed over to it after a week from now. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said in a release that individual houses will be given a week’s time to adopt to the new system of segregating waste as wet, dry and sanitary. Segregated waste should be handed over to it later. Wet and sanitary waste will be collected daily and dry waste will be collected only on Fridays. Wet waste should not be handed over in plastic bags. It should be given in a small bin directly to the solid waste collectors. He said that some apartments, traders and commercial establishments too are not segregating waste. They should do it. The Commissioner said that all traders should henceforth display a board in front of their establishments that they are not selling and using banned plastic material. They should keep green colour bins for wet waste and blue colour bins for dry waste. If not, the civic body will take steps to cancel their trade licence or it will not collect waste from them. He said that bulk waste generators and apartments should have on-site composting units. Till they set up those units, segregated waste should be handed over to the civic body. If garbage is thrown on the roadside or in any public, open place, the persons concerned will be levied fine ranging from a minimum of Rs. 1,000 to a maximum of Rs. 25,000. He said that the corporation had earlier appealed to the people to hand over segregated waste from October 2 itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corpn-to-stop-collecting-waste-from-people-if-segregation-is-not-done/article32839879.ece
13 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Testing kiosks soon||The Health Department has decided to make COVID-19 testing more accessible to the public by promoting testing kiosks at airports, railway stations, border areas, and other public places such as shopping malls and at various points en route to Sabarimala. The COVID-19 Screening, Testing, Education and Prevention (STEP) kiosks can be set up by any State-approved or ICMR-approved private labs or hospital development societies of government hospitals, after prior intimation to the District Medical Officer. All kiosks will have to be registered on the Health Department’s portal for lab information, as per guidelines. The kiosks will educate people on COVID prevention by providing information on the use of masks and other means of precautions and offer screening for symptoms such as fever using a flash thermometer. There will also be facility to test for anosmia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/testing-kiosks-soon/article32839397.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Two-day legislature session from today||A special session of the legislature exclusively to enact some new laws will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Assembly will meet on the first day and the Legislative Council the next day to pass Bills for the purpose. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had decided to convene the brief two-day session to pass amendments to the GHMC Act including reservation of 50% of the 150 divisions to women. The amendment, according to sources, would make it mandatory for adaptation of TS-BPASS, the online building permission system with self- certification, in the GHMC limits. The House is also likely to pass amendments to some bills as suggested by the Telangana High Court. The Indian Stamp Bill, the Code of Criminal Proceedings and The Agricultural Land (conversion for non agricultural purposes) amendment bill are likely to be passed. The Question Hour in the two Houses had been dispensed with under Rule 38 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of the Assembly rules. The bills would subsequently be sent to the Legislative Council on Wednesday for its consent. Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy and Legislative Council chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy reviewed the arrangements for the conduct of the brief session amid the COVID -19 incidence in different parts of the State, especially the GHMC limits. They instructed the Legislature Secretary V. Narasimha Charyulu to ensure physical distance in seating arrangements for members in both the Houses. Arrangements should be made for regular sanitisation of the premises while the DGP M. Mahender Reddy had been asked to deploy adequate police force in and around the Assembly premises on security duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-day-legislature-session-from-today/article32839819.ece
13 October 2020||MYSURU,||Toll plaza employee dies of injuries after assault||An employee of the toll plaza on the Mysuru-Nanjangud highway died early on Monday morning, after he was assaulted allegedly by four youths late on Sunday. The police have identified the deceased as Ganesh, a resident of Kadakola on the outskirts of Mysuru. He was rushed to a private hospital after he was attacked allegedly by four youths on motorcycles. Though he was provided medical assistance, he succumbed to the injuries, the police said. The police said that the four youths picked up an argument with Ganesh while they were going towards Nanjangud on Sunday. On their return, the youths resumed the quarrel and allegedly assaulted Ganesh, according to the police. The four youths were taken into custody by the Mysuru South Police station for questioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/toll-plaza-employee-dies-of-injuries-after-assault/article32839512.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Inflation crosses 7%, factory output shrinks||India’s consumer price inflation surged past the 7% mark, hitting 7.34% in September, with food price spikes reaching 10.7% compared with 9.05% in August. Meanwhile, industrial output fell for the sixth month in a row for August. The Index of Industrial Production (IIP) shrank 8% in August on a year-on-year basis, quick official estimates suggested, marking a marginally improved performance compared with July when output contracted 10.8%.Page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inflation-rises-factory-output-shrinks/article32839184.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Hope’s around the corner||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hopes-around-the-corner/article32839239.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai to get new international air links||The city is all set for its newest international passenger airline connection, its 27th, beginning Monday, October 26. Air France is to start direct operations, thrice a week, on the Paris Charles De Gaulle-Chennai-Paris sector, which was previously scheduled for June but postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. An airline spokesperson said the 9 hour 45 minute flight (AF108/107) would be operated with a 279-seater three-class configured Boeing 787-9 and would land in Meenambakkam at 12.12 a.m. on October 27. The return flight (also on Friday and Sunday) would be at 2.10 a.m. For the inaugural flight, the departure from the city would be on October 28. France is one of the countries India has air bubble arrangements with, and this flight will fill the void created by the 2019 collapse of Jet Airways, which used to fly this route. Other foreign services However, travellers will have to wait for the city’s 28th and 29th foreign air links, once again affected by the pandemic. FitsAir, a private airline based in Sri Lanka, was to have begun ATR-72 operations on March 30, on the Jaffna-Chennai sector. An airline manager said plans were still active to launch regional flights to South India. In what would have been Tamil Nadu’s first direct passenger air link with the African continent, Ethiopian Airlines was to have started flights on the Addis Ababa-Chennai sector (ET692/693) from April 1, using a Boeing 787. It was later listed as a Boeing 737 service. The Star Alliance carrier, which has cargo operations to Chennai, had even planned to market this flight as a connector to its South American destinations through its global hub in Ethiopia. An airline official declined to comment on when the air service (thrice a week) would commence. Domestic sector In the domestic sector, Alliance Air, the regional subsidiary of Air India, has clarified that its Bengaluru-Madurai-Coimbatore-Bengaluru flight will begin from October 13. Using a 70-seater ATR-72, flight 9I 573 will be a four-day service on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday, leaving Bengaluru at 6.30 a.m. and returning to base at 10.35 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/air-france-to-launch-direct-flights-to-paris-later-this-month/article32839725.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Hope’s around the corner||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hopes-around-the-corner/article32839845.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Two-day legislature session from today||A special session of the legislature exclusively to enact some new laws will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Assembly will meet on the first day and the Legislative Council the next day to pass Bills for the purpose. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had decided to convene the brief two-day session to pass amendments to the GHMC Act including reservation of 50% of the 150 divisions to women. The amendment would make it mandatory for adaptation of TS-BPASS, the online building permission system with self- certification, in the GHMC limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-day-legislature-session-from-today/article32839800.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Hope’s around the corner||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hopes-around-the-corner/article32839914.ece
13 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Golconda Fort’s bastion collapses||A massive portion of the Majnu Burj inside the Golconda Fort collapsed on Saturday afternoon due to rain. Images which were shared on social media platforms on Monday and went viral showed the collapsed bastion of the 500-year-old fort with a portion of a cannon still perched precariously on the edge. The Majnu Burj is inside the Naya Qila area of the Golconda Fort, which is under the control of Hyderabad Golf Club (HGC). Saturday’s incident “The bastion is on the right side as we go towards the African Boabab tree in the Naya Qila area. It happened on Saturday, but somehow the word leaked out today (Monday),” said a HGC member. Images showed wedge marks on the large rocks revealing the role of human intervention in the collapse of the bastion. The Majnu Burj overlooks the Shahhatim Talab on one side and the manicured lawns of the golf club on the other. While the Golconda Fort is under the control of Archaeological Survey of India, the golf club developed inside the area is under HGC under a MoU signed in 2009. Civic activists have time and again raised concerns over the destruction of the fortified structure and its moats as it was modified to ferry golfers and heavy-duty vehicles without having to use the regular entrances of the fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/golconda-forts-bastion-collapses-in-heavy-rain/article32839811.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||No consensus on States’ GST compensation||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council failed again on Monday to reach an agreement on the contentious issue of borrowings to meet shortfalls in cess collections used to recompense the States for revenue losses from the indirect tax implementation. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, however, said the Centre is ready to help the States who have decided to borrow to bridge the cess shortfall. “There was no consensus arrived on a matter on which differences exist. The GST Council can certainly take a call on cess, extending the period of cess collection. That was repeatedly reiterated but among the members themselves, the question was — can the GST Council decide if the Centre should borrow or the States should borrow,” Ms. Sitharaman said. Refusing to call the impasse a dispute or battle with 10 Opposition-ruled States who have been demanding that the Centre must borrow instead of its push for the States to do so, Ms. Sitharaman said the Finance Ministry was ready to facilitate the States who have decided to borrow themselves to meet urgent spending to counter the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-council-still-divided-on-states-compensation/article32839194.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Three capitals: HC to hear main petitions from Nov. 2||A full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court consisting of Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justices Rakesh Kumar and M. Satyanarayana Murthy posted the main petitions that challenged the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts, for daily hearing from November 2 upon completion of the arguments on a batch of petitions pertaining to the issue on Monday. Guest houses Advocate-General S. Sriram informed the High Court that the State had government proposed the construction of guest houses not only in Visakhapatnam, but also in Vijayawada, Kakinada and Tirupati to avoid the large expenditure incurred by providing private accommodation to guests of the State. Mr. Sriram also claimed that it was not a step towards shifting the capital from Amaravati to the port city as alleged by the petitioners. He said the further details would be furnished to the court once the models and estimated expenditure were finalised by the government .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-capitals-hc-to-hear-main-petitions-from-nov-2/article32839356.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||CBI to probe social media posts on judges||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Monday directed the CBI to probe the comments and social media posts by leaders of the ruling YSR Congress Party, including Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam, on some judges, and submit its report in eight weeks. The judges gave liberty to the agency to register a fresh FIR, if necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-to-probe-social-media-posts-on-judges/article32839770.ece
13 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Area under paddy cultivation goes up||Area under paddy in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts put together has gone up by 4.11 % during this kharif season, according to Agriculture Department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/area-under-paddy-cultivation-goes-up/article32839885.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,||Sack Anna varsity Vice-Chancellor: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday demanded the sacking of Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa after he reportedly wrote directly to the Centre saying the varsity could raise Rs. 1,500 crore on its own, without any help from the government, for being declared an Institution of Eminence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sack-anna-varsity-vice-chancellor-stalin/article32839233.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,||State’s daily COVID-19 count drops below 5,000||More than a month after consistently reporting 5,000-plus COVID-19 cases a day, Tamil Nadu’s daily count dipped to 4,879 on Monday, taking the State’s tally to 6,61,264. Another 5,165 persons got discharged, while 62 persons died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-daily-covid-19-count-drops-below-5000/article32839235.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,||Chief Minister reviews monsoon preparedness||Ahead of the northeast monsoon, expected in the third week of this month, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami chaired a review meeting on Monday. Maintaining public health, stocking up of rations and identifying relief camps were among the topics discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-minister-reviews-monsoon-preparedness/article32839236.ece
13 October 2020||Madurai,||Panchayat president, friend murdered||Kunnathur panchayat president R. Krishnarajan and his friend A. Munisamy were found murdered near Karuppayoorani in Madurai on Monday. They left home around 8.30 p.m. and their bodies were found in Parai with stab injuries, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panchayat-president-friend-murdered/article32839237.ece
13 October 2020||Kolkata,||covid update||West Bengal on Monday recorded 3,583 COVID-19 cases taking the total numbers to 2,98,389. The State recorded 60 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the fatalities to 5,682. The active cases rose to 30,604 and the discharge rate in the State remained at 87.84%. Of the 60 deaths recorded on Monday, Kolkata registered 19 deaths taking the toll to 1,896. North 24 Parganas accounted for 16 deaths taking the toll to 1,281. Kolkata recorded 717 COVID-19 cases to take the total in the city to 65,160, while North 24 Parganas recorded 759 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-update/article32839431.ece
13 October 2020||Kolkata,||local trains||Protests over the resumption of local train services have been reported from the suburbs of Kolkata over the past few days. On Monday morning, residents blocked the tracks in Chinsurah in Hooghly district resulting in some violence at Liluah station. Railway Protection Force personnel tried to detain some passengers who had boarded a special train meant for those on emergency duty services. Since there is increased surveillance at Howrah, passengers travelling from suburbs in these special trains often get down at Liluah, one station before the terminal to dodge the security personnel. On Monday, the passengers were confronted by security personnel resulting in a scuffle. Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta also wrote to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal urging resumption of local and suburban trains in West Bengal. “I have today sent a letter to @PiyushGoyalOff requesting him to restore local & suburban train services in WBengal. This is urgently needed so that people can go about their livelihood without the difficulties they are at present encountering. I am hopeful he will oblige,” Mr. Dasgupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/local-trains/article32839434.ece
13 October 2020||BENGALURU,||Music director Rajan passes away||Acclaimed music composer Rajan, of Rajan-Nagendra fame, passed away at his residence in Bengaluru on Sunday. Some of the best-remembered Kannada film songs of the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s were composed by the brothers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/music-director-rajan-passes-away/article32839682.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 toll crosses 10,000 mark in State||Exactly seven months after Karnataka reported the country’s first COVID-19 death on March 12, the State’s toll breached the 10,000 mark on Monday. With 70 new deaths, the toll touched 10,036. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. Over 41% (4,199) of the total deaths have been reported since September 1 and 1,042 fatalities have been added in the last 12 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-toll-crosses-10000-mark-in-state/article32839683.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU admissions: Day 1 sees 19K applications||On the first day of admissions for undergraduate courses, Delhi University received over 19,000 applications to various colleges. University officials said around 1,628 students were approved while 920 have paid the fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/du-admissions-day-1-sees-19k-applications/article32839773.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC against HC’s rakhi order in rape case||Nine women lawyers have approached the Supreme Court against a Madhya Pradesh High Court order which directed a man accused of sexual assault to visit his victim at home on Rakshabandhan and “allow” her to tie a rakhi on him as a condition of bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plea-in-sc-against-hcs-rakhi-order-in-rape-case/article32839774.ece
13 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Five left in the fray||With no candidate withdrawing nomination papers, five remained in the fray in the elections to the North East Teachers Constituency of the Legislative Council. As per information provided by Regional Commissioner and Returning Officer N.V. Prasad, Timmayya Purle of the Janata Dal (Secular), Sharanappa Mattur of the Indian National Congress, Shashil G. Namoshi of Bharatiya Janata Party, Vatal Nagaraj of Kannada Chalavali Vatal Paksha and Independent candidate Chandrakanth Singh will contest the elections on October 28. Counting of votes would be taken up on November 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-left-in-the-fray/article32839349.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC against HC’s rakhi order in rape case||Nine women lawyers have approached the Supreme Court against a Madhya Pradesh High Court order which directed a man accused of sexual assault to visit his victim at home on Rakshabandhan and “allow” her to tie a rakhi on him as a condition of bail. The lawyers said the High Court order was a “trivialisation of her [victim’s] trauma”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plea-in-sc-against-hcs-rakhi-order-in-rape-case/article32839916.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||34 Bollywood producers move Delhi High Court to restrain TV channels||Four Bollywood industry associations and 34 leading producers have moved the Delhi High Court seeking to restrain Republic TV, Times Now, and other social media platforms from publishing irresponsible and defamatory remarks against Bollywood. The suit has been filed in the wake of these channels using highly derogatory words and expressions for Bollywood. The producers who moved the High Court include Dharma Productions, Aamir Khan Productions, Ad-Labs Films, Ajay Devgn Flims, Yashraj Films, Salman Khan Films, Ashutosh Gowariker Productions and Red Chillies Entertainment, Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra Pictures, Reliance Big Entertainment, Rohit Shetty Picturez, Vinod Chopra Films, and Kabir Khan Films. The producers have sought direction to the news channels to abide by the provisions of the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/34-bollywood-producers-move-delhi-high-court-to-restrain-tv-channels/article32839909.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 toll crosses 10,000 mark in State||Exactly seven months after Karnataka reported the country’s first COVID-19 death on March 12, the State’s toll breached the 10,000 mark on Monday. With 70 new deaths, the toll touched 10,036.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-toll-crosses-10000-mark-in-state/article32839513.ece
13 October 2020||Belagavi/Kalaburagi,||Flying schools to help better use NK airports||The recent announcement by the Airports Authority of India on setting up flying schools in six underutilised airports across India to meet the growing demand for pilots in the country has triggered new hopes of better use of the two well-equipped airports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flying-schools-to-help-better-use-nk-airports/article32839514.ece
13 October 2020||BENGALURU,||Composer Rajan passes away||Acclaimed music composer Rajan, of Rajan-Nagendra fame, passed away at his residence in Bengaluru on Sunday night. Some of the best-remembered Kannada film songs of the 60s, 70s, and 80s were composed by the brothers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/composer-rajan-passes-away/article32839515.ece
13 October 2020||MYSURU,||C.M. Manjunath invited to Mysuru Dasara||Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, C.N. Manjunath, said it’s an honour to inaugurate the Dasara festivities after receiving the official invitation on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-manjunath-invited-to-mysuru-dasara/article32839516.ece
13 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||T.N.’s daily count drops to below 5,000-mark||Andhra Pradesh reported the lowest daily infections and test positivity rate in about three months on Monday. It added 3,224 infections, the lowest in 86 days, and 32 deaths. In the past day, 61,112 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 5.28%, the lowest in 95 days. So far, 66.30 lakh samples were tested and the positivity rate was 11.45%. The number of patients under treatment stood at 43,983. The new cases and deaths by district were as follows: East Godavari (547 and 3), West Godavari (489 and 2), Guntur (379 and 4), Chittoor (293 and 2), Prakasam (270 and 5), Anantapur (209 and 3), Vizianagaram (191 and 0), Kadapa (190 and 4), Nellore (166 and 1), Kurnool (136 and 1), Visakhapatnam (135 and 1), Srikakulam (133 and 1) and Krishna (86 and 5). Kerala reported a sharp dip in cases on Monday after testing dropped by nearly half the usual number of samples, a regular phenomenon following a weekend. The test positivity rate was still high at 15.4%. While 38,259 samples were tested in 24 hours, the State reported 5,930 new cases. The toll stood at 1,025, after 22 more deaths from the past few weeks were added to the official list. Of the new cases, 5,157 cases were locally acquired infections, and 195 cases had no known source of infection. A whopping 195 health care workers contracted COVID-19, with 76 cases in Thiruvananthapuram and 23 in Ernakulam. Cases continued to rise in Kozhikode and Malappuram, while Thiruvananthapuram, saw a comparative reduction. Kozhikode had 869 cases, Malappuram 740, Thrissur 697, Thiruvananthapuram 629, Alapuzha 618, Ernakulam 480, Kottayam 382, Kollam 343, Kasaragod 295, Palakkad 288, Kannur 274, Pathanamthitta 186, Idukki 94 and Wayanad 35 cases. Karnataka’s COVID-19 toll breached the 10,000 mark on Monday. With 70 more deaths, the toll touched 10,036. After reporting over 10,000 cases for the last one week, new cases dropped to 7,606. Over 41% (4,199) of Karnataka’s deaths were reported since September 1 and 1,042 in the last 12 days. With 3,362 deaths Bengaluru Urban contributed 33.4% of the total deaths. More than a month after consistently reporting 5,000-plus coronavirus disease (COVID-19) cases a day, Tamil Nadu’s daily count dipped to 4,879 on Monday, taking the State’s overall tally to 6,61,264. Another 5,165 persons were discharged after treatment and 62 persons (33 in government and 29 in private) died in the State. With this, a total of 6,07,203 persons were discharged till date and 10,314 persons have died. A total of 43,747 persons were presently under treatment in the State.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-reports-least-new-cases-in-three-months/article32839129.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Two LeT militants killed in J&K||Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) ‘commander’ Saifullah was among two militants killed in an operation in a dense residential area of Barzulla in Srinagar on Monday. “Saifullah, a Pakistani national, infiltrated into Kashmir earlier this year. In the last two months, he shifted his base from north to south Kashmir. He was involved in planning and executing major terror attacks, including the killing of a CRPF officer at Chadoora on September 24 and two CRPF personnel in Pampore on October 5,” Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh said. Saifullah and his associate, Irshad Ahmed Dar alias Abu Usama, a resident of Pulwama who was active since May 2019, were trapped in a house in the Barzulla area on Sunday night. “They were given the opportunity to surrender after evacuating all civilians. However, they fired indiscriminately,” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said. The police said incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the site of encounter. “The bodies of the terrorists shall be sent to Baramulla for burial after the completion of all medico-legal formalities. The nearest family members of the killed local terrorist shall be allowed to participate in the last rites”, the police said. One house was fully damaged and three others partially hit during the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-let-militants-killed-in-jk/article32839140.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHi,||Maharashtra records a steady surge in new cases and deaths||Maharashtra continues to report more than 10,000 new COVID-19 cases, followed by Karnataka and Kerala with more than 9,000 cases each, said a Union Health Ministry release on Monday. It added that 816 fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours and of these, nearly 85% are concentrated in 10 States and Union Territories. More than 37% of the new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra (309 deaths). The Ministry, however, added that India continues to report a trend of steadily decreasing active cases and the decline continues for the fourth day. Active cases have now dropped below 9 lakh. “Presently, the active cases comprise 12.1% of the total positive cases of the country, standing at 8,61,853. India is also reporting a high number of recoveries. The total recovered cases are close to 61.5 lakh [61,49,535]. The difference between active cases and recovered cases is consistently increasing and stands at 52,87,682 today,” the Ministry said. It added that 71,559 patients have recovered in the last 24 hours, whereas the new confirmed cases are 66,732. Of the new recovered cases, 77% are observed to be concentrated in 10 States/UTs. Maharashtra and Karnataka contributed more than 10,000 to the single-day recovery. As many as 66,732 new confirmed cases were recorded in the last 24 hours and 81% of these are from the same 10 States and UTs. The Union Health Ministry has also released material encouraging youth to advocate against the discrimination/stigma during COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-records-a-steady-surge-in-new-cases-and-deaths/article32839158.ece
13 October 2020||MYSURU,||Sriramulu was consulted on rejig: Sudhakar||Karnataka Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar, who has been allocated the Health and Family Welfare portfolio, on Monday said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had discussed the issue last week with him and B. Sriramulu, who was handling the Health Department. “Mr. Sriramulu, who was also looking after Backward Classes Welfare along with Health, was given an important portfolio of Social Welfare on his request,” said Dr. Sudhakar, who will now be handling both the Medical Education and Health Departments for containing the spread of COVID-19. The Social Welfare portfolio was with Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Sudhakar said the Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Departments in the State had independent Ministers, but the departments at the Centre and in most States had one Minister. When there was no upper limit for the Cabinet, the portfolios were bifurcated to accommodate more ministerial aspirants. But for technical and administrative reasons, both should be handled by one Minister; otherwise the management would become difficult, he said. While thanking the Chief Minister for “trusting” him with the Health portfolio, Dr. Sudhakar said he would strive to improve public healthcare in the State. Sriramulu upset Meanwhile, Mr. Sriramulu is said to be deeply upset with how the Health and Family Welfare Department has been wrested from him. As he is learnt to have decided to approach the BJP high command over the “injustice meted out to him,” the Cabinet reshuffle fiasco Mr. Yediyurappa has carried out without consulting the central leadership now threatens to backfire against him, sources in the party said. Mr. Yediyurappa is said to have reached out to Mr. Sriramulu and the duo are likely to meet over breakfast on Tuesday. Mr. Sriramulu is upset with the timing of the change in portfolio though he is not averse to the Social Welfare Department, sources close to him said. In fact, he had sought the department over Health and Family Welfare in 2019, but the Chief Minister was insistent. Ever since COVID-19 became an issue from March, he has been deeply upset with how he has been sidelined. “By stripping him of COVID-19 responsibilities and now the ministry itself, the Chief Minister seems to have expressed his lack of confidence in Mr. Sriramulu’s efficiency, which no political leader will accept,” a source close to the leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sriramulu-was-consulted-on-rejig-sudhakar/article32839116.ece
13 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Actor Parvathy resigns from AMMA||Actor Parvathy Thiruvothu on Monday resigned from the Association of Malayalam Movie Artistes (AMMA), in protest against the comments made by its general secretary Edavela Babu in a media interview. When asked whether an actor, the victim in a sexual assault case involving actor Dileep, would be included in a movie that the AMMA was planning to make, Mr. Babu said, “She is not in AMMA anymore. We cannot bring back the dead.” “His utterly disgusting and mortifying remark comparing a woman member, who had been badly let down by this organisation and consequently left it, to a dead person is beyond correction. Mr. Babu may believe he just used a metaphor, but it shows his nauseating attitude and I pity him. I am sure that when the media starts discussing this remark, many of his peers will support him. I am certain about this because of the way they have always dealt with issues pertaining to women,” said Ms. Parvathy in a Facebook post announcing her resignation. ‘Hopes dashed’ In July 2018, four members of the Women in Cinema Collective (WCC), including the actor who was allegedly abducted and sexually assaulted, had resigned from AMMA in protest against its decision to reinstate Mr. Dileep, who was ousted from the organisation after he was named an accused in the abduction and sexual assault case. Ms. Parvathy was one of the WCC members who remained in AMMA to continue the fight from within. “In 2018, when my friends resigned from AMMA, I stayed back thinking at least a few should continue to work within a broken system and help repair it. But after watching [the] AMMA general secretary speak, I have abandoned all hope that anything will ever change within this association,” she said in the Facebook post. She demanded that Mr. Babu resign from the post and expressed the hope that other conscientious members would also demand the same. “I will be keenly watching to see who will come forward. I urge every member to see that it is a hazy bubble of “welfare” that is wrapped around a core of corrupt morals,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/actor-parvathy-resigns-from-amma/article32839120.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Kushboo quits Congress, joins BJP||Actor and former Congress spokesperson Kushboo Sundar on Monday joined the BJP, having sent in her resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. She said she had been contemplating the action since March last. Ms. Sundar, who lives in Chennai, joined the BJP in New Delhi in the presence of the party’s State unit chief, L. Murugan, and national general secretary C.T. Ravi, along with two others from Tamil Nadu — journalist Madan Ravichandran and former Indian Revenue Service officer Sarvana Kumar . “I promise to carry out any assignment given to me by the party and express faith in the leadership of our honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji ,” she said at a press conference. The reasons Later, speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Sundar was more candid. She said she had spoken of the reasons for quitting the Congress in her letter to Ms. Gandhi. In it, she referred to a “few elements, seated at a higher level within the party, people who have no connectivity with the ground reality or public recognition” who were “dictating terms”. She added, “People like me, who wanted to work for the party sincerely are being pushed and suppressed.” Ms. Sundar said, “This letter was ready way back in March, and since I had joined the Congress in the presence of Ms. Gandhi, I wanted to hand over the resignation letter in person. But the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown prevented it.” Mentions Modi At the time of writing the letter, she said, she was not sure that she would be joining the BJP. “As a person occupying the position of spokesperson, it was my duty to attack the policies of the government even though all Bills have certain flaws. But gradually I felt that the clarity that the BJP has, in terms of its ideology and leadership, was important, instead of being in a party where the question of leadership is also in a flux. The trust that people have repeatedly shown in Prime Minister Modi is something that needs to be understood.” On the question of how she would deal with the perception that the BJP, as a party, was not exactly considered friendly towards minorities, she replied: “If the BJP is anti-minority, then is Congress anti-Hindu?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kushboo-quits-congress-joins-bjp/article32839131.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India, U.S. too cautious on China’||India and the United States have been “too cautious”, when it comes to China’s concerns about their strategic ties, said a senior U.S. official, who called China the “Elephant in the room” during bilateral talks. Speaking at a think-tank event during his visit to Delhi, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun said Washington respects India’s tradition of “strategic autonomy”, and did not seek to pull it into a security alliance, but hoped to build a partnership in the region through the Quad (Australia-India-Japan-U.S. Quadrilateral dialogue), which he dubbed “Pax Indo-Pacifica”. “We have seen the conditions emerge for an organic and deeper partnership [between India and the U.S.] — not an alliance on the postwar model, but a fundamental alignment along shared security and geopolitical goals, shared interests, and shared values,” Mr. Biegun said at an ‘India-U.S. Forum’ event in Delhi, where he shared a session with Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla. Crucial “2+2 talks Mr. Biegun arrived in Delhi for a two-day visit to prepare for the upcoming ‘2+2’ talks between U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and U.S. Defense Secretary Mark Esper with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Mr. Biegun said the talks will be held “later this year”, although sources indicated that the 2+2 is scheduled for October 26-27. The arrival of senior U.S. officials, including Mr. Biegun, less than a month before the U.S. presidential elections is unusual, especially given curtailed travel during the coronavirus pandemic, and the fact that Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Pompeo just met for the Quad ministerial dialogue in Tokyo last week. However, the sources suggested that an exception for the U.S. is indicative of the close personal ties shared between the Trump administration and the Modi government. . The ongoing stand-off between the Indian and Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is also likely to be a factor in strengthening bilateral arrangements as well as coordination in the Indo-Pacific region at this time. “As we advance in this direction [of the stronger partnership], there is an elephant in the room: China,” Mr. Biegun said, making a specific reference to comments made by former diplomat Ashok Kantha in a recent interview to The Hindu about the need to be less “cautious” about developing the Quad and strategic linkages with the U.S. “I could not agree more with Ambassador Kantha. We have been too cautious. Last week’s important and successful Quad ministerial leaves the United States confident that perhaps, just maybe, we can say that we are present at the creation of those strategic linkages,” Mr. Biegun added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-us-too-cautious-on-china/article32839142.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Respond to petitions on new farm laws, SC tells Centre||The Supreme Court asked the Central government to respond to petitions describing the passage of the controversial new agricultural laws by Parliament as the beginning of an anti-farmer “exploitative regime”. Though the court said the mere passage of the laws does not give rise to a “cause of action”, questions on the laws would tend to rise in the future in courts, and hence, it would be better for the government to address these issues now. “You may have to answer these pleas sometime or the other... You better file a reply,” Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde addressed Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, on Monday. The court was dealing with various petitions filed by Rakesh Vaishnav, an office-bearer of the Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress, represented by advocate K. Parameswar; DMK MP Tiruchi Siva, represented by senior advocate P. Wilson; and a separate plea by advocate M.L. Sharma. The petitions have challenged the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Agriculture and Promotion) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act of 2020. ‘No cause of action’ The hearing kicked-off on a sceptical note from the Bench. The CJI, on noting that the government was represented by Mr. Venugopal flanked by Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta and Additional Solicitor-General K.M. Natraj, said it seemed an “overkill” to have so many top law officers appearing for a case showing no “cause of action”. Addressing Mr. Sharma’s petition, the CJI advised the lawyer to “go get a cause of action” and then approach the High Court concerned instead of the apex court. “Merely passing a legislation does not permit a cause of action... We do not want to reject your case, we want you to withdraw,” Chief Justice Bobde told Mr. Sharma. Mr. Parameswar, however, prevailed on the court about the necessity to take judicial notice of the laws at this stage.  ‘Against the Constitution’ “Farmers’ produce was being sold in the mandis of Chhattisgarh, but this Act goes against the Constitution,” Mr. Parameswar submitted. The Bench asked the government to file its response. Mr. Siva, through Mr. Wilson, said the laws were “ prima facie unconstitutional, illegal and arbitrary” as they would “usher in a new exploitative regime for the poor farmers of the country, who are entirely dependent on earning their livelihood, by selling their produce in the market”. The amendment to the Essential Commodities Act would facilitate black marketing. It would have black market dealers regulate the stock limit and stocking of agricultural produce, Mr. Siva’s petition said. “Suffice it to say that the Acts attack the very foundation of the agricultural fabric of the country that was built to safeguard the interests of the farmers and not leave them at the mercy of the new era of privatisation,” the petition said. It said the Acts would create an alternative that is outside the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/respond-to-petitions-on-new-farm-laws-sc-tells-centre/article32839145.ece
13 October 2020||PATNA,||BJP expels 9 leaders contesting in Bihar||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) late on Monday night expelled nine of its party leaders, who have filed their nominations for the Assembly election on the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) ticket, on disciplinary grounds. State president Sanjay Jaiswal expelled them for six years for anti-party activities. “You all are contesting the elections against NDA candidates and it tarnishes not only the NDA’s impression but of the party as well and this is against the party’s discipline... So, for anti-party activities you all are expelled from the party for six years,” said the letter issued by Mr. Jaiswal. The leaders are Rajendra Singh, Usha Vidyarthi, Rameshwar Chaurasia, Mrinal Shekhar, Ravindra Yadav, Shweta Singh, Indu Kashyap, Anil Kumar and Ajay Pratap. They were ticket hopefuls inthe NDA. The LJP had declared that it would contest the election against the JD(U) but not the BJP. Names of all the nine BJP leaders had figured in the list of the LJP. Earlier, the BJP leaders had categorically announced that those who contest the election against NDA candidates would not be in the party. Moreover, they would not be allowed to use Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pictures during the election campaign. “We would also request the Election Commission to take action against those using Prime Minister Modi’s pictures except NDA candidates,” Mr. Jaiswal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-expels-9-leaders-contesting-in-bihar/article32839680.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vaccine shot ‘painless’, say Covishield trial volunteers||“It felt like a tetanus shot,” said Joel Joy, 32, who works for a multinational firm in Mumbai, and was among those who volunteered for the experimental Covishield vaccine, being tested by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) at various hospitals in India. “I’ll be going to the gym later today,” he added. The two-dose vaccine candidate is furthest ahead among the COVID-19 vaccines being tested in India. The trial involves 1,600 volunteers in 17 cities across the country who are likely to be inoculated in the coming months in the combined Phase 2 and 3 trials. These trials check for whether the vaccine is safe and capable of producing an immune response to disarm future infections by SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing COVID-19. According to details of the trial available on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) site, the volunteers will be divided into two groups of 400 and 1,200, with some in each group getting Covishield, some a placebo and yet others getting the Oxford/ChAdOx1. Both Covishield and the Oxford/ChAdOx1 have the same virus protein but differ in their make-up — the exact nature of the difference has not been publicly disclosed. The trial also seeks to quantify these differences, if any. Slightly tired Social activist and Mumbai-based entrepreneur, Anil Hebbar, 56, also among the volunteers for the trial at the KEM hospital in Mumbai, said that after the vaccine, he felt nothing out of the ordinary other than a slight weariness. “It was painless. I usually sleep after 1 a.m. and am up by 6 a.m. and travel extensively through the day and never feel particularly tired. But post the injection in the past four days, I feel a little extra tired,” he told The Hindu . Being a double-blinded trial, neither the doctors nor the volunteers know who are the ones vaccinated and who have been given the placebo. The four volunteers who The Hindu spoke to, said they would be going for a follow-up shot on the 29th day. Each of the inoculates involves 0.5 ml of the test-medicine being administered in a four-week interval. After a jab, a day’s dose of paracetamol is given to keep possible fever in check. None of the participants said they registered a fever or a rash or itchiness at the site of the inoculation (the upper forearm). “It was an ordinary experience and I was done in 30 minutes,” said Vaishali Janardhanan, 27, a volunteer and social activist. “I was scrolling through my phone during the shot. There were three women doctors on standby and because I was a woman, the ‘pre-screening’ involved a pregnancy test,” she said. While anyone above 18 can volunteer, those who end up being part of a trial are pre-screened for a previous COVID-19 infection as well as have their vitals examined. ‘Made aware of risks’ At least one person, who was part of the Oxford vaccine trial in the United Kingdom and was administered the vaccine, suffered transverse myelitis, or an inflammation of the spinal cord due to which the trials were paused globally for reviews by safety boards. Trials have since resumed. All of the volunteers who spoke to The Hindu said they were made aware of these risks but were unperturbed. Mr. Hebbar, Mr. Joy and Ms. Janardhanan said they were regularly involved in relief work, in organising supplies and donating blood. They saw the participation in the trial as an extension of what they always did. Dr. Rahul Ghule, a paediatrician, who was also vaccinated, said he planned to go for an antibody test in a month. Assuming the vaccine works as intended and a person did not get a placebo, protective antibodies in response to the virus are expected to emerge in a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-shot-painless-say-covishield-trial-volunteers/article32839148.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rains prompt discharge of flood at all major dams in Krishna basin||Flood level in the river Krishna and many of its tributaries in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana has started rising owing to heavy to very heavy rains in their catchment areas and the discharge of flood at all major dams in the Basin has resumed after it was stopped about 10 days back. While it resumed at some projects including Almatti, Narayanpur, Tungabhadra, Srisailam, Jurala, Pulichintala, Ujjani and few others on Sunday, it commenced at Nagarajunasagar and other dams on Monday. The discharge of flood at Nagarjunasagar started at around 4 p.m. on Monday when the dam authorities lifted two crest gates for 10 feet height each to allow release of about 30,000 cusecs from the spillway. By 8 p.m., the discharge of flood at Nagarjunasagar was increased to nearly 1.2 lakh cusecs as the number of spillway gates lifted increased to 8. At 8.30 pm the discharge of flood from the spillway of Srisailam was nearly 1.68 lakh cusecs from six gates lifted for 10 ft height each as the inflows realised at the dam increased to nearly 1.88 lakh cusecs although the discharge of flood at Sunkesula, Jurala and from Handri was over 2.01 lakh cusecs. An advisory issued by the Central Water Commission (CWC), citing the IMD forecast, stated that extremely heavy rainfall of over 20 cm per day is expected to occur at isolated places over north-central Maharashtra and heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over south-central Maharashtra and Marathawada. “Due to forecast rainfall, inflows into all dams in the Krishna Basin are likely to increase rapidly. River Krishna and its tributaries such as Bhima, Tungabhadra have started rising at many locations in the middle reaches. Inflows into Narayanpur and Tungabhadra dams have also started increasing,” CWC officials stated adding that the river Tungabhadra at Melaganur in Karnataka and Mantralayam in Andhra has also started rising. Besides, the river Kagna, a tributary of Bhima, is rising at Malkhed in Kalaburagi district of Karnataka and it is expected to increase the inflows significantly into Jurala project in Telangana and Srisailam dam in AP-Talangana, it is stated in the CWC advisory. “Since the rainfall is going to increase further all along the Krishna Basin for next the 2-3 days, and as all the dams in Krishna, Bhima and Tungabhadra sub-basins in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana and AP are likely to discharge flood as storage in all the reservoirs is near full reservoir level (FRL)”, the CWC advisory stated.  Godavari Basin As rainfall is expected all along the Godavari Basin for the next 2-3 days all the major reservoirs are likely to get good inflows in Maharashtra and Telangana. As of Monday evening, the inflows into Sriramsagar were over 52,000 cusecs and that into Lower Manair dam were over 42,600 cusecs. Inflows into Kaddam, Singur, Nizamsagar and Yellampally have also started rising on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rains-prompt-discharge-of-flood-at-all-major-dams/article32839353.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Atmanirbhar package failed: Cong.||The Congress on Monday said the latest announcements by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman about a fiscal stimulus were an admission that the much hyped Rs. 20 lakh crore Atmanirbhar package was a “dismal failure to protect or revive the ravaged economy”. The party said the Minister’s intent was really to manage headlines and “somehow believe that the economy will respond to these headlines”. Addressing a joint press conference, Praveen Chakravarty, Congress’s data analytics head, and Gourav Vallabh asked why the Narendra Modi government took six months to realise that the lack of demand was the main problem facing the economy instead focusing on credit expansion and debt restructuring. Though the Congress leaders welcomed the announcement about capital investment in infrastructure for States, they said the amount of Rs. 12,000 crore for this year was merely 1.33% of the Rs. 9 lakh crore already budgeted for this purpose in the current financial year. “Today’s announcements are also clear a message that the Prime Minister’s much hyped Rs. 20 lakh Atmanirbhar package announced in May is a dismal failure in both protecting and reviving our ravaged economy... Just because the Prime Minister or the Finance Minister or the Government of India says that this is an economic stimulus, the economy does not obey and get stimulated  ,” Mr. Chakravarty said. “A stimulus by definition means something extra, more, additional. What is extra today? Is anything extra today in terms of money in the hands of people to stimulate demand?” he asked, while reiterating that the Congress demanded direct cash transfers to stimulate demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/atmanirbhar-package-failed-cong/article32839138.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||No penal provision to protect transgenders from assault: plea||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the government to respond to a plea to provide equal protection in law against sexual abuse for transgender persons. The petition filed by advocate Reepak Kansal said there was no penal provision which protected them from sex crimes. A Bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde said the petition embodied a worthy cause and required hearing. The Bench also asked senior advocate Vikas Singh, who represents Mr. Kansal, to file details of instances in which the court, to protect rights, filled up the vacuum caused by the absence of statutory law. The court referred to the Vishaka guidelines dealing with the sexual harassment of women at the workplace and the decriminalisation of consensual gay sex acts in this context. The plea referred to the provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other criminal laws which do not mention offences against “transgender, transsexuals, kinnar and eunuchs”. “In spite of declaring transgender people to be a ‘third gender’ by this court, there is no provision/section in the Indian Penal Code which may protect the third gender from the sexual assault by male/female or another transgender,” the petition said. The PIL challenged the constitutional validity of certain clauses of Section 354 A (outraging the modesty of woman) of the IPC, to the extent that they are interpreted to exclude victims of sexual harassment who are transgender persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-penal-provision-to-protect-transgenders-from-assault-plea/article32839151.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Petition in SC seeks notice against Jagan||A petition was filed on Monday urging the Supreme Court to issue a show-cause notice against Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy for his “frivolous and unsubstantiated allegations against a sitting judge of the Supreme Court.” The petition filed by a lawyer, Sunil Kumar Singh, accused Mr. Reddy of making these allegations in a letter to the Chief Justice of India on October 6. The petition said the letter’s contents were then shared with the media in a press conference held on October 10 by Mr. Reddy’s Principal Adviser. Mr. Singh asked the apex court to issue an order to bar Mr. Reddy from making such public statements against the judiciary and holding press conferences to malign the judicial institution. “What is at stake is the confidence that courts inspire in the public in a democracy ... Discussions can go wild in the media within hours or days and affect the image of the judiciary,” the petition said. The right places to bring allegations against the higher judiciary were Parliament or the State Legislature and not in press conferences. The petition said the constitutional immunity granted to the judiciary was to allow them to function fearlessly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petition-in-sc-seeks-notice-against-jagan/article32839124.ece
13 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||More security sought for Sabarimala, Pampa||Amidst protests over two motorcycle borne youths trespassing on the trek route to Sabarimala from Pampa last month, the Sabarimala Special Commissioner has requested that these locations be notified as special security zones round the year. In his report to the Kerala High Court, M. Manoj, Sabarimala Special Commissioner and district judge, submitted that the incident pointed to security lapses at Sabarimala, Nilackal, and Pampa, marked as special security zones during the annual pilgrimage season. He wanted Pampa and Sabarimala to be notified as special security zones under Section 83 of the Kerala Police Act round the year. The report says there is no proper system to verify the goods being transported in tractors to the Sannidhanam. The possibility of miscreants transporting hazardous and prohibited articles to the Sannidhanam cannot, therefore, be ruled out. Two youths on a motorcycle had bypassed the forest check-post and the TDB guard room and trespassed into Swami Ayyappan Road on September 26. Forest officials, however, intercepted them at Paramada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-security-sought-for-sabarimala-pampa/article32839117.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,||BU’s B.Com paper leaked, exam postponed||Bangalore University (BU) authorities postponed a final year B.Com examination that was to be held on Monday after they found that the paper was leaked on Monday morning. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor of the university, told The Hindu that nearly 40,000 final-year students were scheduled to appear for the examination that was scheduled at 2 p.m. “Our confidential section received a message on a social networking platform which had pictures of the question paper. After we verified them, we found that the paper was the same set that students were to answer. We immediately told colleges not to conduct the examination,” he said. He also said that the fresh date of the examination will be intimated to the students shortly. A communication to all principals of the affiliated colleges on Monday said that Paper 6.2 -Principles and Practice of Auditing stands postponed. However, many colleges found it difficult to communicate the message to students as it came post noon. “Many students turned up at the examination centres and we had to ask them to leave,” the principal of a city-based college said. The university also field a complaint with the cyber crime police. This is the third time this exam has been postponed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bus-bcom-paper-leaked-exam-postponed/article32839685.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||GST Council still divided on States’ compensation||In its previous meeting last week, the Council had decided to extend the surcharge on taxes on luxury goods such as cars and tobacco products beyond June 2022 but failed to reach a consensus on ways to compensate states for loss of tax revenue. The projected total compensation shortfall in the current fiscal stands at Rs. 2.35 lakh crore. The Centre had in August given two options to the States — to borrow either 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or Rs. 2.35 lakh crore from the market. It had also proposed extending the compensation cess levied on luxury, demerit and sin goods beyond 2022 to repay the borrowing. Following a demand by some States, the amount of Rs. 97,000 crore was increased to Rs. 1.10 lakh crore. As many as 21 states — which are BJP-ruled or have supported it on various issues — have opted to borrow Rs. 1.10 lakh crore to meet the compensation shortfall. The Centre has released Rs. 20,000 crore to the States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-council-still-divided-on-states-compensation/article32839125.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Hathras victim’s family records statements||Ms. Kushwaha said she would submit an affidavit on behalf of the family before November 2. The police maintained their stand that the cremation of the girl took place with the family’s permission but were without answers and left “speechless” had no answers when cross-questioned by the court. The family wanted the cremation at 5 a.m., but the police did it at night without their presence and without following proper rituals. It used “hard language” while asking the officials if they felt that law and order could be affected during the hurried cremation, episode why didn’t they summon more force, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hathras-victims-family-records-statements/article32839437.ece
13 October 2020||MYSURU,||128 railway stations harness solar power||The South Western Railway generated 4.4 million units of power harnessing solar energy last fiscal that resulted in saving Rs. 1.78 crore in electricity charges. The emphasis on harnessing solar power has led to installation of rooftop solar plants at 128 railway stations across the zone over the last few years. The thrust on solar power is part of the Indian Railways plan to source about 1,000 mega watt (MW) of solar power and about 200 MW of wind power progressively by 2021-22 across all zonal railways and production units. A release said out of the proposed 1,000 MW, 500 MW will be harnessed through solar plants which are being installed on the rooftop of railway buildings and will be used to meet non-traction loads and other operations at railway stations. Another 500 MW harnessed from land-based solar plants will be used to meet both traction and non-traction requirements, according to the officials. The South Western Zone has provided rooftop solar solutions at 128 railway stations, including Hubballi, KSR Bengaluru, Mysuru, Yeshwantpur, Hospet, Gadag and Ballari. It has also covered seven service buildings such as Rail Soudha ‘West & Central Wing’, Divisional Railway Manager’s Office at Hubballi, Railway Hospital at Hubballi, Divisional Railway Manager’s Office at Bengaluru, Parcel Office and Railway Hospital at Bengaluru, and at the Divisional Railway Manager’s Office at Mysuru. The workshops and sheds have also been provided with solar rooftop plants and in addition 221 level crossings are operating on electricity provided by solar photo voltaic cell lights. “The solar electricity generation last year was 4.4 million units, which is expected to increase to the tune of 4.664 million units this year subject to sunny days and insulation,” said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/128-railway-stations-under-swr-harness-solar-power/article32839376.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China discuss border disengagement||Monday’s talks were the last round of talks headed by Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh as the 14 Corps Commander before he moves out on another posting. He is soon to be replaced by Lt. Gen. P.G.K. Menon, who has been part of the Indian delegation during the earlier round of talks as well. A representative from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) is also present. In the last round of talks, China insisted that disengagement on the south bank of Panging Tso (lake) be discussed first, while India insisted on complete disengagement and de-escalation along Eastern Ladakh. While troops continue to be deployed in several locations on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso, the situation on the ground has been calm since the five- point consensus decided between the two foreign ministers in Moscow on September 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-discuss-border-disengagement/article32839123.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Hathras victim’s family records statements in HC||The court questioned Additional Chief Secretary Home Awanish Awasthi, ADG Law and Order Prashant Kumar and the Hathras District Magistrate, he said after the hearing. The court directed Mr. Kumar and the Special Secretary Home to appear on November 2. Lawyer for the victim’s family Seema Kushwaha said the family had three main prayers in court and all of them were considered. First, the family demanded that the case be transferred out of U.P. Second, it wanted that the details of the probe not be revealed through the media as it “builds a different kind of narrative”. Third, security should be ensured for them till the trial is concluded. Ms. Kushwaha said she would submit an affidavit on behalf of the family before November 2. The police maintained that the cremation of the girl took place with the family’s permission but had no answers when cross-questioned by the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hathras-victims-family-records-statements-in-hc/article32839675.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||No consensus on States’ GST compensation||The Centre has argued that 21 States have backed this resolution. Parrying queries on the Centre’s strategy in case some States move the apex court on the issue, Ms Sitharaman said, “We are open to talk with all States who wants us to facilitate a borrowing. Even tomorrow morning, if they come, we are ready to do so.” Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac said Ms Sitharaman’s announcement that she is going to permit 21 States to borrow is illegal. “Option one involves deferment of compensation payment beyond five years for which a Council decision is necessary as per the Attorney General’s opinion. No such decision has been made in the Council,” he said in a late-night tweet. “While concluding the meeting, I did say can the Council stop another State from what it wants to do? If the States want to, on the back of the confidence that the cess collected over an extended period will pay for the borrowings, can anyone stop a member from doing that?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-consensus-on-states-gst-compensation/article32839676.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Central govt. takes steps to spur demand||Eligible return fare would be given to employees once they provided proof of digital payment to GST-registered vendors for three times the fare, on items that attract a GST rate of over 12%. Effectively, this means LTC travel claims will be a 33% subsidy for acquiring white goods such as refrigerators, televisions, freezers, vacuum cleaners and so on. Private sector employers and State governments could also extend this facility to their employees, Ms. Sitharaman said. The full value of 10 days of leave encashment that was taxable but could be availed by employees along with their LTC, would also be paid out on submission of similar proof of payment for equivalent value of goods. Separately, a flat Rs. 10,000 special festival allowance has been announced for all Central employees to be utilised by March 31, 2021, that could be repaid in 10 interest-free instalments. This would be given in the form of a prepaid Rupay card. “If people spend all this, those affected by the COVID-19 pandemic will see a demand rise and livelihood improvement,” the Minister said. The 12% GST rate had been specified so that people didn’t spend this payout on essential items such as food. “There is no gainsaying that the pandemic has affected the economy adversely. The needs of the weaker and poor sections have been addressed somewhat in the various packages announced so far. Supply constraints have somewhat eased but consumer demand still needs to be given a bit of a boost,” she said. “We are telling people that money which would have gone into your ticket fare for travel, spend three times that return fare to claim that LTC allowance. Spend it on items that have 12% or more GST – if you look at the items that have 12% GST, you will know that is the kind of things people normally buy during festivals,” she noted. While the Centre hoped to spur an additional consumer demand of Rs. 36,000 crore from the LTC vouchers and festival allowance, the possible additional capital expenditure from the States and the Centre added up to Rs. 37,000 crore. “Another Rs. 28,000 crore boost can be expected if potential private sector spending also happens. We would suggest to the private sector to consider this [the LTC voucher scheme]. This is a conservative estimate [but] the total additional demand could total Rs. 1 lakh crore, I believe,” she stated. The government had kept in mind that demand stimulus measures must not burden the common citizen through future inflation and not result in unsustainable government debt. “Today's solutions should not cause tomorrow's problems,” she added. ‘States get little’ Economists reckoned that the fiscal cost of these measures was ‘fairly modest’ as would be their impact on the impact on economic activity. While the proposals to boost consumer demand could trigger a temporary improvement in sentiment, there was skepticism about the meagre amounts involved in the interest-free loan proposal for the States. “The size of this scheme pales in comparison to the expected shortfall in Central tax devolution of Rs. 2.8 lakh crore relative to the amount budgeted by the government for 2020-2021. The eligibility of most States out of the 50-year interest free loans of Rs. 12,000 crore for capital spending appears to be rather modest, ranging from Rs. 32 crore for Goa to Rs. 1,485 crore for Uttar Pradesh,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at credit rating agency ICRA. Of the Rs. 12,000 crore loans offered to the States, Rs. 2,500 crore was earmarked for the eight northeastern States, who could avail Rs. 200 crore each, and Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, who could avail Rs. 450 crore each. For the remaining States, loans of Rs. 7,500 crore would be available in proportion to their share of the Finance Commission devolutions. Fifty per cent of the loan would be given upfront, with the rest after the first tranche was utilised.  Borrowing flexibility Another Rs. 2,000 crore of loans would be available for the States that undertake three of the four reforms outlined for granting additional borrowing flexibility to the States under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package announced in May last. “This is unlikely to provide any meaningful boost to capex in in our assessment, although it may allow for an accelerated settlement of pending dues of contractors,” Ms. Nayar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-unveils-proposals-to-spur-demand/article32839126.ece
13 October 2020||Islamabad,||‘Pak. action on terror funding insufficient’||Noting that Pakistan’s measures against money laundering and terror financing “are not yet sufficient to justify a re-rating”, a regional affiliate of the Financial Action Task Force on Monday retained the country on its “Enhanced Follow-up” list, according to a media report. The development came only a few weeks ahead of the meeting of the FATF — the Paris-based global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog — to decide on Pakistan’s grey list status. The first Follow-Up Report on Mutual Evaluation of Pakistan released by the Asia-Pacific Group (APG) underlined that the country’s progress on the 40 FATF recommendations on the effectiveness of anti-money laundering and combating financing terror (AML/CFT) system largely remained unchanged — non-compliant on four counts, partially compliant on 25 counts and largely compliant on nine recommendations, the Dawn News reported. Pakistan has improved its full compliance on only two of the 40 FATF recommendations, the APG report noted. Enhanced follow up Pakistan will remain in enhanced (expedited) follow up and will continue to report back to the APG on progress to strengthen its implementation of AML/CFT measures, the APG concluded in its 12-page report.  Pakistan had requested for re-ratings on three areas declared partially compliant by the APG in October last year. The request was accepted on one count and rejected on two due to ‘insufficient’ progress to the satisfaction of international experts. The 41-member APG in August last year had downgraded Pakistan’s status to “Enhanced Follow-up” category from “Regular Follow-up” over technical deficiencies to meet normal international financial standards by October 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-action-on-terror-funding-insufficient/article32839132.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pak., China on a mission to create dispute: Rajnath||First Pakistan and now China is creating dispute on the border under a mission, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday after inaugurating 44 permanent bridges across seven States and Union Territories built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO). Talking of the situation along the northern and eastern borders, Mr. Singh said, “We have a border of about 7,000 km with these countries, where tension remains.” Mr. Singh said these bridges would provide improved connectivity in the far-flung areas of the western, northern and northeast sectors and also meet the transport and logistics requirements of the armed forces throughout the year. He also laid the foundation stone for the Nechiphu tunnel in Arunachal Pradesh.  He said the annual budget of the BRO, which varied between Rs. 3,300 crore and Rs. 4,600 crore in 2008-2016, has seen a substantial rise and is pegged at over Rs. 11,000 crore in 2020-21. He said the government had sanctioned high-altitude clothing to the BRO engineers and workers. The bridges range from 30 m to 484 m and are located in J&K (10), Ladakh (8), Himachal Pradesh (2), Punjab (4), Uttarakhand (8), Arunachal Pradesh (8) and Sikkim (4). Lt. Gen. Harpal Singh, Director General, BRO, said the construction of 28 major bridges was completed, while 102 more major bridges are being completed this year, of which 54 have already been completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-china-on-a-mission-to-create-dispute-rajnath/article32839135.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||HC order trivialisation of rape victim’s trauma, says plea in SC||Nine women lawyers have approached the Supreme Court against a Madhya Pradesh High Court order which directed a man accused of sexual assault to visit his victim at home on Rakshabandhan and “allow” her to tie a rakhi on him as a condition of bail. The lawyers, led by advocate Aparna Bhat, said the High Court order was a “trivialisation of her [victim’s] trauma.” Violates law The law prescribes the victim to be kept far away from the accused. Instead, here the High Court has ordered the accused to visit the home of the woman — the very place where the crime is alleged to have occurred. The case is that the accused forcibly entered the victim’s house to commit the crime. The petition said the High Court further ordered the accused to gift the woman Rs. 11,000 “as a customary ritual usually offered by brothers to sisters on such occasion and shall also seek her blessings.” The High Court also ordered the accused to offer Rs. 5000 to the woman’s son for the “purchase of clothes and sweets.” Stay the order The order only succeeds to victimise the woman and retards the years of work done to sensitise the courts about how damaging it would be to attempt a compromise “by way of marriage or mediation between the accused and the survivor.” The petition urges the apex court to stay the condition for bail passed by the High Court in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-order-trivialisation-of-rape-victims-trauma-says-plea-in-sc/article32839136.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||34 producers move HC to restrain TV channels||Four Bollywood industry associations and 34 leading producers have moved the Delhi High Court seeking to restrain Republic TV, Times Now and other social media platforms from publishing irresponsible and defamatory remarks against Bollywood as a whole. The suit has been filed in the wake of these channels using highly derogatory expressions for Bollywood such as “dirt”, “filth”, “scum”, and “druggies”. Industry veterans The producers who moved the high court include Dharma Productions, Aamir Khan Productions, Ad-Labs Films, Ajay Devgn Ffilms, Yash Raj Films, Salman Khan Films, Ashutosh Gowariker Productions, Red Chillies Entertainment, Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra Pictures, Reliance Big Entertainment, Rohit Shetty Picturez, Vinod Chopra Films, and Kabir Khan Films. The producers and four Bollywood industry associations — the Film & Television Producers Guild Of India (PGI), the Cine & TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA), Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC) and Screenwriters Association (SWA) — have sought direction to the news channels to abide by the provisions of the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Rules. The suit stated that Bollywood is unique and stands on a different footing from any other industry as it is an industry that is dependent almost solely on goodwill, appreciation and acceptance of its audience. The livelihood of persons associated with Bollywood is being severely impacted by the smear campaign. This is in addition to the ongoing pandemic which has resulted in extreme revenue and work opportunity loss, law firm DSK Legal said in a statement. “The privacy of the members of Bollywood is being invaded, and their reputations irreparably damaged,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/34-producers-move-hc-to-restrain-tv-channels/article32839143.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC asks KUWJ to move ‘correct court’ for relief||The Supreme Court on Monday advised the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) to approach the “correct court” for relief when informed that its secretary and journalist, Sidhique Kappan, has been arrested and charged with sedition. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde adjourned a habeas corpus petition filed by the KUWJ to know the whereabouts of Mr. Kappan, who was detained by the Uttar Pradesh police while en route to Hathras, where a 19-year-old Dalit girl died days after she was assaulted and allegedly raped. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for the KUWJ, submitted that “no court in Uttar Pradesh” will grant bail to Mr. Kappan. The CJI, in response, said the case could be brought before the Allahabad High Court. Mr. Sibal asked the court for permission to file a writ petition under Article 32, alleging violation of the fundamental rights of a citizen at the hands of the State. He said Mr. Kappan’s arrest and the registration of an FIR for sedition under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act came shortly after the habeas corpus petition was filed in the apex court. The journalist was kept incognito at the time of filing the habeas corpus . The court adjourned the case by four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-asks-kuwj-to-move-correct-court-for-relief/article32839149.ece
13 October 2020||Mumbai,||Rhea seeks CBI action against her neighbour||Actor Rhea Chakraborty wants the CBI to take action against her neighbour, Dimple Thawani, for making false and bogus allegations against her and misleading the investigation in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s (SSR) case. Ms. Chakraborty wrote a letter to Nupur Prasad, SP, CBI, and said she was interrogated for more than five days by the CBI in connection with the case. “During the investigation, several media channels carried false and bogus stories without any material to substantiate these patently false and fabricated claims... Mrs. Dimple Thawani, made patently false and bogus allegations against me knowing them to be false, to mislead the investigation.” The allegation was that Sushant had dropped Ms. Chakraborty at her residence in his car on June 13, a day before his death. “This is utterly false and that the conduct makes out a prima facie case punishable under Sections 203 and 211 of the IPC,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rhea-seeks-cbi-action-against-her-neighbour/article32839161.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||India welcomes release of 7 abducted citizens in Libya||India on Monday welcomed the release of seven nationals who had been abducted in September by fighters in war-torn Libya. The Ministry of External Affairs acknowledged the support that the authorities in Tripoli have extended in ensuring the release of the seven persons hailing from Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. “All of them are in good health and are currently staying in the company’s premises in Brega. We are trying to complete the formalities to enable their return to India,” said the Ministry about the men who were handed over to the representatives of energy company Al Shola Al Mudea. Abducted on Sept. 14 The Indians were abducted by one of the several active militias on September 14 when they were on their way to the airport in capital Tripoli to catch a flight to return home. It is learnt from local sources that they were employed by Al Shola Al Mudea. “We convey our sincere thanks to the Libyan authorities and the tribal elders from the region for their steadfast cooperation in securing the release of our nationals unharmed. Both our Ambassador to Tunisia [Puneet Roy Kundal] and our local consular staff were in constant touch with them and the company all through the crisis,” said the MEA. The Ambassador has the additional responsibility of the mission in Tripoli as India does not have a resident Ambassador in Tripoli as of now. India imposed a ban on travelling to Libya back in 2011 and has renewed the advisory subsequently. Indian nationals are urged not to seek employment in the various energy, health and infrastructure facilities which has high demand for Indian professionals. The MEA reiterated the advisory on Monday. Last week, the Ministry assured that South Block was “making all possible efforts in consultation and coordination with Libyan authorities and the employer to trace” the citizens. Libya has seen continuous fighting since the fall of the regime of Muammar Qadhafi in October 2011. New Delhi evacuated 18,000 citizens during the fighting that erupted between the forces loyal to Qadhafi and various rebel and terrorist groups in the spring of 2011. In 2016, an IT professional Regi Joseph was taken hostage by the fighters but was released subsequently. Mr. Kundal, who coordinated the nearly month-long negotiations, said in a social media message the seven will be repatriated soon.  All of them are in good health and are staying on the company’s premises in Brega Ministry of External Affairs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-welcomes-release-of-7-abducted-citizens-in-libya/article32839240.ece
13 October 2020||SANGAREDDY,||HPC centre coming up at IIT-H||The Indian Institute of Technology-Hyderabad (IIT-H) is partnering with the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) to set-up a state-of-the-art 650 TF High-Performance Computing centre under the National Supercomputing Mission (NSM) for research and development activities. An MoU was signed on Monday in the presence of Minister of State for Education, Communications, Electronics & IT, Government of India, Sanjay Dhotre in a virtual event. “It is a great step in the direction of Digital India and Make in India, and towards building Atmanibhar Bharat,” said Dhotre. NSM is aimed at making India a world leader in supercomputing and to enhance India’s capability in solving problems of national and global relevance, empower scientists and researchers with state-of-the-art supercomputing facilities and enable them to carry out cutting-edge research in various domains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hpc-centre-coming-up-at-iit-h/article32839814.ece
13 October 2020||Srinagar,||Three teachers booked||Three teachers have been booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA) in south Kashmir's Shopian after “the students and alumni of the school were found involved in militant activities”. “We have already booked three teachers of the school affiliated with the banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) outfit,” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-teachers-booked/article32839137.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Ensure justice to victim’s family: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the Uttar Pradesh government should provide justice to the family of the Hathras victim instead of “protecting” criminals. He accused the Yogi Aditynath government of adopting an “insensitive and unethical attitude”. “The government’s attitude in the Hathras incident is inhuman and unethical… Put the accused and criminals in jail and help the victims. It is not about one girl but the story of lakhs of girls across the country,” Mr. Gandhi said in a video that is a part of the Congress’s ‘Speak Up for Women Safety’ campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-justice-to-victims-family-rahul/article32839154.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Courts can’t meddle in food habits: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said courts cannot meddle in the food habits of people. A Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul was hearing a petition filed by Akhand Bharat Morcha for ban on halal form of slaughter. “Court cannot determine who can be a vegetarian or non-vegetarian. Those who want to eat halal meat can eat halal meat. Those who want to eat jhatka meat can eat jhatka meat,” the court said orally. The petition raised a challenge against Section 28 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act which allows slaughter of animals in a manner consonant to one’s religion. The petition argued that halal manner of slaughter is painful and amounts to cruelty. Whereas jhatka — which is a single fatal blow — is painless. The court said the petition was filed with “mischievous” intention and dismissed it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/courts-cant-meddle-in-food-habits-sc/article32839241.ece
13 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Janata Dal (Secular) Kerala unit dissolved||National president of Janata Dal (Secular) H.D. Deva Gowda has dissolved the State unit of the party. He has removed incumbent president C.K. Nanu and appointed Mathew T. Thomas, MLA, in his stead as president of the ad-hoc committee of the Kerala Pradesh Janata Dal (Secular). The party is a constituent of the ruling LDF coalition. In a press release, Mr. Gowda said Mr. Nanu had ignored the directions of B.M. Farookh, national working president of the JD(S).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/janata-dal-secular-kerala-unit-dissolved/article32839464.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||NEET on Oct. 14, results on Oct. 16||The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) aspirants who were not able to take the exam in September due to COVID-19 restrictions would get a chance on October 14, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), informed the Supreme Court on Monday. “In view of the prevailing circumstances, we consider it appropriate to grant permission to the National Testing Agency to conduct a second part of the NEET (UG) 2019 for the COVID affected students and for those in containment zones on 14.10.2020. The result may be declared on 16.10.2020,” the court order read. The submission was made before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde. Refused to intervene NEET was held on September 13 after the court refused to intervene on the basis of pleas to postpone it owing to the pandemic. Shortly after the exam, petitions, including the one filed by Allahabad-based lawyer, advocate Shashwat Anand, urged the court to conduct a retest for those who were unable to attend the September exam. Media reports stated many could not take the exam due to “unforeseen, unavoidable circumstances amid the COVID-19 situation such as sickness, transit issues, delay in reaching the exam centre, etc”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neet-on-oct-14-results-on-oct-16/article32839153.ece
13 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Himachal Pradesh CM tests positive for COVID-19||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. Mr. Thakur, who had been in self-quarantine for the last one week at his residence after coming in touch with a positive person, got himself tested. “In the past two days owing to some symptoms of corona, I got a corona test done today [Monday], which has been reported positive. On the advice of doctors I have isolated myself at my official residence,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himachal-pradesh-cm-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32839156.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP slams Farooq for LAC remarks||The BJP on Monday sharply criticised veteran National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, terming his remarks seeking Chinese help in restoring Article 370 as “seditious and anti-national”. “Article 370 was abrogated by Parliament and done in a constitutional manner,” said BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. Dr. Abdullah had, in an interview, said the face-off between India and China in Eastern Ladakh was a direct consequence of the abrogation of Article 370 which China had not accepted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-slams-farooq-for-lac-remarks/article32839159.ece
13 October 2020||Patna,||Bihar Minister Vinod Singh passes away||Bihar Minister for Backward and Extremely Backward Classes Welfare Vinod Singh passed away in Delhi on Monday. Mr. Singh, 50, was a BJP MLA from the Pranpur Assembly constituency of Katihar district. He was elected MLA thrice from the constituency. Mr. Singh was infected with COVID-19 in June and had not fully recovered. He was admitted to a private hospital in Delhi on August 16. He died on Monday following a brain haemorrhage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-minister-vinod-singh-passes-away/article32839146.ece
13 October 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses bail plea of antique dealer||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday dismissed as withdrawn the bail petition filed by US-based antique dealer Subash Chandra Kapoor, currently lodged in Tiruchi Central Prison in connection with idol theft cases. Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan directed the trial court to complete the trial in the case against the antique dealer as expeditiously as possible. The State informed the court that the trial would be completed soon. The petitioner, Subash Chandra Kapoor, sought bail citing health reasons. The 71-year-old said that he was a cancer survivor and was suffering from health problems. The antique dealer was remanded in judicial custody in 2012. After he had displayed idols at his art gallery ‘Art of Past’ in the US in 2008, he was accused of stealing idols from India. ‘Red corner’notice A ‘red corner’ notice was issued against him in 2011. Following his arrest in Germany, he was handed over to the Indian Government in 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-plea-of-antique-dealer-dismissed/article32839243.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s daily count drops below 5,000||More than a month after consistently reporting 5,000-plus COVID-19 cases a day, Tamil Nadu’s daily count dipped to 4,879 on Monday, taking the State’s tally to 6,61,264. Another 5,165 persons were discharged after treatment and 62 more persons (33 in government hospitals and 29 in private facilities) succumbed to the infection. With this, a total of 6,07,203 persons have been discharged so far and 10,314 persons have died. A total of 43,747 persons are presently under treatment in the State. Of the fresh infections, Chennai accounted for 1,212, while Coimbatore and Salem reported 393 and 304 cases respectively. Chengalpattu reported 245 cases and and Tiruvallur 229. In Tiruppur, 185 persons tested positive for COVID-19, while 146 cases were recorded in both Erode and Thanjavur. While Namakkal had 145 new cases (including two imported ones), the Nilgiris accounted for 144 cases. Other districts with 100-plus cases were: Cuddalore (132), Kancheepuram (139), Tiruvarur (114) and Vellore (130). Chennai accounted for 13 deaths, while Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur saw seven deaths each. Six persons died in Coimbatore and four in Vellore. The youngest among the deceased was a 23-year-old woman from Jharkhand who had aplastic anaemia and was admitted to a private medical college hospital in Vellore with fever for a day and cough for a month. She died on October 10 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Three persons in their 30s succumbed to the infection. Among them was a 36-year-old man from Salem who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to a private medical college hospital with complaints of fever on October 6. He died on October 10 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. In the last 24 hours, a total of 80,162 samples were tested in the State, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 84,02,994. Till date, a total of 81,63,027 individuals have been tested for the infection.  In the last 24 hours, a total of 80,162 samples were tested in the State, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 84,02,994||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-daily-count-drops-below-5000/article32839279.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners complain about sand mining||The members of the Tamil Nadu Sand Lorry Owners’ Federation held a demonstration on Monday near the Tiruvallur Collectorate seeking measures against illegal sand extraction and transportation in the district. As there were not enough river sand quarries in the neighbouring districts of Chennai, sand was illegally extracted from waterbodies and waterways and transported for cheap rates, they said. Though several complaints had been made over the past two years, stringent action was not taken to control the practice, the members said. Federation president S. Yuvaraj said although m-sand was largely being used in construction, demand for river sand continued to be robust. Sand was illegally extracted, adulterated and sold at low rates. On an average, nearly 400-500 loads of sand were illegally transported to the city, he added. The federation demanded that surveillance cameras be installed in vulnerable areas, including Red Hills Koot Road, Periyapalayam Main Road, Janapanchatram Koot Road and Tamaraipakkam Koot Road, to prevent illegal sand mining and supply. Members raised questions about lack of check-posts on arterial roads such as Ponneri High Road and Gummidipoondi Bypass. They demanded drone cameras be used to control illegal sand mining. The lorry owners also demanded withdrawal of false cases against drivers. The federation plans to submit a charter of demands to the Tiruvallur District Collector in a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-owners-complain-about-illegal-sand-mining/article32839975.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister reviews northeast monsoon preparedness||Ahead of the Northeast monsoon expected in the third week of this month, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday chaired a meeting to review the steps being taken to tackle any situation that might arise. He also advised officials on other precautionary measures to be taken. The CM instructed officials to ensure maintaining physical distancing norms and to ensure that not more than 50 persons are imparted with training at a time, for disaster management. He advised officials to create awareness among the general public in this regard. Reviewing the number of identified relief camps and increasing them if necessary, keeping tree cutting machines and ensuring necessary human resources for work, maintaining public health by taking necessary precautionary measures and stocking up on essential commodities in ration shops were among the other aspects the CM addressed at the meeting. An official release said a total of 4,133 vulnerable areas across the State were likely to be affected by the Northeast monsoon. A total of 43,409 ‘first responders’, including 14,232 women have been trained and a total of 5,505 police personnel and 691 home guards trained by the Tamil Nadu Disaster Response Force were ready to be involved in relief operations. Efforts are on to create awareness among the general public and to publicise the State Emergency Helpline 1070, District Emergency Helpline 1077 and TNSMART — mobile phone-based application, through print and electronic media. Ministers O. Panneerselvam, Dindigul C. Sreenivasan, K.A. Sengottaiyan, P. Thangamani, S.P. Velumani, D. Jayakumar, K.P. Anbalagan, R. Doraikkannu, R.B. Udhayakumar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy and other senior officials were part of the meeting. Earlier, Mr. Shanmugam had on September 18, chaired a meeting of senior officials to review the steps being taken across the State to face the Northeast monsoon, where district-level coordinators were appointed to consolidate efforts in their respective districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-reviews-northeast-monsoon-preparedness/article32839283.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro may offer 30% fare discount||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) is likely to offer 30% discount in fares, sources said. If implemented, the minimum fare will be reduced to Rs. 7 as against Rs. 10 and the maximum Rs. 42 as against Rs. 60. The rate of discount was arrived at after a plan was chalked out recently to see which pricing would help commuters. But it is not clear how long the discount would be offered. “This plan will be presented to a committee and the possible implications arising out of this decision, both positive and negative, will be explained. Once the panel approves it, the plan will be implemented at the earliest,” another source said. But in the past, the committee has not rejected such proposals. The primary reason for considering the discount was to draw more commuters. From 1.20 lakh a day in February this year, the number of commuters plummeted to 25,000 a day after the lockdown was lifted. “The idea is to bring the ridership close to pre-COVID-19 levels. When you give discount and get people accustomed to travelling in this system, many may like the comfort and continue to stick to it even after it is withdrawn. But to achieve this, it may take time,” an official said. CMRL has experimented with reducing fares for a limited period. For instance, as a trial measure in May 2017 for a week, it had offered 40% discount and during this period the number of travellers rose by a significant 67%. But after it was withdrawn, the patronage fell by 15%. Similarly in October last year, a 50% discount in fares on Sunday and public holiday made a difference to occupancy rate and nearly 35% more passengers used the system after this plan came into effect. Why discounts instead of reducing fares? “This is because fare reduction is a long and difficult process. It has to be cleared by the top government authorities and if at all it is done, it may be a long struggle to increase them again. We saw this happen with Delhi Metro. Hence, we have been offering discount over a period instead of slashing fares,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-may-offer-30-fare-discount/article32840031.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai-Bangalore Highway strengthening work begins||Work to strengthen a 23 km stretch of the Chennai-Bangalore Highway from Maduravoyal to Sriperumbudur has commenced. The project will be carried out at a cost of Rs. 35 crore so that the road will have a smooth riding surface, and will have the strength to carry the enormous volume of traffic that it usually gets on a daily basis. On an average, the road witnesses over 2 lakh passenger car units each day. According to sources in the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the contractor will lay two layers of bituminous tar on the existing road. They will also install additional signages and will have to complete the work within a period of six months. This was being taken up following a direction from the Madras High Court, the official added. The NHAI had started making improvements to junctions, including the Vanagaram, Velappanchavady and Parivakkam ones. Lighting not included However, the proposal will not include lighting facilities, something that the road is in dire need of. Sangeetha Raghunathan, who frequently visits Kancheepuram, said she preferred the Padappai route despite its cattle menace. “Although that route also does not have lighting, it is better that this one. Driving at night on the Bangalore road is tough. I take it only if I drive in the afternoon,” she said. Meanwhile, the NH wing of the State Highways Department has begun marking roadsides to remove encroachments for widening the facility into six lanes along with service roads on either side. “We have enough land with us. But it has been encroached on in many places. We will clear them shortly,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-bangalore-highway-strengthening-work-begins/article32839729.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||University of Madras facing an acute resource crunch||With 56% of faculty positions lying vacant, University of Madras (UoM) is facing an acute shortage in terms of human resources and potential decline in academic and research activities.  Data available with The Hindu showed that at least seven departments did not have a single full-time faculty member and 14 departments had more than 70% of their sanctioned posts vacant. The shortage is acutely felt in the three Centres of Advanced Study (CAS) in Mathematics, Botany, Crystallography and Biophysics, which receive additional grants from the University Grants Commission (UGC), and are at risk of losing them without the minimum required faculty strength and research output. Moreover, an analysis of National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) data for the university showed that 50% of the roughly 80 professors are in the age group of 56 and above. “If the vacancies are not filled in the near future, majority of the departments will not have a single Professor with retirements expected in the coming years,” a senior faculty member said. The last recruitment happened six years ago, but faced some allegations of irregularities. G. Shanmugam, former Head of CAS in Crystallography and Biophysics and former university syndicate member, said the risk of losing CAS recognition by UGC was real. “We already lost it for the Department of Philosophy in the past,” he said. The Ramanujan Institute for Advanced Study in Mathematics, one of the CAS, has a sanctioned strength of five professors, five associate professors, and 11 assistant professors. However, it presently has only seven assistant professors and not a single professor or associate professor. Poor strength The CAS in Botany with a sanctioned strength of 22 faculty members now has one professor and five assistant professors. Stating the department needed a minimum strength of six to maintain the CAS status, Mr. Shanmugam pointed out that N. Mathivanan, the professor and head of the department, is now holding the post of Registrar (in-charge) as well. Similarly, the CAS in Crystallography and Biophysics had eight faculty members, which included a professor and seven assistant professors, against the sanctioned strength of 18. “The three CAS in the university had many stalwarts in the yesteryears. Now, many departments are not even able to fully utilise their research grants,” Mr. Shanmugam pointed out. The head of one of the departments, said many departments with research potential were not able to apply for CAS status due to lack of minimum number of faculty. “When a university does not have adequate faculty members, it is not doing justice to its students,” he said. In a competitive environment with rankings and accreditations, the university would not be able to maintain its status if it did not have competent faculty, who formed the core of the university system, he added. Pointing out that over 50% of the non-teaching staff positions were also vacant, a Syndicate member said the financial crisis faced by the university had to be tackled with a long-term, sustainable solution. “A key reason for not recruiting is the deep financial crisis with the university not in a position to even honour its commitments to pensioners. However, without enough faculty we are also losing out on grants from the UGC and the State,” he said. Vice-Chancellor S. Gowri, who took charge in August, said he was studying the issue to explore possible options to address it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-of-madras-facing-an-acute-resource-crunch/article32839320.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||New international air connects to be forged with Chennai||Chennai is all set for its newest international passenger airline connection, its 27th, beginning Monday, October 26. Air France is to start direct operations, thrice a week, on the Paris Charles De Gaulle-Chennai-Paris sector, which was previously scheduled for June but postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. An airline spokesperson said the 9-hour 45-minute-flight (AF108/107) will be operated with a 279-seater three-class configured Boeing 787-9, landing at Meenambakkam on Tuesday at 00.12 hours. The return flight (also on Friday and Sunday) will be at 02.10 hours. For the inaugural flight, the departure from the city will be on Wednesday, October 28. France is one of the countries India has “air bubble” arrangements with, and this flight will fill the void since 2019 created by the collapse of Jet Airways which used to fly this route. However, travellers will have to wait for the city’s 28th and 29th foreign air links, once again affected by the novel coronavirus epidemic. FitsAir, a private airline based in Sri Lanka, was to have begun ATR-72 operations on March 30 on the Jaffna-Chennai sector. An airline manager said plans were still active to launch regional flights to South India. In what would have been Tamil Nadu’s first direct passenger air link with the African continent, Ethiopian Airlines was to have started flights on the Addis Ababa-Chennai sector (ET692/693) from April 1 using a Boeing 787. It was later listed as a Boeing 737 service. The Star Alliance carrier, which has cargo operations to Chennai, had even planned to market this flight as a connector to its South American destinations through its global hub in Ethiopia. An airline official declined to comment on when the air service (thrice a week) would commence. In the domestic sector, Alliance Air, the regional subsidiary of Air India, has clarified that its Bengaluru-Madurai-Coimbatore-Bengaluru flight is to begin from Tuesday, October 13. Using a 70-seater ATR-72, flight 9I 573 will be a four-day service, on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday, leaving Bengaluru at 06.30 a.m. and returning to base at 10.35 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-international-air-connects-to-be-forged-with-chennai/article32839343.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sack Anna varsity V-C: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday demanded the immediate sacking of Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa, after he reportedly wrote directly to the Centre that the university had the capability to raise Rs. 1,500 crore, on its own, without any assistance from the government for being declared an Institution of Eminence. Condemning the Vice-Chancellor’s alleged unilateral decision to write to the Centre, Mr. Stalin wondered if the university official was acting as another Chief Minister, and wanted to know if such a letter had been sent by him to the Centre with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s permission. Move questioned “It is shocking to those who are interested in the development of higher education in Tamil Nadu, and, in particular, the growth of the Anna University, that the Vice-Chancellor has written directly to the Centre. How did he have the audacity to write such a letter that will affect the students, and, more importantly, the legacy of Anna University, especially when his term is going to end soon?” the DMK president asked. The DMK leader alleged that the Vice-Chancellor’s letter was also an attempt to ruin the State’s 69% reservation system and to saffronise the university’s higher education system. On the purported point of Anna University’s ability to raise Rs. 1,500 crore by itself, Mr. Stalin wanted to know how the university would go about it. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran also expressed concern over the reported differences between the State government and Mr. Surappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sack-anna-varsity-v-c-stalin/article32839267.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Monsoon likely to set in after October 25: IMD||The northeast monsoon, which contributes the major share of annual rainfall in the region, is likely to set in over Tamil Nadu after October 25, according to the Meteorological Department. Officials of the Meteorological Department said the southwest monsoon continued over the south Indian region due to La Niña conditions prevailing over the Pacific Ocean. Moreover, weather systems that are forming over the Bay of Bengal and moving north off south Indian coastal areas would also influence westerlies to prevail in the region, including Tamil Nadu, till October 22. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said La Niña was a global weather pattern that caused the ocean surface temperature in the equatorial Pacific Ocean to drop and influenced changes in global wind patterns, affecting weather conditions in regions, including India. Exceptions “It is often considered unfavourable for the northeast monsoon over Tamil Nadu. But, we have had exceptions as in 2005 when the State had a good monsoon. This year, we expect a late onset,” he said. Normally, the northeast monsoon sets in around October 20. The Meteorological Department also predicted light to moderate rain over some districts, including Vellore, Krishnagiri, Dindigul, Chennai, Kancheepuram, Coimbatore and Theni on Tuesday. The deep depression over Bay of Bengal which is likely to cross the north Andhra Pradesh coast close to Kakinada on Tuesday morning triggered rains over parts of Tamil Nadu, said officials. On Monday evening, sharp showers lashed various parts of the city, including T. Nagar, Ennore, Meenambakkam, Vyasarpadi and Perambur. The weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded 2 cm and 1 cm of rainfall respectively till 7 p.m. The same weather trend is expected to continue in the city on Tuesday and light rains will occur in a few areas. The department warned fishermen not to venture into sea as strong winds, reaching speeds of up to 55 km per hour, were likely over the Comorin area and the Gulf of Munnar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monsoon-likely-to-set-in-after-october-25-imd/article32839291.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DHFL Promoters granted bail||A special court for cases under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interest of Depositors Act (TNPID) on Monday granted conditional bail to Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL) promoters, Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, who were arrested by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the CB-CID in connection with cheating a firm to the tune of Rs. 200 crore. The EOW booked the case based on the complaint of 63 Moons Technologies, Anna Salai. The case stated that 63 Moons Technologies Group had invested Rs. 200 crore in non-convertible debentures from DHFL, represented by the Wadhawan brothers, on an assurance made by them that they would give a high rate of interest at 9.05% to 9.25% per annum. The police said the firm offered the dividend for the period 2016-2017 and then failed to pay, which piled up to Rs. 18 crore. A first information report was filed against 11 accused, including the Wadhawan brothers. The brothers were arrested by the Enforcement Directorate on September 26 and lodged in Taloja jail, Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra. The EOW police team brought them to Chennai last Wednesday after obtaining a transit warrant. They were lodged in the Central Prison, Puzhal. Their bail petitions were taken up for hearing. Advocates S. Elambharathi and Abdul Saleem, representing the accused, submitted that the FIR registered against the accused for offences under the TNPID Act was not maintainable as there were no depositors at all as required under the Act. Allowing the bail applications, special judge S. Sathish Kumar granted the bail and directed the accused to deposit Rs. 50 lakh each as a condition with two sureties. Conditions imposed “On being released, the petitioners should report before the Deputy Superintendent of Police EOW, Chennai, daily at 10.00 a.m. until further orders. They should cooperate with the pending Investigation and should not threaten, influence or hinder witnesses. If there is any violation of the above conditions, the investigation officer is within his powers to move this court for cancellation of bail,” the court order said.  The Wadhawan brothers were arrested by the ED on September 26 and lodged in Taloja jail, Navi Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dhfl-promoters-granted-bail/article32839727.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC comes down heavily on lawyer for maligning judiciary||The Madras High Court on Monday came down heavily on an advocate for filing a case to dislodge its Registrar (Vigilance) R. Poornima from the post on the basis of a false claim that she had not passed higher secondary examinations. The court pulled him up also for getting details of his case published in sections of the media even before it could be listed for hearing. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the litigant B. Sathishkumar of Chennai to pay Rs. 5 lakh in costs to Ms. Poornima in six weeks or end up facing revenue recovery proceedings by the jurisdictional Collector. They also initiated suo motu criminal contempt of court proceedings against him. Barred from practice The first Division Bench barred the petitioner from practising before any judicial forum until the conclusion of the contempt proceedings. It directed him to appear before it on October 20 for framing of charges and proceeding further with the matter. The judges said they intend to take some serious steps regarding the role played by the media too. The petitioner had claimed that Ms. Poornima had completed her Class X examinations in 1982 and then obtained graduation from University of Madras and a law degree from Mysore before getting appointed as a District Judge in December 2010. He claimed she had not pursued higher secondary course. However, on verification of her service records, the judges found she had completed Class XII from Bethlehem Girls Higher Secondary School in Ooty in 1984.  The Bench directed the advocate to appear before it on October 20 for framing of charges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-comes-down-heavily-on-lawyer-for-maligning-judiciary/article32839743.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Congress tried to retain her’||In the run up to Kushboo Sundar quitting the Congress, senior party leaders, including AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal and TNCC president K.S. Alagiri, had tried convincing her to stay put. The two leaders, separately, held talks with her last week, when she had reportedly assured them that she wanted to work for the party, multiple top-level sources in the Congress told The Hindu.  The assurance had led the Congress to believe that the rumours of her moving to the BJP, which had grown stronger last week, were just speculation. By Sunday morning, however, a few State leaders knew that she was jumping ship. Alagiri criticises move After her resignation letter was made public on Monday morning, an angry Mr. Alagiri hit out at Ms. Kushboo, claiming that the party cadre had only seen her as an actor and not a politician. Mr. Alagiri charged that she only got publicity by speaking at events organised by the Congress and had not been very involved in the party’s activities during the recent months. He said she was brainwashed to join a “direct ideological opponent”, as her husband, director Sundar C., was reportedly facing financial difficulties. “She has pawned her ideology to the BJP,” he said. This will be the third party that Ms. Kushboo has joined in the last 10 years. Her first stint of four years was with the DMK, from 2010.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-tried-to-retain-her/article32839273.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Need someone like Modi to take the nation forward, says Kushboo||Actor-politician Kushboo Sundar, who has been a vocal critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the BJP and its policies, joined the ruling party on Monday afternoon after tendering her resignation to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, accusing some leaders in the Congress of pushing and suppressing people like her. Speculation was rife in the past few months that the BJP was wooing her. Even last week, Ms. Sundar had launched a scathing attack on the BJP and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at a rally to condemn the Hathras gangrape and the events that unfolded following the death of the girl. Terming her joining the BJP as “taking a step forward”, she said on Monday: “I have come to understand that if a nation has to move forward, we need someone like our honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji to take the nation in its right direction and to its glory. I am completely at service to the BJP and I will do my best to make sure that my State Tamil Nadu [BJP] sees victory in the upcoming elections”. “I have done today what I should have done long back. I had to be loyal to the place I was in, before I submitted my resignation,” she told reporters. She refused to name who in the Congress had suppressed her. ‘Duty to criticise’ “Change is constant in people’s lives. Yes, I have spoken against the PM and the BJP very harshly. But now I am able to see what is good for the country. When a party [Congress] is not able to control its own organisation, how will it run the country?” she asked. She pointed out that as the spokesperson of the Opposition, she had to criticise the ruling party. She said she had also praised some of its initiatives. She said there were no corruption charges against anyone in the BJP and that the Congress did not have a majority in the Parliament because people did not have confidence in the party. Ms. Sundar further added that her ideology would remain the same, although she had changed her party. “I am more of an activist than a politician,” she said.  Yes, I have spoken against the PM and the BJP very harshly. But now I am able to see what is good for the country Kushboo Sundar Actor-politician||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-someone-like-modi-to-take-the-nation-forward-says-kushboo/article32839275.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-Madras researchers develop wrapping material to improve shelf life of food||Indian Institute of Technology (IIT Madras) researchers have developed a biodegradable wrapping material, with a built-in anti-bacterial compound to prevent food contamination, and to reduce plastic waste. Their project won the ‘SITARE- Gandhian Young Technological Innovation Appreciation 2020’. The researchers have also filed for a patent. Mukesh Doble a professor and Puja Kumari, a research scholar in the Department of Biotechnology led the team. Mr. Doble said the design would address the issue of solid waste and food contamination during storage due to bacterial growth. The antibacterial compound used in the material is approved by the relevant authorities and does not cause toxicity, he said. “The wrapping material we have developed also degrades at various environmental conditions. The degradation rate varies from 4 to 98% in 21 days. The wrapping material degraded rapidly in moist conditions when compared to dry ones. Hence, our wrapper is eco-friendly and can play a major role in plastic waste reduction,” he explained. The wrappings were made with polymeric blends containing starch, polyvinyl alcohol and cyclic beta glycans (CBG). The composition was optimised to achieve the best film with a smooth texture, flexibility, uniform thickness and good clarity. The polymers used are approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The antibacterial agent selected includes compounds such as eugenol, chlorogenic acid, betanin, curcumin and gallic acid, which are used regularly in Indian food and are known to possess antibacterial, antioxidant and many other beneficial bio-activities. The compound is either immobilised on the surface or coated or mixed with polymer before preparation. Ms. Kumari said the team tested its performance by wrapping paneer (cottage cheese), meat and chicken. The samples were placed in 4oC and 30oC for 10 days. “Our study found 99.999% reduction in bacterial colonies was observed in the food samples wrapped with our antibacterial wrap and stored at 30oC for 10 days when compared with a plain wrapper. This study also suggests that our antimicrobial wrapper can, to some extent overcome, the reduced availability of cold storage units. Paneer is known to have a very low shelf life (less than 7 days) and hence extending its shelf life is a major advantage,” she said. Generally, bacterial growth is higher when food is stored at 30oC when compared to storage at 4oC. Mr. Doble said the team was looking for funds to scale-up the process and test the product with more food samples. “We also need to compare the mechanical properties as well as the cost of the developed films with commercial products in the market,” he explained. Annually around 300 million tonnes of plastic waste is produced and only 9% of all plastic waste is recycled, while around 12% is incinerated. An estimated 600 million – almost 1 in 10 people in the world – fall ill and around 4.2 lakh die annuallyafter eating contaminated food.  The team was looking for funds to scale-up the process and test the product with more food samples Mukesh Doble Professor Department of Biotechnology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-researchers-develop-wrapping-material-to-improve-shelf-life-of-food/article32839285.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Chennai police launch operation to resolve cases of missing two-wheelers||The Chennai City Police have launched an operation to resolve all pending cases of missing two-wheelers. The personnel fanned across the city to check for abandoned vehicles on roadsides and in parking lots such as bus depots and railway stations. On the orders of City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Deputy Commissioners have been asked to expedite the investigation on complaints related to missing/stolen vehicles and trace them. In the T. Nagar police district, over 200 vehicles were reported as missing this year and cases were booked on complaints received from the original owners. Four special teams were constituted under sub-inspectors to trace the vehicles. Special instructions have been given to talk to complainants to ascertain whether the vehicle was really stolen or if there were other issues. They were also asked to check if any CCTV camera footage was available at the place the vehicle was stolen from. A police officer said, “Our special teams fanned out to various places such as CMBT, parking lots in Metro stations, Tambaram railway stations and other residential areas. We have collected details of abandoned/ unclaimed vehicles numbering over 250 from 10 places across the city. We checked those details with the data on stolen vehicles available on the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & System(CCTNS) portal. Over 70 match alerts have been generated and we informed the police stations concerned.” Of 70 vehicles, 20 were matched using details provided by the complainants in Mambalam, K.K. Nagar, Poonamallee, Guindy and other police stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-police-launch-operation-to-resolve-cases-of-missing-two-wheelers/article32840036.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door COVID-19 survey workers in Chennai wait for their salaries||A section of workers engaged in door-to-door surveys, carrying out checks on temperature and oxygen levels, among other parameters, has complained of not being paid their salaries in the last few months. The workers, appointed for COVID-19 prevention measures in some divisions of the city, complained that the Greater Chennai Corporation was delaying payments. These workers have been at the forefront of the city’s pandemic control programme and have been crucial in implementing prevention and early detection strategies, ensuring that everyone gets quality care. A senior official of the Corporation said there were two types of workers appointed as part of the COVID-19 prevention measures. While the sector health workers were appointed by zonal officials, outreach workers or volunteers were engaged by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) for working in containment zones and engaging in other COVID-19-related duties. The civic body tied-up with the NGOs and payments were made from the headquarters, the official said. The sector health workers, similar to those engaged under the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM), were recruited by the 15 zonal officers and paid monthly consolidated salaries. Around 10,000 sector health workers were appointed for the house visits, to check temperatures, oxygen levels and other health-related issues. S. Ramesh, a sector health worker in the Kodambakkam zone, said that salaries were paid promptly by their zonal office, by the first week of the month. But he rued that several outreach workers, recruited by NGOs in his zone, had not received salaries for some months now. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said that severe action would be taken against NGOs who have not paid salaries to the outreach workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-covid-19-survey-workers-in-chennai-wait-for-their-salaries/article32840037.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No need for debates on seat-sharing: DMK||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday alleged that some forces and a few media organisations were trying to sow confusion in the minds of the DMK’s alliance partners by projecting various seat-sharing arrangements for the 2021 Assembly election. “Some forces are trying to cause confusion in the DMK alliance with an ulterior motive. One or two media houses have joined them and are holding debates to put out such baseless arguments. This is not going to give them any electoral dividends,” Mr. Stalin said. He said the debates were held on the presumption that DMK will contest 200 seats. “Only after the elections are notified, alliance parties will meet once, twice, or thrice to finalise the constituencies they will contest in. That is the general process. I cannot understand why these forces are being so hasty. These are not topics of debates at all,” Mr. Stalin said. “These forces cannot shake up the existing DMK alliance. The path of the alliance is very clear,” he added. In a separate statement, Mr. Stalin said he will chair the first meeting of the DMK’s manifesto committee on October 14 at Anna Arivalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-need-for-debates-on-seat-sharing-dmk/article32839741.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘ECMO support can help severely affected COVID-19 patients’||Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support can help in treating patients whose lungs are completely affected due to COVID-19, said Mohamed Rela, chairman and managing director, Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre (RIMC), here on Monday. He was speaking at a function organised to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between RIMC and KIMS Hospitals, located in Telangana, to set up a Comprehensive Centre of Excellence for Heart and Lung Transplant. He said if a person’s lungs were affected 100% due to COVID-19, putting the person on ventilator support will not help. “In such cases, ECMO support can be used as a bridge to either help lungs recover or until a transplant is possible,” he said. Pointing out that treatment options and protocols were evolving continuously for the novel disease, he said ECMO support was proving to be useful for patients who otherwise have no hope for survival. “ECMO can be used to take over the functioning of both the heart and lungs. In COVID-19 cases, we mostly use it just for lungs. The idea is to put the patients on ECMO support, treat them so that their lungs recover and then take them off ECMO,” he said. He said RIMC, which is starting ECMO support, will soon start performing heart and lung transplants. “We already have a patient, who was put on ECMO support two days ago,” he said. A statement by the hospital said Sandeep Attawar, programme director and chair, KIMS Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation, will provide his expertise to the team from RIMC to provide ECMO support, and to perform heart and lung transplants at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ecmo-support-can-help-severely-affected-covid-19-patients/article32839730.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tenders invited for setting up of several fish landing centres||The Fisheries Department has called for tenders for several fish landing centres, including a common one for Pudhupattinam and Uyyalikuppam in Kancheepuram district, at a cost of Rs. 15.76 crore.  Helen Nagar in Kanniyakumari will get a landing centre at a cost of Rs. 13.40 crore and Rajakkamangalam village in the same district will get one for Rs. 13.15 crore. Tenders have also been floated for a facility at Rosema Nagar in Ramanathapuram, which would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 9.46 crore and one in Thalanguda in Cuddalore district for Rs. 12.37 crore. These projects are expected to be completed in 12-18 months and would help prevent sea erosion at these locations, explained a source in the department. Selvam, a fisherman of Cuddalore, said that as in any other coastal locality, sea erosion was a major problem in his district. “What is needed is a larger study to safeguard the coastline. The sea is some 5 km away from our village, it has now inched closer and is only a kilometre from here,” he said. K. Bharathi of South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association, said a wholesome study of erosion, sea level increase and the coastline was a must.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tenders-invited-for-setting-up-of-several-fish-landing-centres/article32839963.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss seeks separate quota for Vanniyars||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Monday wrote to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami seeking separate reservations for Vanniyar community and denotified communities besides commissioning of a caste-wise population census. He said that Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has agreed to conduct a census of denotified, nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes across India. Member of denotified communities live across Tamil Nadu and census should be conducted across all households to account for these communities. “When the State does this exercise, a caste-wise census can be easily done. There won’t be any additional expenditure as the Central government is funding it. The caste-wise census can be conducted through this,” said Dr. Ramadoss. He pointed out that the Central government’s list of denotified communities, nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes and the communities listed as per Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institution and of Appointments or Posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993) 3 (A) are different. “In majority of States, the denotified communities and nomadic communities were added to SC list while in Tamil Nadu, they have been added to the most backward classes category. There are communities which are considered as denotified communities in some regions and Backward Classes in other regions. Some members of the backward communities obtain false certificates by providing wrong information as Most Backward Classes and enjoy the benefits of reservation,” he said. “Therefore, reservations of denotified communities, Vanniyars and Most Backward Classes are systematically denied.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramadoss-seeks-separate-quota-for-vanniyars/article32839969.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shai Evra bags Ramanujan award||The 2020 SASTRA Ramanujan Prize will be awarded to Shai Evra of Princeton University, U.S., and Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel. According to a press release, the annual prize is given for outstanding contributions by individuals not exceeding the age of 32, in areas of mathematics, influenced by Ramanujan in a broad sense. Mr. Evra’s research concerns locally symmetric spaces of arithmetic groups and their combinatoric, geometric and topological structure. The prize is awarded annually at an international conference in Number Theory, during December 21-22, at SASTRA University in Kumbakonam. Since the conference will not take place this year, Mr. Evra will receive the prize in 2021, in Kumbakonam. According to the citation, the award is for his outstanding work on high dimensional expanders in the area of combinatorial and geometric topology and on “Golden Gates” for three dimensional unitary groups. He employed “deep results from representation theory and number theory, pertaining to the Generalised Ramanujan Conjectures. The prize recognises his fundamental paper in the Journal of Topology and Analysis, in which he extends both the combinatorics and automorphic form theory to generalise the construction of Gromox and others on expander graphs”. His fundamental work will have major implications even outside mathematics, extending into theoretical computer science, according to the citation. The 2020 SASTRA Ramanujan Prize Committee comprised Krishnaswami Alladi- chair (University of Florida); William Duke (University of California, Los Angeles); Kevin Ford (University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign); Anne Schilling (University of California, Davis); Robert Tijdeman (Leiden University); Maryna Viazovska (Ecole Polytechnique, Lausanne) and Shouwu Zhang (Princeton University).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shai-evra-bags-ramanujan-award/article32839280.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GST compensation: Tamil Nadu had no option but to borrow, says Minister||The Tamil Nadu government, which recently chose to borrow money under Option 1 of the two choices laid out by the Centre in lieu of the GST compensation dues, on Monday said it did so as it had no other option. Speaking at the 42nd Goods and Services Tax Council meeting held through a video conference as a continuation of the meeting on October 5, Minister D. Jayakumar recalled the efforts the government had taken to insist the Centre to borrow money and give them to the States. He recalled the Chief Minister had written to the Prime Minister expressing this. “Since Government of India appeared unwilling to borrow, we had no option but to choose from among the two options offered,” Mr. Jayakumar (specially deputed to look after GST issues by the State government) said. A copy of his speech copy was released to the media. The Tamil Nadu government was “conscious that reaching a common meeting ground is the need of the hour” in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic and it was in that spirit that we had already in the previous meeting agreed to Option 1, he contended. Early resolution The Minister said he looked forward to an early resolution of the issue so that the States get the funds that they so urgently need for reviving the economy during the COVID-19 crisis. “As you are aware as of end July, 2020, the total compensation still due to Tamil Nadu is Rs. 10,774.98 crore. I hope this amount will be released at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gst-compensation-tn-had-no-option-but-to-borrow-says-minister/article32839289.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC summons Chief Secretary||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Chief Secretary and Transport Secretary to appear through video conference on December 10 and assist the court in disposing of writ petitions filed in 2005 and 2007 for operating disabled friendly buses and ensuring a barrier free environment for the physically challenged in public places. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha summoned the officials after senior counsel E. Omprakash, representing one of the petitioners and amicus curiae T. Mohan reported to the court that the transport corporations had not been purchasing disabled friendly buses despite a specific order passed by the court on April 6, 2016. The then Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul (now a Supreme Court judge) and Justice M.M. Sundresh had disapproved of the practice of purchasing buses dedicated for the use of the physically challenged and operating them in select routes. The judges had ordered that buses operated in all routes should be made disabled friendly. “Steps to be taken for the benefit of the persons with special needs has to be inclusive in character. The idea cannot be to have separate buses but buses which are used daily by passengers meeting the requirement of persons with special needs… We thus direct that any new buses must meet the requirement of people with special needs,” the judges had ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-summons-chief-secretary/article32839739.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai:,TAMIL NADU||CM thanks Premalatha||AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday thanked DMDK leader Premalatha Vijayakant, who had extended her greetings to him for being named the AIADMK's Chief Minister candidate for the 2021 Assembly elections. Mr. Palaniswami thanked her in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-thanks-premalatha/article32839292.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patient who underwent bilateral lung transplant recovers from COVID-19||Nearly three to four years after undergoing a bilateral lung transplant, a 37-year-old man spent the last 10 days battling COVID-19 at the Government Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH). With lung changes Admitted with COVID-19 positivity, breathlessness and significant lung changes, the patient is now all set to be discharged, according to doctors. TVMCH Dean M. Ravichandran said the patient had recorded two donor lungs in a transplant three to four years ago in Chennai and was on immunosuppressants. “Ten days ago, he came in with breathlessness and the CT scan showed changes in the lungs,” he said. “There was blood in the sputum due to cough. He was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit, and also required oxygen support” he added. With treatment, his condition improved well, he said, adding: “He is now asymptomatic and is waiting to be discharged. He is now managing well on room air. We will discharge him after a final assessment.” Dr. Ravichandran said this could be one-of-its-kind recovery in the region in a patient who had undergone bilateral lung transplant and was infected with the novel coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patient-who-underwent-bilateral-lung-transplant-recovers-from-covid-19/article32839293.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stanley getting new cancer treatment facility||An isotope-based teletherapy system for treating patients with cancer is being installed in the Department of Radiotherapy of Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. The equipment will facilitate advanced treatment techniques and reduce treatment time, according to doctors. With October being observed as Breast Cancer Awareness month, the hospital organised an awareness programme on Monday. The importance of self-examination, early detection methods, screening and investigation modalities for all women, especially those aged above 30, were discussed during the programme. There was emphasis on screening and early diagnosis that led to better outcomes. Every year, around 1,700 cancer patients were managed at the hospital. Over the last 10 years, 1,205 breast cancer patients were treated. The Medical Council of India has sanctioned four DM post graduate seats for the Medical Oncology department for the academic year 2020-2021, a press release said. Collector R. Seethalakshmi and T. Sabitha, deputy director of medical education, took part in the programme. Cancer survivors participated. P. Balaji, dean of the hospital, and Naveen Ravel, professor and head of department, Medical Oncology, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stanley-gets-new-cancer-treatment-facility/article32839734.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Science Council invites nominations for awards||The Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology has invited nominations for the Tamil Nadu Scientists awards. Every year, the Council recognises outstanding research, skill, talent in the fields of agriculture, chemistry, biology, environmental science, engineering and technology, social sciences, mathematics, medicine, physics, and veterinary science. The award includes Rs. 50,000 and a citation. Nominations are received from the heads of research and educational institutions in the State. The format for the application may be downloaded fromwww.tanscst.nic.in. The complete application must be sent to: The Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology, DOTE campus, Guindy, on or before Oct. 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-science-council-invites-nominations-for-awards/article32839321.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AUTA supports the V-C||The Anna University Teachers’ Association has come out in support of vice-chancellor M.K. Surappa, demanding that the government allow the university to retain its name. The members, in a release, said he was working towards getting the institution the Institute-of-Eminence status. The Association said, “The AUTA reposes full faith in our honourable vice-chancellor and has confidence in his leadership.” It issued the release in the wake of the controversy generated by a report that the V-C had written to the Central government seeking funds. The AUTA said the letter was written four months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auta-supports-the-v-c/article32839271.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGO holds fundraiser for street vendors||United Way Chennai, a NGO, organised “Run United 2020”, a virtual marathon, to raise funds for street vendors who were affected by the pandemic. Organised from October 2 to 11, the marathon raised around Rs. 30 lakh which would be used to support nearly 700 families. The NGO conducted the campaign #UnitedForStreetVendors. Over 1,000 people from across the globe took part by running/walking/cycling in their own neighbourhoods, clocking 29,753 km over 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngo-holds-fundraiser-for-street-vendors/article32839732.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Joint surprise check held at airport||Officials of the Central Bureau of Investigation, the Customs and the Airports Authority of India conducted a joint surprise check at the Chennai Airport here late on Sunday and intercepted a suspicious consignment. According to police sources, officials from the departments, following a tip-off, conducted the surprise check at the cargo area and seized seven boxes booked as flowers for export. A large quantity of betel leaves were found under the flowers, sources said. The export of the consignment was put on hold. Further investigation was under way and experts were being consulted, sources said. However, a case had not been registered yet, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/joint-surprise-check-held-at-airport/article32839738.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss seeks quota for Vanniyars||PMK founder S Ramadoss on Monday wrote to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami seeking separate reservations for Vanniyar community and de-notified communities besides commissioning of a caste-wise census. He said Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has agreed to conduct a census of denotified, nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes in India. “When the State does this exercise, a caste-wise census can be done. There won’t be any additional expenditure as the Centre is funding it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramadoss-seeks-quota-for-vanniyars/article32839744.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) State secretary infected||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) State secretary, K. Balakrishnan, on Monday said he had tested positive for COVID-19. He has got himself admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. In a tweet, he said he was keeping well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-state-secretary-infected/article32839268.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized||As much as 2.88 kg of gold worth Rs. 1.32 crore was seized by officials of the Chennai Air Customs, and arrested three passengers, who had arrived from Dubai, on Saturday, according to a press release. They had smuggled 12 bundles of gold paste, which amounted to 2.7 kg. They had also concealed 116 g of gold in their pant pockets. Investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/288-kg-of-gold-seized-at-airport/article32839345.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Funds raised for street vendors||United Way Chennai organised ‘Run United 2020’, a virtual marathon, to raise funds to help street vendors who were affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Organised from October 2 to 11, the marathon raised around Rs. 30 lakh that would be used to support nearly 700 families to restart their business. According to a press release, United Way Chennai carried out the campaign #UnitedForStreetVendors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/funds-raised-for-street-vendors/article32839966.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold stolen in Chennai traced in Mumbai||Over 170 sovereigns of gold bars, looted from a businessman’s house in T. Nagar, have been seized by city police with help from the Mumbai police. Though the police arrested nine suspects, the main accused, Moideen, is still at large. The complainant Noorul Yakub, 71, has a construction business in Dubai. He said he along with his wife Anisha, their nephew and their domestic help had been under home quarantine at their house on Saradambal Street as they had tested positive for COVID-19. Another relative, Moideen from Thoothukudi, had also stayed with them. Unidentified persons entered the house on the evening of September 30 and made away with over 250 sovereigns of gold jewellery, Rs. 95,000 cash, other valuables and a high-end car after tying up Yakub and his family members. Moideen had also gone missing and his mobile phone was switched off. The familymanaged to untie themselves and complained to the police. ‘Main accused at large’ The Pondy Bazaar police began an investigation and found that Moideen had hatched a plan to rob his relatives with the help of hirelings. “Moideen who is suspected to be the main culprit is still at large. Special teams have been constituted to trace him. There is progress in the investigation,” said a senior police officer. The police have recovered 170 sovereigns of gold bars and 120 sovereigns of gold jewellery so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-recover-gold-bars-jewellery-in-mumbai/article32839726.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judgment reserved||Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana of the Madras High Court on Monday reserved her judgment on an election petition filed by R.S. Raja Kannappan challenging the victory of former Union Minister and Congress leader P. Chidambaram from Sivaganga in May 2009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judgment-reserved/article32839742.ece
13 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Five more micro compost centres to come up in Coimbatore city||Coimbatore Corporation will soon commission five more micro compost centres (MCCs) to strengthen solid waste management in the city. The Corporation, as per Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian’s instruction, will start using the compost centres in Kavundampalayam dump yard, MGR wholesale vegetable market, Bharathi Park Road and two more to take the total number of compost centres in use to eight. The Corporation had planned 69 MCCs across the city to decentralise waste collection – the plan was to take to the centres the wet, organic waste that conservancy workers collected from each centre’s neighbourhood to turn those to compost. This, the Corporation said, would help it reduce the quantity of waste taken to the dump yard in Vellalore, save money on vehicles and fuel and force workers and people to strictly comply with segregated waste management. But the Corporation could not complete construction of many of the MCCs. It had told the State Level Monitoring Committee of the National Green Tribunal for Solid Waste Management in Tamil Nadu in January this year that it would commission at least 12 MCCs by March 31. The Corporation failed to stick to the deadline because of the COVID-19 induced lockdown, said sources, adding that now the plan was to open the five centres and ensure that in each of the five centres’ neighbourhood the civic body strengthened door-to-door segregated waste collection. As a part of this strengthening drive, the Corporation had planned to buy more push carts, take early delivery of the small vehicles used for door-to-door collection and train conservancy workers. Commissioner Mr. Pandian said the Corporation would train workers on the importance of segregated waste collection and how they could effectively enforce segregated collection from households. As for the rest of the MCCs that were under various stages of construction, the sources said the Commissioner had instructed engineers to ensure early completion of work. The Corporation’s move comes at a time when the Swachh Sarvekshan survey is only three months away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-more-micro-compost-centres-to-come-up-in-coimbatore-city/article32839752.ece
13 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Safety guidelines in place for drivers of free hearse service’||Strict safety guidelines are in place for the drivers of the Government-operated free hearse service as they are at high risk of COVID-19 infection due to continuous exposure to hospital environment and mortuary. The Government has supplied personal safety kits, N95 masks, disinfectant sprayer and PPEs to the drivers for their safety as they work in the forefront of COVID-19 management. “Two out of the 12 mortuary vans operating in Coimbatore district are only used to transport people who died of COVID-19 to crematoriums and burial grounds. The vehicles are disinfected after every trip, while drivers who wear PPE during duty take bath after every trip. A geyser has been set up in their rest room at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) for their convenience. All the drivers are tested for the disease once in a week,” said P. Navinprabhu, district programme manager of free hearse service. The 12 mortuary van drivers used to transport around 800 dead bodies from the hospital to the houses of the deceased a month before the spread of COVID-19. In September, they transported 1,300 dead bodies. Drivers of the free hearse service and vans operated for mother and child under the Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram (JSSK) were given new mobile phones with dedicated numbers. CMCH Dean P. Kalidas handed over the mobile phones to 12 drivers of the free hearse service and four drivers of the JSSK scheme in the presence of S.P. Ponmudi Chelvan, Resident Medical Officer (in-charge) at CMCH, on Sunday. Mr. Navinprabhu, also in-charge of the JSSK scheme for Coimbatore district, said that the mobile phones given by the Government have a battery back-up of about a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-guidelines-in-place-for-drivers-of-free-hearse-service/article32839768.ece
13 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Assam native killed in elephant attack near Coimbatore||A 22-year-old man from Assam was trampled to death by a wild elephant on the premises of the brick kiln where he worked near Coimbatore late on Sunday. The police and Forest Department identified the deceased as Saritul Islam, who hailed from Mayong village in Morigaon district of Assam. He is the second brick kiln worker from Assam to have been killed in attacks by wild elephants at Periyathadagam in a period of about two months. Officials said that Islam had been working at ARS Brick Chamber at Periyathadagam, around 20 km away from Coimbatore city, for the past three months. Islam had an encounter with a wild elephant around 8.30 p.m. on Sunday, when he had gone out to attend nature’s call. A lone elephant that had strayed from the nearby forest attacked him before he could run away, said other workers to Forest Department officials. Co-workers found Isam lying on the ground injured. After being alerted by the brick kiln staff, an ambulance reached the spot soon and the technicians gave him first aid before taking him to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. However, he died before the ambulance could reach the hospital. The Thadagam police registered a case in connection with the death and the body was autopsied on Monday. Islam is the 13th person to have been killed in attacks by wild elephants within the limits of Coimbatore Forest Division this year. Babul Hussain (30), also a native of Assam and a worker attached to a brick kiln at Periyathadagam, was killed in the attack of a wild elephant on August 8 this year. On October 4, a 64-year-old man was trampled to death by a wild elephant within the limits of Thadagam reserve forest where he had gone in search of his missing cow. Thadagam reserve forest is close to many brick kilns located at Periyathadagam and Chinna Thadagam where elephants enter in search of water, fodder and also to move to other locations. The fermented smell from the pith of palmyra palm trunks, which are used as fuel in brick kilns, also attract wild elephants according to Forest Department officials though its use was banned by the district administration a few years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assam-native-killed-in-elephant-attack-near-coimbatore/article32839326.ece
13 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Building completion certificate: civic body to look into the issue||Coimbatore Corporation’s release on the need for building completion certificate for availing of power, water supply or underground connection has created confusion than provide clarity. The Corporation had issued the release to inform the public that as per the clause 20 of the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019 only those residential buildings that measured not more than 8,070 sq.ft. (750 sq.m.), had three or fewer dwelling units and were not more than 12m in height were eligible for exemption from building completion certificate. But the wordings in the release suggested that buildings that were up to 12m in height with three dwelling units or measured up to 8,070 sq.ft. were eligible for the exemption. Pointing to the error and the need for further clarity, Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon said for exemption from building completion certificate all the three limitations applied – height, number of dwelling units and size of the constructed area. It was not an either or clause. And, unfortunately, a few realtors or property developers exploited the confusion to exploit public, which was not right and therefore the Corporation must give the clear picture. He reiterated that for exemption from completion certificate, residential buildings should measure not more than 8,070 sq.ft., must have three or fewer dwelling units and must not be more than 12m in height. Even if one of the three limitation was violated, building completion certificate was mandatory. Corporation sources said they would look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/building-completion-certificate-civic-body-to-look-into-the-issue/article32839747.ece
13 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA demands completion of UGD work||The Coimbatore Corporation should wake up from slumber to complete the underground drainage work at the earliest, Singanallur MLA and DMK’s Coimbatore east urban unit secretary N. Karthik said. Though the then DMK government had sanctioned the underground drainage work for Rs. 377 crore, there had been little progress in the last nine years of AIADMK rule. There were several localities in his Singanallur Assembly constituency that the Corporation was yet to provide UGD service. The tardy progress was because of poor planning and exaction under the AIADMK government, he alleged. In many places where the Corporation had laid sewer lines and provided house service connections, the quality of work was poor, he said. There had been instances of road caving in suddenly because the contractor executing the work had not packed the earth tightly after digging. And, this was because of poor supervision. The sudden caving in of road, the delayed completion of work after digging road had led to accidents in a few places and made movement of even pedestrians difficult in others. The Corporation should therefore complete the underground drainage work at the earliest, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mla-demands-completion-of-ugd-work/article32839750.ece
13 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals, labs should support government’s efforts in containing COVID-19: Velumani||Private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients and laboratories testing samples should support the State Government’s efforts in containing the infection spread, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani said here on Monday. A release quoting from his speech at a review meeting he held at the Coimbatore Collectorate said he wanted the private hospitals to provide quality care to COVID-19 patients at the fee fixed by the Government. As for laboratories authorised to test samples, he said they should do the tests at the rate fixed by the government and also report the results without delay. If a person turned positive, the laboratories should report it to the administration and also ensure that the patient reached a hospital. The district administration lifted 7,000 samples a day and this had helped contain the COVID-19 spread. The fever clinics and the door-to-door survey to identify persons with symptoms also helped in checking the spread. Thus far, the administration had conducted 13,747 fever clinics and screened 15.36 lakh persons. Of the 4.40 lakh samples lifted to check for COVID-19, 37,117 had tested positive. And, of these cases, 31,709 persons had returned home after treatment, the release said. The Minister urged the officials concerned to be prepared for the north-east Monsoon by taking steps to mitigate the impact of floods, inundation and spread of water-borne diseases. And, if they conducted disaster management drill, he wanted the officials to ensure adherence to the physical distancing norm. The release said the Minister asked the Coimbatore Corporation officials to keep ready motors to flush out water from underpasses and low-lying areas. Collector K. Rajamani, Inspector General of Police, West Zone, K. Periaiah, City Police Commissioner Sumit Saran, Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian and other senior officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-labs-should-support-governments-efforts-in-containing-covid-19-velumani/article32839754.ece
13 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||State urged to give clay pots to PDS cardholders as Pongal gift||Members of the Tamil Nadu Pottery Workers’ Association staged a demonstration outside the District Collectorate on Monday, urging the State government to give clay pots and earthen stoves free of cost to all PDS cardholders as Pongal gift. In their petition to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and District Collector K. Rajamani, the Association said the move would support the livelihood of potters across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-urged-to-give-clay-pots-to-pds-cardholders-as-pongal-gift/article32839761.ece
13 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Assistance sought to MSMEs||The Railway Suppliers’ Association has appealed to the government to support micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs) that supply to the railways to get the IRIS (International Railway Industry Standard) certification. The cost of the application is Rs. 40,000 and the total certification process costs nearly Rs. 15 lakh. Rail rolling stock manufacturing units have started asking the vendors to acquire IRIS certification. The small industries will not be able to meet the cost involved as they face financial crunch because of COVID-19 and delayed payments from the Railways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistance-sought-to-msmes/article32839749.ece
13 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievance redress meeting goes online||The district administration will hold the monthly farmers’ grievance redress meeting online this time on Friday. The administration has made arrangements at the block agriculture extension centres for farmers to participate in the meeting. To air their grievances, the farmers will have to register themselves before 10.30 a.m. on the day. In a release, the administration appealed to the farmers to not gather in large numbers at the centres, pose questions on pressing issues and that too precisely to the District Collector and reserve the other questions for the agriculture extension officers, to compulsorily wear mask, clean hands with sanitisers before entering the centres and wait patiently till their turn to ask question comes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-grievance-redress-meeting-goes-online/article32839753.ece
13 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Session on artificial intelligence||TiE Coimbatore will organise an online session on artificial intelligence titled ‘Designing intelligent experiences’ at 5.30 p.m. on October 15. The webinar will focus on AI’s design aspects along with guidelines for human-AI interaction. Those interested visit https://forms.gle/pAkxb53WZqjgSpU16||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/session-on-artificial-intelligence/article32839756.ece
13 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 webinar held||Field Outreach Bureau, Coimbatore, and Press Information Bureau, Chennai, organised a webinar on ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat and Jan Andolan for COVID-19’ on Monday. Former Union Minister of State for Tourism and Rajya Sabha MP Alphons Joseph Kannanthanam said that the ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ (EBSB) initiative was aimed at “maintaining and adopting the rich heritage, culture, customs and traditions of each State.” Regarding the ‘Jan Andolan for COVID-19’ initiative launched recently to ensure COVID-19 precautionary measures, Mr. Kannanthanam said that the public must support it from the ground level, according to a press release. A. Vimala, Professor and Head of Department of Extension and Career Guidance, Bharathiar University, said that the university was conducting various online activities to “strengthen the idea of EBSB,” the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-webinar-held/article32839764.ece
13 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man stabbed, robbed of money, cell phone at Echanari||Two unidentified men robbed a construction worker of cash and cell phone after stabbing him at Echanari on Sunday afternoon. J. Gunasekaran (22), a resident of Podanur, was assaulted and robbed by two men when he was on the way to a liquor outlet. As per the complaint lodged by Gunasekaran, who was admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, the accused took away his cell phone worth Rs. 8,000 and Rs. 2,000 cash. Podanur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-stabbed-robbed-of-money-cell-phone-at-echanari/article32839765.ece
13 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DPT, TD vaccination programme begins||The camp to administer DPT (diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus) vaccine for children aged five and six and TD (Tetanus and diphtheria) vaccine for children aged 10 and 16, began here on Monday. As the government schools remain closed due to COVID-19 pandemic, the programme will be held at primary health centres and anganwadis across the district, officials from the Health Department said. Children will be immunised on every Monday, Thursday and Friday till December 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dpt-td-vaccination-programme-begins/article32839763.ece
13 October 2020||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||132 test positive for infection in Cuddalore||As many as 132 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Monday. With this, the total number of cases in the district touched 21,793. According to a bulletin of the Health Department, three persons succumbed to the disease on Monday, taking the official death toll to 252. The patients were in the age group of 48 to 64 years. As many as 904 patients from the district were undergoing treatment for the disease as on Monday while 176 persons recovered and were discharged from treatment centres. Villupuram district reported 77 fresh cases, taking the total to 12,624. A total of 41 persons tested positive in Kallakurichi district, taking the tally to 9,722.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/132-test-positive-for-infection-in-cuddalore/article32839967.ece
13 October 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Dharmapuri police launch campaign for protection of women||The Dharampuri police launched She Care, a campaign for protection of women, here on Monday. The campaign on wheels was flagged off by Pradip Kumar, DIG, Salem range. She Care envisions covering 273 villages and 1,196 hamlets within eight months, with a slated objective of raising awareness on protection of women across the board. According to the police, the objective includes containing crimes against children and women, preventing female foeticide, helping in relief and rehabilitation of victims, engaging with the civil society to create awareness on protection for women, creating awareness on the ills of child marriage and early marriage, dowry harassment, sexual abuse and harassment. The campaign will rope in an array of awareness programmes including distribution of pamphlets, leaflets and short films. The campaign is spearheaded by a committee headed by Inspector Latha of the All Women’s Police Station, Pennagaram, with a team comprising of a Sub-Inspector and four constables. The committee may be reached at 9585585154.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dharmapuri-police-launch-campaign-for-protection-of-women/article32839336.ece
13 October 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul residents peeved at poor service at e-sevai centres||A large number of e-sevai centres in Dindigul district are not functioning regularly much to the inconvenience of the public, said Tamil Nadu Consumer Protection Centre- Dindigul treasurer H Rajesh Kannan. Speaking to reporters at the Corporation office here on Monday, he said though the government had relaxed COVID-19 lockdown regulations, the e-sevai centres still remain closed. Those who want to apply for passport or get identity proof for opening bank accounts had been affected. The e-sevai centre functioning on the Corporation office premises had displayed an announcement that applications for corrections in Aadhaar card could be entertained only after November 9. This is the case with the majority of the e-sevai centres in the district, Mr. Kannan said. The district administration should provide more staff at the e-sevai centres and ensure that the common man's basic needs are taken care of, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dindigul-residents-peeved-at-poor-service-at-e-sevai-centres/article32839318.ece
13 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Mettur Road inspected for reintroducing two-way traffic||With motorists and traders urging the district police to reintroduce two-way traffic on Mettur Road, Collector C. Kathiravan, Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai and Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, along with senior police officials inspected the stretch and discussed vehicle flow patterns on Monday. The 750-m stretch from GH Roundabout to Swastik Corner is one of the busiest stretches in the city with the presence of Corporation central bus stand and commercial establishments on both sides of the road. The district police had in May introduced one-way traffic system on the stretch by allowing vehicles to move from GH Roundabout to Swastik Corner while vehicles in the other direction were diverted through Nachiappa Road. This led to frequent congestion on Nachiappa Road while the stretch from Swastik Corner to GH Roundabout was closed for vehicle traffic. On Monday, Mr. Kathiravan, Mr. Thangadurai, Mr. Elangovan and other senior police officials inspected Mettur Road and held discussions on reintroducing two-way traffic on the stretch. Flow of vehicles, traffic congestion, vehicle parking in front of shops and vehicle traffic on Nachiappa Road were discussed. The officials said a decision would be taken on the issue soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-road-inspected-for-reintroducing-two-way-traffic/article32839333.ece
13 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CPI cadre protest against Farm Acts||Stating that the three Farm Acts would affect farmers, small traders and workers, Communist Party of India (CPI) cadre staged road roko at various places in the district on Monday. The cadre said the Acts would bring in online trading system in agriculture which would be a setback for farming community. Farmers would be turned slaves to corporate companies and all the government procurement centres and agriculture regulated markets would be closed. “Even Uzhavar Sandhai will be closed when the Acts are implemented,” they added. The cadre said amendment to labour laws would take away the rights of workers that were obtained after fighting for centuries while disinvestment in railways and defence would be a threat to national security. The Central government had brought the anti-people and anti-labour laws and the ruling AIADMK government had supported them. “We strongly condemn both the governments,” said the cadre. Over 350 cadre who staged the protests on Sathy Road near the bus stand and 10 other places were removed by the police. Salem The party members staged the road roko in front of the Salem Collectorate. Condemning the Centre for the Farm Acts, the protesters also opposed the recently passed labour codes in Parliament. They urged the Centre to provide more cash relief to families affected due to COVID-19 and each person should be provided with a relief of Rs. 2,500 for a month. Krishnagiri In Krishnagiri, the protesters alleged that the Centre was using the COVID-19 pandemic as a cover to push forth its agendas through ordinances. According to them, almost all sections of society had been affected by the series of policies of the BJP-led government, be they farmers, students, women, children, industrial labour and migrants. The cadre also condemned the State government headed by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, alleging failure to provide relief to the poor during COVID-19 and for acting as a proxy of the BJP government at the State. Over 150 cadre courted arrest. They were released later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-cadre-protest-against-farm-acts/article32839328.ece
13 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against officials for failing to act against encroachers||Stating that unauthorised structures in Kanirowther Lake were not removed and officials were acting in favour of the encroachers, members of Kanirowther Kulam Retrieval Movement submitted a petition to the district police demanding action against the officials here on Monday. In the petition, coordinator Boopathy alias Nilavan said the lake was spread across 23 acre of which water could be stored in 16 acre. An individual and a few others had closed a portion of the lake, altered the lake boundary illegally and had constructed buildings on it. Despite many protests seeking demolition of the unauthorised buildings, no action had been taken so far. A writ petition was filed in the Madras High Court and the District Revenue Officer had ordered demolishing the unauthorised structures and also removing the encroachments. The Collector had also issued orders. Despite many reminders to officials urging them to execute the orders, no action had been taken so far, the petition said. The issue was taken up with the Erode District Revenue Divisional Officer who held a meeting with the members and assured them to survey the lake and fix its boundary. A survey was carried out by officials on October 1 and 7 that confirmed that the lake boundary was altered. The petition said the government records related to the lake were altered by the officials and demanded action against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-sought-against-officials-for-failing-to-act-against-encroachers/article32839331.ece
13 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Plaint against caste panchayat members in Talavadi Hills||Five families from Talavadi Hills on Monday submitted a petition to the district police that the caste panchayat members were imposing various restrictions on them. The families, comprising 19 members, from Nethaji Circle area in Talavadi, said they belonged to the Kurumbar community and were residing at the hills for many generations. Levying fine Their community heads had framed rules and initiated action against the members if they violated them. Action included levying fine and disowning families from the community. They said there were 300 families in their community and the leaders continued to verbally abuse many members in public which affected all. “We had opposed their decisions and all our five families were kept away from our community,” they said and added that other members of the community were asked not to talk to them. Normal life affected Their petition said that their normal life was affected due to the restrictions and the future of their children was also in question. “Strict action is needed against those leaders to ensure that we live with our community people without problem,” they added. The families also listed out the names of 16 persons whose decision affected them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plaint-against-caste-panchayat-members-in-talavadi-hills/article32839322.ece
13 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Couple held for cultivating ganja plants||A couple, who cultivated ganja plants on a Public Works Department land, was arrested and 1.25 kg of ganja was seized from them on Monday. Based on a tip-off, the Bungalowpudur police inspected the land located at the rear side of Perumpallam Reservoir and found 20 ganja plants and two persons there. The two were identified as R. Ramesh Kumar (33) and his wife R. Vedachi (30), native of Mettukadu Karattupalayam, and currently residing at K.N. Palayam. The team destroyed the plants and seized ganja from them. The team also seized Rs. 2.56 lakh, obtained out of selling ganja. Inquiries revealed that the couple was selling ganja through Putri alias Karupayee alias Karupathal (63), who is at large. A case under sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, was registered. They were produced in the court and lodged at prisons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-held-for-cultivating-ganja-plants/article32839329.ece
13 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to ongoing underground cabling works, power supply will be disrupted in the Town electric line from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on October 13 on Nethaji Road, Prakasam Street, Kundavi Street, Pon Street, Cutchery Street, Periyar Street, Muthu Rangan Street, Sivashanmugam Street and Agraharam Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32839334.ece
13 October 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Cab driver slits throat of 16-year-old girl||A 16-year-old girl’s throat was allegedly slit by a 28-year-old cab driver in Thottiyam near here, on Sunday. The man ended his life later. The girl has been admitted to the Kallakurichi Government General Hospital, and is said to be out of danger. According to a police officer, the girl, a native of Thottiyam in Kallakurichi district was living with her parents in Chennai. She had returned to Thottiyam following the lockdown. She got acquainted with the man, identified as Sathish of Namakkal district, working in Chennai. On Sunday, Sathish called the girl on her phone and took her to a secluded place in Kallakurichi. An argument broke out between them and Sathish reportedly slit the girl’s throat with a knife and fled the scene. Bleeding profusely, she managed to reach the main road before falling unconscious. A police inspector on patrol duty took the girl in his vehicle to the Kallakurichi GH. The police recorded the girl’s statement and alerted all checkposts. However, Sathish had ended his life in Ammapettai, Salem, on Monday morning, a police officer said. Further investigations are on. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s heath helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.  Bleeding profusely, the girl managed to reach the main road before falling unconscious. An inspector took her in his vehicle to the Kallakurichi GH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cab-driver-slits-throat-of-16-year-old-girl/article32839972.ece
13 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court relief for inter-caste couple||After an inter-caste couple from Ramanathapuram district had to move the High Court for grant of financial assistance under Dr. Ambedkar Scheme for Social Integration through Inter-caste Marriages, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that such applications should be processed as expeditiously as possible. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that the Centre had introduced the scheme with a noble objective and when such applications were submitted, the court expected the authorities concerned to process them with utmost expedition. Keeping such papers without processing them would defeat the purpose of the scheme, the judge said. The court was hearing the petition filed by T. Murugesh, who married Vanitha from a different caste. As the couple were eligible under the scheme, they had sought financial assistance and submitted their application to the authorities concerned. However, their application was kept pending due to ‘some lacuna in documentation’. ‘Within four weeks’ During the course of the hearing, the State submitted that the application would be processed within four weeks. Recording the undertaking, Justice Swaminathan observed that he hoped that such delay in processing the papers would not happen in the future and disposed of the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-relief-for-inter-caste-couple/article32839286.ece
13 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over felling of trees||Environmental activists and shopkeepers condemned chopping of trees on West and North Masi streets here for construction of underground drainage and providing water pipeline connections under the Smart Cities Mission. S. Sridhar, a member of Mannin Marangal Pathukappu Iyakkam who petitioned the Collector on Monday regarding this issue, said that around 15 huge, decades-old trees were felled on the Masi streets. “It even included kadamba trees and athi (fig) trees,” he said. “Around six months back, Corporation officials tried to cut a huge peepal tree on West Masi Street. Several environmentalists opposed it. But, a few days back, the huge tree was chopped for the Smart City project,” he said. D. Thilagar Raj of Vaagai Sooda Vaa Foundation said that many of the trees that were planted seven years back by the members were all felled for the project. Trees were known as the lungs of cities, said Mr. Sridhar. “Hundreds of vehicles ply on the four Masi streets every day, causing high levels of air pollution. The trees are crucial to address this issue,” he said. Concurring with this viewpoint, M. Karthik Raja, a shopkeeper on West Masi Street, said that apart form containing the spread of COVID-19 virus, the face masks are also helpful in fighting against the rising dust pollution in the city. “Corporation officials did not seek the public’s consent before felling trees,” he added. I. Gubendran of Mannin Marangal Pathukappu Iyakkam said that the officials were planning to chop the remaining trees on these roads. The officials took no steps towards transplanting trees to secure places, said Mr. Thilagar Raj. Mr. Sridhar said that the trees that were earlier transplanted from Kalavasal have withered as the officials transplanted them in a wrong method. However, City Engineer S. Arasu said that they would transplant all chopped trees and move them to Vellaikkal. Felling of trees was undertaken after procuring necessary clearance, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-felling-of-trees/article32839875.ece
13 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Medical aspirants move HC for seat allotment||Two medical course aspirants, both wards of defence personnel, moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday seeking a direction to the State to include them under the reservation category for admission to MBBS/BDS courses for the current academic year. In separate petitions, A. Priyanka from Thoothukudi district and K. Sukisha from Virudhunagar district said the Centre in 2017 prescribed inter se priority for reservation to the wards of armed forces personnel by States/Union Territories for admission to medical/ professional/ non-professional courses. They said the wards of serving defence personnel were included in the priority category and listed as priority VIII of the nine priority categories on the list. Last year, the State had allotted seats only for the wards of ex-servicemen. This was against the very spirit of the order of the Defence Ministry, the petitioners said. Apprehending that they could fail to secure medical seats this year too, the petitioners sought a direction to the State to include them under the reservation category for admission to medical courses. Taking up the petitions for hearing, Justice S. Vaidyanathan ordered notice to the State and adjourned the case till November 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-aspirants-move-hc-for-seat-allotment/article32839294.ece
13 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Wife of deceased conservancy worker seeks government job||S. Muthulakshmi, wife of N. Solainathan, a Scheduled Caste conservancy worker who died due to asphyxiation while cleaning drainage in a gated community in Kochadai in 2016, petitioned the Collector on Monday seeking a government job and compensation. Ms. Muthulakshmi, who was accompanied by her five-year-old son and family members, said that the family had received Rs. 10 lakh as compensation from the members of the gated community. An order from the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court in September said that the officials had to consider the petitioner’s representation and disburse benefits due to her as per the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013, and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act (Amendment Ordinance) 2014. Ms. Muthulakshmi petitioned the Collector, demanding the government to give her a compensation of Rs. 8.25 lakh, a monthly pension of Rs. 5,000, a government job for a family member, vacant land and support for her child’s education. “I work as a sanitary worker at two private textile stores and earn a pittance. It is hardly sufficient to run the family and hence I often borrow to make ends meet,” she said. “I want to admit my son to a school and ensure he is educated. I want him to study well and secure a good job,” Ms. Muthulakshmi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wife-of-deceased-conservancy-worker-seeks-government-job/article32839873.ece
13 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CII praises CM for focus on the South||The CII Tamil Nadu State Council congratulated Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for signing 14 Memorandums of Understanding worth Rs. 10,055 crore for the implementation of various projects in the State, including southern districts. Chairman of CII Tamil Nadu State Council Hari K. Thiagarajan said major investment projects in wind and solar power and food processing sectors covering Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli and Ramanathapuram districts would make the southern districts a vibrant region. It would contribute to the overall development of the State, he said. He said the focus of the Chief Minister on southern districts was in line with CII’s longstanding recommendation towards bringing big ticket investments to south Tamil Nadu. This would create employment for youth in the rural areas, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-praises-cm-for-focus-on-the-south/article32839868.ece
13 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC worker attacked||Two youth who barged into a TASMAC shop at Kondayampatti under Alanganallur police station limits attacked the salesman with a liquor bottle, inflicting a bleeding injury on his head on Sunday evening. The police said A. Shanmugavel (50) of Alanganallur was on duty at the shop when M. Pradeep and R. Manish of A. Pudupatti came to the shop. Since, the grille gate was not locked, they barged into the shop and picked a quarrel with Mr. Shanmugavel. Suddenly, they attacked him with a liquor bottle and fled away. The victim has been admitted to Vadipatti Government Hospital. The police said the duo, customers at the shop, had good acquaintance with the salesman.  Youth robbed In an unrelated incident, Alanganallur police have booked two youth, who robbed R. Nitheshkumar (19) of his mobile phone at Pannaikudi on Sunday evening. The police said when the victim was walking on the road, the duo – P. Akash (19) of Sundarajanpatti and S. Satish – relieved him of his mobile phone. As the victim raised an alarm, local people surrounded the duo and caught Akash. They handed him over to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-worker-attacked-near-madurai/article32839287.ece
13 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat president murdered in Madurai||Kunnathur panchayat president R. Krishnarajan, and his friend A. Munisamy, 40, were found murdered near Karuppayoorani in Madurai on Monday morning. Bodies found The police said the two had left home at around 8.30 p.m., and their bodies were found in a secluded place in Parai, on the Kunnathur-Varichiyur Road, with stab injuries. Mr. Krishnarajan was elected president, unopposed, after people belonging to a particular caste Hindu community sought the post of the president for their community. Earlier, people from another community would occupy the post. ‘No enmity’ Mr. Krishnarajan, who was engaged in farming, had no known previous enmity, the police added. Mr. Munisamy, who belonged to a Schedule Caste, was an electrician, and was often seen with the president. The Karuppayoorani police have sent the bodies for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-president-murdered-in-madurai/article32839276.ece
13 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s response on job scheme sought||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday sought a response from the State on a batch of public interest litigation petitions that complained of misappropriation of funds in implementation of works under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi sought a response from the State with regard to the funds and work allotted under the scheme. Further, the court asked whether the authorities concerned detected any malpractices and what action was taken. The case was adjourned for hearing till November 3. The petitioners alleged that fake job cards were created in order to swindle funds allotted for the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-response-on-job-scheme-sought/article32839869.ece
13 October 2020||MADURAI/THENI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai reports slight drop in fresh cases||Madurai recorded 88 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, which took the total number of cases in the district up to 17,574. A total of 64 persons were discharged from hospitals. The district, which has 800 active cases, did not report any new fatality. Kanniyakumari, which added 86 new patients and lost two more lives to the viral infection, recorded an infection tally of 13,849. Even as 70 patients were discharged from hospitals, 790 patients are undergoing treatment. The district’s death toll stands at 236. Tirunelveli’s total positive case count rose to 13,573, with 679 active cases, after 62 patients were admitted to hospitals on Monday. The district, which witnessed discharge of 73 people on Monday, marked two fresh fatalities to have a death toll of 204. Theni registered 61 fresh cases, with which its tally moved up to 15,691. There were 64 discharges reported in the district. In Thoothukudi, 59 positive cases were admitted to hospitals, taking the district’s overall case count to 14,181, with 539 active cases. Fifty-two people were discharged. The district has lost 124 people to the viral infection. Virudhunagar district reported 42 new cases to have a total case count of 14,872. After 14 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 242 active cases. The district has recorded 215 COVID-19 deaths. Thirty-one people tested positive in Dindigul district, which now has an overallcase tally of 9,338. Hospitals in the district discharged 46 people. Ramanathapuram’s total case count rose by 26 to stand at 5,760 on Monday. The number of people discharged from hospitals was 17. Sivaganga had 25 fresh cases to mark a tally of 5,524. There were 34 discharges in the district. Seventeen people tested positive in Tenkasi, which saw its tally rise to 7,630. The district, which registered 21 discharges, has 181 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-reports-slight-drop-in-fresh-cases/article32839304.ece
13 October 2020||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic takes the shine off temple jewellery||The September-January period is usually a busy one for temple and Bharatanatyam jewellery makers of Vadasery, in Kanniyakumari district. Beginning with the puja season, their hands are full till the end of the music-and-dance season in Kerala and Chennai. This year, however, the master craftsmen are facing a double whammy, with the lockdown and a steep hike in the prices of gold and silver. “During a normal puja season, I am showered with orders from Kerala, the United States and other places, as jewellery for Bharatanatyam is a part of the salangai pooja conducted by the dancers. I would struggle to complete the orders in time. Now, however, I am left with no work,” lamented M. Muthusivam, a winner of the State government’s award. As many as 40 families in Vadasery are traditionally involved in making temple and Bharatanatyam jewellery. They have been given the Geographical-Indication (GI) mark by the Geographical Indications Registry. Hit by lockdown Known as Vadasery maalai , the products are in demand across the country and abroad. Non-resident Indians who visit Chennai for the arangetram of their daughters during the December season buy jewellery from them. But the lockdown has forced many of them to eke out a livelihood by taking up menial jobs. “In the first two months [of the lockdown] I was able to pay salaries to the workers from my pocket. Diminishing orders made it impossible for me to pay them and they have taken up menial jobs,” said S. Muthusamy, another craftsman. He has, in the past, made jewellery for the ISKCON temple in Bengaluru and Devanathaswamy temple in Thiruvananthapuram. “A gram of gold costs Rs. 3,800. Since we get gold in the form of small leaves, the price goes up to Rs. 5,500. People who enquire about the jewellery do not place orders since the price has gone up,” said Mr. Muthusivam. S. Ramachandran, who has made jewellery for dancers like Padma Subramaniam and Chitra Visweswaran, said he had not received even a single order in the current season. “A set of ornaments for a Bharatanatyam dancer costs Rs. 1.20 lakh. Many of them opt for imitations as they can buy a set for Rs. 20,000. If the situation continues, it will be difficult for us to sustain work,” said Mr. Ramachandran, requesting the government to procure their products through Poompuhar. Faced with uncertainty, Mr. Muthusivam has asked his two sons — both engineering graduates — not to enter the family profession. “How can I encourage them to take up my profession? I do not want them to suffer like me,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-takes-the-shine-off-temple-jewellery/article32839274.ece
13 October 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Seven held for sexually assaulting minor siblings||The Namakkal police arrested seven persons including a 75-year-old for sexually assaulting two minor girls near Rasipuram here. According to the police, the victims, aged 12 and 13 years, are studying at a government school in Rasipuram. The victims’ father died a few years ago and their mother is a daily wager. On information, Child Protection Officer Ranjitha Priya enquired the victims and alerted the police. The Rasipuram All Women Police Station registered a case based on her complaint. Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan said seven persons were arrested and the police were on the lookout for some more accused. The police registered a case under Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences Act and arrested Shanmugham (45), Muthusamy (75), Sentamilselvan (31), Siva (26), Surya (23), Manikandan (30) and Varatharaj (55). The accused had been sexually abusing the victims for over four months, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-siblings/article32839339.ece
13 October 2020||P.A.Narayani,TAMIL NADU||A pit dug two months back waiting for the next victim||A huge pit has been dug at Chinnakadai Street-South Masi Street junction here as part of a Smart City project undertaken on the four Masi streets. Although the pit was dug two months back, no safety measures were followed at the spot, leaving the road users exposed to serious danger. S. Abirami, a shopkeeper on Chinnakadai Street, said that the local residents and shopkeepers had placed a name board of the street over the pit to warn off passers-by. “During the heavy downpour that the city witnessed last week, the entire pit was filled with water and many pedestrians and two-wheelers riders fell into it. Following these incidents, we placed the name board to partially cover it and warn off passers-by,” she added. Chinnakadai Street is a crucial stretch connecting South Masi Street and South Gate and a large number of vehicles pass through this stretch every day. Despite repeated complaints made to Madurai Corporation officials about the issue, no permanent solution had been taken up to close the pit, said Moorthy, another shopkeeper. “While we are enduring several hardships because of the Smart City project, the officials have not taken any steps to ensure the safety of road users. There are many such pits on Masi streets,” he noted. City Engineer S. Arasu said that the officials would visit the spot immediately and take action to solve the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-pit-dug-two-months-back-waiting-for-the-next-victim/article32839871.ece
13 October 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Work on Rs. 20 crore cultural centre nearing completion||The Old Distillery, a remnant of the French era, is getting a new lease of life with a Rs. 20-crore cultural centre replete with theatre hall, gymnasium and meditation hall, nearing completion. Tourism Minister Malladi Krishna Rao who, along with officials, undertook an inspection of the premises on Saturday, issued instructions to expedite the project so that the centre could be commissioned by February next year. The brewery operated during the French period on the north side of the Promenade Beach. After the premises fell in disuse, the government had settled on the idea of a cultural centre among various options, ranging from a multiplex to a star hotel. The Department of Tourism is in the process of setting up the cultural centre as a showpiece project that would appeal to tourists and city residents. The old buildings which have become unusable have been demolished and construction is apace at the premises. It is estimated that work is half-way through. Once ready, the centre would host artists from across the country. The facilities include a set of 16 sea-facing rooms to accommodate artists and out-of-town tourists, food court, yoga and meditation hall, gymnasium, open-air theatre, ballroom and an amphitheatre with a seating capacity of 200. The architectural aesthetic of the complex, which is coming up on about two acres of land, would also reflect the history and culture of Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-rs-20-crore-cultural-centre-nearing-completion/article32839965.ece
13 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. to launch study to assess socio-economic status of women||The government will soon launch a study to assess the status of women in the Union Territory so as to frame policies and make need-based interventions based on the findings. The Department of Women and Child Development had already floated an expression of interest inviting reputed research organisations and non-governmental organisations to participate in the selection process. “We hope to select an organisation soon to carry out the survey in all the four regions of the Union Territory. It will be an elaborate survey to create a database on the status of women. The statistics collected would be the basis for framing policies and intervention programmes aimed to empower women in Union Territory,” Director of Women and Child Development S. Ashokan told The Hindu . The last date for submitting the EoI is October 21. The study would be conducted in three to six months, he added. As per the 2011 census, Puducherry is the only Union Territory where the number of women outnumbered the population of men. The Union Territory has 1,037 women per 1,000 men as against the national average of 943 women per 1,000 men. “So, it is essential to launch a study to find their socio-economic conditions, health and nutritional levels, educational qualifications and their aspirations,” said Mr. Ashokan. A background paper prepared by the Department said the organisation selected to conduct the study would focus on collecting details of socio-economic status besides gathering details about age of marriage, role in decision making, discrimination faced by them and nature of violence and abuse they faced, if any. The entrusted organisation would be also tasked with the responsibility to gather information about the impact of various women-centric programmes, schemes and interventions by the government. It would also gather details about women’s access to institutions that ensured their safety, representation in local governance, political aspirations, awareness level on various laws, availability of legal aids, schemes and programmes, the paper said. Another critical objective of the study was to find out the freedom available for women for making personal decisions and about their felt needs. Also, the study would cover women’s knowledge about and access to technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-to-launch-study-to-assess-socio-economic-status-of-women/article32839978.ece
13 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Collector orders attaching of Amudhasurabhi fuel outlets||Collector T. Arun on Monday issued an order attaching petrol and diesel outlets run by the Amudhasurabhi wing of the Puducherry Cooperative Wholesale Stores on ECR, Kottupalayam, Lawspet, for not complying with the earlier directive to provide uninterrupted supply of petroleum products to government vehicles. Mr. Arun, in his order, said the outlet would be attached to the office of Tahsildar-cum-Incident Commander, Oulgaret taluk, to ensure uninterrupted supply of petroleum products to government vehicles for facilitating administrative continuity. The retail outlet would be operated by the managing director, cooperative building centre. The concerned agency was bound to ensure sufficient stock and supply of gas for the government vehicles. Last week, the Collector had issued a warning to the striking employees to resume work so as to ensure supply of petrol and diesel for government vehicles. He had expressed concern about disruption of government-related works, especially in the COVID-19 containment zones, due to non-availability of petrol and diesel for government vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-orders-attaching-of-amudhasurabhi-fuel-outlets/article32839982.ece
13 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||IGMCRI holds exam||The Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (IGMCRI) conducted a competitive examination for recruitment to the posts of nurse and ward attendant on contract basis. The recruitment of temporary staff is to augment health manpower to tackle the COVID-19 emergency. According to a press note from Arjun Ramakrishnan, coordinator of exams, IGMCRI, the test was held in all the four regions — Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam, on Sunday. While the exam for nurses was held in the forenoon, the ward attendant test took place in the afternoon at 11 centres in Puducherry, two in Karaikal, and one centre each in Mahe and Yanam. Of the total 2,897 admitted candidates for nurse examination, 1,841 were present with an attendance of 63.5%. Out of the total 2,730 admitted candidates for ward attendant examination, 1,525 candidates were present with 55.9% attendance.  All the COVID-19 safety norms of wearing masks, using hand sanitizers, maintaining social distancing as well as personal hygiene, were followed inside the examination rooms/halls and the candidates were admitted in to the examination hall after thermal screening. As one candidate's body temperature was found higher than the normal in one of the Centres in Puducherry, she was allowed to write the examination from the reserve room, Dr. Ramakrishnan said. The results of the examinations would be published at the earliest, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/igmcri-holds-exam/article32839979.ece
13 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry registers two deaths and 189 new cases||Puducherry registered 189 new COVID-19 cases and two deaths on Monday. The male patients, aged 50 and 61, were from Puducherry and they died from COVID pneumonia complications. With this, Puducherry’s cumulative toll stood at 470 of the 565 deaths in the Union Territory. Karaikal has recorded 49 deaths, Yanam 42 and Mahe four. The new cases were identified during the testing of 2,579 samples. Puducherry accounted for 155 cases, followed by Karaikal 14, Yanam four and Mahe 16. The test positivity rate was 7.32%, the case fatality rate 1.78% and the recovery rate 83.67%. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said the overall tally rose to 31,737 (after transfer of one case to Tamil Nadu). Of the 4,617 active cases, 2,949 patients were in home isolation. With 264 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the total number patients recovered was 26,555. The Health Department had tested 2.39 lakh samples of which 2.03 lakh samples returned negative. Mr. Rao said infrastructure hospitals would be further strengthened and additional manpower deployed as indications were that the COVID-19 threat would be around for at least six more months. Steps were being taken to provide full-fledged services to non-COVID patients at government hospitals. The Union Territory’s tally stood at 565 deaths, 4,617 active cases, a cumulative total of 31,737 cases and 26,555 recovered patients. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, who reviewed the situation with Health Secretary T. Arun, said the police enforcement of safety protocols would be strictly carried out at Sunday market and fish markets. PHCs have reported lapses in following safety norms in markets in Saram and Sorapet. A medical testing team would be positioned on the Beach Road for carrying out tests in view of tourist arrivals. With schools resuming academic activities, directions have been issued to headmasters to ensure that children strictly abide by the COVID etiquette. One teacher is to be posted on a rotational basis at the entrance of schools to ensure compliance. An SOP for schools would be framed on measures to be taken if a child in school tests positive, Ms. Bedi said.  The police enforcement of safety protocols will be strictly carried out at Sunday market and fish markets Kiran Bedi, Lieutenant Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-registers-two-deaths-and-189-new-cases/article32839980.ece
13 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bomb hurled at house||Miscreants hurled a country bomb on the house of an autorickshaw driver on Akkasamy Madom Street at Muthialpet on Sunday night. According to the Muthialpet police, no one was injured and no property damaged in the incident. Previous enmity was suspected to be the reason behind the attack, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bomb-hurled-at-house/article32839976.ece
13 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Thangachimadam residents demand closure of ice plant||Raising objection to ice plants coming up in Thangachimadam panchayat and Rameswaram municipal areas, residents of these areas submitted a petition to Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao here on Monday. R. Manikannan of the Communist Party of India, said about 5,000 people depended on farming such as raising coconut plantations, flowers and plantains for their livelihood in this region. There was a small water source for them. When the residents approached the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court praying for a direction to close down the illegally functioning ice plants, the court ordered in their favour stating that the Coastal Regulation Act should not be violated. But the Rameswaram municipality had issued a no-objection certificate (NoC) to set up a new ice plant here. Already, areas such as Satya Nagar, Ariyankaadu and Thenkuda were full of garbage, mainly plastic waste. When the residents urged the municipal officials not to use the open spaces for dumping plastic waste, they said that new ice plant would help solve the issue. Again, when the residents cited a court order that no ice plant or drilling activities shall be carried out within a five km radius, the officials did not have a proper reply. The workers engaged in setting up the ice plant unit were working round-the-clock and soon it may start functioning. This should be stopped. Moreover, the Collector must direct the municipal authorities to stop dumping the waste, especially plastic waste, in the low-lying areas, because during the rainy season, there was a stench in the air and the residents feared health complications. During this COVID-19 pandemic times, when the district administration had been appealing to keep the surroundings clean, the municipal and panchayat officials themselves were neglecting the diktat, the petition read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thangachimadam-residents-demand-closure-of-ice-plant/article32839296.ece
13 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Plea to issue ‘kattunayakkan’ community certificate||Members of Tamil Nadu Tribal Nomads Federation have appealed to Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao to help their community get ‘kattunayakkan’ certificates. In a petition, federation founder R Maheswari said as per a 2001-directive from the apex court, the Tamil Nadu government had appointed anthropology scholars to study and submit a report on people belonging to their community in the State. As per the study, Kaatunayakan community people lived in Madurai, Virudhunagar, Sivaganga, Thoothukudi, Dindigul, Tiruchi and Coimbatore districts. Hence, based on the report, community certificates were issued. But the report left out ‘kattunayakkan’ community living in parts of Ramanathapuram district. When 11 residents from Melparthibanur applied for ST certificate with revenue authorities in 2019, they were informed that the district administration had referred their case to Prof. Sumathi in Chennai. However, inquiries revealed that she had retired from service. Hence, the Collector must make efforts to ensure that a qualified faculty member from a reputed anthropology department was appointed to look into their case and include them also so that they could get community certificate under ‘Kattunayakkan’ category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-issue-kattunayakkan-community-certificate/article32839309.ece
13 October 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Loggerhead turtle released into the sea off Mandapam||An adult loggerhead sea turtle that was found on Mandapam seashore in Gulf of Mannar was safely released into the sea by Forest department officials on Monday. Forest Range Officer of Mandapam G. Venkatesh said the turtle, which weighed around 80 to 100 kg, was found on the Mandapam seashore. “It could have reached the shore because of the strong current in the sea. But the turtle had no external injuries,” he said. Initially, when the forest department officials released the turtle into the sea, it returned to the shore. So the officials moved further into the sea and released it,” said Mr. Venkatesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loggerhead-turtle-released-into-the-sea-off-mandapam/article32839298.ece
13 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||International Girl Child Day celebrated in Salem||The International Girl Child Day celebrations were held at the Collectorate here on Monday and Collector S.A. Raman inaugurated the awareness programmes held as part of the event. Workers under the Social Welfare Department held placards with messages on protecting girl children and ensuring their education. Awareness was also created on various schemes available for girl children. Mr. Raman unveiled awareness posters under the ‘Beti bachao and beti padhao’ campaign. He also distributed cheques of maturity amount to the tune of Rs. 14.14 lakh to 37 girl children under the Chief Minister’s girl child protection scheme. Officials said a group called ‘Sakthi’ had been formed in each government school involving officials from police, social welfare and education departments, child protection unit, magalir thitam and school students. Action would be ensured on issues relating to students through this group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-girl-child-day-celebrated-in-salem/article32839337.ece
13 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Accused in murder attempt commits suicide||A 30-year-old man, who was reportedly facing charges of attempting to murder a minor girl in Kallakurichi, committed suicide here during the early hours of Monday. According to the police, Sathish of Kulithalai was working as a driver in Chennai and was in a relationship with a Class 10 student from Chinnasalem. Following lockdown, Sathish and the girl returned to their native places. The police said Sathish had gone to meet the girl in Chinnasalem on Sunday and following a quarrel, Sathish had allegedly slit the girl’s throat and escaped from the place. The Kallakurichi police registered a case of attempt to murder and were on the lookout for Sathish. On Monday, Sathish was found hanging from a tree near Perumal karadu here. The Salem City police registered a case. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accused-in-murder-attempt-commits-suicide/article32839338.ece
13 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Relief materials distributed||Members of various non-governmental organisations offered relief materials to students and staff at the 17 special training centres under the National Child Labour Project here. A release said the students and staff were given essential grocery items by R. Nirmala, Project Director, and other senior officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-materials-distributed/article32839340.ece
13 October 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 relief for differently abled||Virudhunagar District Legal Services Authority has asked the differently abled persons holding national identity card to submit applications seeking Rs. 1,000 COVID-19 relief given by the State government. Its secretary and Sub-Judge Mariappan said those having national identity card but have not received the assistance may apply for it with the District Differently abled Welfare office, office of DLSA or the taluk legal services authority offices in Virudhunagar, Aruppukottai, Sivakasi, Sattur and Rajapalayam by October 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-relief-for-differently-abled/article32839310.ece
13 October 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||‘Sugar factory must disburse two-year arrears to farmers’||Urging the district administration to take immediate steps to ensure disbursal of arrears to be paid by a Vasudevanallur-based sugar factory to sugarcane growers, farmers staged a wait-in agitation near the Collectorate on Monday. Speaking to reporters, P. Ayyakannu, president of Farmers’ Association for National – South Indian Rivers Linking, who led the protest, said the rulers who were praising ‘farmers as the backbone of India’ during their electioneering, were smashing agriculturists’ backbone after coming to power and treating them like slaves. A private sugar factory at Vasudevanallur had not paid a whopping sum for the sugarcane procured from farmers for two years while law states that the erring sugar factory could be brought under distrained proceedings if the amount was not settled within 14 days of procurement. Similarly, another sugar factory in Tamil Nadu had not paid Rs. 200 crore to the farmers for the sugarcane procured from them. Even as the officials were not courageous enough to implement the existing laws, the Union government had introduced new Bills that would favour only the Corporate firms while destroying the agriculturists. He said the Central and the State governments should work overtime to utilize the 1 lakh TMC of water now wastefully draining into the sea every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sugar-factory-must-disburse-two-year-arrears-to-farmers/article32839312.ece
13 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Come kuruvai season, procurement issues rear their heads again||Complaints of delay/non-procurement of paddy at direct purchase centres (DPCs) in delta districts has become all too frequent in recent days with farmers associations and political parties raising the issue vociferously in public fora. Ironically, when the issue of harvested grains stacked in the open near DPCs sprouting in rain attracted the attention of the media during the middle of the last procurement season, Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) circulated a set of instructions to its staff on avoiding loss of grains and ensuring smooth procurement process. TNCSC directed the staff to increase the procurement quantum from 800 bags per day to 1,000 and asked them to issue tokens to farmers approaching the DPC to measure their produce. The objective was to prevent stocking of grains — brought directly from the field to the DPC — in the open. The Corporation also insisted that its staff sensitise farmers on storing their produce ‘safely’ at their own places and bringing it to the DPC on the date fixed for measuring. However, enquiries reveal that except for the increase in the number of bags procured at the DPCs not much attention has been paid to other instructions either by the staff or farmers and their representative associations. Procurement-related issues have started rearing their head afresh this season with farmers alleging irregularity or inordinate delay in procurement of the summer crop or kuruvai paddy. While a section of farmers say they are unaware of the Corporation’s instructions with respect to procurement, the staff are reportedly under the impression that they pertained to the last season only. They have attributed the delay in procurement process to ‘insufficient’ number of gunny bags and glitches in transfer of procured paddy from DPCs. Sundara Vimalanathan, secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, has urged officials to use the kuruvai season to try out new methods to ensure smooth and quick procurement of paddy through DPCs in delta districts because the quantum of harvest during kuruvai will be less compared to samba and thaladi season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/come-kuruvai-season-procurement-issues-rear-their-heads-again/article32839246.ece
13 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||After ‘dry run’, Budalur ryots welcome release of water in Uyyakondan canal||Farmers in Budalur taluk thanked officials for release of sufficient quantity of water into Uyyakondan Extension Canal from Vazhavanthankottai tank on Sunday. According to N.V. Kannan, Thanjavur district secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to Communist Party of India, water for irrigation was released into the canal from Vazhavanthankottai tank in Tiruchi district on August 26. However, not much water flowed through the canal and, as a result, several lakes in the taluk were almost dry. Protesting the lackadaisical attitude of officials involved in the distribution of water for irrigation, farmers led by Mr. Kannan and T. Sivakumar of Kondaiyampatti Village Panchayat staged a demonstration on the canal bed on Thanjavur-Tiruchi National Highway on October 9. The officials pacified the demonstrators and assured them that necessary steps would be initiated. They stood by their word and released sufficient quantity of water from Vazhavanthankottai tank from 8 a.m. on October 11 after raising the water level at the lake to 81 feet, Mr. Kannan said. The timely release of water in the canal would help farmers to take up samba cultivation with confidence in the ayacuts served by it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-dry-run-budalur-ryots-welcome-release-of-water-in-uyyakondan-canal/article32839248.ece
13 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Student’s body retrieved from Anicut canal||Fire and Rescue Service personnel on Monday retrieved the body of Nithish, 19, of Manojipatti from Grand Anicut Canal near the bridge at Reddypalayam. According to police, the deceased, pursuing technical education in Government ITI at Thanjavur, went for a swim with his friends in the canal on Sunday evening. He and his friend, Hariharan, 18, of Manojipatti drifted in the flowing water and reportedly drowned. Their friends immediately alerted Nithish and Hariharan’s families and the police control room. Subsequently, police personnel from Medical College Police Station and fire service personnel rushed to the spot and began search for the drowned students. It was suspended late on Sunday. When the search resumed on Monday, fire service personnel located the body of Nithish near Reddypalayam bridge. The search for Hariharan was continuing, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-body-retrieved-from-anicut-canal/article32839249.ece
13 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||SC shepherd made to prostrate at the feet of caste Hindu man||The Kayathar police have registered case against seven persons, all belonging to an intermediate caste, for allegedly forcing a shepherd from Scheduled Caste to prostrate at the feet of one of them after the lamb of the victim accidentally got mixed up with their herd. In his complaint, A. Paulraj, 60, from Olaikulam in Kayathar taluk, said he had taken his 90 sheep and 10 goats for grazing inside the now dry Thirumangalakurichikulam tank last Thursday (October 8). S. Sivasangu, an intermediate caste Hindu from the same village, had also taken his sheep and the goat inside the waterbody for grazing. When a lamb of Paulraj entered the herd of Sivasangu, the former tried to take the lamb back to his herd. “Agitated over this, Sivasangu, after verbally abusing me by referring to my caste, tried to attack me with a club,” he said. Later Sivasangu went to the village and mobilised his relatives S. Periyamari, S. Veeraiya, P. Mahendran, S. Maharajan, S. Sangilipandi and S. Udaiyammal, “who assaulted me and threatened that they would kill me,” said Paulraj in his complaint submitted to Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar. The victim also alleged that they forced him prostrate at the feet of Sivasangu many times as a mark of apologising to him even as Mahendran and Maharajan were allegedly recording it with their mobile phones. “Since they posted this video on social media, I felt humiliated and submit this complaint seeking stern action against all the accused involved in this crime under the SC / ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” said Paulraj. The complaint was referred to the Kayathar police station. A case was registered against Sivasangu and others on Monday under Sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 294(b) (uttering obscenities in public), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506(ii) (criminal intimidation) of The Indian Penal Code, read with sections 3(i)(r), 3(i)(s) and 3(2)(v)a of The SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, read with 66 of IT Act. Refuting this, a relative of the accused, who did not want to be quoted, claimed the problem started after Paulraj beat Sivasangu with a stick when the latter abused him verbally for allowing his lamb to enter into his herd.  After verbally abusing me by referring to my caste, he tried to attack me with a club Victim||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-shepherd-made-to-prostrate-at-the-feet-of-caste-hindu-man/article32839299.ece
13 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi labourers seek COVID-19 relief of Rs. 2,000||Seeking COVID-19 relief of Rs. 2,000 as announced by the State government, manual labourers affiliated to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) staged a wait-in protest in front of the Office of Deputy Commissioner of Labour at Korampallam here on Monday. Led by CITU district secretary R. Russel, the labourers staged the protest. They said manual labourers, who had been hit hard by the COVID-19-induced lockdown, should be immediately given the relief. The monitoring committee meeting, which had not been convened for the past seven months, should be conducted without further delay to discuss the problems of the labourers. Renewal of members’ registration with the welfare boards, hassle-free disbursal of monetary benefits, simplified uploading of data of the labourers, giving login ID to the central trade unions for online uploading of data about the workers etc., were their other demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoothukudi-labourers-seek-covid-19-relief-of-rs-2000/article32840016.ece
13 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Manachana llur bypass road to be ready in December||A new bypass road around Manachanallur, which will ease traffic congestion in the town famous for its rice mills on the outskirts of Tiruchi city, is expected to be ready by mid-December. Close on the heels of completion of the bypass, the Highways Department has planned to prepare a detailed project report for laying another bypass around the town, this one branching off from Samayapuram-Manachanallur Road. The new bypass road on Tiruchi-Thuraiyur Road, which is nearing completion, runs a length of about 2.64 km and was sanctioned at an estimated cost of Rs. 25.15 crore. The bypass, which starts near Panguni Vaical (beyond Nochiyam) at Athani joins Thuraiyur Road again beyond Manachanallur Taluk Office, averting the need for motorists to go via the congested Manachanallur town. The project was announced in the 2012-13 budget session of Assembly. The government had then sanctioned Rs. 14.40 crore to acquire about seven hectares of land spread over Manachanallur, Uluthankudi and Poonampalayam revenue villages for laying the road. The construction of the by-pass road would come as a relief to motorists traversing Tiruchi-Thuraiyur Road and residents of Manchanallur, which witnesses frequent traffic snarls on Local Fund Road. The narrow road has been bursting at its seams due to heavy traffic and encroachments. Residents of Manachanallur, while welcoming the project, have, however, emphasised the need for removing encroachments to ease traffic flow on Local Fund Road. The bypass road will be ready to be opened for traffic by mid-December as a major portion of the work has been completed, sources in the Highways Department told The Hindu . Sanction awaited Meanwhile, the department is awaiting administrative sanction for preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for a second bypass around the town. Once the sanction is obtained, an agency will be commissioned to prepare the DPR for the second bypass for the town, which is planned from Vengankudi on Samayapuram-Manchanallur Road to Athani on Tiruchi-Thuraiyur Road, a distance of about 2.83 km. The road is expected to entail an investment of about Rs. 40 crore approximately. It will also involve land acquisition, the sources indicated. “The administrative sanction is expected soon and the DPR will most probably be ready by January,” an official said. The second by-pass road will be of immense benefit for motorists, officials said. Vehicles heading towards Musiri/Namakkal/Salem and beyond from Tiruchi-Chennai Highway and those plying on the return direction can go through the road without having to enter Tiruchi city and the busy No.1 Tollgate Junction. Similarly, those heading to Thuraiyur from Samayapuram can also take the bypass roads and save substantial time and fuel by avoiding Manachanallur town, officials said. Conceding that the proposed bypass would be of immense benefit to the town, S. Chandrasekaran, a businessman of Manachanallur, observes that it will be of even more benefit than the bypass, which is to be opened shortly. “The traffic congestion, especially at Thirupainjeeli Road junction at Manachanallur, will be completely eased. Besides, the second bypass will be useful to devotees visiting Samayapuram from Namakkal/Salem and beyond,” Mr. Chandrasekaran adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manachana-llur-bypass-road-to-be-ready-in-december/article32839265.ece
13 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Post-electrification, rail users demand MEMU trains on mainline||The Thanjavur District Rail Users Association has appealed to Southern Railway to introduce Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) trains on the broad gauge mainline section once the last leg of the ongoing overhead electrification project from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur has been completed. The association has submitted a memorandum to DMK Rajya Sabha member M. Shanmugam requesting him to take up the issue with the railway administration and seek introduction of MEMU trains from Tiruchi to Villupuram and back on the mainline section via Thanjavur, Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai. Association secretary in-charge A. Giri and Papanasam Rail Users Association secretary and Divisional Rail Users Consultative Committee member T. Saravanan met Mr. Shanmugam recently and apprised him of their demand while submitting the memorandum. Mr. Giri said electrification of the mainline section from Villupuram to Thanjavur via Mayiladuthurai, Kumbakonam and Thanjavur was being done at a fast pace and the project has entered the final leg from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur. It is expected to be completed this month. Once the Mayiladuthurai - Thanjavur stretch was energised, the entire 228-km mainline section would become a fully-electrified section. Unlike other sections in the Tiruchi Railway Division, the entire mainline section was predominantly a passenger-oriented stretch with operation of more passenger trains providing connectivity to important towns such as Chidambaram, Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam. Twelve pairs of passenger trains and five pairs of Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (DEMU) trains were in operation before the lockdown was announced at the end of March. There was demand for introduction of more short distance passenger trains on the mainline section. Operation of MEMU trains in lieu of DEMU (Diesel Electric Multiple Unit) coaches would be environment friendly and convenient for passengers, Mr. Giri said. The association has appealed to Mr. Shanmmugam to take up the issue with the railways. It said MEMU trains could also be operated on the Thanjavur-Karaikal broad gauge section via Tiruvarur, Nagore and Nagapattinam which has already been electrified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-electrification-rail-users-demand-memu-trains-on-mainline/article32839253.ece
13 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Priest arrest: Jesuit fathers hold silent protest||Jesuit fathers and staff of St. Joseph's College observed a silent protest on Monday condemning the arrest of Rev. Fr. Stan Swamy, an 83-year-old priest working in Ranchi, Jharkhand, by the National Investigation Agency last week in connection with the controversial Bhima Koregoan-Elgar Parishad case and the “deplorable” treatment meted out to him. The protesters questioned the need for the NIA to take the aged priest to Mumbai in the midst of the global pandemic, notwithstanding the Jharkhand Government’s directive that those above 60 years of age must not venture in public. Rev. Fr. Stan Swamy had extended cooperation in the investigation, presenting himself for questioning for over 15 hours at the Jesuit Residence in Bagaicha, Ranchi, during July and August, and denying all allegations made against him. Citing poor health and advanced age, the priest had expressed difficulty in undertaking a long travel, and was willing to face interrogation through video-conferencing. In a video statement made prior to his arrest, Ref. Fr. Stan Swamy had said that activists like him, and lawyers, writers, journalists, student leaders, intellectuals and others who espoused the rights of Adivasis, Dalits and the marginalised were being targeted by the rulers of the country. Expressing solidarity with the octogenarian priest and demanding his release, the Jesuits of St. Joseph's College, School and Parish observed a silent protest adhering to COVID norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/priest-arrest-jesuit-fathers-hold-silent-protest/article32839257.ece
13 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Young palaeontologist walks the talk||Young palaeontologist Aswatha Biju on Monday spoke on the importance of appreciating and preserving natural history sites in the country at a meeting held here ahead of International Fossil Day (October 14). A Chennai-based class 8 student, Ms. Aswatha started collecting fossils from the age of 5 and is considered to be among India’s youngest palaeontologists. “I have been speaking on paleontology in schools, colleges and research institutes since I was 11, and I feel every event is a great opportunity to raise awareness of our natural wealth,” she told The Hindu . “Most people see fossils as a waste product, and only those who appreciate pre-historic remains, want to conserve them,” she said. Monday’s talk was more of a primer on paleontology, with Ms. Aswatha covering topics such as identification, collection and preservation of fossils, people she has worked under and how knowledge of natural history is essential to protect the environment. With the easing of lockdown, she has been able to resume field trips to natural history sites in the State. “I usually travel and do research work during my holidays,” said Ms. Aswatha. The school student hopes to celebrate Fossil Day this year with an awareness talk at National Fossil Wood Park, a recognised geo-heritage monument located in Sathanur, Perambalur district. “We do not have TV set at home, so I have plenty of time to balance my school studies with palaeontology research,” she said. Organised by Tiruchi Notaphily Society in collaboration with Government Museum, the event included a small display of 50-60 fossil samples sourced from places such as Ariyalur, Perambalur and Chennai. Since public admission was restricted due to lockdown regulations, the event was attended by local fossil collectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/young-palaeontologist-walks-the-talk/article32839261.ece
13 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SI, policeman suspened||Two police personnel attached to Police Recruit School in Tiruchi have been placed under suspension in the wake of a suicide attempt by a transgender recruit constable undergoing training at the recruit school. The action came following a report submitted by the Principal of the Police Recruit School. Police sources identified the suspended personnel as Sub-Inspector N. Arul Ashok Kumar and Head Constable D. Isravel. Orders placing the two under suspension were issued recently by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Training, Chennai, the sources further said. The transgender recruit constable was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in the city after she consumed surgical spirit on Friday. She was still under treatment on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-police-personel-placed-under-suspension/article32839252.ece
13 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Farm Acts will benefit only corporate firms, says CPI||Objecting to the Farm Acts by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government, Communist Party of India cadre staged a protest and blocked the vehicular traffic at Vannarpet here on Monday and courted arrest. As the protestors blocked the vehicular traffic in front of the State Express Transport Corporation depot, the police arrested 38 persons, including eight women, and released them later. The protestors, led by the party’s district secretary, S. Kasi Viswanathan, raised slogans and said the new Act, while benefiting the corporate firms, would leave the small, marginal and medium-level farmers as farm hands as they would be left at the mercy of these companies which would buy the farm produce. Similar agitations were staged at Ambasamudram, Kalakkad and Valliyoor. As many as 90 protestors courted arrest in these places. Thoothukudi In Thoothukudi, 40 CPI cadre, including 15 women, courted arrest after they blocked vehicular traffic near BSNL General Manager’s Office on the arterial Palayamkottai Road. Similar agitations were organised at Alwarthirunagari, Ottapidaaram, Kovilpatti, Kayathar, Vilaathikulam, Sattankulam and Nazareth where the police arrested 436 agitators, including 107 women. Tenkasi In Tenkasi district, CPI cadre blocked vehicular traffic at 10 places - Tenkasi, Sankarankoil, Thiruvenkatam, Royagiri, Sivagiri, Shencottai, Kadayam, Alwarkurichi, Puliyangudi and Paavoorchathram - where the police arrested more than 400 protestors who were released later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-acts-will-benefit-only-corporate-firms-says-cpi/article32839315.ece
13 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Detention of Jesuit priest Rev. Fr. Stan Swamy flayed||Condemning the detention of Jesuit priest Rev. Fr. Stan Swamy SJ, who was working for the cause of downtrodden and other vulnerable sections of the society in Bihar and Jharkhand by the National Investigating Agency, People’s Citizenship Protection Movement and political parties staged a demonstration here on Monday. The protestors demanded the immediate and unconditional release of the 83-year-old priest. Speakers at the agitation said the priest, who had been working for the cause of tribal people in Bihar and Jharkhand over the past 50 years, had published several reports about the pathetic condition of those people whose rights had been denied by the powerful. When they were being chased away from their homelands, Rev. Fr. Stan was creating awareness of their rights, promised by the Indian Constitution. Against this backdrop, he had been detained by the NIA in connection with Bhima Koregan case after he cooperated with the investigating agency for interrogation for several hours that spread over a few months. Though he was willing to cooperate with the NIA for investigation either in the place he was residing or online investigation, he had been taken to Mumbai for further investigation despite his poor health and old age. The speakers, who termed the arrest as a ‘conspiracy,’ said Rev. Fr. Stan had been targeted by the official machinery as he was creating awareness among the tribal people how they were exploited by the people in power. “Hence, Rev. Fr. Stan should be released unconditionally and immediately,” the speakers said. Former Bishop of Palayamkottai RC Diocese Most Rev. A. Jude Paulraj; M .Abdul Wahab of DMK; Sankarapandian of the Congress; K.M.A. Nizam of MDMK; K.G. Bhaskaran of CPI(M); S. Kasi Viswanathan of CPI; Rasool Maideen of Manithaneya Makkal Katchi; G. Hayat Mohamed of Social Democratic Party of India; Suresh of VCK; and Ramesh of CPI (ML) spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/detention-of-jesuit-priest-rev-fr-stan-swamy-flayed/article32840024.ece
13 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Be prepared to face the ire of Devendrakula Vellalars’||The AIADMK government in the State should be prepared to face the anger of Devendrakula Vellalars in the forthcoming Assembly polls if it failed to declare seven caste sub-sects as ‘Devendrakula Vellalar,’ besides removing them from the list of Scheduled Caste, Devenedrakula Vellalar Ezhuchi Iyakkam president Kannapiraan has said. As he came to the Collectorate on Monday to submit a petition in this connection, Mr. Kannapiran said the seven caste sub-sects - Kudumban, Pannadi, Kadaiyan, Pallan, Kaladi, Vathiriyan and Devendrakulathaan should be declared ‘Devendrakula Vellalar.’ Moreover, they should be removed from the list of ‘Scheduled Castes’ and merged either with the Most Backward Community or Backward Community. “This is our demand which alone will wipe out the social humiliation we are facing for decades. If this demand is not met, the Devendrakula Vellalar voters, who can decide the victory in 20 districts, will exhibit their anger against the ruling AIADMK in the Assembly polls,” Mr. Kannapiraan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-prepared-to-face-the-ire-of-devendrakula-vellalars/article32839300.ece
13 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two youth get life sentence||A court here awarded on Monday life imprisonment to two youths for murdering a woman. Raj of Kuttinainarkulam near Radhapuram took a girl to a few places without the knowledge of her parents. On coming to know about this, the girl’s relatives assaulted Raj, who committed suicide as he felt humiliated. Against this backdrop, Raj’s son Shankar alias Shankar Ganesh, 25, and his relative M. Esakki, 29, hacked the girl’s mother Indra, 45, to death on January 2, 2015. The two were subsequently arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-youth-get-life-sentence/article32839877.ece
13 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two get life sentence for murder||A court here awarded on Monday life imprisonment to two youths for murdering a woman. According to prosecution, one Raj of Kuttinainarkulam near Radhapuram took a girl from the same area to a few places without the knowledge of her parents. On coming to know about this, the girl’s relatives assaulted Raj, who allegedly committed suicide as he felt humiliated. Against this backdrop, Raj’s son Shankar alias Shankar Ganesh, 25, and his relative M. Esakki, 29, hacked the girl’s mother Indra, 45, to death on January 2, 2015. The Radhapuram police subsequently arrested Shankar Ganesh and Esakki. Fourth Additional District Sessions Judge N. Vijayakanth awarded life imprisonment to the duo and slapped a fine of Rs. 10,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-get-life-sentence-for-murder/article32839316.ece
13 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Monday stood at 88.20 feet (permissible level is 143 ft.), with an inflow of 689.58 cusecs and a discharge of 704.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 66.85 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 41 cusecs and nil discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article32840026.ece
13 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur district sees over 1,000 cases within a week||With Tiruppur district crossing the 10,000 mark in the total number of COVID-19 cases on Sunday, analysis of the data revealed that the district added over 1,000 fresh cases within a span of four to seven days since early September. According to the data released by the State Government in the daily media bulletin, the district crossed the 3,000 mark on September 3, and 4,000 mark a week later on September 10. In another five days, the district crossed the 5,000-mark and on September 20 reached the 6,000 mark. It took only four more days for the district to cross the 7,000 mark, as the tally on September 24 was 7,024 cases. By month-end, it crossed the 8,000-mark. The 9,000-mark was crossed on October 6. In contrast, the crossing of the 1,000 mark on August 5 took 136 days, given that the first COVID-19 case was reported in the district on March 23. The 2,000 mark was crossed on August 23, after a gap of 18 days. According to Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar, the positivity rate was 5.5% in the district. “The positivity rate was around 6.8% during the last week of September and around 6.2% in the first week of October,” he said. The death rate was around 1.5% in the district. Dr. Kumar said that the positivity rate would decline further this month. With the festival season round the corner, people must take additional precautions to prevent the spread of virus further, Dr. Kumar said. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said that the district administration had conducted 9,627 fever surveillance camps as of Sunday. Flying squads comprising the police, local body officials and Revenue Department officials had stepped up surveillance across Tiruppur district to ensure compliance with COVID-19 safety measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-district-sees-over-1000-cases-within-a-week/article32839757.ece
13 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Private livestock market held at Alagumalai||The Alagumalai Jallikattu Bulls Welfare Association organised a private market for livestock at Alagumalai here on Monday. According the Association’s president S. Palanisamy, thousands of farmers and visitors thronged the eight-acre land where the market ( sandhai) was held on Monday. “Our volunteers issued tickets for the visitors, screened them using thermal scanners and provided hand sanitisers to all. Free masks were also given to those without one as part of COVID-19 safety measures,” he said. Around 250 head of cattle including indigenous and cross-bred breeds, over 1,000 chicken, 50 goats and sheep were traded in the market on Monday, which was held from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. The market will be conducted at Alagumalai every Monday henceforth, he added. While the District Administration initially denied permission to conduct the market, Revenue Department sources privy to the situation said that there were no issues concerning violation as it was held on a private land. A report on the market would be sent to District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, following which further action could be taken, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-livestock-market-held-at-alagumalai/article32839759.ece
13 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Siblings found dead in River Noyyal||The Tiruppur City Police found the bodies of two boys, who were siblings, in River Noyyal on Monday after their parents reported that they were missing since Sunday. Mohammad Sameer, 11 and Mohammad Jaheer, 7 from Big Bazaar Street went out for fishing in the river on Sunday afternoon, the police said. However, as they did not return home by night, their parents lodged a complaint at Tiruppur South police station on Sunday night that their children were missing. Following this, a team from the police station conducted investigations at the spot. At around 9 a.m. on Monday, the team found the bodies in the river near a crematorium at Sugumar Nagar, a few hundred metres away from the point where the brothers went for fishing. Their bodies were retrieved and were sent to the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital for autopsy, according to the police. Tiruppur South police registered a case and further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siblings-found-dead-in-river-noyyal/article32839325.ece
13 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Online fraudsters impersonate Nilgiris District Collector||Online scammers impersonating the Nilgiris District Collector attempted to scam high-ranking officials from the district administration into purchasing online gift cards. Speaking to reporters at a press conference, District Collector J.Innocent Divya said that a fake email account, claiming to be hers, had tried to target officials into purchasing gift cards from online retail stores. “The scammer would tell people who opened the email and wrote back outlining the amount of gift cards that the person should purchase,” said the Collector. After officials informed the Collector of the attempted scam, a complaint was submitted to the Nilgiris District Superintendent of Police, V. Sasi Mohan. “We are attempting to trace the IP address of the person who has sent out the emails, and once arrested, the person would be booked under the relevant section of the Information Technology Act,” said the SP. “The official email address of the Nilgiris Collector is collrnlg@nic.in. If anybody gets any emails from any other email addresses claiming to be from the Collector, please do not open it,” said the Collector, who said that it was important that people were aware of cybercrime fraud and take appropriate steps to ensure that they do not become unwitting victims of such frauds. “If people are even impersonating me, we can imagine how much of a menace this has become,” said Ms. Divya. “The police’s advice to people is to not open any hyperlinks or QR codes received from any unknown email addresses or from mobile numbers. Hackers can even remotely monitor your device by tricking you into downloading applications on your phone, so we urge people to not open hyperlinks from unknown senders,” said the Mr. Sasi Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-fraudsters-impersonate-nilgiris-district-collector/article32839324.ece
13 October 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Work on restoration of Veedur dam begins||Preliminary work for the restoration of Veedur dam near Vikravandi in Villupuram district has begun, with the Water Resources Organisation of the Public Works Department (PWD) carrying out an aerial survey with the help of drones to map the dam’s profile and its water capacity. “The previous survey conducted by the Institute of Hydraulics and Hydrology, Poondi, in September had identified silt accumulation up to 105 million cubic feet (mcft),” a senior PWD official said. The second survey with drones would map the gradient, dam profile, contour level, accumulation of silt and the storage capacity of the dam. “The administration has constituted a survey team to cover all the five villages located near the dam. The drones are expected to complete the aerial mapping of the parameters within a week’s time,” the official said. The government has sanctioned a sum of Rs. 43 crore for restoration of the dam. The Veedur dam, commissioned in 1959, is now a major source of irrigation for villages in Villupuram district and the neighbouring Union Territory of Puducherry. The canal system of the reservoir runs for 17.6 km, of which 16.3 km passes through Tamil Nadu and 1.3 km through Puducherry. The dam is located at the confluence point of the Varaha and Thondi rivers and irrigates about 2,200 acres in Villupuram district and 1,000 acres in Puducherry. According to an official, the dam’s storage capacity stands at 605 mcft. The desilting exercise would enhance the dam’s storage capacity and about 105 mcft of silt would be removed. The project also includes improvement work. The silt removed from the dam would be deposited in the foreshore bunds to a distance of 6km to prevent encroachments and flooding on the other side, the official added. The PWD will also be carrying out long-pending improvement work such as repair of shutters, strengthening of bunds and repairing branch channels. The desilting work may take about one-and-a-half years. Once the work is completed, the reservoir would have an additional capacity of 105 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-restoration-of-veedur-dam-begins/article32839974.ece
13 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||36 Amma mobile ration shops for Virudhunagar||Thirty-six Amma mobile ration shops would be operational to serve 60 places in Virudhunagar district, Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji said. Flagging off Amma mobile ration shops in the presence of Collector R. Kannan here on Monday, he said that the mobile shops would be served by 49 cooperative societies. Twelve places in Srivilliputtur Assembly constituency would be served by the mobile shops. The number of places to be served in other Assembly constituencies is: 11 in Sattur, 14 in Tiruchuli, 16 in Aruppukottai, four in Virudhunagar, two in Rajapalayam and one in Sivakasi. Totally, as many as 7,999 family card holders would be benefited. Amma mobile ration shops would spare people of these areas from travelling one to two km to buy ration goods. The goods would be distributed on time at their doorstep, he said. The mobile ration shops would visit the designated spot thrice a week. If any ration card holder is unable to buy the ration goods on the scheduled date, they could, as usual, go to the nearest ration shop and buy their goods. Srivilliputtur MLA M. Chandraprabha, District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar and Regional Joint Registrar (Cooperative Societies) Dilip Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/36-amma-mobile-ration-shops-for-virudhunagar/article32839302.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||393 cases and six deaths in Coimbatore district||A total of 304 persons reported positive in Salem. According to health officials, 279 cases, including 162 in Salem Corporation limits, were indigenous. Twenty-five patients had returned from Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Namakkal and Coimbatore. Two persons aged 67 and 41 died in the district . Namakkal reported 145 cases. According to health officials, eight patients had returned from Erode, Coimbatore, Salem, Kanyakumari and three from Karnataka. Coimbatore district, on Monday, added 393 fresh cases of COVID-19, and saw the discharge of 466 persons from different treatment centres. Health Department said that six patients died at different hospitals in the city, taking the toll to 497. A total of 4,839 persons were under treatment as of Monday. Erode district reported 146 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 8,426. While 155 persons were discharged, 1,093 persons continued to be under treatment. One person died, taking the toll to 102. Krishnagiri recorded 98 cases and Dharmapuri 84. Tiruppur district reported one death and 185 fresh cases on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 10,219. A 68-year-old man died at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, according to the bulletin. Of the 10,219 cases, 8,762 have recovered and 1,301 were active. The district has so far reported 156 deaths. On Monday, the district saw a dip in recovered patients, as only 52 persons were discharged from various hospitals. In the Nilgiris, 144 people tested positive on Monday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 5,512.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/304-cases-and-two-deaths-reported-in-salem/article32839342.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CPI cadre hold agitation against farm laws||Over 100 members of the Communist Party of India were taken into custody by the police here on Monday after they picketed Teppakulam Post Office urging the Centre to withdraw the “anti-farmers, anti-labourers and anti-people” laws and policies. The agitating cadre claimed that the new agriculture laws would only give rise to hoarding and black marketing with no procurement of foodgrains by the government. Farmers would not receive the minimum support price for their crop due to the new farm laws, which would eventually affect their livelihood. The protesters also wanted the government to carry out a proper survey of roadside vendors, provide them with identity cards through urban local bodies and sanction a relief of Rs. 10,000 each to roadside vendors affected by COVID-19 so as to protect their livelihood. The agitation was led by CPI Tiruchi east branch secretary A. Ansardeen. In Thanjavur district, CPI cadre staged demonstrations at 14 places. While in a majority of the venues they confined themselves to raising of slogans condemning the amendments, the party members at Ammapettai added colour to their protest by carrying agriculture produces to the venue. Earlier, they went in a procession from Ammapettai bus stand to Town Panchayat office carryingthambalams(stainless steel plates) filled with paddy, groundnut, sugarcane, onion, potatoes, maize and other vegetables. The demonstration was led by CPI Thanjavur district secretary M.A. Bharathi. At Kumbakonam, the protest was spearheaded by Thanjavur district deputy secretary V. Kalyanasundaram, and District Executive Committee member C. Chandrakumar. Similar demonstrations were held at Budalur, Thirupanandal, Peravurani, Sethubhavachatram, Pattukottai, Madukur, Tiruvonam, Orathanadu and other places. The protesting cadre were detained at various places and later released in the evening. Meanwhile, CPI Ammapettai Union office-bearers alleged that ‘sub-standard’ food was served to protesters arrested by police for staging the demonstration at Ammapettai. However, official sources denied the allegation and said that some of the demonstrators refused to accept the vegetarian food offered to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-cadre-hold-agitation-against-farm-laws/article32839255.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Substantial drop in fresh cases||The central districts recorded 476 fresh cases of COVID-19, a substantial drop over Sunday’s tally of 572, and the death of four patients due to the viral infection on Monday. Out of the eight districts in the region, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur recorded more than 100 cases. The maximum number of fresh cases was recorded in Thanjavur with 146 persons testing positive for the virus, followed by Tiruvarur with 114 cases. According to the medical bulletin issued by the Health Department on Monday, with the addition of new cases, the number of active cases of COVID-19 stood at 773 in Thanjavur district. As many as 377 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the district on Monday. With the addition of 114 patients who tested positive for the virus and discharge of 88 patients, the total number of active cases in Tiruvarur district stood at 575. In Tiruchi district, 45 more patients tested positive for the virus on Monday. It was 43 in Pudukottai, 54 in Nagapattinam, 41 in Karur, 27 in Ariyalur and 6 in Perambalur district. A total of 91 patients were discharged from various hospitals including K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College in Tiruchi. With this, the total number of active cases went down to 679 on Monday. Nagapattinam and Thanjavur recorded the death of two patients each due to COVID-19. A 60-year-old female from Thanjavur, who was admitted to a private hospital in Thanjavur on October 6 with complaints of difficulty in breathing, died on Mondasy. She was under treatment for various diseases including type-II diabetes mellitus. Similarly, a 85-year-old male from Thanjavur with type II diabetic mellitus, who was admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on October 10, died a day later. A 76-year-old male from Nagapattinam, who was admitted to Government Periyar Hospital in Mayilathurai on October 5 with type -II diabetes mellitus, died on Saturday. Prior to admission, he had fever, cough and difficulty in breathing. Another patient, who died of COVID-19, was 80 years of age. He was admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on October 5. He was under medication for type -II diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/substantial-drop-in-fresh-cases/article32839251.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu signs MoUs to bring in Rs. 10,055 cr. investment, create over 7,000 jobs||These two formulas have worked out well, the official also said.  According to Neeraj Mittal, MD and CEO of Guidance, “The teams (Guidance, Industries Department and Sipcot) have been working 24/7 and we have broadened the scope of picking up leads. The CM is also reviewing all investment proposals that come in. And this has helped bring in more investment.”   Tamil Nadu’s excellent industrial ecosystem, trained manpower, connectivity, connected supply chains and pragmatic policies allow investors to take advantage of global realignment of value chains, he said. On Monday, the biggest investment deal of Rs. 6,300 crore came in from JSW Renew Energy Limited for a hybrid renewable project for 810 MW in Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli and Tiruppur and 50 MW captive wind energy project in Rameswaram. An estimated 2,420 persons could get jobs. Greenbase Industrial Parks, a part of the Hiranandani Group, would establish an Industrial Logistics Park in Oragadam at an investment of Rs. 750 crore. Mantra Data Center (Spain) has agreed to invest Rs. 750 crore in a data centre near Chennai. Hong Kong-based Aosheng Hitech Ltd (Rs. 200 crore) will manufacture carbon fiber plates. Vans Chemistry, Singapore, has proposed to establish an e-waste management facility at Rs. 50 crore. Inox Air Products, which the State said played a significant role in supplying oxygen for COVID-19 patients, has signed an MoU for manufacturing of liquid oxygen in Hosur. And Counter Measures Technologies would invest Rs. 51 crore in a project in the Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor. Some companies signed deals for expansion. Apollo Tyres looks to establish a Rs. 505 crore expansion project in SIPCOT Oragadam park. TPI Composites, USA, has proposed a Rs. 300 crore expansion plan for manufacture of wind blades in Oragadam. Britannia has Rs. 250 crore expansion plans at SIPCOT Gangaikondan. Hyundai Wia, South Korea, will expand its facility in Sriperumbudur at Rs. 109 crore. Li-Energy (Rs. 300 crore) looks to manufacture EV battery packs; LS Automotive Pvt Ltd (Rs. 250 crore), South Korea, has proposed manufacture of automotive switches in Tiruvallur; and Grin Tech Motors & Services (Rs. 90 crore) has proposed manufacturing of Battery and BMS in Ambattur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-signs-mous-to-bring-in-rs-10055-cr-investment-create-over-7000-jobs/article32839270.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T signs agreement with C-DAC||National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi (NIT-T) on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding with the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Pune, for establishment of a 650 Tera Flops Supercomputer on the campus under the National Computing Mission. NIT-T is among 10 Centrally-funded institutions to be inducted into NSM along with Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, seven IITs, and National Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute. The objective of the NSM is to empower technology institutions with high-performance computing capabilities that can be used for solving computationally intensive problems. At an meeting conducted in virtual mode, the MoU was signed by NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas and Director General of C-DAC Hemant Darbari. Based on the proposal submitted by NIT-T, the NSM infrastructure team cleared sanction of super computer worth Rs. 17.11 crore by the Department of Science and Technology and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. The 650 TF supercomputer involving Central Processing Unit and Graphics Processing Unit at a ratio of 70:30 will be installed at the institute by CDAC, Pune, shortly, with an additional installation cost of about Rs. 2 crore. “With the development of societal projects involving artificial intelligence, machine learning, and deep learning on the rise, NIT-T has been sanctioned the super computer at the appropriate time. The facility will be helpful to research scholars and faculty working on projects involving high-end computing for carrying out various research and sponsored projects,” Ms. Mini Shaji Thomas said. She hoped for exponential increase in research output and the number of societal projects in areas of health, agriculture, weather, financial services and social media in addition to in-house projects by all 17 departments of the Institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-signs-agreement-with-c-dac/article32839244.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Small satellite, big dreams||An experimental satellite developed by three students of Karur has been selected for launch in sub-orbital space by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. It took more than two years of research and development for M. Adnaan of Thanthonrimalai, M. Kesavan of Nagampalli village near Malaikovilur and V. Arun of Thennilai to design and develop the satellite that outsmarted a number of satellites developed by aspiring space scientists to win the global competition conducted by the Cubes in Space, a programme of Idoodledu Inc in association with the U.S. space agency. They were studying in Plus One when they sat together and began to design the world’s smallest and lightest technology demonstrator satellite. The determination, hard work and perseverance of the students, now pursuing undergraduate courses, have made them proud. They were mentored and guided by the Chennai-based Space Kids India, which encourages aspiring space scientists. The satellite, made of reinforced graphene polymer, is 3 cm in size and weighs 64 g. It has its own radio frequency communication to transmit and receive signals from earth. The solar cells attached to the satellite generate power for it. The photographic film will absorb and measure the cosmic radiation inside the rocket. The satellite, christened Indian Sat, will be launched into the sub orbit in June next on NASA’s sounding rocket 7. Rifath Shaarook of Space Kids India, who mentored the Karur students, told The Hindu that it was one of the biggest moments for them as their model had been chosen among the many submitted by young contestants from more than 50 countries. It would study the effect of reinforced graphene polymers in microgravity. It would be in sub-orbital space flight for a few minutes before landing in the ocean.  Helping hands The young researchers faced difficulties in meeting the expenditure of about Rs. 1.35 lakh for the project due to their poor economic background. However, the faculty members of the Department of Physics of the Government Arts College in Karur, where two of them are studying, and the Karur-based Shiva Educational Trust sponsored the project. Awaiting the launch “We eagerly await the launch of our satellite. It will be a big moment in our life. It is like a dream come true. In spite of financial struggle, we have made it to the big stage with the support of some big hearts,” said Mr. Kesavan, 18, son of a salesman at a ration shop in Karur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-satellite-big-dreams/article32839259.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||BDU sends Syndicate, Senate nominees to V-C search panel||Bharathidasan University has forwarded the names of Syndicate and Senate nominees for the Vice-Chancellor Search Committee to the Department of Higher Education, paving the way for the government to nominate its member to the panel. The Syndicate had recently nominated S. Mohan, a retired professor of Alagappa University, to the three-member panel. A former head of the Education Department, Mr. Mohan was unanimously elected as nominee at a special meeting of the Syndicate earlier this month. Last week, the former Registrar of Madurai Kamaraj University, V. Alagappan, was unanimously elected as Senate nominee. Once the government’s nominee is appointed, the panel will hold its sitting, which will be followed by release of advertisements calling for applications from eligible candidates.  No delay Unlike earlier occasions, when the process of formation of VC search panels were delayed inordinately to the extent of even a year or more, the process has been initiated in time to enable posting of the new vice-chancellor coinciding with the end of the tenure of the incumbent, P. Manisankar, on January 7, 2021. After scrutiny, the panel will shortlist 10 applications and finally recommend three names to the Governor-Chancellor for the post. In recent instances, the office of the Chancellor has set a healthy precedent by selecting the candidate quickly on getting the search panel’s recommendation, university sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bdu-sends-syndicate-senate-nominees-to-v-c-search-panel/article32839262.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ignoring norms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ignoring-norms/article32839971.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘I was ready to quit Congress in March itself’||In it, she referred to a “few elements, seated at a higher level within the party, people who have no connectivity with the ground reality or public recognition” were “dictating terms”. She added, “People like me, who wanted to work for the party sincerely are being pushed and suppressed.” Ms. Sundar said, “This letter was ready way back in March, and since I had joined the Congress in the presence of Ms. Gandhi, I wanted to hand over the resignation letter in person. But the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown prevented it.” At the time of writing the letter, she said, she was not sure that she would be joining the BJP. “As a person occupying the position of spokesperson, it was my duty to attack the policies of the government even though all Bills have certain flaws. But gradually I felt that the clarity that the BJP has, in terms of its ideology and leadership was important, instead of being in a party where the question of leadership is also in a flux. The trust that people have repeatedly shown in Prime Minister Modi is something that needs to be understood”. Anti-minority? On the question of how she would deal with the perception that the BJP, as a party, was not exactly considered friendly towards minorities, Ms. Sundar replied with a one-liner, “If the BJP is anti-minority, then is Congress anti-Hindu?” She said she was awaiting an assignment from the State unit and did not elaborate on how she saw the future of the BJP in Tamil Nadu where the party has a miniscule presence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-was-ready-to-quit-congress-in-march-itself/article32839269.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Constable dies in accident||A 24-year-old constable attached to Chennai City Police died in a road accident early on Monday. Police said the two-wheeler the constable was riding collided with a cement-laden lorry from the rear on Tiruchi-Dindigul national highway near Inamkulathur on the outskirts of the city. Police identified the deceased as A. Ashish Kumar, who was attached to the Armed Reserve unit. Police sources said Ashish Kumar, along with another constable P. Nagaraj, also serving in the same unit in Chennai, was proceeding on the two-wheeler to his hometown, Karuvelanaickapatti village in Theni district, when the vehicle rammed the lorry from behind. Ashish Kumar died in the accident, while Nagaraj of Gandhigram in Dindigul district sustained injuries and was admitted to MGMGH here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-dies-in-accident-near-tiruchi/article32839242.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Team work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/team-work/article32840035.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||13-10-2020-city-cinema||MISCELLANEOUS  MAIN GALLERY C.P. ART CENTRE 1 Eldams Road, Alwarpet, Chennai - 600 018 Exhibition of NAVARATRI KOLU - Dolls made of Clay and Papier mach, decorated Marapachi Dolls and Brass items. The exhibition will be open till October 18, 2020, from 10.00 a.m. to 8.00 p.m. All are welcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-10-2020-city-cinema/article32839736.ece
13 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||I will not seek ticket for my son, says Ramesh Jarkiholi||As if to put speculation to rest, Belagavi district in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has said that his son Amarnath Jarkiholi would not seek party’s nomination in the bypoll to the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat which has fallen vacant after the demise of Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi. “He is still very young and we don’t have such plans for him. If we were ambitious about him, we could have made him the KMF chairman. But he is now a KMF director and let him serve in such positions before getting into electoral politics. Neither have I sought party ticket for my son nor has he expressed his desire to fight the bypoll as a BJP candidate,” he said. He also said that the BJP could field Suresh Angadi’s wife Mangala in the bypoll to the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat. “We will all work for her victory, if she is given party ticket,” he told journalists in Belagavi on Monday. Meanwhile, Amarnath Jarkiholi also issued a clarification saying that he was focused on his present job. “We will make sure that Angadi’s family does not suffer injustice,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-will-not-seek-ticket-for-my-son-says-ramesh-jarkiholi/article32839359.ece
13 October 2020||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Police: ‘Astrologer’ has admitted to defrauding Kalyan’s family||The city police arrested a self-proclaimed astrologer on the charge of defrauding film lyricist K. Kalyan and his family of around Rs. 6 crore. Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amate said on Monday that the accused Shivanand Wali had confessed to cheating the family of assets, money and other valuables. The “astrologer” had convinced Mr. Kalyan’s wife and parents-in-law that they had to give up all movable and immovable properties to live a peaceful life. He had connived, along with their cook Ganga Kulkarni, and transferred money, vehicles, land, buildings and jewellery to himself. The accused has been arrested and the goods have been recovered, the DCP said. Kulkarni is absconding. The police said three cases of cheating and undue influence were pending against Kulkarni in some North Karnataka districts. A team has been formed to arrest her. Earlier this week, Mr. Kalyan complained to the police that the accused had kidnapped his wife and parents-in-law and swindled them. A team led by police inspector B.R. Gaddekar traced the accused and interrogated him, Mr. Amate said. Mr. Kalyan’s wife Ashwini told police officers that she would withdraw the divorce petition she had filed in the Belagavi family court. She told officers of the women helpline that she would go back to Mr. Kalyan, an investigating officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-astrologer-has-admitted-to-defrauding-kalyans-family/article32839377.ece
13 October 2020||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Airport’s colonial legacy||Sambra airport was commissioned by the British Royal Air Force during World War II. Chintamanrao Patwardhan, the king of Sangli who ruled the region, permitted the RAF to set up the station in 1942. Indian Airlines began operations soon after Independence. The airport was opened up to private operators in 1989. Now, Sambra airport is connected to 13 destinations across the country. The Airmen Training School in Sambra is situated next to the airport. The RAF set up the training centre in 1942. The Ground Training School of Jalahalli in Bengaluru was shifted to Sambra in 1963.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/airports-colonial-legacy/article32839717.ece
13 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Dwarakanath Urankar passes away||Senior Marathi journalist Dwarakanath Urankar passed away in Belagavi on Monday. He was 68. He was the editor of Ranabhoomi Marathi daily. He had worked for Dainik Vartha daily earlier. He was a member of the Marathi Journalists Welfare Association and Sri Namdev Devaki Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dwarakanath-urankar-passes-away/article32839360.ece
13 October 2020||Belagavi/Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Flying schools to help better use well-equipped NK airports||The recent announcement by the Airports Authority of India on setting up flying schools in six underutilised airports across India, including two in Kalaburagi and Belagavi in the State, to meet the growing demand for pilots in the country has triggered new hopes of better use of the two well-equipped airports. The new proposal is also expected to contribute to the development of the North Karnataka region. Built on 742 acres near Srinivas Saradagi village, about 12 km from Kalaburagi, the Kalaburagi airport is one of the biggest in India, having the 10th longest runway (3,175x45 metres) and the second longest in the State after Bengaluru. The total length of the airfield is 7.5 km and its terminal building is spread on 2,173 sq.m. Sambra airport in Belagavi too is well-equipped to house a flying school, say officials. It is spread over 730 acres and at 2.5 km, its runway is one of the biggest in the country. This enables not only civilian flights, but also large cargo aircraft to take off and land. The airport is equipped with state-of-the-art navigation and communication equipment. Minor tweaks Kalaburagi airport director S. Gnaneswara Rao said the airport can operate bigger flights and house a flying school as well. “Some minor arrangements, such as the construction of hangers for parking and maintaining the aircraft, are to be made. These things are normally taken care of by the flying schools themselves,” he said. Though administrative approval was given in March 2007 for Kalaburagi and the foundation stone was laid only next year, it took 10 years for this to be completed in 2018 after crossing many deadlines. Formally inaugurated on November 22 last year, the airport has remained underutilised with only two flights operating between Kalaburagi and Bengaluru. Officials at Sambra hope to address some pending issues in quick time. For instance, the instrument-landing facility has been installed but not commissioned yet. That is because there are two thoroughfare roads on the airport premises that are used by residents of Honnihal and Mavinakatti. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said the district administration would provide an alternative road to the kutcha roads. “The government has acquired around six acres of land to build new roads for the residents. That work will be sped up,” he said. “Setting up a flying school has been a long-pending demand. Once the flying school is opened here, it will boost economic activity and thus contribute to the development of our region,” Umesh Jadhav, Lok Sabha member from Kalaburagi, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flying-schools-to-help-better-utilise-well-equipped-nk-airports/article32839710.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Unhappy with manner of change in portfolio, Sriramulu likely to meet BJP high command||Senior Minister B. Sriramulu is said to be deeply upset with how the Health and Family Welfare Department has been wrested from him. As he is learnt to have decided to approach the BJP high command over the “injustice meted out to him”, the Cabinet reshuffle fiasco Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has carried out without consulting with the central leadership now threatens to backfire against him, sources in the party said. Mr. Yediyurappa is said to have reached out to Mr. Sriramulu and the duo are likely to meet over breakfast on Tuesday. Mr. Sriramulu is upset with the timing of the change in portfolio though he is not averse to the Social Welfare Department, sources close to him said. In fact, he had sought the department over Health and Family Welfare in 2019, but the Chief Minister was insistent. Ever since COVID-19 became an issue from March, he has been deeply upset with how he has been sidelined. “By stripping him of COVID-19 responsibilities and now the ministry itself, the Chief Minister seems to have expressed his lack of confidence in Mr. Sriramulu’s efficiency, which no political leader will accept,” a source close to the leader said. The Minister, when he met Mr. Yediyurappa on Monday morning, is said to have protested the portfolio of Backward Classes Welfare, related to Social Welfare, being wrested from him. “Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare are essentially one ministry, divided only recently on an ad-hoc basis. The move doesn’t make sense,” he is learnt to have argued. Mr. Sriramulu is also apprehensive that he may be trapped in a quagmire of competing claims and interests that have emerged for reservation recently — the increase of reservation to Scheduled Tribe, of which he is also a part, internal reservation for Scheduled Caste, and Kurubas demanding ST tag, sources close to him said. Mr. Yediyurappa had almost signalled that he would choose Mr. Sriramulu as a Deputy Chief Minister during the 2018 Assembly polls. While Mr. Sriramulu has repeatedly expressed his wish to get the title, his tenure in the government has only been seen as a series of demotions — not being made Deputy CM, being divested of COVID-19 responsibilities during the pandemic, and now being divested of the Health portfolio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unhappy-with-manner-of-change-in-portfolio-sriramulu-likely-to-meet-bjp-high-command/article32839714.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With 70 new deaths, COVID-19 toll crosses 10,000 mark in State||Exactly seven months after Karnataka reported the country’s first COVID-19 death on March 12, the State’s toll breached the 10,000 mark on Monday. With 70 new deaths, the toll touched 10,036. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. Over 41% (4,199) of the total deaths have been reported since September 1 and 1,042 fatalities have been added in the last 12 days. A total of 5,146 of the total deaths are among those aged above 60. The State had recorded its first 100 deaths on June 17. Subsequently, the total number of deaths touched 1,032 on July 16, almost doubled in 12 days to touch 2,055 on July 28, and added another 1,036 in the next 10 days. On an average, the State has been recording 101 deaths per day since July 7. The State’s toll started spiking from the beginning of July. The toll crossed the 4,000 mark on August 17 and another 1,029 deaths were added in 10 days to touch 5,091 on August 26. Eight days after that, the toll crossed 6,000 on September 3. The toll touched 7,067 on September 11, 8,023 on September 20, 9,119 on October 2, and 10,036 on October 12. While the State’s cumulative Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is 1.4%, it stood at 0.92% on Monday. Karnataka is now in the third position in terms of deaths. With 3,362 deaths in Bengaluru Urban so far, this district has contributed 33.4% of the total deaths. The number of deaths in Bengaluru has increased from 2,391 on September 12 to 3,320 on October 10 recording a surge of 39%. On Monday, Bengaluru Urban reported 18 deaths. While the number of deaths have touched 893 in Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad have reported 609 and 524 deaths, respectively, and Ballari 494. Meanwhile, after reporting over 10,000 cases for the last one week, the number of cases came down marginally to 7,606. With this the total number of cases rose to 7,17,915. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,498 cases taking the tally in this district to 2,85,055. Highest discharges A total of 12,030 people were discharged on Monday taking the total number of recoveries to 5,92,084. This is the highest number of recoveries so far on a single day. Active cases continued to remain over a lakh at 1,15,776. Of these, 928 patients are being monitored in ICUs. The number of tests also reduced on Monday with 78,758 samples tested in the last 24 hours. This included 23,564 rapid antigen tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 60,30,980. The State had been conducting over one lakh tests for the last few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-70-new-deaths-covid-19-toll-crosses-10000-mark-in-state/article32839379.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A COVID-proof plan for Malleswaram||Come festive season, thousands throng the commercial areas in Malleswaram, especially 8th Cross. However, this poses a huge risk in spread of COVID-19. To ensure this does not happen, Malleswaram Urban Living Lab (MULL), a collaborative effort between Malleswaram Social, a citizens’ group, and Sensing Local, a do-tank with focus on improving the state of environment and public health, has come out with a “Malleswaram 8th Cross Festival Plan”. According to a representative, who worked on the initiative, volunteers surveyed the commercial hub and mapped different kinds of establishments, between September 30 and October 2. While there were nearly 200 street vendors, there were 77 shops. “We conducted surveys and spoke to vendors and shop owners/keepers about the challenges they faced and whether they were able to follow protocols to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” the representative said, adding that while there seemed to be a high level of concern among shop owners, it was lower, among street vendors. While social distancing regulating number of people, displaying awareness material, temperature checks, and hand sanitation were challenges faced by shop owners, for street vendors, contactless payment took precedence. However, the biggest concern for owners was customers not complying with safety measures, especially wearing masks. On the other hand, the biggest concern for street vendors was financial, given that the number of customers had dropped. “We realised that interventions were necessary to fill the gaps in safety measures,” the representative said, adding that the need of the hour was to prepare for the inevitable and prevent the dangers of overcrowding. MULL worked out two options – demarcating pedestrian-only zones, clearing pavements to allow free movement, moving vendors to a location where they can space out, and creating vending zones for the festival. Under the first option, apart from pedestrianising 8th Cross, smaller pedestrian zones could be created at East Park Road and West Park Road. Traffic could be restricted in the conservancies. This would help accommodate existing and additional vendors. Under the second option, vendors could be relocated to East and West Park Roads, and conservancies. “An overwhelming majority of vendors and shop owners we spoke to said they were willing to support such initiatives,” the representative told The Hindu. They had data to demonstrate that these options could be implemented on ground, even if temporarily, during the festival season. “We have submitted our report to Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also Malleswaram MLA. We plan on sharing it with the BBMP Commissioner and Administrator as well,” the representative said, pointing out that the same blueprint could be applied to other traditional markets areas in the city such as Gandhi Bazaar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-covid-proof-plan-for-malleswaram/article32839690.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP simplifies process for trade licence renewal||Renewal of trade licences has now become simpler, with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) introducing a transparent and online auto renewal system. An order effecting this was issued by BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad on Monday. Traders in Bengaluru can make e-payment of the prescribed fee through the department’s portal for auto-renewal of licences. They can download the digitally signed approval certificate without any physical touch point with the department, the order read. There is no need to submit any form for renewal, like earlier. This, he said in the order, was in line with the government’s decision to simplify the business regulatory procedures in the State. The emphasis has been on simplification of rules and introduction of information technology for effective governance, under Ease of Doing Business norms. The move comes after the Chief Secretary recommended introducing a transparent online system for auto-renewal of trade licences after collection of reasonable fees. Earlier this year, the civic body had incorporated some changes to simplify the trade licence application process. The process, including payment of registration/renewal fee, was made online. Traders need to submit just two documents – rent/lease agreement and electricity bill. Traders could also, for the first time, choose the duration of validity of these licences, from one to five years, apart from being able to track the status of their applications online. Not all trades covered Despite all these reforms, the civic body has not been able to cover all trades in the city, what with the number of trade licences issued not crossing 55,000. This is just a fraction of the number of commercial power connections in the city, admitted sources. According to information made available, in 2019-20 fiscal, a total of 51,563 trade licences were issued, bringing the BBMP revenue of around Rs. 47 crore. Of these, as many as 13,171 were new trade licences and 38,392 were renewed. In the current financial year – from April 1 to October 5, a total of 39,160 trade licences have been issued, of which only 4,214 are new licences and remaining 34,946 have been renewed. The BBMP garnered revenue of nearly Rs. 49 crore thus far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-simplifies-process-for-trade-licence-renewal/article32839697.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||The ‘new normal’ in places of worship||Amid a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in the city, temples, churches, mosques, and other places of worship have adopted various ‘new normal practices’, though devotees are still adjusting to them. Precautionary measures that are in place to contain the spread of the virus have pushed places of worships to temporarily part from various familiar religious practices. Departing from the tradition during the Holy Communion, the consecrated bread or wafer is now being dropped into the hands of the communicants. “The Communion is received on the tongue. But due to these unprecedented circumstances, it is now received in the hands with safe distance maintained,” said J.A. Kantharaj, spokesperson of the Archdiocese of Bangalore. He said that earlier, those who could not come to churches, especially the sick, were given Communion in their homes once a week. “That practice has now been temporarily stopped,” he said. Kuldeep Singh, secretary, Sri Guru Singh Sabha, said the karah prasad at gurudwaras that were distributed by hands were now being given through spoons. “Devotees are just getting used to it and some demand that it be distributed by hands,” he said. Maqsood Imran, Imam of Jamia Masjid at K.R. Market, said those attending prayers were asked to bring their own ‘janamaz’ (prayer mats). “Standing shoulder to shoulder was a must during congregational prayers. However, we are now maintaining social distancing and will continue till normalcy is restored,” he said. Govindraj V. of the ancient Someshwara temple in Halasuru, said teertha and prasada were not being distributed at the temple. “Every Monday, we used to distribute milk. This has not resumed ever since we have opened the temple,” he said, adding them they get enquiries about distribution of prasada . Meanwhile, ISKCON, which recently reopened for the public, is serving prasada . “ Kichdi is generally served in leaf cups as prasada . We are maintaining the temperature of the prasada above 70 degree Celsius, keeping them in hot cases at the place where it is served,” said a representative from ISKCON. He added that those who serve the prasada maintain distance, wear masks and gloves, and frequently sanitise their hands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-new-normal-in-places-of-worship/article32839687.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Indian Music Experience to bolster digital presence||To increase its online presence, Bengaluru’s Indian Music Experience (IME) is planning a host of programmes, including a virtual walkthrough and digital exhibitions, as well as providing educational kits for students. “Museums across the world have realised during the pandemic that the way forward is to have an online and offline presence,” said IME’s director Manasi Prasad. “For instance, the idea of the virtual walkthrough is to have music enthusiasts all over the world not only access our exhibits but also have an immersive experience of the museum. With a click, they can open a door, change directions, or access an exhibit.” The next step, she added, was to enhance the experience using Virtual Reality. Though the museum will reopen on October 16 with added safety measures, it will continue to enhance its digital programme for which it has started a fundraiser to collect Rs. 5 lakh. Active online IME museum has had over 30,000 visitors since it opened in December 2018. Despite being shut since the lockdown, it has been active online. It hosted several interactions on music on digital platforms, curated an online exhibition, and put together a digital archive of legendary musician T. Chowdiah. The archive for Chowdiah was launched on September 5 in association with the Shankar Mahadevan Academy Trust. The website includes compositions of the maestro with the notations, his biography, rare photographs, articles, and blogs on his life. For more information, visitindianmusicexperience.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/indian-music-experience-to-bolster-digital-presence/article32839695.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many State board pvt. schools continue to hold online classes||Despite the State government, on Sunday, announcing holiday for all schools affiliated to the State board till October 30, several private schools on Monday continued to conduct online classes, violating the Government Order. The school managements stated that they had not received any order in writing from the Department of Primary and Secondary Education to stop online classes, and added they cannot discontinue online classes because they have already lost out on several academic days due to COVID-19. The managements defended their decision saying many of them began online classes in July end, and are finding it difficult to complete the portions. School management members also point out that many are insisting that they conduct online classes so that their children are engaged and are not idle. Suma S., parent of a class six student in a State syllabus school in Rajajinagar, said her son continued to have online classes for three hours on Monday. “We have no problem if the classes are continued as the teachers take longer to complete the portions during online classes than physical classes. Many teachers have not completed portions,” she said. Although the department had announced a revised syllabus where 30% of the portions were cut, it was withdrawn due to controversies and the new revised syllabus is yet to be announced. This, teachers say, has forced them to teach all the chapters without excluding any. Shashi Kumar D., general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said they were waiting for the department to issue an official order. He said they would instruct the school managements to stop synchronous classes, but said that schools wanted to continue pre-recorded classes. “Students and parents can view these classes at any time of the day. These classes will be revision of the lessons taught by the teachers before and not new lessons,” he said. Sumanth Narayan, founder of Shanthinikethana School, said they continued to hold online classes on Monday as the teachers had planned academic activities for the week, which included oral tests. He said barring about a dozen parents, the rest wanted online classes to be continued on Monday. He said that the school had decided to give students a one-week break during Dasara. He also pointed out that many parents would refuse to pay the second term fees if online classes were not conducted during October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-state-board-pvt-schools-continue-to-hold-online-classes/article32839371.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Active cases increase by 59% in last 30 days in Bengaluru||Despite ramping up COVID-19 testing by 65% from September 12 to October 10, active cases in Bengaluru have surged by nearly 59% (from 40,929 on September 12 to 64,911 on October 10). Bengaluru now has the highest number of active cases in the country surpassing Pune that has 45,871 cases as on Monday. Mortality rate too has increased here by 39% from 2,391 deaths on September 12 to 3,320 on October 10. During the same period, Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad have successfully reduced active cases. The six mega cities in India —Delhi, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, and Kolkata — collectively saw a jump of 33.9 lakh tests in the last one month. With 14.9 lakh tests during this period, Delhi contributed to 44% of the total tests in the six mega cities. Active cases in the national capital came down by 6,052 during this period. Marginal reduction Mumbai and Ahmedabad that tested 3.4 lakh and 4 lakh samples, respectively, during the same period also saw a marginal reduction in active cases. The active cases came down by 3,824 and 691 in Mumbai and Ahmedabad, respectively. Bengaluru tested 7.7 lakh samples during this period and active cases shot up by 23,982. Prior to that, in 90 days — from July 1 to September 30 — active cases in Bengaluru had shot up by over 10 times from 4,649 to 47,145. During the same period, while Chennai reduced active cases from 22,781 to 11,323, Mumbai brought down its active cases from 29,715 to 26,663, according to an analysis by Project: Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of Proxima, a management consulting firm, that is technically supported by Public Health Foundation of India and Indian Medical Association. Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Jeevan Raksha, said Bengaluru’s performance in terms of COVID-19 management is relatively deteriorating over the last few weeks when compared with other mega cities. “Despite testing 7.7 lakh samples during the last 30 days, the city’s Moving Growth Rate (MGR) of active cases as well as deaths is highest amongst all the six mega cities. This indicates that Bengaluru is having the shortest doubling period for both critical parameters. If the same pattern continues for another few weeks, we are worried more lives will be in danger,” he said. ‘Infections multiplying’ C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said controlling the spread has become difficult as the infections are multiplying at community level. “Most people would have had contact with an infected person, either primary or secondary. But they may not be aware if the source patient is asymptomatic. As a result, without their knowledge some people are further spreading the infection to others. Getting tested without any delay and availing timely treatment is most important. Those who need hospitalisation should be allotted beds without any delay,” he said. “At 1.4% although our cumulative Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is reasonably under control, it is desirable to keep this below 1%,” Dr. Manjunath added. As on Monday, the State’s CFR stood at 0.92%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/active-cases-increase-by-59-in-last-30-days-in-bengaluru/article32839382.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will govt. engage agency to rejuvenate Vrishabhavathi?’||Considering the extent of damage caused to river Vrishabhavathi, the State government must appoint an expert agency like the CSIR National Environmental Engineering Research Institute for taking steps to protect and rejuvenate the waterbody, the Karnataka High Court said on Monday. If the State government doesn’t show willingness to appoint the agency, the court would issue a direction for appointing an expert agency, a Division Bench said. The expert agency should supervise steps to be taken by all the authorities for protecting and rejuvenating the river, the court observed, while directing the State government to inform whether it will appoint such an agency. The Bench was hearing a PIL petition filed by Geeta Misra, resident of Bengaluru. The petitioner had complained about industrial effluents and sewage being discharged into the river by residential, commercial and industrial units, in violation of statutory provision of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution ) Act,1975.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-govt-engage-agency-to-rejuvenate-vrishabhavathi/article32839703.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Central board schools hold online exam; some ask for hard copy||While the State government has announced holiday till October 30 for schools affiliated to the State board, schools affiliated to central boards continue to hold online classes and examinations. What is however irking some parents is that some of the schools are asking them to submit the physical copy of answer scripts. A parent, whose child is in class eight in a North Bengaluru school affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education, said the online examination began on Monday. “We have to send photos of the answer papers once the child finishes the examination. However, we have been told to submit physical copies of the answer scripts as well as it makes it easy for teachers to evaluate. Many teachers complained that the photos were not clear, making it difficult to correct the papers,” the parent added. Another parent, whose son studies in a school in South Bengaluru affiliated to the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination, said the school had asked the parents to click pictures of the answer scripts, convert the files into PDF, and mail it to the subject teacher as soon as they complete the test. “They also asked us to drop the papers in a carton box kept at the school, so that it would help teachers evaluate,” a parent said. However, after several parents protested and refused to come to school to drop off the papers, the management relented and said there was no need to bring a copy to school. Mansoor Ali Khan, general secretary, Managements of Independent CBSE Schools Association, said with the increase in number of COVID-19 cases in the State, it was not advisable for schools to urge parents to drop the answer scripts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/central-board-schools-hold-online-exam-some-ask-for-hard-copy/article32839692.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC stays construction at Saundatti Renuka Yellamma temple||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday stayed further constructions at the famous Sri Renuka Yellamma temple of Saundatti in Belagavi district for allegedly violating provisions of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act 1958. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the interim orders on a PIL petition filed by Mahendragouda of Bailahongal in Belagavi district. It has been pointed out in the petition that documents obtained under the Right to Information Act have revealed that a showcause notice was issued in March 2020 to the executive officer of the temple by the Superintending Archaeologist, Archaeological Survey of India, Dharwad Circle, for carrying out the constructions without obtaining a no-objection certificate from the competent authority. Notice to temple The notice issued to the temple clearly states that the Vijayanagara inscription of Krishnadevaraya in the temple is a protected monument and as per Section 20-A of the Act, and the illegal construction being put up on south-west side of the temple should have been stopped within 15 days from the date of the show-cause notice. However, the construction activities are still going on, the petitioner alleged. RTI information While pointing out that the information provided under the Right to Information Act by the State’s Department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage, Mysuru, states that Sri Renuka Yellamma Temple itself is a State Protected Monument, the petitioner has contended that the constructions taken up by the temple management were contrary to the laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-stays-construction-at-saundatti-renuka-yellamma-temple/article32839381.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIMHANS nursing officer succumbs to COVID-19||A 44-year-old male nursing officer from the psychiatry open general in NIMHANS succumbed to COVID-19 in a private hospital on Monday. This is the first death of an employee from the country’s premier mental health institute. Confirming this to The Hindu , NIMHANS Resident Medical Officer H.N. Shashidhara said the nursing officer had developed symptoms in the last week of September. “His test reports came on October 3 and he was admitted to Sagar Hospital on October 4. Unfortunately, his condition deteriorated and he passed away on Monday,” the doctor said. So far, over 250 employees from NIMHANS have been infected. Of this, over 60 are nursing staff. Asked if the nursing officer was eligible for the Centre’s compensation, he said the institute’s infection control committee was studying the case to find out the source of infection in the nursing officer. “Based on the committee’s report, the Registrar will take a call on whether his case is eligible for compensation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nimhans-nursing-officer-succumbs-to-covid-19/article32839704.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gearing up for festivities||With Dasara and Deepavali around the corner, temples are making elaborate arrangements to maintain and manage crowds. The Dodda Basavanagudi Managing Committee has written to the Muzarai Department seeking information on celebrating the famous Kadlekai Parishe, which falls on December 13-14. Ravishankar G.N. of the committee said: “We do not know whether we will be allowed to publicly celebrate the Parishe which falls on the last Monday of Kartika Masa, which will begin in mid November. Based on the department’s reply, we will make arrangements,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gearing-up-for-festivities/article32839693.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In R.R. Nagar, JD(S) has a peculiar problem with poll candidates||Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituency, which is going to the polls next month, has thrown up a peculiar problem for the Janata Dal (Secular) in terms of candidates ever since it was carved out. For, candidates fielded by the party since the first election in the constituency in 2008 have been “outsiders” who have deserted the party soon after electoral losses, and in one instance a party man who simply went “missing” before the polls. In 2008, Hanumantharayappa (whose daughter H. Kusuma is the Congress nominee now in R.R. Nagar), was the JD(S) candidate after he was denied ticket by the Congress. A known supporter of the current KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, he went back to the Congress after the electoral loss. In 2013, Thimmananjaiah, the party councillor, was given ticket, and according to former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy, he was “not seen by party workers four days before the elections”. In 2018, it was Ramachandra, a local BJP leader, who contested on the JD(S) symbol, only to later go back to the saffron party. “Mr. Hanumantharayappa was never really our party leader. After the elections, he came and informed me of his inclination to go back to the Congress. In 2013, though we asked Mr. Thaimmananjaiah, whose brother-in-law Andanappa was our party candidate in Dasarahalli, to desist from contesting, he was adamant. I was told he was not seen by party workers four days before the polls,” he said. He added that Mr. Ramachandra came to the JD(S) because the BJP had denied him ticket. “Hence, we are looking for leaders from our party who can contest in R.R. Nagar and not those who will go away before or after the polls,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. “Despite the problem with candidates, the party secured nearly 40,000 votes in 2008, only to increase it to 52,000 votes in 2013 and about 60,000 in 2018. Why should we not contest?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-rr-nagar-jds-has-a-peculiar-problem-with-poll-candidates/article32839711.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Weighing his options||Munirathna, who defected from the Congress to help bring the incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government to power, has turned jittery over whether he will ticket for the November 3 byelection to R.R. Nagar. As the last date for filing nominations — October 16 — nears and the party is yet to announce tickets, and as a strong faction within the party is lobbying hard to deny him ticket, speculation is rife that he may even end up losing the race for nomination. Mr. Munirathna held a meeting with his supporters in the constituency on Monday, where it is learnt that he expressed his wish to contest as an Independent candidate if denied ticket by the BJP. He reportedly took stock of the situation and sought suggestions. The idea of seeking ticket from the Janata Dal (S), which is yet to announce its candidate for R.R. Nagar, was also discussed, sources said. However, it was decided that he would wait for the BJP’s decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weighing-his-options/article32839712.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) dissolves Kerala unit, forms ad hoc panel||The Janata Dal (Secular) national president H.D. Deve Gowda on Monday announced dissolution of the Kerala Pradesh JD(S), and appointed Mathew T. Thomas as the president of the ad hoc committee. A note said that the party’s national working president B.M. Farooq had issued a notice to C.K. Nanu on September 24, but Mr. Nanu had not taken any steps to follow the directions given in the notice. The note said that Mr. Nanu has not taken any steps to strengthen the Kerala State unit. “On the contrary, he has acted to destabilise the party and has not consulted the core committee, which was formed,” the order signed by Mr. Gowda said. The note said that Mr. Thomas has taken charge with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-dissolves-kerala-unit-forms-ad-hoc-panel/article32839386.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 4.02 cr. collected in fines for traffic violations||In an effort to bring back discipline among motorists, the traffic police have intensified the drive to book erring motorists. B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner of Police, said that the drive was carried out between October 4 and 10. Traffic police booked as many as 97,213 violations and collected fines totalling Rs. 4.02 crore. This is the highest collection in the recent past. Maximum violations were of not wearing helmets by both riders and pillions, accounting for 50,115 cases. This was followed by jumping traffic signals (10,538), not wearing seat belt (5,364), using mobile phones (2,517), not following lane discipline (3,293), defective number plates (2,410) and wrong parking (3,887).  Maximum violations were of not wearing helmets, accounting for 50,115 cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-402-cr-collected-in-fines-for-traffic-violations/article32839699.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lecturers favour ‘WFH’||With a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State, the Karnataka Government College Teachers’ Association has appealed to the State government to allow college lecturers to work from home till the end of the month. T.M. Manjunath, president of the association, said they had submitted a memorandum to the Higher Education Department urging them to allow lecturers to work from home. “Our lecturers are at a risk during travel and while at college. We want the government to be lenient and give us this option,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lecturers-favour-wfh/article32839691.ece
13 October 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Books on music invited||Karnataka Sangeetha Nritya Academy has invited books published on music in various art forms such as Carnatic, Hindustani, Sugama Sangeetha, dance, kalakeerthana, Gamaka, etc. According to an official release, books published between January and December 2019 for the period of 2020-21 are eligible for entry. Application along with four copies of te books should be sent to the Registrar, Karnataka Sangeetha Nritya Academy, Kannada Bhavana, 2nd Floor, J.C. Road, Bengaluru - 560002 by November 15, 2020. For details, visithttps:// karnatakasangeethanritya academy.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/books-on-music-invited/article32839384.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Toll-free number||Members of the public can call the toll-free number 18004252550 for any complaints relating to the Excise Department, an official release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/toll-free-number/article32839385.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on October 14 from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. in areas coming under Khodays and RBI sub-stations in the light of conversion works. According to BESCOM, the areas affected are: 66/11kV Khodays, F-14: Narayan Nagar 3rd Block., P.N.B. Nagar, Doctors Colony, Soudamini Layout,Amrutha Nagar, Harinagar. 66/11 KV RBI: Gauraghavendra layout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article32839688.ece
13 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Officials working as BJP agents: Revanna||Former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna has alleged that officers of the Hassan district administration have been working as agents of the BJP in power in the State. Speaking to presspersons, here on Monday, Mr Revanna said the officers had been working as per the instructions they receive from BJP leaders. They had ignored rules and the court’s directions to please the party in power. “The reservation for Hassan CMC was notified on October 8. Within two days the dates of the election were announced. Before that, the administration should send notices to all members. The officers have not followed the mandatory procedure. While all offices close by 5 p.m., the DC’s office in Hassan remain open till late in the night”, he said. He reiterated that his party would move the court questioning the reservation declared for the posts of president and vice-president in Hassan CMC. CMC president post The post of CMC president has been reserved for Scheduled Tribe. However, the JD(S) cannot hold the post as it had no member belonging to that category. Eventually, the BJP which has a member to suit the reservation would occupy the post, he said. Regarding the by-election to Rajarajeshwari Nagar constituency, Mr. Revanna said the Congress, despite having a long history, could not find a candidate. They had to bring the daughter of a JD(S) worker to field in the by-election. “Both the national parties have been trying to harm the prospects of a regional party. We will fight against both of them”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-working-as-bjp-agents-revanna/article32839518.ece
13 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||273 new cases in Hassan||Three people died of COVID-19 in Hassan on Monday and 273 fresh cases of the infection were reported in the district on the day. With that, the total number of deaths due to the infection has increased to 378. The tally of confirmed cases rose to 21,589. So far 17,046 people have recovered from the infection and 4,165 are undergoing treatment. Among those under treatment, 53 people are in the intensive care unit. Of the COVID-19 cases reported on the day, 16 are from Arsikere, 52 from Channarayapatna, 10 from Alur, 128 from Hassan, 17 from Holenarsipur, 30 from Arkalgud, five from Belur, 10 from Sakleshpur and five more from other districts, said a bulletin released by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/273-new-cases-in-hassan/article32839521.ece
13 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Fake currency: six held||Chikkamagaluru police have arrested six people in connection with two separate cases related to printing and circulating fake currency notes in the district in two days. Mudigere police, on Monday, conducted a raid and arrested two people on charges of making fake currency notes using a colour printer in the town. The arrested are Pramod V., 32, and Salman M.S. Both are residents of Mudigere town. The police conducted the raid based on a tip-off and seized a colour printer and a few fake currency notes, besides four genuine currency notes of Rs. 2,000 each. In another case, Aldur police arrested four people near Haandi in Chikkamagaluru taluk on Sunday and seized counterfeit currency of face value Rs. 5 lakh, besides two vehicles. Acting on a tip-off, the police stopped a car travelling towards Chikkamagaluru from Dakshina Kannada near Haandi. The police found 1,010 fake currency notes of face value Rs. 500 in a bag kept in the dash board. The police arrested four accused and seized the car they were travelling in, said Akshay M. Hakay, SP of Chikkamagaluru, in a press release issued on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fake-currency-six-held/article32839519.ece
13 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Gold chain snatched||Two miscreants riding a bike snatched a gold chain from a woman near Christ School at Vidya Nagar in Hassan recently. Hassan Extension Police registered a case in this regard on Sunday. Chandrakala, a resident of Vidya Nagar, in her complaint to the police, said the miscreants snatched her 15-gram gold chain while she was on the way to a shop to purchase milk on October 7 morning. By the time she could understand what had happened, the two had fled, said a release issued by Hassan SP R. Srinivasa Gowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-chain-snatched/article32839520.ece
13 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dalit, progressive organisations stage protest in Hubballi||Scores of men and women led by office-bearers of various Dalit and progressive organisations took out a protest march in Hubballi on Monday seeking justice for the family of the young woman who is said to have been raped and murdered at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. The Congress extended support to the agitation which was organised by a federation of various Dalit associations and organisations. The protestors first gathered in front of the Ambedkar statue near the Head Post Office in Hubballi before launching the protest march. Waving flags of their organisations and placards seeking severe punishment to the accused in the case, the protestors marched to the Mini Vidhana Soudha, which houses the Huballi Tahsildar’s office. Roads blocked As the number of protestors was large, the police blocked the roads leading to Kittur Chennamma Circle and diverted vehicular traffic through alternative routes. The protestors covered Lamington Road, Brindavan Circle, Kittur Chennamma Circle and Court Circle before reaching the tahsildar’s office. At Kittur Chennamma Circle, they staged a demonstration for a short while and later at the Mini Vidhana Soudha too. Speakers, including Hubballi Dharwad East MLA Prasad Abbayya, State president of Samata Sena Gurunath Ullikashi, president of Dalit Sena M. Arvind and others, who addressed the protestors, condemned the Hathras incident in strong words and sought severe punishment for the accused. ‘Irresponsible’ They said that the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, which made tall claims about providing protection to women, had behaved in an irresponsible manner and had been apathetic towards the plea of the victim’s family. The Uttar Pradesh government, led by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, had, in fact, tried to snub the protesting organisations and media persons who had raised their voice for justice. Congress leaders Altaf Halwoor, Shakir Sanadi, Babajan Mudhol, Rajashekhar Menasinakai, Mohan Hiremani, Nagaraj Gouri, office-bearers of Anjuman-e-Islam Yousuf Savanur, Altaf Kittur and office-bearers of various Dalit and progressive organisations were part of the agitation. The protestors then submitted a memorandum addressed to the President seeking capital punishment for the perpetrators of the crime and also the dismissal of the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dalit-progressive-organisations-stage-protest-in-hubballi/article32839369.ece
13 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Children race paper boats in potholes as a mark of protest||Fed up with the inaction of the municipal corporation and what they termed as apathy of the district in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar, Youth Congress members of Hubballi conducted a “paper boat race” for children in potholes of the city on Monday. In the event organised as a protest, children took part with paper boats having photographs of Mr. Jagadish Shettar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and seemed to enjoy with their paper boats for a while in the potholes of New Cotton Market in Hubballi. Meanwhile, members of the Hubballi Dharwad Central Constituency unit of the Youth Congress said that despite repeated pleas and protests by residents in the twin cities, the Minister and the municipal administration had failed to respond to appeals against the pathetic state of the roads. They said that they were forced to conduct the “boat race” in a bid to make the Minister and the administration open their eyes to the hardships being faced by the people. Rajat Ullagaddimath, Shahzaman Mujahid and others, who led the unique protest, said that they hoped that at least now pothole filling work is taken up, as a temporary measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/children-race-paper-boats-in-potholes-as-a-mark-of-protest/article32839367.ece
13 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Body of woman who was swept away in floodwaters found on tree branch||A 40-year-old woman was washed away in flash floods when she tried to cross a swirling rivulet at Maragutti Tanda in Kamalapur taluk in Kalaburagi on Sunday evening. The body was found stuck in a tree branch half a kilometre away on Monday. Shanta Bai Rathod, who went to pluck custard apple from a mountainous area in Maragutti, was swept away in the waters as the flow in the rivulet rose rapidly due to continuous rain in the last 24 hours. Continuous rainfall for the third day threw life out of gear and left a majority of roads battered in Kalaburagi district. Beginning with the heavy downpour on Saturday evening, parts of the district witnessed heavy and moderate rainfall till Monday evening. The district recorded 20.4 mm rainfall between Saturday evening and Sunday morning, and 16 mm rainfall on the night of Sunday till Monday morning. In the last 48 hours, the district recorded 36 mm rainfall against a normal rainfall of 30 mm, according to India Meteorological Department. Chincholi taluk reported the highest rainfall of 35 mm, followed by Kamalapur taluk with 25 mm rainfall. Rainfall recorded in Aland, Afzalpur, Chittapur, Jewargi, Kalgi and Sedam taluks was between 10 mm and 15 mm. Yaddrami and Shahbad taluks recorded rainfall of 5 mm and 4 mm, respectively. Overflowing rivulets submerged standing crops in several areas and damaged an embankment, while roads were inundated and water entered houses in various parts of the district. The water level in some areas in Chincholi taluk was knee high, while in the Afzalpur Bus Stand locality, the water level was above waist level. Video footage of an elderly man struggling in the flowing currents in Afzalpur town was doing the rounds on social media. The overflowing Kagina submerged the bridge near Malkhed in Sedam taluk cutting off major transportation connectivity between the State and Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/body-of-woman-who-was-swept-away-in-floodwaters-found-on-tree-branch/article32839362.ece
13 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||388 quintals of rice meant for PDS seized in raids||The Department of Food, Civil Services and Consumer Affairs officials has, under the Essential Commodities Act 1955, conducted raids at three or four locations in Ballari district and seized about 388 quintals of rice which was meant for distribution among people through the Public Distribution System (PDS) and also three vehicles that were used for transporting rice. The value of rice that was recovered was put at Rs. 10,10,568, in all. As per information provided by officials, the raids carried out over the weekend were part of their constant vigil and sustained action against hoarders of essential commodities in that district. Acting on a tip-off, Joint Director of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Sridhar, led a team of officials and police personnel and raided a house at Madhurai village in Kurgod taluk on Friday and seized 35.10 quintals of rice that was illegally stocked there. A case was registered against house owner Chetti Hanumanthappa. The team then intercepted a truck that was carrying 317 quintals of rice worth Rs. 4,76,700 at Sirguppa town the same day. Apart from taking the truck, worth Rs. 7 lakh, into its custody, the team booked a case against the owners of the truck and a rice mill on the charge of illegally hoarding rice in large quantities. In the third raid the same day, the team stopped another truck that was on its way from Idgah Maidan Bypass to Bengaluru Road illegally carrying 27.50 quintals of rice and seized the rice as well as the vehicle. A case was registered against five people at the APMC Police Station. The officers said that they conducted one more raid on Sunday and seized 8.28 quintals of rice worth Rs. 21,528 from a truck at Sirisinakallu Canal Road in Hospete taluk. A case was registered at the Hospete Rural Police Station in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/388-quintals-of-rice-meant-for-pds-seized-in-raids/article32839364.ece
13 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Union government urged to allow net metering for all rooftop solar systems||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has said that the Union Ministry of Power should allow net metering for all rooftop solar systems irrespective of their size. Net metering is a system that gives solar energy owners credits for power that they add to the grid. In its response to the Draft Electricity (Rights of Consumer) Rules 2020, the chamber said that only if consumers have generated excess solar energy (over and above what they can consume themselves), would the customer then sell it to a power distribution company (DISCOM) at a rate fixed by the regulator. With net metering, there would remain a powerful incentive for today’s consumers to become “prosumers”. The chamber’s response was to a September 9, 2020 letter from the Ministry to all chambers of commerce seeking their comments on the draft rules. Responding to it, KCCI president Isaac Vas said in a recent letter to the Ministry that the chamber commended the Ministry for coming up with the rules as such electricity (rights of consumer) rules were non-existing to protect the rights of consumers and “prosumers”. “However, on reading certain draft rules, it appears that the existing rights of consumers are curtailed by the very rules that are made to protect them. It is prayed that the rights of the consumers should be favourable to the consumers instead of curtailing them,” he said. Mr. Vas said that it is a well-known fact that small businesses and MSMEs are the largest consumers of power and the largest provider of employment. However, nowhere in the rules has any mention been made that the volume of minimum power load these consumers should be eligible to draw under LT connections. “We request that consumers should be able to draw 150 KW as LT connection across all DISCOMs and States and in case of mixed load installation, (which means if the building has residential and commercial area), the limit there should be increased to 250 KW, so that, small complexes can have individual power meters. This right to have minimum eligible load for a consumer may be added in the rules,” he said. Relating to metering, the rules should specify whether it should be smart pre-payment meter or prepayment meter. There should be wide consultation with all stakeholders before implementation on mandatory prepayment meter. The State Commission should have power to specify for which class of consumers the prepayment meter should be made mandatory, the letter said. Referring to online payment, the rules state that bill amount for more than Rs. 1,000 or amount specified by the Commission shall be mandatorily be paid online. This restricts the rights of the consumers in making different modes of payments, including by cheque/demand draft. Various consumers such as non-profit entity, associations, residential associations, trust, senior citizen may not use the online payment facility. Further, a limit of Rs. 1,000 is very small. Many people in rural area may not access to the online payment system. Hence, the limit should be raised to Rs. 10,000 for payment mode other than cash, the chamber said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/union-government-urged-to-allow-net-metering-for-all-rooftop-solar-systems/article32839893.ece
13 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Area under paddy up by 4.11 % in twin dists.||Area under paddy in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts put together has gone up by 4.11 % during this kharif season. Agriculture Department officials attribute it to some farmers who otherwise had left their paddy fields fallow returning to farming and some youth who were working in cities and towns elsewhere returning to the roots of their family farming due to the COVID-19 situation. According to the department, the area under paddy in the two districts went up by 1,857 hectares to 46,998 hectares in this season from 45,141 hectares in the last kharif season. Paddy cultivation was high in Dakshina Kannada which registered an 8.03 % increase when compared to 2.93 % growth in Udupi district. The area under paddy shot up by 837 hectares to 11,248 hectares from 10,411 hectares in Dakshina Kannada. It was up by 1,020 hectares to 35,750 hectares from 34,730 hectares in Udupi district. Joint Director, Agriculture, Udupi, H. Kempe Gowda, told The Hindu that as per information gathered by the department, some persons who have returned to their native places due to the COVID-19 situation have taken up farming in their family-owned paddy fields which had been left fallow. They are now staying back in the villages. Normally, Mr. Kempe Gowda said, the department used to distribute paddy seeds from the second week of May before the onset of monsoon. But there was demand for seeds this year in April itself. Hence, seeds were distributed after the second week of April. The Joint Director said that if the department had distributed about 1,900 quintals of seeds in the last kharif, this time, it went up to 2,500 qunitals. There was demand for MO 4 variety. Joint Director, Agriculture, Dakshina Kananda, M.C. Seetha, said that the demand for seeds went up to 790 quintals from 725 quintals this year, which the department distributed. “One of the reasons for the area going up was that the land left fallow has been brought into cultivation by local groups with hand-holding by the department and elected representatives,” Ms. Seetha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/area-under-paddy-up-by-411-in-twin-dists/article32839373.ece
13 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Crop loss on 65 ha in Udupi||Floods in Udupi district last month destroyed standing paddy crops in 65 hectares, according to Joint Director, Agriculture, Udupi, H. Kempe Gowda. The crop loss was due to submergence of paddy fields mainly in Baindoor, Karkala and Kundapur areas, he said. Director of Agriculture Department B.Y. Srinivas visited the fields in the district on September 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crop-loss-on-65-ha-in-udupi/article32839894.ece
13 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Activists want govt. medical college to be set up in city||Social activists and people from different professions staged a dharna in front of the office of Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath here on Monday demanding that a government medical college be set up in the city and the Government Wenlock and Lady Goschen Hospitals be upgraded as super-speciality hospitals. They also sought more facilities in other government hospitals and primary health centres (PHCs) and filling of vacant posts in community health centres and PHCs. The activists demanded 100-bed hospitals in each taluk headquarters and urged the government to regulate private hospitals from charging exorbitant charges for treatment. The protest was organised by the Democratic Youth Federation of India. Addressing the gathering, Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary Vasanth Achari said that their demands have been pending for long. The COVID-19 situation has only helped in reviving these demands. “I am glad to see the support that this protest has received on the social media. We need to make this as a public movement and bring pressure to bear on elected representatives in fulfilling these demands,” he said. Mr. Achari said that a majority of those who died of COVID-19 infection, which included some CPI(M) activists, could not get the necessary treatment in time. “We need to fight and ensure that the common man gets treatment at the right time,” he said. DYFI State president Muneer Katipalla said that it was unfortunate that the district does not have a government medical college. Private medical colleges are taking advantage of the poor state of government hospitals. A commercial outlook of the private medical colleges has hurt people in the district. Similar protests will be held in front of the offices of all other MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-want-govt-medical-college-to-be-set-up-in-city/article32839897.ece
13 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four held, counterfeit notes with a face value of Rs. 2.4 lakh seized||The Ullal Police have arrested four persons on the charge of being in illegal possession of counterfeit currency with a face value of Rs. 2.40 lakh near Ullal Beach. The police said that during patrolling they found a car parked near the beach on Saturday. As they went near the vehicle, two persons ran away, while four were caught. The police searched the car and found 480 counterfeit notes in Rs. 500 denomination. The accused told the police that they had obtained the counterfeit notes from two persons and that they were distributing them for commission. The police arrested Syed Habib, Faizal Khan, Mohammad Zaman and Aris. While Habib, Khan and Zaman are from Bengaluru, Aris is from Ullal. The police have launched a search for Saleem and Ranjit who are absconding. The police seized the car used by the accused. Investigation is on to find others associated with the arrested persons. Boat capsizes A 24-year-old fisherman died, while four were rescued after their fishing boat on which they were returning to the fishing harbour in Hejamady capsized near the estuary on Sunday. According to Padubidri Police, Sukesh Putran (24) left for fishing with Rajesh Putran, Niraj Karkera, Pandurang Kotian and Nagesh Salyan on the boat from the fishing harbour on Sunday at 6 a.m. While they were returning with catch, the boat capsized after encountering a huge wave as it was passing the estuary. All the five fishermen fell off the boat. Four of them were rescued by fishermen on two fishing boats that were nearby. The body of the Sukesh Putran was found on the beach in Hejmady on Monday at 2 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-held-counterfeit-notes-with-a-face-value-of-rs-24-lakh-seized/article32839895.ece
13 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MAHE launches series on ‘Entrepreneurial Insights’||The Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) on Saturday started a series of programmes called “Entrepreneurial Insights” that enables subject matter experts, entrepreneurs and corporate leaders share their experience with MAHE community. In a press release, Vice-Chancellor of MAHE M.D. Venkatesh said that such interaction series will be helpful for those who plan to innovate or embark upon their entrepreneurial journey. MAHE will extend support for entrepreneurial activities. Director of Corporate Relations,MAHE, Raviraja N.S. said that with the Union government promoting innovation and entrepreneurship in a big way, it was the time for budding innovators and entrepreneurs to get into action. This series will be held on a regular basis and it will be interactive and informative. The first of this series was an interaction with professor Harish Joshi from Manipal Institute of Management and professor Ishwar Haritas of TAPMI, Manipal. Among the questions that were deliberated at length included one related to factors for success in the entrepreneurial journey. The other question was about the reasons for the failure of start-ups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahe-launches-series-on-entrepreneurial-insights/article32839888.ece
13 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Boy killed in road accident in Brahmavar||A three-year-old boy died after he was hit by a car near Akashvani Junction in Varamballi village of Brahmavar Police limits on Monday. The police said that Shivaram (3) was standing by the roadside and trying to cross the National Highway 66 when he was hit by the car going from Udupi to Kundapur at 2 p.m. He was taken to a private hospital in an unconscious state. He died in hospital. The police have arrested car driver Mohammed Ismail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-killed-in-road-accident-in-brahmavar/article32839898.ece
13 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MCC steps up property tax collection||Even as the Mysuru City Corporation has set a target of collecting nearly Rs. 70 crore property tax dues this year, the tax collection drive launched across all zones in Mysuru may help the corporation in recovering its dues as Rs. 21.55 lakh was collected in Dattagalli locality – Ward No 46 in Zone 3 – alone in a day during the drive on Monday. Chamundeshwari MLA and former Minister G.T. Deve Gowda, MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde and councillors and engineers took part in the drive. Appeal Mr. Gowda urged the residents to pay property tax in time and help the MCC take up works. The former Minister said he had seen people from lower middle class and disadvantaged sections promptly paying tax visiting the MCC zonal offices despite COVID-19 pandemic disrupting the economy. Those who have accrued the tax dues can pay them when the MCC staff visit their doorsteps, he said, citing the example of two taxpayers who cleared their dues of over Rs. 1 lakh each in the Dattagalli drive. Support The MCC has resolved to expedite tax collection taking up door-to-door visits accompanied by the ward councillors, zonal engineers and revenue staff from the MCC. As a part of this drive, the MLA and others took part in the campaign, urging the taxpayers to clear the dues and bring revenue to the MCC. Mr. Hegde said the MCC is planning to collect nearly Rs. 15 crore in the form of renewal and issuance of trade licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-steps-up-property-tax-collection/article32839527.ece
13 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru takes up the Street Challenge||Mysuru is one of the 113 cities registered for the Streets for People Challenge, an initiative of Smart Cities Mission, Government of India. The India Programme of the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), which is the knowledge partner of the Smart Cities Mission, is conducting this Challenge and guiding cities through it. The registered cities will implement quick, innovative, and low-cost interventions to make their cities walkable, with a focus on place making and liveability. “Promoting pedestrian movement in urban streets promotes public health, cleaner air, better public mobility and is environmentally-friendly. It will ease congestion and traffic and pave the way for a sustainable city. I request active citizen participation in creating safer streets and support Mysuru in the Challenge,” said Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde. Community engagement is a key component of the Challenge, and its success depends on active coordination between the city and its citizens. To ensure this transformation, Mysuru is committed to working with its citizens as it develops and implements the proposals, a release said here. Green recovery The Challenge pushes cities to reimagine their streets as public spaces through the lens of economic regeneration, safety, and child-friendly interventions, in order to ensure a green recovery from COVID-19, according to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.  What’s the Challenge?  The Challenge comprises two stages: in Stage 1 that runs until February 2021, each city has to identify and test at least one flagship walking project and enhance liveability in one neighbourhood. The potential locations for the flagship project may include streets and public spaces around transit hubs, heritage zones, commercial streets, market areas, recreational corridors, or any zone with high footfall. A city-led design competition will form an integral component of the Challenge to gather innovative ideas from professionals across the country as the Challenge considers participatory approach as its core value.  11 cities to get nod  The Mission will shortlist 11 cities, through a reputed panel of experts, which would then move to Stage 2 of the Challenge. The evaluation will be based on the pilots and conceptual city-wide scale-up proposals submitted by the registered cities. The shortlisted cities will receive an award, a citation, and guidance from national and international experts to further develop and commence their scale-up plans submitted in Stage 1. This stage will extend until May 2021, the release said. During the course of the Challenge, cities will receive assistance through online training workshops, knowledge resources, peer-to-peer learning discussions with fellow cities, and interactions with local civil society organisations (CSOs) and design experts to strategise and implement pilots, while also developing their scale-up proposal. Portal The Challenge, the release said, has launched an online portal that features a page exclusively for this purpose titled ‘Support your city’. By filling the form on this page, interested citizens, CSOs, students, consultants, and corporates can express their interest in working with the city for the Challenge. Using this portal, Mysuru will review the entries and form a diverse team that will support in developing and implementing the initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-takes-up-the-street-challenge/article32839525.ece
13 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Focus on controlling COVID-19 deaths: Sudhakar||Minister for Medical Education and Health K. Sudhakar on Monday told officials in Mysuru to focus on controlling the deaths due to COVID-19 and reducing the fatality rate to less than one per cent by taking all necessary measures. At a meeting here to discuss the strategies for COVID-19 management and the preventive measures during the ensuing Dasara festivities, he said the hospitals across Mysuru should set aside more beds for COVID-19 patients and directed his department officials to ensure patients do not face shortage of beds. With the spike in mortality rate in Mysuru, the emphasis should be on controlling deaths, he said, adding that a death audit was being made to ascertain the reasons for the spurt in fatalities. In view of spike in infections and deaths, the hospitals must ensure all drugs were available and there was no short supply. If necessary, important drugs can be warehoused so that no patient was inconvenienced, Dr. Sudhakar said and added that home isolated patients need to be monitored suitably. If required, such patients should be shifted to hospitals for monitoring. Additional Chief Secretary Jawed Akthar, State COVID-19 War Room in-charge Munish Moudgil, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and others were present.  What the new Health Minister said… •As many as 1,718 beds, including 590 in government hospitals, are available for COVID-19 treatment in Mysuru district. This includes 178 in medical college, 250 in district hospital, 260 in trauma care centre and 400 in JSS Hospital. If we get 1,500 beds in all private hospitals, the total number of beds would touch 3,500. •No audit has been done for 193 COVID-19 deaths in Mysuru. Nearly 170 deaths had occurred in private hospitals. In about a week’s time, the death audit will be done and the exact reason for the rising fatalities will be known. •New testing labs are being established for an additional 3,000 to 4,000 tests a day. •As per the COVID-19 technical committee’s recommendations, the Dasara celebrations would be conducted, strictly limiting public participation over COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/focus-on-controlling-covid-19-deaths-sudhakar/article32839523.ece
13 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tobacco farmers seek reduction in penalty for excess cultivation||With tobacco crop in Karnataka expected to cross the ceiling fixed by the Tobacco Board this year, farmers have urged the Centre to reduce the penalty imposed on them for cultivating excess. Anticipating a production of close to 100 million kg, as against the ceiling of 88 million kg, because of favourable weather conditions, the tobacco farmers, wary of coughing up large sums in penalties, have urged the Centre to reduce the penalty for excess cultivation from the existing 15% on the proceeds of the sale to 5%. Earlier this year, the Tobacco Board fixed 99 million kg as the crop size for Karnataka, but weeks later revised it to 88 million kg, fearing a dip in the global demand for the commodity because of COVID-19. It reduced the quantum for each of the 56,000 licensed growers from 1,700 kg to 1,552 kg. However, Javare Gowda, president of Virginia Flue Cured (VFC) Tobacco Growers’ Federation of Karnataka, argued that the farmers had completed sowing operations by the time the board revised the crop size. “As tobacco in Mysuru region grows under rain-fed conditions, productivity varies depending on the weather. Ideal weather conditions and good agricultural practices by the growers have resulted in improved productivity per unit area,” he said. Questioning the rationale behind penalising farmers when nature is benevolent to them, Mr. Gowda expressed fear that growers would have to pay a penalty to the tune of Rs. 30 crore for excess production. Meanwhile, auction of tobacco for the year 2020-21 have begun across all 11 platforms in the State, with the board taking the necessary precautions against the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tobacco-farmers-seek-reduction-in-penalty-for-excess-cultivation/article32839716.ece
13 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Modi to deliver UoM’s 100th convocation address virtually||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the centenary convocation address of University of Mysore through virtual mode at 11 a.m. on October 19. A notification issued by the University on Monday said the centenary convocation will be held at the university’s Crawford Hall with Governor of Karnataka and Chancellor of the university Vajubhai Vala presiding over the event. While Mr. Modi has consented to deliver the 100th convocation address through virtual mode, Minister for Higher Education and Pro Chancellor of the university C.N. Ashwath Narayan will grace the occasion. University Registrar B. Shivappa told The Hindu that the convocation, considered to be a historic occasion for the first university to be set up in Karnataka, was due to be held in March 2020, but had to put off due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modi-to-deliver-uoms-100th-convocation-address-virtually/article32839374.ece
13 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KSRTC lost Rs. 1,600 crore during lockdown: MLA||KSRTC chairman and MLA M. Chandrappa on Monday said the State corporation suffered a loss of Rs. 1,600 crore during the COVID-19-induced lockdown, and the Mysuru KSRTC division alone lost nearly Rs. 70 crore as the buses were off the roads for a long time. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with the officials of KSRTC Mysuru urban and rural divisions here, he said the corporation was planning to provide free buses passes to labourers. Officials from the Department of Labour would be consulted on the plan as the step was expected to help them to overcome distress caused by the pandemic. In view of the pandemic, the Mysuru Dasara festivities had been scaled down and therefore the KSRTC has decided to provide services as per the demand with the rural division running 70 buses and the urban division running 20 buses during the annual festivities, he added. He also spoke on extending relief to the KSRTC staff who died of COVID-19 after discussions with the government and said the merger of urban and rural KSRTC divisions in Mysuru would be explored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-lost-rs-1600-crore-during-lockdown-mla/article32839388.ece
13 October 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Search still on for man washed away in stream||The search operation to trace a man identified as Channabasava who was washed away in a stream in Maski on Sunday morning, is still on as the Police, Fire and Emergency Services personnel and Revenue officials continued their efforts in this direction on Monday evening. Channabasava was washed away despite the efforts by the officials to rescue him from the middle of the overflowing stream. Another man, Jaleel, with whom Channabasava had gone to attend to nature’s call and was left stranded after a heavy amount of water from the Maski Dam was discharged into the stream, was rescued with the help of a crane on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/search-still-on-for-man-washed-away-in-stream/article32839365.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC to examine implications of increasing wards on civic polls||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday said it would examine implications of the amendment made to the law to increase the number of wards in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to 225 on the process of elections already initiated by the State Election Commission (SEC) after recent delimitation of the existing 198 wards. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi made the observations during the hearing of PIL petitions, seeking directions for timely holding of elections to the BBMP. Earlier, the State Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi brought to the notice of the Bench that the State Legislature had recently amended the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act to increase the number of wards to 225 pending an exhaustive enactment of a separate law for the administration of the BBMP during the pendency of the petitions. He also told the Bench that the State government has written to the Election Commission of India seeking permission to notify the increase in number of wards in view of the model code of conduct in force for the upcoming bylections to the State Legislative Assembly. However, Senior Advocate K.N. Phanindra, appearing for SEC pointed out to the Bench that it may not be possible to hold elections to the BBMP for one year, as the process of delimitation to carve out 225 new wards will take six months and thereafter, it will take 2 to 3 months to fix reservation, and another 2 to 3 months to prepare new voters’ list. Mr. Phanindra also told the Bench that the voters’ list of many wards are already prepared based on the recent delimitation process and voters’ list had been printed for publication. Meanwhile, senior advocate Ravivarma Kumar, appearing for a petitioner, said that as outcome of Census 2021 would be available when by the time the processes of creating new 225 wards, fixing reservation and voters’ list are completed, the government may further postpone election to carry out delimitation of wards as per the census. If allowed, the BBMP would remain under the direct control of the State government for about two years in violation of the constitutional provisions, Mr. Kumar said. Further hearing has been adjourned. In another PIL related to holding of elections to 5,800 gram panchayats, the Bench asked SEC to take appropriate decision by Friday on the letter by the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj requesting postponement of elections to panchayats citing increasing COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-to-examine-implications-of-increasing-wards-on-civic-polls/article32839701.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man held for duping people||A man who was allegedly duping private companies and unemployed youth by posing as the manager of a reputed firm was arrested by the CCB on Monday. Dawood Pasha, 46, was arrested based on a complaint by a woman accusing him of cheating her daughter after promising a job. According to the police, Dawood duped Sarika after taking Rs. 50,000 by posing as the manager of an online job search firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-duping-people/article32839698.ece
13 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||618 new cases in Alappuzha||The Alappuzha district reported 618 COVID-19 cases on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 465 patients contracted the virus through local transmission. The source of infections of 140 people who were diagnosed with the disease remains unknown. Seven people who came from other States, one from abroad and five health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also registered two COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official tally to 62. The deceased were identified as an 85-year-old woman from Thrikkunnappuzha and a 53-year-old man from Chingoli. They died on October 6 and 8 respectively. Among the new cases, 73 were logged from Punnapra South, 61 from Panavally, 49 from Mannancherry, 28 from Kadakkarappally and 22 from Alappuzha. Meanwhile, 594 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 6,278. The police have registered 59 cases and arrested 58 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 305 people for not wearing face masks and 1,415 for not maintaining physical distance. Another 20 cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against 99 people in connection with the 22 cases. Containment zones Parts of ward 17 in Punnapra North, ward 19 in Thanneermukkom, ward 5 in Chennam Pallippuram grama panchayat and ward 46 in Alappuzha municipality were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/618-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article32839477.ece
13 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Work on AC road launched||The State has made great strides in the public transport sector, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was virtually inaugurating the reconstruction work of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road on Monday. “The State has witnessed big changes in the public transport system. The government has made 98% of roads in the State motorable. A total of 5,000 roads have been reconstructed under the Chief Minister's Local Road Rebuild Project. Besides, Rs. 14, 864 crore is being spent for the renovation of various roads in the State. The government has spent Rs. 1,883 crore for reconstructing roads damaged in flood in recent years. Roads being built utilising Rs. 950 crore from NABARD are in the final phase of construction,” Mr. Vijayan said. The Chief Minister said that 189 roads constructed at a cost of Rs. 1,451 crore across the State would be opened to traffic in three months. The 24.14-km AC road will be reconstructed as a semi-elevated highway at a cost of Rs. 671.66 crore. The project, which is expected to prevent flooding of the road during the monsoon season, will be completed in three years. As part of the project, 2.9 km of the road will be refurbished using bituminous macadam bituminous concrete (BMBC) method. Using geotextiles, 8.27 km will be strengthened. Another 9 km of the road will be reconstructed with geogrid and geotextiles encased stone column. Five flyovers will be constructed at places prone to severe flooding. The flyovers will come up between the Onnamkara bridge and Mankombu Junction, Mankombu Junction and Mankombu culvert, Jyothi Junction and Parasseril bridge, Ponga culvert and Pandarakulam, and near Mankombu Thekkekara. Besides, three existing bridges at Kidangara, Nedumudi and Pallathuruthy will be widened. The Muttar bridge across the AC canal will be reconstructed. Apart from these, construction of nine causeways, 13 minor bridges, drains, ducts, retaining walls, culverts, bus shelters, and road safety features are also planned. The two-lane road and flyovers with footpaths will have a width between 13 and 14 meters. The work will be carried out by the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran presided. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, A.M. Ariff, MP, and others attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-ac-road-launched/article32839475.ece
13 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Two held in Karuvatta cooperative service bank heist case||The police have arrested two persons in connection with the Karuvatta bank heist case. The arrested have been identified as Shybu, 39, of Chettikulangara and Shibu, 43, of Kattakkada, Thiruvananthapuram. Officials said that the prime accused in the theft case was still absconding. At least 5.43 kg of gold ornaments and Rs. 4.5 lakh cash were stolen from the Karuvatta Service Cooperative Bank. The incident came to light on September 3 when the bank reopened after Onam holidays. Speaking to reporters at Haripad on Monday, District Police Chief P.S. Sabu said that the burglars had sold 1.5 kg of gold in a jewellery in Thiruvananthapuram. Mr. Sabu said that an investigation into previous convicts in robbery cases helped them to crack the case. He said that efforts were on to found the rest of the gold. According to the police, the burglars entered the bank by breaking open a door and took away gold and cash kept in two safes in the strongroom. Both the strongroom and the lockers were opened using a gas-cutter. While the thieves abandoned the used gas cylinders, stolen from Adoor, in the bank, they took away the CCTV hard disk and computers. The probe was conducted by a special investigation team led by Additional Superintendent of Police N. Rajan. The investigation team examined 25 lakh phone calls and CCTV visuals from various places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-in-karuvatta-cooperative-service-bank-heist-case/article32839478.ece
13 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Houseboats to take time to open in Alappuzha||When the COVID-19 pandemic started to wreak havoc across the globe earlier this year, the houseboat sector was one of the first to come to a grinding halt. Now, after a seven-month pause, the sector is among the last to resume operations. On Monday, the first day of resumption of houseboat services, there was no jostling of vessels or rush of tourists in Alappuzha, a major backwater destination. Only a couple of boats, carrying a small number of domestic tourists following COVID-19 protocols, chugged along the palm-fronted backwaters of Alappuzha. Majority of the houseboats will only resume services in the next couple of days after completing the cleaning and maintenance of the vessels. Houseboat owners, who are struggling to stay afloat after COVID-19 blew a hole in the sector, have welcomed the government decision allowing boat operations adhering to COVID-19 protocols. First step “It is the first step on the long road to normalisation. All arrangements are in place to welcome tourists. However, with the COVID-19 graph continuing to climb, we are not expecting tourists to come in hordes any time soon. There are hardly any bookings or enquiries at present. Opening the sector is a positive move, but the government should also take steps to promote the destination,” says Kevin Rozario, general secretary, All Kerala Houseboat Owners and Operators Samiti. Mr. Kevin has urged the government to extend the moratorium on banks loans to one year and release the maintenance grant to houseboats at the earliest. Earlier, after the pandemic severely hit the business, several houseboat owners and employees turned to other jobs to make a living. Vinod V., president, All Kerala Houseboat Owners Association, says it will take at least another six months to achieve some sort of normalcy in the sector. “Given the pandemic situation, we are not going to get many trips as tourist flow will be minimal. As such the government should extend the soon-to-be-expiring survey, fitness registration and other certificates of the boats,” he says. Impetus Resuming houseboat operations are expected to provide an impetus to the entire backwater tourism sector. M. Malin, secretary, District Tourism Promotion Council says the COVID-19 protocols will be strictly followed. As part of it, check-in will be allowed only from Punnamada finishing point and Pallathuruthy houseboat terminals. As per the guidelines, a maximum of 100 tourists who follow COVID-19 protocol will be allowed in terminals at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/houseboats-to-take-time-to-open/article32839469.ece
13 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Opening of tourism sector brings hope in Munnar||With the opening of tourism centres from Monday, the sector hopes to come out of its pandemic-induced lull. Hundreds of people depend on tourism in Munnar, one of the chosen destinations in the district. The move to slowly open the sector has come as a relief to them as well as the other stakeholders. A staff at a resort at Munnar says there is no booking at present but it might pick up in the coming winter season. Job J. Neryamparambi, range officer of the Eravikulam National Park (ENP), says only 10 persons visited Rajamala, the natural habitat of Nilgiri tahr and the main destination in Munnar, on Monday. This could be because the town is in the containment zone, he says. The ENP remained closed from January 20 after it was shut for the calving season of the Nilgiri tahr. It was reopened on August 19 when an average of 100 visitors came there per day. Mr Job says the sightings of Nilgiri tahr are high in Rajamala now. Tourism activities As many as 2,300 persons solely depend on the tourism activities under the Forest Department in Munnar. They were thrown out of work after the pandemic hit. In the ENP alone, an average of Rs. 40 lakh is needed to run the tourism activities per month. A large amount of it goes to daily wage earners as their pay. Such emergencies are usually met with the funds kept in reserve. This is slowly drying up, an official at the ENP says, highlighting the need to open the tourism activities. There are a number of tribespeople who work in the tourism sector under the Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR). They are also facing the same situation as at the ENP. The economic activities in Kumily depend largely on the tourism activities at Thekkady. Boat ride Though tourism activities were opened here by August end, only 17 tourists turned up for the boat ride on the lake. Krishnaraj, a native of Munnar, say visitors might start coming from Tuesday. The lesser-known tourism destinations of Ramakkalmedu and Wagamon saw only low turnout of tourists on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opening-of-tourism-sector-brings-hope-in-munnar/article32839470.ece
13 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Denial of treatment to invite stringent action||Kannur District Collector T.V. Subhash has warned private hospitals of stringent action, if they deny treatment to pregnant women affected by COVID-19. The Collector, who is also the Chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority, pointed out that there had been an increasing tendency among private hospitals to refer pregnant woman testing positive for the virus to government hospitals. The system cannot accommodate such cases in the event of a surge, and there is a possibility of the public health-care system finding it difficult to handle them. In such situations, it will be tough to treat COVID-19 patients in serious condition, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/denial-of-treatment-to-invite-stringent-action/article32839412.ece
13 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi corpn. to write to govt. against waste-to-energy plant||Despite opposition from LDF councillors, the Kochi Corporation will write to the State government against what the councillors of the ruling front claim is a decision to set up the waste-to-energy (WTE) plant in a manner that could place a massive financial liability upon the civic body. The company that will now get to handle the WTE project for the corporation will be responsible for transporting waste, said UDF councillor A.B. Sabu. For every tonne of waste to be carried to Brahmapuram, the company could charge a tipping fee of Rs. 3,550, he said. With the corporation producing around 300 tonnes of waste daily, this could cost the civic administration nearly Rs. 10.5 lakh a day, he pointed out. “Since the company is already being paid a tipping fee and is, therefore, ensured some profit, there is no profit motive binding the company to produce electricity. They could just dump waste at the site and still be ensured of a profit,” Mr. Sabu said at the council meeting held on Monday. The agreement that was signed earlier and cancelled by the government in May this year had ensured some profit to the corporation, if waste over 250 tonnes was sent to the plant. But with a Government Order from 2018 making changes to the terms of the agreement on the basis of which WTE plants will be operated, the corporation is no longer ensured of any profit, Mr. Sabu said. It will now write to the government asking for the terms to be reconsidered. Mayor Soumini Jain said the corporation’s financial liability with the earlier agreement was around Rs. 30 crore annually. With the changes likely to be made to the new contract, the corporation could have to deal with nearly twice that financial burden yearly, she added. When Opposition councillors sought to discuss the matter at a steering committee meeting before taking it to the State government, the resolution was passed by voting with the UDF’s majority in the council. LDF Parliamentary Party secretary V.P. Chandran said the same matter of the WTE plant being a financial liability had incidentally been raised by former Mayor Tony Chammany at a recent press briefing. “The issue is not being raised in the city’s interest,” he said. Opposition protest Over the issue of the corporation’s land near the High Court recently being attached, the Opposition staged a protest against the civic body’s inability to protect its assets. The corporation’s new office was being constructed at the site, and with the property being attached, the fate of the new building hangs in the balance, said Opposition leader K.J. Antony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-corpn-to-write-to-govt-against-waste-to-energy-plant/article32839863.ece
13 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||480 positive cases as testing dips||After two days of recording over a thousand fresh cases, the district saw a dip on Monday with 480 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, thanks to a dip in the number of samples tested. While 378 people have contracted the infection through local contact, six people had arrived from outside the State. The source of infection of 73 patients remains untraced. A total of 23 health workers have newly been infected. With 1,018 people testing negative, the recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on Monday. As many as 30,953 people remain in quarantine and the district’s active caseload has hit 12,268. For testing, 2,146 samples were collected – the lowest number in the past four days. On Sunday, 2,747 samples were collected, over 7,900 on Saturday and over 5,500 samples on Friday. From Vengola, 40 people have tested positive, while over 20 people each have newly been infected from Fort Kochi and Vazhakulam. Positive cases of the infection were also reported from areas including Kothamangalam, Thrikkakara, Mattancherry, Aluva and Palluruthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/480-positive-cases-as-testing-dips/article32839865.ece
13 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Activities at Thoppumpady harbour come to a standstill||The dispute over the arrival of gillnet boats with fishers from Tamil Nadu on board brought activities at the Thoppumpady fishing harbour to a standstill on Monday, as purse seine boat workers called off all fishing activities, with harbour workers refusing to handle their catch. Though a meeting was convened by District Collector S. Suhas on Sunday, it failed to end the impasse, and talks on Monday did not see any breakthrough, said M. Majeed of Harbour Coordination Committee. Thoppumpady is Kerala’s biggest fishing harbour, and it was reopened after the annual trawling ban only in the second week of August owing to the lockdown. Bad weather warnings had further disrupted fishing operations from the harbour where thousands of vessels operate. The bone of contention is that fishers from other States are banned from entering Kerala harbours as per the COVID-19 protocol issued by the State government. The boats can be fined, and the Fisheries Department is considering imposing fine on four boats. A section of harbour workers feels that they should not be punished so harshly. But purse seine boat workers, who had initially objected to the arrival of gillnet boats and prevented the catch on these boats from being sold at Thoppumpady harbour, are now facing opposition from harbour workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/activities-at-thoppumpady-harbour-come-to-a-standstill/article32839855.ece
13 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Medical oxygen supplied to govt. hospitals||The first truck carrying medical oxygen to government hospitals from Bharat Petroleum Corporation’s Kochi Refinery was flagged off on Monday by District Collector S. Suhas. The initiative is jointly taken up by BPCL and Prodair Air Products, said a communication from BPCL here. The Collector hailed the efforts by the companies to help the district administration fight the pandemic. The oxygen being supplied is 99.7% pure, and the supply will be to the tune of 10 tonnes a week. Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam; General Hospital, and PVS COVID-19 Apex Centre will get free medical oxygen supply for two months. The project is being taken up on the instructions of R. Venugopal, Chief Controller of Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation, the communication added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-oxygen-supplied-to-govt-hospitals/article32839849.ece
13 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police warn job seekers against falling prey to online fraud||A young IT professional lured by the prospects of making a lucrative career in the United States has ended up losing over Rs. 11 lakh after being ensnared in an online job fraud. It started with the youngster striking a friendship over Facebook with someone claiming to be a U.S. woman military officer posted in Iraq. As days went by, the imposter dangled the carrot of setting up an IT business in the U.S. along with requests for financial help for her sick son’s surgery. The victim fell for it and transferred Rs. 11.50 lakh in over 20-odd transactions to around 14 different bank branches across the country. Doubts over why a U.S. citizen wanted deposits in Indian banks were swept aside by the reasoning that such transfers would raise suspicions in the U.S.. This was among the 21 online job fraud cases reported in Ernakulam Rural so far this year. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik has warned job aspirants from falling prey to online fraud. The numbers, though, could be misleading since many victims either choose not to report cases or camouflage job fraud as online cheating, said sources. Data entry has emerged as the preferred job fraud whereby targets are required to submit work for predetermined rates. Their identity documents and even signatures are collected as part of the deal. “Once the works are submitted, they are rejected and then targets are threatened with legal repercussions, using job agreements fabricated using victims’ signatures unless damages are paid. Scared, many of them pay and the incidents go unreported,” said sources. Fabricating portals of foreign healthcare institutions with vacancies is another common ploy. The portals feature original contact numbers to convince potential victims likely to verify vacancies but the payments made go to accounts of fraudsters. A similar ploy is used for visa frauds and vacancies published in genuine job portals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-warn-job-seekers-against-falling-prey-to-online-fraud/article32839851.ece
13 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Fort Kochi police face public ire||Discontent is brewing against the Fort Kochi police for the alleged assault on a group of youngsters in a ground near Customs Jetty on Sunday evening. Five youngsters were injured in the alleged assault, and they are undergoing treatment at two different hospitals. While the victims alleged that they were mercilessly beaten up by a five-member police team for having assembled for playing cricket, the police termed it an unlawful assembly and said that the youths might have sustained injuries while attempting to flee. “The youngsters had assembled in violation of Section 144 and could have been charged accordingly but were instead brutally assaulted using wooden planks,” alleged Aneesh Mattancherry, a social activist who warned of further protests unless action was taken against the guilty. Shameer K.S., a local resident whose younger brother was injured in the incident, said the police had beaten them up with little warning. He added that one of them was seriously injured and accused Sunil Kumar, a civil police officer, of being particularly nasty. Fort Kochi Station House Officer G.B. Manuraj said the place was a hub of anti-social elements. He added that the youngsters had sustained injuries while trying to flee the police, though two cops armed with bamboo canes had charged them beneath their knees while they were on the run. Mr. Manuraj defended Sunil Kumar as a no-nonsense copwho, despite being a local resident, acted impartially against fellow residents. The police have registered two separate cases against those who assembled at the ground and then laid siege to the station later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fort-kochi-police-face-public-ire/article32839861.ece
13 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||E-vehicle charging station every 50 km||The Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology (ANERT) has plans to equip Kerala with an electric vehicle charging station every 50 km or 25 stations in each district and to switch the entire network of stations within a year to solar power as the State’s e-mobility projects move forward. The agency had firmed up plans to rope in private investors to set up charging stations along the State’s road network, with priority being given to national highways and M.C. Road, said ANERT sources on Monday. They said private persons with a suitable piece of land for a charging station could come forward, and ANERT would help provide the equipment and technical backup. In other cases, if an investor is willing to put in money for setting up a charging station, ANERT will help find a suitable location for the station.  Site surveys Agency sources said electric vehicles were expected to catch up in a big way within a couple of years and charging stations would be good investments as more people shifted from conventional to electric vehicles. ANERT has now completed 135 site surveys across the State for setting up charging stations. ANERT, with support from Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), an agency under the Union Ministry of Power, commissioned an electric vehicle charging station in Kochi on Sunday, where cars are now being allowed to recharge free of cost for three months. The facility will be officially inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in November. ANERT’s initial plan is to set up a charging station in each district, with Thiruvananthapuram having three stations as part of the e-mobility programme in which government departments will not be allowed to hire non-electric vehicles on long-term rent from next April. 300 vehicles By the end of March, the agency expects to supply 300 vehicles to various government departments, including local bodies, and to raise the number of e-vehicle supply to a thousand by next year. One of the key reasons for people’s reluctance to go in for electric vehicles was the lack of sufficient charging stations, said an ANERT official. ANERT will buy the electric vehicles through EESL and enter into a contract with the respective government department, which needs vehicles on rent. The rentals are different based on the vehicle models, but ANERT bears the cost of insurance and maintenance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anert-to-set-up-an-e-vehicle-charging-station-every-50-km/article32839847.ece
13 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||18 arrested, ganja seized in special drive||A special team of the Ernakulam Rural police arrested 18 persons in as many cases and seized over 3 kg of ganja in a special drive held on Monday. The team was formed by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. Three kilograms of ganja were seized from two persons in two different cases. Sanoop, 37, of Edathala was nabbed with 2 kg of ganja from a lodge at Perumbavoor, while 1 kg of the drug was seized from Pareeth Pilla, 54, of Mudikkal. He had allegedly purchased it from the former.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/18-arrested-ganja-seized-in-special-drive/article32839852.ece
13 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Giving copy will impede probe: Customs tells HC||The Customs on Monday informed the Kerala High Court that if gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh is given her statement recorded by the Customs, it would impede the investigation into the involvement of highly influential and affluent persons. The Customs while opposing her plea for a directive to provide her recorded statement also added that her statement had made references to many highly placed influential persons. She had close proximity to high power centres and commanded considerable influence over various political functionaries and foreign dignitaries. The Customs submitted that they were closing in on some highly influential persons and the attempts to reach top-level persons and officials in political and public life, both in the country and abroad, would be defeated if a copy of the statement was given to one of the prime accused. Counsel for the accused submitted that the statements of the other accused had been made available and therefore she was entitled to get a copy. The court reserved its verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/giving-copy-will-impede-probe-customs-tells-hc/article32839491.ece
13 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC upholds dissolution of couple’s marriage||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has upheld an order of a family court in Irinjalakuda, Thrissur, declaring a marriage between a man and woman null and void on the ground that the marriage could not be consummated due to a heart ailment of the woman. The court passed the verdict on a petition filed by the woman challenging the order of the family court declaring the marriage as null and void and directing the wife to pay general damages of Rs. 10,000 to her husband. The family court found that the marriage was not consummated because of the woman’s ailment. The husband said he was not told about the ailment before the marriage. He came to know about the wife’s illness only when a gynaecologist was consulted in 2005. The doctor told him that his wife had acute rheumatic heart disease and would not be able to have sexual intercourse and conceive. ‘Foul play’ “The suppression of a material factum like the one on hand was undoubtedly a foul play and nothing short of fraud,” observed the court.  Man not told about woman’s ailment before marriage, which could not be consummated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-upholds-dissolution-of-couples-marriage/article32839403.ece
13 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||6-member gang held near Perumbavoor||The Kuruppampady police on Monday arrested a six-member gang who were lying low ahead of an alleged attack. The arrested are Joji, 20, of Kannanchery, Amal, 27, of Kochangady, Basil, 25, of Aruvappara, Srikanth, 31, of Nedungapra, Nibin, 25, of Vengoor, and Adarsh, 21, of Vengoor. The accused had previous cases for murder, attempt to murder, bomb attacks, and charges under the Arms Act levelled against them. The gang was arrested with weapons from a deserted building in a forest region near Perumbavoor, based on a tip-off received by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Kathik. They were allegedly plotting a fresh attack. Joji has nine cases against him and was banned from entering the Ernakulam Rural police limits after being booked under the Arms Act. Amal has 25 cases, Basil seven cases, and the rest have two cases each against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6-member-gang-held-near-perumbavoor/article32839850.ece
13 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Around 100 start-ups sign up for KSUM contest||Kerala Startup Mission’s (KSUM) virtual competition in association with She Loves Tech to create a pan-India network for entrepreneurs, firms and investors to promote women in technology and technology for women has received an enthusiastic response with around a hundred start-ups registering to join the competition from across India, when registrations closed last week. The She Loves Tech competition was meant to boost businesses led by women and any entrepreneur with technology dedicated to improve the lives of women globally, said an official at the Startup Mission, which is conducting the Indian round of the global competition. The preliminary round – National Grand Challenge – will be held on October 31. Ten best start-ups from among the applicants will pitch virtually at the National Grand Challenge and the winner will be selected to join the global finals. Preceding the preliminaries, there will be a mentorship round on October 26 and an investor café for two days subsequently. The mentorship round will be for the top 30 start-ups from the applications received, which will help them make the right pitch and prepare them for the National Grand Challenge. The investor café on October 28 is a one-to-one virtual meet with the investor and start-ups looking for financial support.  She Loves Tech competition is meant to boost businesses led by women and any entrepreneur with technology dedicated to improve the lives of women globally KSUM official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/around-100-start-ups-sign-up-for-ksum-contest/article32839854.ece
13 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||One more held in murder case||The Panangad police made yet another arrest in connection with a series of events that ended up in a gang war of sorts, leading to the death of a youngster last month. The arrested is Praveen Raj, 33, of Cherthala. He is accused of being part of a gang that smashed and broke into a car and stole two mobile phones at Panangad on September 10. The incident had triggered a mass brawl that also involved drug dealers and led to the alleged murder of one Fahad Hussain, 19, of Nettoor, at INTUC Junction at Nettoor three days later. The police had already arrested seven persons in connection with the incident of breaking into the car, while another 19 had been arrested for their involvement in the alleged murder. The accused was allegedly part of a gang that had come to Panangad from Thrissur on the day of the incident. Attempt to murder The Aluva East police arrested a person on the charge of attempt to murder. The arrested is Vishal, 30, a resident near Cochin Bank Junction. According to the police, he was hiding at his friend’s house. Later, the two fell apart, and the friend tried to expel him from his house, following which the accused allegedly attempted to murder him. On Monday, the police received a tip-off that the accused was somewhere near the Aluva General Hospital. But he fled on seeing the police who successfully chased him down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-held-in-murder-case/article32839853.ece
13 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Honour for Excise officers||Anti-narcotic operations have brought laurels to the Excise Department in the district. Five officers, including two from the Aluva Range Excise shadow team in rural and three from the special squad in the city, have been chosen for good service medals of the Chief Minister. The medals will be presented to the winners on November 1. N.G. Ajith Kumar, Preventive Officer (grade), and N.D. Tomy, Civil Excise Officer, from the Aluva Range Excise squad, and Circle Inspector T.N. Sudheer and Preventive Officers K.R. Ramprasad and A.S. Jayan from the anti-narcotic special squad have been selected for the recognition. For the Aluva Range Excise shadow team, it is a recognition of the sustained anti-narcotic fight in Aluva over the last couple of years. Both the officers were recognised by the Excise Minister for seizing drugs worth over Rs. 2 crore last August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/honour-for-excise-officers/article32839860.ece
13 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||High drama as man escapes police custody||High drama prevailed at Kalamassery after an accused escaped police custody, mounted a two-storey building and threatened to jump. The 19-year-old from Alappuzha was picked up by the police from a hostel at Edappally over complaints of nuisance. Though he was charged with bailable offences, it soon emerged that he was absconding in a non-bailable case charged under IPC 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) by the Vallikunnam police in Alappuzha. “As we interrogated him, he just took off and climbed up a building in the neighbourhood,” said the police. Soon, fire force teamsrushed to the spot. His friend rushed to the scene and talked him into coming down, and the police took him away, fire force sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-drama-as-man-escapes-police-custody/article32839859.ece
13 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Eco-sensitive zone notified||An extent of one kilometre around the boundary of Thattekkad Bird Sanctuary has been notified as its eco-sensitive zone (EZ). The EZ, according to the draft notification published by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, will cover an area of 28.444 sq.km. Some parts of the Kuttampuzha and Keerampara villages will fall within the EZ of the sanctuary, according to the notification. An area of 25.16 sq. km, lying on the northern bank of River Periyar, was declared as the bird sanctuary by the Government of Kerala in 1983, considering its ecological, faunal, floral, natural and zoological significance. The Thattekkad sanctuary is also the first bird sanctuary in Kerala and is considered a haven for nature lovers and birdwatchers with a wide variety of flora and fauna. The area was previously part of the Kuttampuzha section of Kuttampuzha Forest Range under Malayattoor Forest Division. Currently, it is under the administrative jurisdiction of Idukki Wildlife Division. Rare bird species such as three-toed forest Kingfisher, Ceylon frogmouth, crimson-throated Barbet, bee-eater, sunbird, and Malabar grey hornbill are seen in the sanctuary. Thattekkad is on the foothills of the Western Ghats and is part of a large ecological unit comprising Malayattoor, Sholayar, Parambikulam hill ranges on the one side and Munnar, Eravikulam and Chinnar on the other side, according to the notification. The draft notification, which was published on September, 29, will be taken up for consideration after a period of 60 days. The public may send in comments and suggestions on the draft proposals within 60 days of the publication to the Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Indira Paryavaran Bhawan, Jorbagh Road, Aliganj, New Delhi-110 003, or to the e-mail addressesz-mef@nic.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/esz-of-thattekad-sanctuary-notified/article32839471.ece
13 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bhagyalakshmi, others move HC||An anticipatory bail plea was filed on Monday before the Kerala High Court by dubbing artiste Bhagyalakshmi, Diya Sana and Sreelekshmi Arackal who have been accused in a case relating to assaulting YouTuber Vijay P. Nair. The Additional Sessions Court, Thiruvananthapuram, had earlier rejected their anticipatory bail pleas. The court dismissed the pleas accepting the argument of the prosecution that the grant of bail would send a wrong message to the public and it might encourage others to take the law into their hands. The police charge was that the accused had trespassed into the lodge where Vijay P. Nair was staying and assaulted him for making derogatory and sleazy remarks against women on his YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bhagyalakshmi-others-move-hc/article32839492.ece
13 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||343 more on Kollam list||The district reported 343 fresh COVID-19 cases, 426 recoveries, and one death on Monday. Those who tested positive for SARS-C0V-2 include 315 contact cases, 23 persons with no known source, 3 health workers and 2 persons who had travelled from other States. The Health Department also confirmed that the death of a 62-year-old Vaddy resident is due to COVID-19. The district currently has 18,652 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 2,59,856. While 2,368 persons completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 55,981 primary and 7,122 secondary contacts of the fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/343-more-on-kollam-list/article32839479.ece
13 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Facility for start-ups at MGU from Oct.27||The first phase of the Students Amenities-cum-Incubation Centre set up by the Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, is slated to begin operations on October 27. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the centre at a function to be presided over by Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel. The first phase of the facility, which intends to promote start-up initiatives and student amenities, was initiated under the Rashtriya Uchtar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) project of the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development. Of the Rs. 4.53 crore expended on the project, about 40% of the cost was borne by the State government. The building, having a built-up area of 14,131 sq.ft, was constructed by the Kerala Electrical and Allied Engineering Company Limited (KEL). According to varsity officials, the predominant objective of the centre is to develop a business innovation ecosystem consisting several incubators. The student entrepreneurs will be also offered training programmes in collaboration with University of Wisconsin, USA, and Fortune 500 companies, and other start-up support services. The incubators, which will come up in this building under the second phase of RUSA scheme, are Nanotechnology incubator and App Factory, and digital services incubator. It will provide students and young innovators, amenities for establishing start-ups. The App Factory and digital services incubator at the centre will facilitate common amenities for start-ups in areas like Mobile and Web App Development, Artificial Intelligence and Bots, Accelerated Mobile Pages (AMP), Single Page Application, Motion UI, Block chain Technology, Internet of Things, and Business Analytics. It will also have Scientific Core Cloud Computing facilities, which will empower small scale industries, universities and colleges in modelling and computation to boost their research and reduce the time taken to develop it into products. Content creation The Digital Learning and Empowering Studio at the Centre will house a wide range of facilities, which will promote technology-oriented teaching, learning and content creation services. The Nanotechnology incubator will house facilities for Nano cellulose research and pilot plant for production of Micro cellulose (MCC). It will also have facilities for development of Nano cellulose-modified value-added products in the areas of food supplements and nutraceuticals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facility-for-start-ups-at-mgu-from-oct27/article32839480.ece
13 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||382 fresh cases in Kottayam||Kottayam on Monday reported 382 fresh COVID-19 cases and 475 recoveries. Of the fresh cases, 375 persons including 17 healthcare workers contracted the virus through local contact. The patients also included 145 women and 42 children while 75 patients were aged above 60. With 51 cases, Kottayam led the tally, while Changanassery followed with 40 cases. 475 recoveries Cases were also reported from Pambadi-20, Athirampuzha- 17, Ettumanur-16, Vaikom and Erumeli-15 each etc. With 475 recoveries, the district currently has 5,466 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/382-fresh-cases-in-kottayam/article32839482.ece
13 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Move to repeal National Trust Act draws flak||The Kerala unit of Parivar, the National Confederation of Parents Organisations (NCPO), is fighting the Centre’s move to repeal the National Trust Act tooth and nail, to uphold the privileges enjoyed by intellectually challenged persons. “Both our State unit and the 14 district units have already written to the Prime Minister and the Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment in this regard. We are trying to create awareness among parliamentarians about the importance of the National Trust Act. If need be, parents under Parivar will send individual letters to the authorities concerned,” Sukumaran Mangalassery, national vice president of Parivar, said. The National Trust Act was a millennium gift to the intellectually challenged in 1999 from Maneka Gandhi, then Minister for Social Justice. Under the Act, the National Trust, an autonomous body, was formed for the welfare of people with autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and multiple disabilities. The trust is answerable to the Ministry, but with independent powers to implement schemes for the welfare of the intellectually challenged. The schemes include health-care, insurance, and shelter homes. The Centre’s move to consolidate the various programmes for the differently abled comes as an austerity measure. The plan is to include all disabilities under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act 2016. “A similar move in 2016 was thwarted when the penal provisions for the protection of the intellectually challenged under the National Trust Act were at stake. Now, the whole Act is at stake,” Mr. Sukumaran said. Parivar is apprehensive that the intellectually challenged will not get their dues under the RPWD Act. “These children are helpless, unlike the hearing impaired or the visually impaired. They cannot think for themselves and make their voice heard. They need special attention and hence special laws,” Mr. Sukumaran said, adding that repealing the National Trust Act was equivalent to the Centre washing its hands of intellectually challenged persons, who constitute one of the weakest sections of society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-repeal-national-trust-act-draws-flak/article32839400.ece
13 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Quarry operators, lorry owners stage protest||A coordination committee of quarry operators and tipper lorry owners staged protests at three different locations in Kozhikode district on Monday as part of their State-wide agitation flaying “hostile legal actions” by the Geology Department and the Vigilance squad. The protesters who held the State government accountable for not resolving genuine issues of entrepreneurs in the sector alleged that they were being victimised in the name of rules. They claimed that the legal actions were meant to torture the lower income groups. M.K. Babu, a functionary of Small Scale Quarry Owners Association, said the flaws in the existing laws for controlling quarry and allied businesses should be rectified at the earliest, to protect the rights of both labourers and entrepreneurs. He alleged that some rules and regulations were meant to safeguard the interests of big corporates. The strike was organised in the wake of a recent incident in which a tipper lorry driver from Kozhikode district allegedly attempted suicide after he was heavily fined by the Geology Department for overloading. According to him, the fine amount of Rs. 50,000 to compound the offence was unthinkable for even large-scale entrepreneurs. It was a Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) squad that tracked the alleged offence during a flash check and reported it to the Geology Department for follow-up action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarry-operators-lorry-owners-stage-protest/article32839402.ece
13 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||At last, govt. sets the ball rolling for bypass expansion||The proposed Kozhikode bypass widening project, which has been hanging fire for quite some time, will get a fresh lease of life when Minister for Road, Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari lays the foundation stone for the project online on Tuesday. The project will be part of the Rs. 11, 571.23-crore package for seven projects under the National Highway Development in the State. The cost of the construction of the six-lane Kozhikode bypass stretching from Vengalam to Idimuzhikkal ( 28.4 km) will be Rs. 1,853.42 crore. The cost escalated from Rs. 1,710-crore when the project was awarded to a Hyderabad-based company in April 2018. Incidentally, the cost of the project had been pegged at Rs. 1,450 crore when it was conceived in 2016. New bridge Mr. Gadkari will also lay the foundation for Palolipalam- Moorad bridge on the 2.1-km six-lane road. It would be built at a cost of Rs. 210.21 crore, Public Work Department sources said. NHAI plan The new development comes at a time when the National Highways Authorities of India (NHAI) is planning to go for retendering the bypass project after cancelling the contract awarded to Krishna Mohan Construction Private Limited, which had failed to secure the bank guarantee of Rs. 85.50 crore for the project. Now, with the support of the State government, INKEL Ltd. (Infrastructure Kerala Limited), a public-private partnership company, has decided to partner with the project. The expansion of the bypass was envisaged under the National Highway Development Project Phase III. The government will share 40% of the cost to start the work while the contractor will have to make the remaining investment. The proposal included construction of eight overbridges at Ramanattukara Junction, Azhinjilam, Pantheerankavu, Hi-lite Mall Junction, Cyber Park, Thondayad, Pooladikunnu and Vengalam Junction besides four underpasses at Vayalkkara, Kadathumpara, Mokavoor and Ambalappadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-last-govt-sets-the-ball-rolling-for-bypass-expansion/article32839405.ece
13 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Situation ‘critical’ in Kozhikode||Test positivity rate of COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode, the percentage of people who test positive for SARS-CoV-2 during lab tests per a given sample size, on Monday was reported to be 18.01% even as the district administration termed the situation here as “very critical”. According to the District Medical Officer, 869 people tested positive for the virus when 4,824 samples were tested and 5,549 results were made available in the past 24 hours. The ideal test positivity rate is below 5%. As many as 806 of these people acquired the infection through local transmission and the source was unknown in 55 cases. Payyoli, Peruvayal and Kozhikode Corporation are the clusters in the district with a large number of infected persons. The number of active cases stands at 11,058. Eleven deaths were reported from Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, in the past two days. They include a five-month-old baby from Malappuram. Eight of them were reported on Sunday and the rest on Monday. Alert sounded District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao said in a release that an alert had been sounded in view of the opinion of health experts. The number of cases is spiralling every day and there is a rise in symptomatic patients as well. It had come to such a pass that the hospitals in the district would not be able to handle the caseload. Senior citizens, people with other health issues, and those with reduced immunity are at risk. Pointing out that the rise in the number of cases might also lead to more deaths, Mr. Rao called for strict enforcement of the COVID protocol. Meanwhile, the authorities are planning to form ‘Jagrata Communities’ of 20 houses each in every wards of local bodies. Voluntary activists would ensure the compliance of the protocol through these communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/situation-critical-in-kozhikode/article32839415.ece
13 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Merchants to go on token strike||The Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti (KVVES) will resort to a district-wide token strike on Thursday demanding more freedom for the operation of commercial establishments and shops in containment zones. According to KVVES leaders, all shops, except pharmacies, will remain closed as part of the strike, which is also a protest against implementing ‘unjust regulations’ by the police in the name of COVID-19 protocol. “Last week, many shops were forcibly closed by the police and it should not happen again,” said KVVES district general secretary K. Sethumadhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/merchants-to-go-on-token-strike/article32839407.ece
13 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||MT gets Randamoozham script back||The screenplay of Randamoozham is finally back where it belongs. M.T. Vasudevan Nair, who has adapted his classic novel for the screen, has been handed over the script by director V.A. Shrikumar Menon. The two-year legal battle, which began at the munsiff court here and reached the Supreme Court, is over. The munsiff court has passed the order following a joint statement from M.T. and Mr. Menon. M.T. has also returned the advance of Rs. 1.25 crore to the director. Mr. Menon, according to the clauses in the settlement, cannot make a film with Bheema as the central character. M.T. is now free to work with any director for the screen adaptation of Randamoozham , a retelling of Mahabharata from Bheema’s viewpoint. New project “The process to turn Randamoozham into a film is already on,” Aswathy Srikanth, M.T.’s daughter who has been looking after the case, told The Hindu . “Because of COVID-19, it may take longer than usual to finalise the project, but we hope it would happen soon.” K.B. Sivaramakrishnan, the lawyer who appeared for M.T. at the munsiff and Supreme courts, said he was happy that the legal battle could be settled within two years. “A case like this could have gone on for many years and we are all glad that the judicial system acted fast,” he said. “It is indeed gratifying that the whole issue is resolved and that Randamoozham could finally happen. But it is saddening that V.V. Narayanan, the High Court lawyer who worked with me for the case, passed away before the final verdict came.” The plan It was in April, 2017, that Mr. Menon had announced that Randamoozham would be made in several languages, including Malayalam, English and Hindi, at a cost of Rs. 1,000 crore. He had also said that it would be produced by UAE-based entrepreneur B.R. Shetty, who has since run into financial and legal troubles. The film was expected to be released in two parts in 2020. But, when the film’s shoot did not begin within the time agreed upon in the contract, M.T. approached the court to get the script back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mt-gets-randamoozham-script-back/article32839490.ece
13 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Shortage of labourers hits fishing operations||Though fishing harbours and fish landing centres in the district were reopened on Monday by complying with the COVID-19 protocol, about 30 trawler boats at Beypore harbour could not operate because of shortage of labourers. Fishermen union leaders said some of the technicalities related to the issuance of fitness certificates to migrant fishers were causing issues to them. “The larger boats, each cost at least Rs. 25 lakh, have been lying idle at Karuvanthiruthi for over six months. Many of the boats will have to be repainted to prevent rusting. Boat owners are finding it difficult to get labourers and mobilise money for the pending repairing works,” said Karichal Preman, vice president, All Kerala Fishing Boat Owners Association. He said the process to issue fitness certificates for migrant fishermen should be simplified to help the remaining trawlers resume operations. He said that Health and Fisheries officials should adopt feasible measures to speed up the process. Boat owners from Beypore harbour said the latest unlock guidelines permitting the reopening of harbours and fish landing centres were only addressing concerns of local fishers. According to them, service of more number of trawler boats will only help fishermen families. Safety concerns Meanwhile, Fisheries Department sources said the permissible number of trawler boats from the harbour area had already been granted clearance for operation and the case of remaining ones could be considered only in accordance with the next phase of unlock action plan. The trawlers that resumed operation from Beypore had gone through the same procedures insisted by the district administration to fight COVID-19 spread effectively in the coastal area, they said. An official attached to the Fisheries Department said the operation of only 50% of the total fishers would be allowed at present at harbours and fish landing centres considering safety aspects. “Clearance can be given to the remaining segment only by complying with this ratio for their own safety,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shortage-of-labourers-hits-fishing-operations/article32839414.ece
13 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two killed in road accidents||Two persons were killed in two separate road accidents on the Kozhikode-Kannur National Highway near Koyilandy on Monday. The deceased were identified as Shadil, 26, and Erikkadi Moidi, 61. The accident that claimed the life of Kasaragod native Shadil took place in the early hours of the day. A tanker lorry hit his car. Moidi from Naduvannur was knocked down by a mini-lorry while he was crossing the road. The Koyilandy police said four persons sustained minor injuries in the two accidents. They were admitted to the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Two separate cases were registered by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-killed-in-road-accidents/article32839411.ece
13 October 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Solace for Malappuram as 915 recover||As many as 740 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Monday. While 584 of them got the infection from local contacts, three came from abroad and 22 from other States. The source of infection could not be traced in 124 cases. District officials said that there were seven health workers among the new cases in the district. However, there were 915 recoveries in the district on Monday. According to the district administration, there were 8,694 active cases currently under treatment across Malappuram. Nearly 51,400 people were quarantined in the district, and most of them were in their respective homes. While nearly 150 COVID-19 patients died in the district since March, more than 26,000 patients got cured. In Kasaragod Kasaragod reported 295 more COVID-19 cases on Monday. Of these, 253 were local transmission cases. Seven health workers were among the infected. A total of 5,017 people are under observation in the district. Among them, 3,630 are in home isolation and 1,387 are in healthcare institutions. In Kannur As many as 274 people tested positive for the virus in Kannur on Monday. Among them, 247 contracted it through contact. Nine health workers were among the infected. Of the total active cases in the district, 5,016 are in home isolation, and the remaining 1,145 are being treated at various hospitals and FLTCs. In Wayanad Wayanad saw a sharp decline in the number of COVID-19 cases Monday as only 35 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. Of these, 34 are local transmission cases. The district also recorded 152 recoveries. There are now 1,093 active cases. As many as 4,522 persons are under observation.  (With inputs from Kannur, Kasaragod and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solace-for-malappuram-as-915-recover/article32839417.ece
13 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Talks with tribespeople fail to break deadlock||A meeting convened by District Collector D. Balamurali to discuss the issue of constructing a road connecting Chemmanampathi to Thekkadi in Parambikulam forest did not yield any results as the tribespeople refused to buy an offer made by the district administration. Mr. Balamurali said the tribespeople would be given rights on the forestland in two months if they stopped the illegal road construction launched on Gandhi Jayanti. The tribal leaders said they could not make any commitment without discussing it in their community. Although Thekkadi falls in Muthalamada grama panchayat in the district, the tribespeople there have to cross the Tamil Nadu border twice and travel more than 45 km to reach Muthalamada. “Their grouse is genuine, but there are so many practical hurdles,” said Mr. Balamurali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talks-with-tribespeople-fail-to-break-deadlock/article32839408.ece
13 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad’s tally is 288||In Palakkad, 288 persons were diagnosed with COVID-19 on Monday, while 444 people recovered from the disease. District officials said the source of infection could not be traced in 63 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkads-tally-is-288/article32839961.ece
13 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||186 test positive in Pathanamthitta||As many as 186 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 178 contracted the virus through local contact. One person had come from abroad while the remaining seven cases had come from other States. Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases with 22 persons testing positive, followed by Adoor, Pathanamthitta, Pramadam and Ranni with seven cases. One more person, a 70-year-old man from Parakkodu, died due to the virus infection at the Kozhencherry district hospital. With this, the total number of deaths due to COVID-19 rose to 66 in the district. With 201 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 3,212 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/186-test-positive-in-pathanamthitta/article32839481.ece
13 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Explain Swapna’s visits, Oppn. tells CM||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Monday said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should tell the public what business gold-smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh had at his official residence at Cliff House. Inaugurating a Statewide protest by the United Democratic Front (UDF) demanding Mr. Vijayan’s resignation on the charge of abetting economic offenders, Mr. Chennithala said Swapna had told the Enforcement Directorate (ED) that she had met Mr. Vijayan at Cliff House at least six times. She had also stated that Mr. Vijayan had introduced former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar as his pointman and go-to-person. Anticipating a criminal inquiry, the government had destroyed evidence of Mr. Vijayan’s culpability by fraudulently claiming that lightning had damaged the surveillance cameras at Cliff House and no footage was recoverable. Mr. Vijayan had turned the flood tragedy into an opportunity for unscrupulous commission agents to make money. Central agencies had found that Swapna profited from the UAE’s generosity to low-income families affected by the floodwaters. The government eyed fancy projects such as the Wayanad tunnel as an opportunity for more corruption. Mr. Chennithala alleged that Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel’s acceptance of huge quantities of dates and the Koran as Ramzan charity from the UAE consulate was under a pall of suspicion against the backdrop of the gold smuggling case. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said law and order had broken down under Mr. Vijayan. In the past three weeks, armed assailants felled nine persons in Thrissur district alone. The disputes in the Communist Party of India (Marxist) had manifested as violence in the street. UDF convener M.M. Hassan, Communist Marxist Party leader C.P. John, and V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/explain-swapnas-visits-oppn-tells-cm/article32839497.ece
13 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New cases drop to 629 in capital||The district’s COVID-19 caseload rose by 629 cases on Monday, even as the death toll crossed the 300-mark with six more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. The tally now stands at 305. The deceased included a 45-year-old man from Thiruvananthapuram city; a 40-year-old woman from Kalliyoor; a 48-year-old man from Poovar; a 65-year-old woman from Thattathumala; an 89-year-old man from Manacaud and 58-year-old hailing from Thiruchendur, Tamil Nadu. While Monday's caseload was lower compared to Saturday and Sunday, the number of cases in the vulnerable age groups remained high. Local transmission accounted for 415 cases, but the source of infection was not immediately known in 117 cases. Seventy-six persons who tested positive were in home quarantine, 14 people had arrived from abroad and one person from another State, health officials said. Monday's list included 290 women and 339 men. Children below the age of 15 accounted for 48 cases, while 118 people above the age of 60 also tested positive. The number of recoveries stood at 830. As many as 76 health workers tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Monday. Five police personnel attached to the Palode station also were diagnosed with the disease. As on Monday, 11,513 people are under treatment for COVID-19 in the district. As many as 3,238 people were newly quarantined over the past 24 hours, taking the total number of people under surveillance to 31,842. As many as 415 people were hospitalised on Monday. Meeting convened Meanwhile, Minister for Co-operation Kadakampally Surendran convened a meeting at the district collectorate to assess the COVID-19 situation. The Minister directed officials to ensure strict enforcement of the COVID-19 protocols. Shops and other commercial establishments should stringently follow the prevention measures. Failure to comply would invite stern legal action, the Minister said. Prevention measures would be strengthened in the containment zones in the district. While the activities related to COVID-19 prevention is progressing smoothly in the district, the public should pay more attention to the disease containment measures, he said. District Collector Navjot Khosa, Rural SP B. Ashokan, DCP Divya Gopinath, District Medical Officer Dr. K. S. Shinu, Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) Anu. S. Nair and other officials attended.  Prevention measures will be strengthened in containment zones||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-cases-drop-to-629-in-capital/article32839486.ece
13 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Row over Charachira pond work||The city Corporation's ongoing pond renovation work at Charachira has not gone down well with environmentalist groups, who are of the opinion that works will only lead to the eventual destruction of the pond. But the Corporation authorities maintain that it is part of the civic body’s initiatives at protecting water bodies that are facing destruction. The Corporation has taken up a Rs. 3.25 crore project as part of the People’s Plan programme to renovate the pond with a walkway, boating facilities, fish farming and swimming facilities. One of the major bones of contention is the walkway around the pond. The work on the walkway along three sides of the pond has been completed. Environmentalists say that the construction has reduced the area of the pond as well as cut off the water sources to it. “The walkway has been constructed by encroaching into the pond for a few metres. Two water sources used to drain into the pond, from the Nanthencode side and from the Raj Bhavan side. Both these have now been cut off, because of which the pond has not filled up much even after so much rain. Also, a lot of construction waste and soil has been dumped to one side of the pond. The question now is whether the Corporation can reverse this or open the water sources into the pond to maintain the health of the water body and retain it as an ecological-friendly area by planting enough trees by the side. Water bodies can be protected as they are without any construction activities,” says Veena Maruthoor, an environmentalist. Good intentions But the city Corporation authorities point at the pond revival works that the civic body has taken up in different wards to say that it has only good intentions in taking up the work at Charachira. “The pond had fallen into disuse over the years, and was filled with a carpet of water hyacinth. Parts of the pond on some side were encroached upon by people too, which has reduced its area considerably over the decades. The only area which we have filled up is a water tank adjacent to the pond which was once used by dhobis and was no longer in use. This area was levelled off to be used for other purposes. The pond has been preserved as it is. We had expected to complete the work by this year, but due to the successive floods and COVID-19, there has been some delay. We are getting all the blame when we are trying to revive a pond which was no longer in use. A pond is similarly being revived in Chanthavila now. We also have protected ponds in PTP Nagar, Muttada and other places,” says Palayam Rajan, Chairman of the Corporation's Town Planning Standing Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-charachira-pond-work/article32839992.ece
13 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GST compensation: States mulling legal remedy||Kerala and eight other States will jointly approach the Supreme Court if the Centre goes ahead and allow States to borrow up to Rs. 1.1 lakh crore from a special window facilitated by the Reserve Bank of India as mooted by Centre for paying out this year’s compensation on account of the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Responding to the GST Council’s failure to reach a consensus over the issue of how States will be compensated for their revenue shortfall, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said the Centre was stubborn on its stance and the council meeting held online dispersed without taking a decision. The States were told that they can borrow Rs. 1.1 lakh crore loan of the Rs. 2.3 lakh crore GST compensation this year. At least Rs. 50,000 crore will be received from the compensation cess this year and the balance later. Dr. Isaac said nine of the 10 States that had been opposing the two options mooted by Centre for GST compensation were against this move. “Maharashtra seems to have switched sides as their Finance Minister did not turn up,” he said. The Finance Minister said the Centre availing itself of the loan to disburse GST compensation was practical and easy and Kerala strongly argued that the disbursal of the GST compensation could not be postponed. “Why cannot the Centre that agreed to increase the loan to be borrowed from Rs. 97,000 crore to Rs. 1.1 lakh crore enhance it further. What prevents them?” he asked. If the Centre did not want voting, Dr. Isaac said they could constitute a subcommittee of State Finance Ministers and decide. The States that stood with Kerala were ready to discuss the new options of the subcommittee and reach a decision. But, Dr. Isaac said the Centre did not agree to these suggestions and the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was for arriving at a consensus. West Bengal and Chhattisgarh strongly opposed the Centre’s move while Assam and Goa wanted permission to avail themselves of the loan without the GST Council taking a decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gst-compensation-states-mulling-legal-remedy/article32839866.ece
13 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State’s public education goes digital||The Public Education Rejuvenation Mission is an excellent participatory development model that Kerala is presenting before the world, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday. He was speaking after declaring the State’s public education sector as the first to go completely digital and announcing the completion of hi-tech classroom and hi-tech lab projects in government and aided schools. Kerala succeeded in ushering in major reforms in public education when governments all over the world were gradually withdrawing from public facilities. The step taken by the State would benefit future generations, Mr. Vijayan said. He said that the credit for the achievement belonged to the entire State and not just the LDF government. “The Public Education Rejuvenation Mission has drawn cooperation from all sides. We were able to transform the notion that the public education sector was in shambles. Today there is no such concern. That schools in the State have registered an increase by five lakh students over the past few years reveals how students and parents have received this initiative,”he added. Global standards Infrastructure facilities as well academic standards of the schools had been improved in the efforts taken to raise schools in Kerala to international standards, he said. He also urged teachers to sustain the pace of progress achieved in the sector. Hi-tech classrooms and hi-tech labs in schools were established by the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) with financial assistance from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). In all, 3,74,274 digital equipment were distributed to schools. In the first phase, 45,000 hi-tech classrooms for Classes 8 to 12 were readied in 4,752 government and aided high schools and higher secondary schools. Hi-tech labs were started in 11,275 primary and upper primary schools for Classes 1 to 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-public-education-goes-digital/article32839502.ece
13 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Patients allowed personal caregivers||In view of the acute shortage of support staff and nursing staff in hospitals to take care of COVID-19 patients, the Health Department has decided to allow family members/friends of in-patients to remain in the ward as caregivers. The decision has come close on the heels of an incident in Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, where an elderly and chronically bedridden patient in the COVID-19 ward, when discharged after a month, was found to have maggot-infested bedsores. Staff present their case The government’s attempt to hold doctors and nursing staff responsible for the incident had been stiffly resisted by doctors and nurses who pointed to the lack of support staff in COVID-19 wards. Patients in COVID-19 wards are not allowed to have personal caregivers as part of the hospital’s protocol to prevent people from outside carrying infection into the hospitals. It was in the absence of adequate staff or family members that such serious neglect had occurred in the care of the elderly patient, it was pointed out. In this context, the Health Department has directed hospital superintendents to allow caregivers for patients in COVID-19 wards, on consultation with the institutional COVID board. Accordingly, hospital superintendents can decide on allowing caregivers to individual patients, depending on their illness and circumstances.  Friends or family members can act as caregivers as long as they are healthy. Previously COVID-infected persons can also be caregivers if they have completed a month since being tested negative. The caregiver will have to wear PPE kit and follow all COVID-19 protocols, the directive issued by the Health Department says.  Move prompted by incident in which a bedridden COVID-19 patient developed maggot-infested bedsores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/patients-allowed-personal-caregivers/article32839495.ece
13 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Customary Navaratri procession to go on||The State government on Monday said the Navaratri procession would take place with traditional piety and within the bounds of the COVID-19 protocol. Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran had called a meeting of stakeholders to arrive at a consensus about the conduct of the festival. Some Hindu groups had organised a belligerent street protest last week, accusing the government of attempting to thwart the age-old tradition of escorting Navaratri idols to the iconic Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple. Members of the former ruling family of erstwhile Travancore, chief priest of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple and representatives of the Kerala Brahmana Sabha attended the meeting chaired by Mr. Surendran. The conference decided to abandon the customary reception accorded to idols along the procession route. The meeting also agreed to transport the three idols on palanquins carried by four bearers instead of the usual parade on elephant back and the silver equestrian idol. The procession will start from Suchindram and reach Padmanabhapuram on October 13. The procession would reach Kuzhithura on October 14 and Kaliyakkavila on October 15. The police would accord a guard of honour. The procession would rest at the historic Sree Krishna Swamy temple in Neyyattinkara and reach Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple locality at 4 p.m. on October 16. Mayor K. Sreekumar, Shashi Tharoor, MP, V.S. Sivakumar and I.B. Satheesh, both MLAs, were among those who attended the conference. BJP charge BJP State president K. Surendran on Monday said Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran’s bid to thwart the customary Navaratri procession was misplaced and unacceptable. He said Mr. Surendran’s move to transport Navaratri idols on trucks was an affront to tradition and custom. Ideally, the government should allow the procession by observing the COVID-19 protocol. The Minister had attempted to ban the customary offering of ghee in Sabarimala in the name of pandemic control, he said. Mr. Surendran should realise that he was not the chief priest of the temple to arbitrate on religious observances. Arbitrary The Minister had arbitrarily decided Devaswom matters and displayed an unwillingness to consult other stakeholders, including representatives of devotees.  The conference decided to abandon the customary reception accorded to idols along the procession route||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/customary-navaratri-procession-to-go-on/article32839472.ece
13 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Digital classrooms in 1,270 govt. schools in district||When Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday declared Kerala as the first State to have digital classrooms in all its public schools, the district had much to cheer for too. High-tech classrooms became a reality in as many as 1,270 public schools in the district. MLAs join in Legislators from five constituencies in the district too joined in the inaugural session to make declarations for their specific regions. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who is the Minister in charge of the district, made the declaration in his constituency Kazhakkuttam. Mr.Vijayan, in his inaugural speech, said that it is necessary for the progress of the society that the best educational facilities are affordable to all sections. The Public Education Rejuvenation Mission has led to public schools with international standards in all constituencies, consequently reversing the trend of students dropping out of public schools and leading to a flow from the private to public sector. As part of the initiative, 31,130 digital equipment were installed in 1,270 schools in the district. Aided schools In the Government-aided schools, the installation of digital equipment has been completed in 868 schools from Classes I to VII and in 402 schools from Classes VIII to XII. A total of 9,507 laptops, 5,775 multimedia projectors, 7,970 USB speakers, 3,694 mounting accessories, 2,613 screens, 379 DSLR cameras, 399 multifunction printers, 401 High Definition web cameras and 392 43" televisions were installed. Broadband High speed broadband facility is now available in 1,032 schools. The most number of digital equipment were installed in the St.Mary's Higher Secondary School in Pattom, where 691 digital equipment were installed, sources aid. Special IT training has been imparted to 15,194 teachers. The High-tech school project was implemented by the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) as part of the Public Education Rejuvenation Mission. Rs. 56.17 crore spent As part of the project, a total of Rs. 56.17 crore was spent in the district, out of which the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) spent Rs. 48.61 crore and the local bodies pitched in with Rs. 7.56 crore.  A total of 9,507 laptops, 5,775 multimedia projectors, 379 DSLR cameras, 399 multifunction printers, 401 High Definition web cameras and 392 43" TVs have been installed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-classrooms-in-1270-govt-schools-in-capital/article32839473.ece
13 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Statement is Opposition’s new scripture: CPI(M)||CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Monday said the questionable custodial statement given by gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) was the Opposition’s sacred text. The Congress and the BJP were using her averments, which could be challenged or denied in court, to press for the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He said Swapna’s purported statement to the agency first appeared in the BJP’s official newspaper. Soon other newspapers and channels regurgitated the allegations. The BJP was misusing Central law enforcement agencies for political ends, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/statement-is-oppositions-new-scripture-cpim/article32839498.ece
13 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Schools to remain shut: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan indicated on Monday that schools in the State will remain shut for the time being, given the COVID-19 situation. Schools would be reopened as and when it was practically possible. The situation in the State did not allow it at the moment, he said. Digital classes on the KITE-VICTERS channel could not be considered a substitute for classroom learning, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schools-to-remain-shut-cm/article32839509.ece
13 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alert in 11 districts today||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a thunderstorm warning for Kerala with central and northern districts expected to receive isolated heavy rainfall over the next few days. Thunderstorms accompanied by lightning are likely at one or two places in the State till October 15, the IMD said. Yellow alerts have been issued for several central and northern districts as they are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall. Yellow alerts have been issued for all districts in the State except Pathanamthitta, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. Malappuram, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod have been put on yellow alert on Wednesday and Thursday.  Fishermen have been advised not to venture out to sea as squally weather is likely to prevail over the Kerala coast. The depression over the west-central Bay of Bengal has intensified into a deep depression and lay about 250 km south-southeast of Visakhapatnam. A fresh low-pressure area is likely to form over east-central and adjoining north-east Arabian Sea off the north Konkan, south Gujarat coasts around October 15. There is a low to moderate probability of its intensification into a depression over the same region, the IMD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-in-11-districts-today/article32839504.ece
13 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BSc ranklist||The provisional rank list of applicants for the BSc Nursing and Paramedical degree courses has been published onwww. lbscentre.kerala.gov.in, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bsc-ranklist/article32839505.ece
13 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM condemns arrest of Stan Swamy||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday condemned the arrest of 83-year-old tribal rights activist and Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy. The National Investigation Agency had arrested the priest from Jharkhand on suspicion of Maoist links. Mr. Vijayan termed the arrest unfortunate and expressed concern about his well being. His arrest was an insult to democracy and the right to dissent, he said. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran also expressed concern over the arrest and the health of the priest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-condemns-arrest-of-stan-swamy/article32839499.ece
13 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rights panel calls for report on land tribunals||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has sought a report from the Land Revenue Commissioner on why the land tribunals, formed to resolve land disputes, have remained inactive. The Deputy Collectors had the responsibility of the tribunal till two years back, when it was handed over to tahsildars. It has been alleged that the tribunals have remained non-functional after this. Due to this, people from economically weaker sections are being forced to spend money and approach civil courts for resolution, says a complaint filed at the SHRC by activist Ragam Rahim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-panel-calls-for-report-on-land-tribunals/article32839500.ece
13 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Man hacked to death||A 32-year-old man was hacked to death at Pazhayannur here on Monday. The deceased was identified as Rafeeq from Ottappalam. His friend Fazil sustained injuries in the attack. According to the police, Rafeeq was an accused in ganja cases. This is the second murder at Pazhayannur in a week. A POCSO accused who was out on parole was hacked to death last week. Nine murders have been reported in the district in three weeks. DIG S. Surendran said the recent murders were isolated cases. Those involved in the cases had been arrested without delay, he said. The police on Monday arrested Sreeraj of Antikkad on charge of murdering Nidhil of Muttichur two days ago. The police are questioning two other persons held in connection with the murder. An armed gang had killed Nidhil, 28, and escaped in the vehicle of a catering firm. The police recovered the vehicle from Panangad in Ernakulam. The police suspect that gang war could have led to the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-hacked-to-death/article32839413.ece
13 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||697 cases in Thrissur||Thrissur recorded 697 COVID-19 cases on Monday, while 1,090 people recovered from the disease. Currently there are 8,908 active cases in the district and 145 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. Of the new cases, 693 contracted the infection through local contact. The patients included 73 people above the age of 60 years and 61 children below the age of 10. As many as 5,756 people are under home observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/697-cases-in-thrissur/article32839959.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Divergent views on Mahila Mall put corporation in a fix||Conflicting reports on ways to improve the functioning of Mahila Mall in the city has put the Kozhikode Corporation in jeopardy. The first report submitted by management experts from the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode (IIMK), and the latest by a committee comprising corporation councillors under the welfare standing committee are on two different tangents. Mahila Mall, hailed as Asia’s first mall with an all-woman crew, was opened in November 2018 by Unity Group, a unit under the Kozhikode Corporation Kudumbashree CDS. However, the mall failed to take off completely, reportedly due to lack of facilities and the failure of the management to devise proper marketing strategies. A group of management experts headed by Deepa Sethi, chairperson of international relations at IIMK, had submitted a report in February 2020 to the Kudumbashree and the District Collector. The report called for a basic change in marketing strategies to lead the mall to success. It recommended loyalty cards to customers, annual fairs and occasions to improve footfall, improvisation of the mall website, and online marketing, besides promotion through social media. The IIMK report also recommended a basic change in the structure of shops as a long-term measure to improve the mall’s appeal. However, the Kozhikode Corporation constituted a committee to investigate into the matter following protest by entrepreneurs at the mall, as it was not reopened post-lockdown. The committee led by welfare standing committee chairperson Anitha Rajan submitted a report to the Mayor in which the lack of expertise of the management in handling such a huge venture was highlighted. The report recommended the appointment of an expert to guide the management. Besides, high rent was cited as a reason for the loss faced by entrepreneurs and hence, it was cut down. The “high prices” of products were cited as the reason for the poor footfall and hence, the report recommended inclusion of more products from Kudumbashree units at the mall. The location of the mall, on a one-way road, was also cited as a reason for poor footfall. “The issues at Mahila Mall are quite simple. But some vested interests were trying to misuse it for political reasons,” Ms. Rajan said. Meanwhile, Mayor Thottathil Raveendran said the corporation was yet to look into the reports and arrive at a conclusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/divergent-views-on-mahila-mall-put-corporation-in-a-fix/article32839410.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Road to reconstruction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-to-reconstruction/article32839857.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Good protection||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-protection/article32839995.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Action sought||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-sought/article32839997.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Picture of neglect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/picture-of-neglect/article32839419.ece
13 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exotic dragon fruit gets added to Anantapur basket||The first-ever commercial crop of the exotic dragon fruit is being harvested at the farm of Gutty Narayana Reddy, a progressive farmer from Kuragani Palli in Narpala mandal of Anantapur district. This will be yet another prestigious addition to the fruit bowl of Andhra Pradesh with the best quality of bananas, sweet lime, papaya, mangoes, pomegranates, grapes, watermelon, musk melon and fig (anjeer), already getting exported from the district. Not many know about the fruit due to its lack of availability in the market and have developed a resistance towards it going by its appearance. A bright pink fruit of the size of a medium papaya, dragon fruit grows on a climbing cactus called hylocereus in tropical regions. It takes 50 days for an attractive flower to convert into a fruit with soft pink outside shell and ripen for plucking. There are two variants with white juicy flesh and small black seeds or pink flesh with black seeds and a slight variation in the sweetness. Initial failure It is grown in small pockets of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Punjab and many other States. Mr. Narayana Reddy, a sweet lime farmer, makes regular visits to Aurangabad in Maharashtra to sell his produce and happened to see this fruit in a farm in 2017 November. The following year, he brought some saplings from there and planted them in a 3-acre farm in the village in 2018. As the crop failed, he approached the horticulture scientists of Acharya NG Ranga University’s Research Centre at Rekulakunta. The advice provided by P. Deepthi and Vimala Bathineni transformed the growth of plants in his farm and today Mr. Reddy is a happy man expecting at least some returns from the huge investment he made. “I have invested Rs. 14.5 lakh on the farm and expect to harvest at least 6 tonnes in the first season,” Mr. Narayana Reddy told The Hindu . He might not recover his investment in the near future but is buoyant about the fact that he was successful in producing the fruit, which mostly comes from Vietnam, Malaysia, Thailand and China. Sold at Rs. 200 a kg in the retail market, Mr. Narayana Reddy expects to sell the fruit that has one month of shelf life, in the wholesale market at Rs. 100 to Rs. 150 a kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exotic-dragon-fruit-gets-added-to-anantapur-basket/article32839947.ece
13 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man immolates himself on Collectorate premises||A 40-year-old man from Gugudu village immolated himself with petrol on District Collector’s office premises here on Monday. He was rushed to Government General Hospital here, he was declared brought dead. Identified as N. Rajasekhar Reddy, he had come to the Collectorate reportedly to submit a representation during ‘Spandana’ grievance redressal time alleging that his 59-year-old mother Ramalakshmi’s savings was not being given back to her by the Anjaneyaswamy Group-2 Self-Help Group in the village in Narpala mandal. According to a petition he had carried with him to submit at the counter, some persons in the group had stopped the Rs. 4,000 his mother was supposed to get out of DWCRA Group loan waiver in the bank. It was not clear as to why he immolated himself before submitting his grievance. Inquiry is on. District Rural Development Authority Project Director conducted an inquiry and submitted a report to the District Collector. There is always someone to talk to at 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-immolates-himself-on-collectorate-premises/article32839918.ece
13 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Palm jaggery traders make hay on Chittoor highways||Motorists driving along the national highways through Chittoor district towards Tamil Nadu and Karnataka will be greeted to the spectacle of roadside vendors selling palm jaggery arranged neatly in large piles, shouting ‘Karuppati vellam’ to attract buyers. Dozens of palm jaggery traders have arrived from Tirunelveli and Ramanathapuram districts of Tamil Nadu to set up stalls along the highways, carrying with them truckloads of jaggery. Due to the ongong COVID-19 pandemic, palm jaggery is now in demand as it is considered good for building immunity. As such, the traders are looking to reap profits by selling high-quality palm jaggery at competitive prices. Palm jaggery is also used as an ingredient in ‘halwa’ and ‘nippatlu’, and thus is highly sought after. The traders have adopted an aggresive marketing strategy to entice motorists. They have began announcing through hand-held megaphones about the therapeutic effects of palm jaggery and its efficacy in keeping infections at bay, and assure that the jaggery is free of chemicals. They reiterate that they are from Tirunelveli, as the district is known for its high-quality palm jaggery. With prices hovering around Rs. 140 a kg, motorists too find it affordable and buy some jaggery to give it a try. The jaggery lumps are displayed in an eye-catching way, by being stacked like a wall of bricks. “This is the right time for us to do business in other States. The pandemic has come as a boon to us. We perceived that the majority of the people are now taking immunity seriously. As palm jaggery is considerably costly in the hinterland, far away from coastal belts, we are able to attract customers with our low prices. Carrying bulk stocks and disposing them of quickly is ensuring us decent profits,” said Prakash, a young seller from Tirunelveli, who has set up a stall at Narayanavanam crossroads on the Chennai highway. Parthibhan, another trader camping at Pichatur on the same highway, said that apart from residents of surrounding villages, a number of motorists from Tamil Nadu, mostly from Chennai, on their return journey are giving them major patronage. “People from Tamil Nadu are aware about the importance of palm jaggery, particularly at a time like this. Moreover, palm jaggery is a regular ingredient for a number of traditional families of Tamil Nadu. As our price is somewhat lesser than in Chennai, naturally they buy from us in large quantities here,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/palm-jaggery-traders-make-hay-on-chittoor-highways/article32839198.ece
13 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Country staring at job loss, starvation: Chinta||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) special invitee Chinta Mohan on Monday alleged that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre had thrown the country’s economy into peril, leading to growing levels of starvation, job losses and plummeting of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Staging a protest at his residence in Tirupati, the former MP said that going by the latest trends, as many as 10 crore people in the country were under starvation, with just a single meal in a day, while food grain crisis had gripped a population of over 30 crore population, and 12 crore were rendered jobless, besides devastating the lives of small traders and daily wagers. Fall in industrial production Chinta Mohan maintained that the industrial production had come down to 25% after the COVID-19 outbreak in the country. Production at most MSMEs came to a grinding halt due to lack of working capital and support from banks. “The banking sector operations are the worst hit, providing no loans and receiving no deposits. The banks are now depending on the RBI to avail reserve funds,” he said. The middle class sections in the country were in jeopardy too, unable to clear their EMIs and various loans as the moratorium parameters lacked clarity, he said. The Congress leader said that the exports had slipped to 35%, which led to the wiping out of the GDP regime and pushing the economy into depression.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/country-staring-at-job-loss-starvation-chinta/article32839920.ece
13 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mystery shrouds boy’s death in Palamaner||Mystery surrounded the death of a 13-year-old boy in his study room in a two-storeyed building at Palamaner on Sunday, and the incident came to light on Monday. According to the Palamaner police, Yashwant, used to attend online classes in a separate room provided by his parents in his house. He left for his room in the morning on the pretext of studying. Around 1.30 p.m, Yashwant’s mother called him for lunch. As the boy’s did not turn up, she waited for some more time and went to this room on the second floor and found Yashwant on the floor, and his complexion getting dark. He was immediately rushed to the area hospital at Palamaner, where he was declared brought dead in the evening. Electrocution suspected Acting on information from the hospital authorities, the police rushed to the spot and conducted preliminary investigation. It is suspected that the boy was trying to modify a toy gun in the room with scrap material, using some adhesive and soldering machine. A police officer said they suspect that it could be death due to electrocution. ‘No external injury’ “While the boy’s skin turned black, his nails turned blue. There is no any external injury. We are also investigation the angle of poisoning. We are waiting for the post-mortem report, “ a police officer said. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mystery-shrouds-boys-death-in-palamaner/article32839921.ece
13 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held, red sanders logs seized||The Red Sanders Task Force personnel nabbed two smuggling operatives from the Jawadi Hills of Tamil Nadu 15 km from Bhakarapeta ghat section in Chittoor district, in the early hours of Monday and seized seven logs, while six others had escaped under cover of darkness in the deep forest, . Deputy SP (Task Force) Venkataiah said combing party on a patrol noticed an eight-member group coming down a slope at Chittejarla, between Bhimavaram valley and Bhakarapeta ghat section. Noticing the task force, they tried to flee abandoning the logs. However Perumal Kasi (35) and Chella Perumal (29) were nabbed. The task force personnel recovered seven logs from the spot. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-red-sanders-logs-seized/article32839948.ece
13 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan trying to kill ‘baby capital’ of State, says Lokesh||On the 300th day of “Save Amaravati”, agitation, TDP national general secretary and former Minister Nara Lokesh visited the protest camps of farmers, rythu coolies and women in the villages in Thullur mandal and the expressed party’s solidarity to their demand for ‘One State, One Capital’. Mr. Lokesh was accompanied by Member of Parliament, Guntur, Galla Jayadev and former Tadikonda MLA Tenali Sravan Kumar, as he joined the protests at Venkatapalem and Penumaka villages. Alleging that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had been trying to kill the “baby capital” of Andhra Pradesh in utter disregard for the rights and sacrifices of farmers who gave away 34,000 acres in response to a call given by the then Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu, Mr. Lokesh said the Amaravati region was selected in tune with the wishes of all people of the State. “Even Mr. Jagan spoke in favour of Amaravati selection on the floor of the Assembly in his capacity as Opposition Leader at that time,” he said. Addressing protesters at Penumaka, Mr. Lokesh said it was Mr. Jagan, who, in fact, demanded an equidistant new Capital to North Andhra and Rayalaseema in over 30,000 acres where there would be no water shortage, and Amaravati had met all these parameters. “Mr. Jagan, who approved Amaravati while in Opposition and even made people believe in that stand, completely changed his stance and started shifting Capital after coming to power,’’ allegedMr. Lokesh. Stating that Mr. Jagan was incapable of bringing development, Mr. Lokesh pointed out that not even a single industry had come up in Visakhapatnam and North Andhra, and the rest of the State in the past 17 months. What more, the port city had become witness to unchecked land grabs and private settlements with law and order problems, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-trying-to-kill-baby-capital-of-state-says-lokesh/article32839933.ece
13 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vemuru MLA denies role in illegal sand mining||Refuting the allegations over the illegal sand mining at Oleru in Bhattirprolu mandal, Vemuru MLA Meruga Nagarjuna has said that he has no role in it. On Monday, the MLA submitted a letter to Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, urging him to take action against those involved in the illegal mining. He sought information whether any permission was given to mine sand from the land belonging to Aadi Andhra Cooperative Society at Oleru. He also sought to know about the survey number and the extent of mining done in case permission was accorded. “A malicious campaign has been launched against me. I have been working under the leadership of Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy for the betterment of lives of Dalits,” he said. The MLA also submitted representations to Vigilance and Enforcement Officer, Guntur SP, Special Enforcement Bureau and Deputy Director of the Mining Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vemuru-mla-denies-role-in-illegal-sand-mining/article32839203.ece
13 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Counselling process begins at Vignan||Counselling for admission into various graduate engineering courses at Vignan University began on Monday. University Vice-Chancellor M.Y.S. Prasad said that the counselling evoked an enthusiastic response from students who turned up in large numbers. According to him, the university is conducting the counselling on the basis of EAMCET ranks, JEE percentile, and Intermediate marks. Counselling process will continue till October 21. The university is introducing new courses like artificial intelligence, machine learning, Cyber security, computer science and business systems, robotics and auto-machine. He claimed more than 90% of the college students got jobs. Courses like biomedical, bioinformatics, biotechnology, food technology, B pharmacy were being offered for those from BiPC. Online classes using advanced technology and smart boards were being conducted, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/counselling-process-begins-at-vignan/article32839205.ece
13 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seaward artillery exercises to begin on November 23||Seaward Artillery Exercises will commence at the Indian Air Force Station, Suryalanka in Bapatla, on November 23. The artillery exercises will continue for 12 days and end on December 4. The State government has accorded the necessary permissions to carry out the exercises and Praveen Prakash, Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, issued orders. It is expected that six to eight aircraft will take part in the exercises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seaward-artillery-exercises-to-begin-on-november-23/article32839204.ece
13 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati stir ‘stage-managed’ show: Sajjala||Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said the Amaravati agitation appears to be a stage-managed show and asked TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu to seek a CBI probe into the core issue. Addressing the media, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy accused the TDP president of cheating farmers while he was in office. “Even now, he is trying to safeguard the interests of realtors,” he alleged. “While there is an all-round development of the State under the leadership of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, it is ridiculous on part of TDP leader N. Lokesh to claim that the region is being discriminated,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. “There is no meaning in TDP leaders’ claim that Amaravati is being denied its rightful place, when all the regions are being given equal prominence by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government. The TDP can seek a CBI probe if it thinks a particular region is being given a raw deal,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-stir-stage-managed-show-sajjala/article32840049.ece
13 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains: Minister inspects paddy fields||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said the crops damaged due to rains will be enumerated across the State to extend the necessary help to farmers. Mr. Kannababu on Monday inspected the paddy fields in Vakada and Vemulavada villages of Karapa mandal and interacted with farmers on the scale of damage due to heavy rains in East Godavari district. In I. Polavaram mandal, a boat in which six fishermen attempted to venture into the sea for fishing, overturned near Bhyravapalem village. However, they were rescued by another group of fishermen. Boat operators were advised not to venture into the sea till further information. In the Konaseema region, the officials alerted the people on heavy rains. “As many as 41 cyclone shelters are kept ready in case of evacuation,” said Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik. In Peddapuram, two shops collapsed in the municipal shopping complex building. However, no casualty was reported. The civic body recently ordered the owners not to open shops as a portion of the building is in a dilapidated condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rains-minister-inspects-paddy-fields/article32839207.ece
13 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 held, fake notes for Rs. 88 lakh seized||The police have arrested a gang of five persons for reportedly printing and circulating fake currency under the Coringa police limits in East Godavari district. A team led by DSP V. Bheema Rao recovered 5,116 fake notes of a face value of Rs. 88.74 lakh from the accused during a raid on a photo studio at Sunkalarevu of Tallarevu mandal when they were printing the currency on Sunday. The counterfeit currency comprised 4,211 Rs. 2,000 notes and 905 Rs. 500 notes. At a press conference on Monday, SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said that Dhangeti Srinivasa Rao and his son D. Venkata Brahmaji had been printing fake notes in their photo studio since August and circulating them. “Their modus operandi to circulate the fake notes is to purchase idols of gods,” he said. Brahmaji’s friends Dasaradha Ramudu and Chinna Mavoollu of Tallarevu mandal and Ramkumar of Rampachodavaram were roped in to expand the operations. The police got a clue about the fraud during the investigation of a recent fake note racket in which six from the district were caught.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-held-fake-notes-for-rs-88-lakh-seized/article32839949.ece
13 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||70 fishermen families evacuated||At least 70 families of fishermen were evacuated from Hope Island in the Kakinada Bay on special boats deployed by the AP Maritime Board on Monday to avoid any untoward incident. Kakinada Revenue Divisional Officer A.G. Chinni Krishna said the families had been accommodated in Pagadalapeta government high school in Toorangi village. “The decision to evacuate them has been taken in the wake of warnings of heavy rainfall in the coming 24 hours,” he said. East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha said vehicular movement and entry of tourists into the two prime beaches —Kakinada and Uppada — had been prohibnited. The Kakinada-Uppada road has also been closed as the road is not suitable for use during the cyclones. The Kakinada Municipal Corporation has set up 14 relief camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/70-fishermen-families-evacuated-from-hope-island-off-kakinada-coast/article32839208.ece
13 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South coastal Andhra keeps up positive trend||In a welcome development, there were more recoveries with the number of fresh cases and fatalities also declining in south coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours. The daily tally, which hovered around 1,000 or more during last month, has now come down drastically to less than 500 during this month. Similarly, the number of deaths, which had been in the double digit during the previous month, came down to single digit this month. With six more deaths in the region in the last 24 hours, the toll marginally rose to 1,008, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Monday. The toll in Prakasam district rose to 536 with five more deaths while Nellore district recorded one taking the toll to 472.  Active cases While 436 persons got infected, as many as 979 patients won the battle against the viral disease. With 166 new cases, the cumulative confirmed cases rose to 58,410 in Nellore district where the active cases fell to 2,898 as 436 patients recovered from illness. So far, 55,512 patients have recovered from the disease in the district. In Prakasam district, the tally rose to 54,658 as 270 persons tested positive for the disease. However, the active cases dropped to 3,745 as 566 patients were discharged from hospitals, pushing up the recoveries to 50,377. Meanwhile, the Prakasam district administration decided to rope in members of Self Help Groups(SHGs) in the fight against the respiratory disease. The SHG women would be given pulse oximeter to identify people suffering from low oxygen levels. Catching those with low oxygen levels is crucial to treat even a mild case of COVID, while early check-up will also reduce mortality rate by taking those requiring critical care to hospitals immediately, Prakasam District Collector P.Bhaskar said while reviewing the health situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-andhra-keeps-up-positive-trend/article32839926.ece
13 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leaders of JAC, TDP continue stir for Amaravati as capital||Members of the the Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti Joint Action Committee (APS-JAC) in the district staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here on Monday demanding retention of Amaravati as the one and only capital of Andhra Pradesh. The JAC members came in a big procession to the Church Centre raising slogans against the Jagan Mohan Reddy Government and demanding that they drop its three capital move. All India Kisan Sabha national vice-president Ravula Venkaiah said it was unfortunate that the YSR Congress Party Government did not take into consideration the sacrifice made by farmers. TDP Ongole Lok Sabha constituency unit president N.Balaji questioned the need for three capitals for a small Sate which was now struggling to overcome bifurcation blues including huge un-bridged revenue deficit. Andhra Pradesh Rationalists Association president N.Venkata Subbaiah felt that a government that was indifferent to farmers who have been agitating for the last 300 days had no moral right to be in power. Protests in Tirupati The student and youth wing activists of the TDP painted a grim picture of the State without Amaravati as the capital. In a mock protest conducted on Monday, members of the Telugu Nadu Students Federation (TNSF) dressed up as construction workers and staged a demonstration in front of a building under construction. Their protest was to throw light on the possible rampant unemployment in future that could reduce engineers and technocrats to daily wagers. Accusing the State government of putting spokes in development by creating confusion on the capital issue, the protesting members said the government should withdraw the decentralisation move. The students recalled that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had, as the Opposition leader, acknowledged on the floor of the house the need for developing 30,000 acres in Amaravati as the capital, and questioned how he could go back on his word now. ‘No investors’ “No investor has come up with fresh proposals in the State. This bears testimony to the doubts persistent in their minds,” Mr. Ravi Naidu said. “The TDP regime had announced Tirupati as an electronics hub and Vizag as the IT hub. But the IT companies have now started moving to Hyderabad, Chennai or Bengaluru,” Mr. Anand Goud said, attributing it to the ‘rowdyism’ spreading tentacles in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leaders-of-jac-tdp-continue-stir-for-amaravati-as-capital/article32839924.ece
13 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will ensure a turnaround in tobacco sector, says Raghunadha Babu||The Tobacco Board has chalked out plans to consolidate the country’s position in the global trade by projecting it as a definite market to global players, according to its chairman Y. Raghunadha Babu. Mr. Raghunadha Babu shared his vision with The Hindu to step up export of the principal commercial produce in Andhra pradesh and Karnataka to bring back the past glory to the sector when the production was over 300 million kg. India is being viewed now largely as an “opportunity market” by the global players with the production of FCV tobacco declining to about 220 million kg . Pandemic impact In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the crop regulator has been forced to slash the crop size to 203 million kg, which included 115 million kg for Andhra Pradesh this year. All-out efforts are being made by the board to take the production to at least 250 to 270 million kg in the next two to three years, and improve the quality of crop to cater to the global market, Mr. Raghunadha Babu says. “There is no option for farmers but to grow the crop in the traditional growing areas, especially in the drought-prone Nellore and Prakasam districts. I cannot say no when the farmers, especially in the Southern Light Soil Region such as Kaligiri and D.C. Palli grow tobacco in view of the damage caused by wild animals to the food crops,” he says. The farmers should make a concerted effort to improve the quality of leaf, adopt better agronomic practices, and cut down on costs by adopting mechanisation to stay afloat, he says. Farmers had sleepless nights as the pandemic coincided with the marketing season in A.P., and they were even preparing to put the produce in cold storage units. Giving a priority to the opening of auction centres , the board facilitated lifting of the entire produce by traders. “I am satisfied for ensuring a better price for the produce as our staff, risking their lives, have completed the auctions,” Mr. Raghunadha Babu adds, adding that 170 staff contracted the virus infection. Hinting at reducing penalty on excess crop, he wants the farmers to desist from taking on lease more than the required tobacco barns to cope with reduction in crop quota per barn. On CTRI The Central Tobacco Research Institute in Rajamahendravaram will continue its research, he says, allaying fears over reports that the Centre is mulling to widen its scope to other commercial crops and christen it as Indian Institute of Research on Commercial Agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-ensure-a-turnaround-in-tobacco-sector-says-raghunadha-babu/article32839929.ece
13 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held for temple thefts||Prakasam police detected six property offences, including thefts in four places of worship, with the arrest of two offenders in Markapur and Chirala divisions on Monday. Hundi collections from three temples in Kumarole and Vetapalem mandals and from a Masjid in Karamchedu mandal and also motorcycles, all worth over Rs. 1.03 lakh, were recovered from them, police said. Cash recovered Kumarole police in Markapur division, led by Sub-Inspector Sambasivaiah, nabbed one Lingaiah(29) near a restaurant and recovered two motorcycles and hundi collections amounting to Rs. 4,500 stolen from two temples recently. The accused was involved in several such offences across the State in the past. Meanwhile, Chirala sub-division police nabbed Syam Kumar(19) who had struck at a temple near Vetapalem and a Masjid at Kunkalamarru, near Karamchedu, and recovered Rs. 14,000 in cash from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-for-temple-thefts/article32839922.ece
13 October 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GUDA identifies 2,970 unauthorised layouts||Godavari Urban Development Authority (GUDA) Vice-Chairman R. Amarendra Kumar has said that as many as 2,970 unauthorised layouts have been identified and they should be regularised by December 31. Speaking to newsmen at the GUDA Regional Office here on Monday, Mr. Amarendra Kumar said the highest number of unauthorised layouts were identified in the GUDA jurisdiction compared to other UDAs in the State. “We are expecting an income of nearly Rs. 50 crore by regularisation of the unauthorised layouts.” On the GO No. 179 issued recently by the State government, Mr. Amarendra Kumar said that the order exempted field level inspection of the site proposed for construction of a house or an apartment, enabling the builder to commence the construction activity after applying for the construction permission through online. Applications “However, the approval of the construction will be cancelled if any violation is brought to the notice of the GUDA. Fine will also be imposed on the violators of the existing guidelines of the construction norms,” said Mr. Amarendra Kumar. As of early October, the GUDA received as many as 4,970 applications under the Land Regularisation Scheme, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guda-identifies-2970-unauthorised-layouts/article32839983.ece
13 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Swashakthi helps members achieve financial freedom||Dominance of money-lenders and micro finance institutions has come to an end in many villages of Vajrapukotturu mandal of Srikakulam district, thanks to the collective efforts of women who could become self-reliant financially with their own planning and hard work. Money-lenders used to collect up to 5% interest per month from women who were forced to borrow money for their petty business activities such as running a tailoring shop, sale of coconuts or investment on agriculture. They used to pay Rs. 800 to Rs. 1,000 as interest per month if they were given Rs. 20,000 loan. As many as 6,120 women became members of the Swashakthi Mutually-aided Cooperative Society and were able to create Rs. 80 lakh fund on their own. The society gives soft loans at nominal interest rates for income generation activities. The maximum interest rate is 12% per annum and a concession is given if loans are taken for three and six months. The interest is hardly Rs. 200 per month if Rs. 20,000 loan is taken from the society. The loan facility is extended only to group members. Moved by the pathetic situation of women of interior villages, the Bapuji Rural Enlightenment and Development Society (BREDS) has helped them form small self-help groups in 1995 itself, says its chief executive officer A. Ramakrishna Raju. Training The self-employment training programmes, government schemes of the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) were explained to the distressed women, who then established the Swashakti organisation. “Swashakthi is going to be the biggest women’s organisation in Andhra Pradesh with 10,000 members within a couple of years,” Mr. Raju tells The Hindu . The society president Akku Dhana Lakshmi and secretary K. Saraswathi say that financial independence helped the women members lead a comfortable life even during the COVID-19 crisis. “Every member is encouraged to involve in society administrative activities also. It develops leadership qualities among them,” says Mrs. Dhana Lakshmi. The society members are also involved in social awareness programmes. They have to get their children married only after completion of intermediate education. They are aware of the Domestic Violence Act, consumer rights and other laws. “The society members serve as an inspiration to many others in Palasa, Mandasa and other mandals,” says BREDS secretary V. Sambamurty.  Swashakthi is going to be the biggest women’s organisation in Andhra Pradesh with 10,000 members within a couple of years A. Ramakrishna Raju, CEO, Bapuji Rural Enlightenment and Development Society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/swashakthi-helps-members-achieve-financial-freedom/article32839355.ece
13 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 youth missing in Libya found safe||The family members of three youngsters who went missing in Libya were in a jubilant mood on Monday after knowing their whereabouts. The three welders – Boddu Danayya, Batsala Venkata Rao and B. Jogarao – all residents of Sithanagaram of Santabommali mandal in Srikakulam district, went to Libya in October last year and had been working in a company there. They had planned to return to India some time back, and since then remained incommunicado. Embassy helps Following the intervention of the Indian embassy, it was learnt that they were abducted by a local gang. With constant pursuance, the embassy officials got the authorities there secure their release. Tekkali BJP in-charge Hanumanthu Udaya Bhaskar and other leaders who brought the issue to the notice of the Union government shared the joy with the families by distributing sweets. Mr. Bhaskar urged the government to ensure their safe return to India as early as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-youth-missing-in-libya-found-safe/article32839952.ece
13 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will ensure development of rly. stations’||East Coast Railway Shramik Union Joint General Secretary Pappala Rammohana Rao on Monday said that he would strive hard for the development of all railway stations and protect the interests of the working class in the region. Mr. Rammohana Rao, who previously worked as Divisional Secretary of Railway Mazdoor Union, has joined Shramik Union recently. Speaking to mediapersons here, he said that the issues of passengers would be brought to the notice of railway authorities. Several local people were elated over his appointment in the prominent union while hoping that his service would be helpful for the development of railways in Srikakulam district and other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-ensure-development-of-rly-stations/article32839210.ece
13 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vegetable supply to TTD dips drastically||Tirumala Tiruptai Devasthanms Additional Executive officer A.V. Dharma Reddy on Monday exhorted vegetables donors to supply more varieties for the benefit of the visiting pilgrims. Acclaiming their diligent contributions since 2004, he said it was owing to their generous service that the TTD was able to provide tasty and quality food to the devout under its pet Nitya Annadanam scheme. The TTD received a whopping 1,857 tonnes of vegetables during 2019-20 as against a paltry 165 tonnes during the year till September, and attributed the dip in the receipts to coronavirus pandemic as well as the closure of the temple for public for over 80 days during the peak summer. Positive response Heeding the request of Mr. Reddy, the donors reacted positively for the supply of more varieties of vegetables during the Brahmotsavams scheduled to commence from October 16. The meeting was attended among others by Ddputy EO (Anna Prasadam) Nagaraja, Catering officer GLN Shastri and a host of vegetable donors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vegetable-supply-to-ttd-dips-drastically/article32839945.ece
13 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP is belittling emotion and resolve of people, says CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has said that it would lend support in the next elections to the party which will retain Amaravati as the State capital and fight for Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh. The party cadre staged a demonstration at the Sub-Collector’s office here on Monday to commemorate the 300th day of the Amaravati agitation. Speaking on the occasion, CPI national Secretary K. Narayana said the party had taken a firm stand on the capital issue and would not accept the ‘three capitals’ proposal at any cost. Dig at Botcha Condemning the remarks made by Minister Botcha Satyanarayana that Amaravati agitators are ‘paid artistes’, the CPI leader said, “It is a matter of shame that the ruling party leaders are belittling the emotions and resolve of those who are fighting for their rights. The protest is a battle for their survival. No government has the right to take a decision without the people’s approval.” He also dared Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to go for polls on the ‘three capitals’ issue. Taking a dig at the YSRCP, he said that the government had achieving nothing except for selling sand and encroaching upon land belonging to the Dalits. “People of the State will teach the YSRCP and its leaders a lesson, if they do not shed their adamant stand on derailing the development of a region on the pretext of decentralisation,” Mr. Narayana said.CPI State secretariat member P. Harinatha Reddy flayed the proposal to shift the Chief Minister’s camp office to Visakhapatnam. He recalled that the ruling party, in its first meeting after bifurcation, had proposed Vijayawada as the State capital, and it should adhere to it. CPI Chittoor district Secretary A. Rama Naidu, former MLA M. Sugunamma (TDP) and CPI(M) district Secretary P. Pullaiah expressed solidarity by participating in the demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-is-belittling-emotion-and-resolve-of-people-says-cpi/article32839937.ece
13 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Digital teaching will ensure wider reach’||Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank has suggested that innovation and digital teaching will go a long way in reaching out to the target audience. Participating virtually in the national symposium on ‘Sanskrit teaching – with special reference to National Education Policy 2020’ organised by the National Sanskrit University here on Monday, he spoke on the new educational policy unveiled early this year and its implications on various streams of education. Mr. Pokhriyal also stressed the need for newer avenues in Sanskrit research, which he called the ‘need of the hour’. Dwelling on the NEP-20, the Minister explained Sanskrit as a knowledge system and the application of simple standard Sanskrit in teaching and learning. Laying emphasis on preparing textbooks accordingly, the Minister also suggested integration of Sanskrit with other modern subjects.  Books released He later released two electronic books viz., ‘National Educational Policy 2020’ and ‘New trends in psychology’, both in the Sanskrit medium. Vice-Chancellor V. Muralidhara Sharma, in his presidential address, said that the varsity was striving hard to implement the new education policy, besides reaching out to newer sections of students through online mediums and digital teaching. Symposium coordinator R. Chandrasekhar, Dean (Faculty of Education) Prahlad Joshi, head P. Venkata Rao spoke, while S.L. Seetharama Sharma acted as the additional coordinator. Huge participation At least 650 participants from across the country participated in the symposium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/digital-teaching-will-ensure-wider-reach/article32839927.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dasara: only 10,000 devotees to be allowed per day for Durga darshan||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has said that only 10,000 devotees per day with pre-booked online tickets will be allowed to have a darshan of goddess Kanakadurga during the nine-day Dasara festivities, a State festival, atop Indrakeeladri starting from October 17. However, on the ‘Moola Nakshatram’ day, which witnesses the highest footfall, 13,000 devotees will be allowed. Addressing the media along with Sri Durga Malleswara Swamy Varla Devastanams board chairman Pyla Sominaidu and temple executive officer M.V. Suresh Babu here on Monday, Mr. Imtiaz said that devotees can purchase Rs. 300 and Rs. 100 tickets online by visiting kanakadurgamma.org or mobile app. Bhavani devotees should also buy tickets online. Restrictions were imposed to ensure physical distancing in view of the COVID pandemic, he said. Children aged below 10 years and elders aged above 65 would not be allowed and arrangements were made in such a way that only 1,000 persons could be accommodated in an hour. All arrangements were in place, said the Collector. Mr. Sominaidu said that out of one lakh tickets made available, 67,000 were already bought. He said considering the situation on the eve of the festival days, more tickets would be made available, if possible. He appealed to people not to visit the temple without printed copies of online tickets and cooperate with the government. Timings Mr. Suresh Babu said devotees would be allowed only between 5 a.m. and 8 p.m. every day. However, on the first day, temple doors would be opened for devotees at 9 a.m. and on ‘Moola Nakshatram’ day they would remain open between 3 a.m. and 9 a.m. Ticket holders have to arrive 15 minutes before the allotted slot and show a printed copy of the ticket and identity proof. Live telecast of certain pujas would be made and ‘prasadam’ would be sent to the devotees who offer special prayers via post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dasara-only-10000-devotees-to-be-allowed-per-day-for-durga-darshan/article32839202.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure pipeline water supply to schools, anganwadi centres, Governor tells officials||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has asked the State government officials to expedite the works to ensure drinking water supply to schools and Anganwadi centres through pipelines under the Jal Jeevan Mission, a campaign launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 2. The initiative is aimed at providing safe and adequate drinking water supply to all households in rural India through individual tap connections by 2024. Mr. Harichandan reviewed the implementation of the mission with Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney through video link on Monday. “The initiative will have a positive impact on children’s health and holistic growth. Children are more prone to water-borne diseases such as dysentery, diarrhoea, cholera and etc. All the schools and Anganwadi centres should be covered under the scheme and the works should be undertaken on a mission mode by involving all the departments concerned,” said Mr. Harichandan. Target set Mr. Nilam Sawhney said that of the 95,66,332 rural households in the State, only 33% had water tap connections and a target had been set to cover all the households by 2024. “Already 45% of the total 44,782 schools and 35% of the 55,607 Anganwadi centres in the State have water supply through pipelines under the Nadu Nedu scheme and the rest will have the facility by the end of December,” said Ms. Sawhney. Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Principal Secretary Gopal Krishna Dwivedi, Education Principal Secretary B. Rajasekhar and Women Development and Child Welfare Principal Secretary A.R. Anuradha presented action plans concerning their departments. Secretary to Governor Mukesh Kumar Meena and others took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-pipeline-water-supply-to-schools-anganwadi-centres-governor-tells-officials/article32839931.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six new COVID containment zones in Krishna district||Six more villages in five mandals of the district were declared as containment zones as more COVID infections were reported. Meanwhile, seven containment zones were denotified by the District Collector as no cases were reported from them during the past 28 days. Among the new containment zones are villages Vemulamanda of Movva mandal, Gagadevarapadu and Konijerla of Gampalagudem mandal, Kankavalli of Thotlavallur mandal, Kotapadu of Chatrai and Akulamannadu of Guduru mandal. Among the zones that were denotified are Alinakipalem, Kapileswara Puram and Choragudi villages of Pamidimukkala mandal, Narasimharao Palem and Pothanapalli of Chatrai mandal, Singarayapalem of Mudinepalli mandal and Korlapadu of Bantumilli mandal. Currently there are 524 containment zones in the district and 2,605 active cases. The district reported 86 new cases and five new deaths in the past day taking the infection tally to 32,036 and death toll to 498. Meanwhile, in a video conference with Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney Mr. Imtiaz said that the number of deaths came down slight in the past week compared to the previous week. He said 37 deaths occurred between September 30 and October 5, and in the past six days only 21 deaths were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-new-covid-containment-zones-in-krishna-district/article32839200.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains: stay alert, DGP tells police officials||Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang has alerted all the police officials in view of the heavy rain forecast across the State. According to a release, Mr. Sawang asked the all the officers from station house officers to police district chiefs to stay alert round the clock. He asked them to coordinate with the officials of State Disaster Response Force, National Disaster Response Force and the district administrations. He advised the public to call 100 or 112 in case of any emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rains-stay-alert-dgp-tells-police-officials/article32840044.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Friend’s role suspected in shooting case||With a family member of shooting victim G. Mahesh suspecting the role of a friend behind the murder, police reportedly questioned his friends as part of the investigation on Monday. However, police are still looking into all angles. Eight police teams were put into action to trace the culprits and their whereabouts and the identity of the two accused who shot the victim is yet to be known. The person in question was also at the scene of offence. One of the persons present at the spot, Vuyyuru Dinesh, was a relative of Mahesh and works at the office of Guntur Collectorate as a computer operator. Mahesh’s sister went on record suspecting actions of one of the friends at the scene of offence speaking to news channels on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/friends-role-suspected-in-shooting-case/article32840045.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 20,000 for buying sari for Goddess||The State government on Monday sanctioned Rs. 20,000 for purchase of silk (pattu) sari which will be presented by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to Goddess Kanaka Durga at the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam here during the Dasara festival. The Chief Minister will present the sari on October 21, on the auspicious occasion of ‘Moola Nakshatram’, said a G.O. issued by in-charge Secretary (endowments) M. Girija Sankar. The nine-day festival will begin on October 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-20000-for-buying-sari-for-goddess/article32839938.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buggana seeks early release of IGST dues||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy has requested Union Finance Minister and GST Council Chairman Nirmala Sitharaman to clear the Integrated Goods & Services Tax (IGST) dues to the State at the earliest. Participating in the GST Council meeting virtually on Monday, Mr. Reddy said the Union government had released a part of the GST compensation due for 2020-21, and it should clear the pending IGST to enable the State to overcome the financial crisis in which it was mired, to some extent. He observed that the States’ revenues were being impacted by the cess and surcharges (being collected by the Centre) not falling into the divisible pool. The Centre should think about it and take necessary action, he said. The compensation was one issue that needed to be sorted out without further delay, as States were incurring substantial expenditure on COVID control over and above other things that stretched their finances to limits, Mr. Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/buggana-seeks-early-release-of-igst-dues/article32839942.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Casting doubts on judiciary is blackmail, says Thulasi Reddy||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) working president N. Thulasi Reddy has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the YSRCP leaders doubting the judges of Supreme Court and the the High Court is nothing, but an act of blackmail. “Appeals could be made to the higher courts on the judgements pronounced by the subordinate courts. If the conduct of judges is under suspicion, motions could be moved in the Parliament for their impeachment. But, the State government chose to openly hit out at the courts and the judges through media for selfish reasons,” said Mr. Thulasi Reddy in a release. The comments made by the Chief Minister and several YSRCP leaders are likely to impact the future judgments. It appears to be part of a larger conspiracy to demoralise the judges so that they would not deliver verdicts which is adverse to the government, said Mr. Thulasi Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/casting-doubts-on-judiciary-is-blackmail-says-thulasi-reddy/article32839934.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIT, NHAI sign MoU||The National Institute of Technology (NIT), Andhra Pradesh (Tadepalligudem), and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for studying and offering expertise in highway infrastructure. NIT Director C.S.P. Rao and NHAI project director D. Surendra Nath signed and exchanged the MoU as part of which NIT students and faculty adopted the ‘Siddhantam-Gundugolanu stretch of NH-216A in AP’ spanning 71.95 kM for a field study by the faculty and students, according to a release by NIT. The agreement is a result of NHAI's expression of interest to offer internship for B.Tech. and M.Tech. students of NIT Andhra Pradesh. Prof. Rao said that so far a total of 9 MoUs were signed by NIT, Andhra Pradesh with different industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nit-nhai-sign-mou/article32839199.ece
13 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘set on fire’, dies||A 24-year-old woman died due to severe burn injuries after she was allegedly set afire by a person reportedly known to her at her house above a parcel office in Hanumanpet on Monday. The deceased, Chinnari of Visannapeta of the district, works as a paramedical professional in a private hospital in the city. The man allegedly set her on fire after dousing her with petrol reportedly following an argument, according to the latest reports. The man also suffered severe burn injuries and was rushed to GGH in the city. Locals who noticed fire in the house alerted fire personnel, who rushed to the spot and put it off. The Governorpet police are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-set-on-fire-dies/article32840046.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police thwart move to unload ammonium nitrate at Vizag port||The attempt to berth MV Kraszewski carrying 20,041 tonnes of ammonium nitrate at the Visakhapatnam Port and unload the cargo was stopped by the city police and the district administration, after the police enforced orders under CrPC Section 144 and the district administration under CrPC Section 133. Ever since a storage facility containing about 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate exploded in Beirut, Lebanon, on August 4, import and storage of the chemical in the country has come under the scanner. In Visakhapatnam, the licence of the sole stevedoring company that was handling and storing ammonium nitrate was cancelled, following alleged non-compliance of the norms specified under the Ammonium Nitrate Rules of 2012. Since then the ship has been kept waiting in the high seas and based on a proposal from the Explosives Manufacturers’ Welfare Association and the importers, the VPT had written a letter to the AP Pollution Control Board, clarifying certain doubts raised by the board and also informing the proposed berthing of the ship and discharge of the cargo. The ship was supposed to be berthed on Monday, with the assurance by importers of transporting the cargo by rail or trucks to the respective factory sites. Clarification But the berthing was stopped after the police clarified that the licences given by PESO to the stevedoring companies from other places, is not valid until an NOC is obtained from local authorities, which include the Commissioner of Police. “The local person’s licence has been cancelled and the cargo cannot be discharged by the companies holding a licence and NOCs at other places,” said Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha. The VPT authorities also confirmed that the berthing of the ship has been deferred till October 31. The licence holders have been advised to obtain NOCs from the authorities concerned in Visakhapatnam, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-thwart-move-to-unload-ammonium-nitrate-at-vizag-port/article32839955.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die, two injured in roof collapse due to heavy rain||A woman and her son died and two others suffered injuries when boulders came rolling down the hill slope following heavy rain, crashed onto the retaining wall, resulting in the rubble falling into their house, at Ganapathi Nagar under Gajuwaka Police Station limits, here late on on Sunday night. The concrete retaining wall fell on the asbestos roof of their house and it collapsed. K. Ramalakshmi, who was eight months pregnant, and her two-year-old son Gyaneswar were trapped under the rubble and died on the spot. Ramalakshmi’s husband Lokanadham and her mother Parvathi sustained injuries, according to the Gajuwaka police. The bodies were extricated from the rubble by the police with the help of Fire Service personnel, and shifted to the mortuary. The continual downpour due to a depression in the Bay of Bengal led to rainwater overflowing on the roads at some places and flooding of low-lying areas. The strong winds resulted in the snapping of cable and telephone lines and falling of branches and trees at some places on Monday. Traffic hit In some areas like Sankara Matam, the movement of traffic was disrupted for some times as trees fell across the roads. They were cleared by people of nearby areas and GVMC staff. Some of the low lying areas in the city were flooded due to the heavy rain but the water receded later. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said the clogged drains were being cleared on a war-footing. Rainwater overflowed on the streets and entered the cellar of an apartment near the Ayyappa Swami temple at Sheela Nagar. The residents of the area staged a protest demanding a permanent solution to the problem. They alleged that the unauthorised shops and constructed on the drains, were obstructing the flow of water. Motorists had a tough time driving through the rainwater, which collected on the road below the railway bridge at Chavulamadhum on Monday. MLA visit Meanwhile, Visakhapatnam West MLA PGVR Naidu (Ganababu) visited the Ganapathi Nagar on Monday and met the family members of the victims and expressed his condolences. He appealed to the government to provide relief to the bereaved family members. He advised the officials concerned to initiate relief measures in the low-lying areas submerged due to incessant downpour due to the depression in the Bay of Bengal. He felt that it was unfortunate that the government and officials had not taken preventive measures, though there was prior information about heavy rains, which resulted in the deaths. TDP corporator nominee Lalam Lavanya, TDP leaders Nakka Lakshman Rao, Rambabu, Sattibabu, Ram Shankar, Prabhakar and Rammohan Naidu were among those who accompanied the MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-two-injured-in-roof-collapse-due-to-heavy-rain/article32840057.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four more special trains announced||The Railways have announced operation of four more special trains between Visakhapatnam – Tirupati, Visakhapatnam-Secunderabad, Santragachi-Chennai bi-weekly AC special via Visakhapatnam and Kamakhya-Yesvantpur AC weekly special via Vizianagaram. Train no. 02708 Tirupati-Visakhapatnam Double Decker Special will leave Tirupati on Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays at 9.50 p.m. with effect from October 14 to reach Visakhapatnam on the next day at 11 a.m.. In the return direction, train no. 02707 Visakhapatnam-Tirupati Double Decker tri-weekly Special will leave Visakhapatnam at 10.25 p.m. on Thursdays, Saturdays and Mondays with effect from October 15 to reach Tirupati on the next day at 11.35 a.m. This train will have stoppages at Duvvada, Anakapalle, Tuni, Samalkot, Rajahmundry, Tadepalligudem, Eluru, Vijayawada, New Guntur, Tenali, Chirala, Ongole, Nellore, Gudur, Srikalahasti and Renigunta. These trains will have eight Double Decker AC coaches and two Motorcar coaches, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager AK Tripathi. Train no. 02784 Secunderabad-Visakhapatnam AC weekly special, will leave Secunderabad on Saturdays at 5.50 p.m. with effect from October 17 and arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 6.50 a.m. In the return direction, 02783 Visakhapatnam-Secunderabad AC weekly Special will leave Visakhapatnam on Sundays at 6.55 p.m., with effect from October 18, to reach Secunderabad on the next day at 7.40 a.m. These trains will have stoppages at Duvvada, Anakapalle, Tuni, Annavaram, Samalkot, Rajahmundry, Tadepalligudem, Eluru, Vijayawada and Guntur. These trains will have First AC -1, 2nd AC-3, 3rd AC-14, Motor generator coaches-2. Train no. 02552 Kamakhya – Yesvantpur AC special, will leave Kamakhya on Wednesdays at 2 p.m., with effect from October 14, to arrive in Vizianagaram at 10 p.m. on Thursday, and will reach Yesvantpur at 6:25 p.m. on Fridays. In the return direction, train no. 02551 Yesvantpur-Kamakhya special, will leave Yesvantpur on Saturdays at 8:30 a.m. with effect from October 17 to arrive in Vizianagaram at 4.30 a.m. and leave at 4.40 a.m. on Sunday to reach Kamakhya at 2 p.m. on Monday. This train will have stoppages at Malda Town, Rampur Hat, Durgapur, Asansol, Adra, Midnapore, Hijilli, Balasore, Cuttack, Bhubaneswar, Khurda Road, Brahmapur, Vizianagaram, Vijayawada, Gudur, Chennai Central, Katpadi and Jolarpettai. This train will have 1stAc-1,2ndAC- 4, 3rdAC-12, AC Pantry Car-1 and motor generator coaches-2. Train no. 02807 Santragachi-Channai AC Bi-weekly Special will leave Santragachi on Tuesdays and Fridays at 7.05 p.m., with effect from October 16, to arrive in Visakhapatnam on Wednesdays and Saturdays at 7.55 a.m. and depart at 8.15 a.m. to reach Chennai Central at 10.45 p.m. on Wednesdays and Saturdays. In the return direction, 02808 Chennai-Santragachi AC Bi-weekly Special will leave Chennai on Thursdays and Sundays at 8.05 a.m. with effect from October 18 to arrive in Visakhapatnam on the same day at 8.35 p.m. and depart at 8.55 p.m. to reach Santragachchi at 10.30 a.m. on the next day. These trains will have stoppages at Gudur, Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagram, Khurda Road, Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Bhadrakh, Balasore and Kharagpur. These trains will have 1stAc-1, 2ndAC-3, 3rd AC-12, AC Pantry Car-1 and motor generator coaches-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-more-special-trains-announced/article32840058.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PAV seeks revised protocol for COVID-19 treatment||The government should come out with a revised protocol for treatment of COVID-19, after comprehensive research and a study on long-term health impact on persons, who have recovered from COVID-19, according to Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV) general secretary T. Kameswara Rao and president M.V. Ramanayya. In a letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, the PAV leaders noted that widespread attack, mutations and variations of the virus were being noticed among patients. This calls for a revised protocol of treatment whether 28 or 90 days, to instil confidence among people. The total number of cases recorded in the country as on October 11, was 69,79,423. There is no specific medicine and vaccine. The cases are continuously rising even as medical experts are not in a position to estimate as to how long the pandemic is going to last or whether it would increase further or a second wave of virus attack would be there. It is good to note that in our country the recovery rate is high and approximately more than 6.08 million people have recovered from the disease. The subject of concern is that among the post-COVID patients, even after 21 or 28 days, the patients are still complaining about persistent cough, fatigue, body aches, breathing issues, fever, heart, kidney, liver and associated problems. Many recovered patients are still taking the COVID-19 protocol medicines like steroids and blood thinners, and above all, these the patients are becoming panicky, leading to a lot of mental agony, and compelling them to take other medications, the PAV leaders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pav-seeks-revised-protocol-for-covid-19-treatment/article32840055.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain under influence of depression brings back horrific memories of cyclones||With heavy rains and gales lashing Visakhapatnam on Monday amid the forecast of a deep depression crossing the north Andhra coast by Tuesday morning, the memories of cyclones in previous years came flooding to the denizens. It was on October 11 and 12 when the city and the north coastal districts endured the wrath of three very severe cyclonic storms. All these cyclones either struck or left their destructive impact on the city in the last seven years.  On October 2013, the north coastal districts were rattled when very severe cyclonic storm Phailin crossed the A.P. coast and made landfall in Gopalpur in Odisha on October 12. This was followed by very severe cyclonic storm Hudhud that made a landfall in the city on October 12, 2014. It left a trail of destruction.“The memories of Hudhud is still vivid in our minds. We experienced wind over 200 km per hour. Today’s rain really brought back those memories as it happened on the same day,” said D. Narayana Rao, a Central government employee. Apart from extensive damage to properties and rendering thousands homeless, at least 124 people had died in the three coastal districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam. On October 11, 2018, Visakhapatnam experienced the fury of very severe cyclonic storm Titli which made a landfall near Palasa in Srikakulam district.  ‘Ideal season for cyclones’ However, Prof. S.S.V.S. Ramakrishna from the Department of Meteorology and Oceanography of Andhra University, called it a coincidence. “Usually, October and November see cyclones. At times, it extends to December. This is the period when the south-west monsoon retreats and the north-east monsoon sets in. It is the transition period and the possibilities of formation of depressions over the Bay of Bengal is high. But luckily, the present weather system is only a depression and it is likely to pass off as a deep depression, without turning into a cyclone,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-under-influence-of-depression-brings-back-horrific-memories-of-cyclones/article32839944.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online meet on quality concepts begins||A.K. Saxena, Director (Operations), RINL, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, inaugurated the Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI), Visakhapatnam chapter’s 20th convention on Quality Concepts, here on Monday. The convention will be held online till October 17. Delivering the inaugural address, he stressed on the need and importance of small group activities like Quality Circles, 5S, Lean, Six Sigma etc., and their contribution to the present industrial scenario. He stated that the successful implementation of various tools of TQM has contributed immensely in the growth and the success story of Vizag Steel. The theme of the convention is “Developing Self Reliant India through Quality Concepts”. More than 450 delegates from around 65 Quality Circle teams from different industries like Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, Naval Dockyard, NTPC –Simhadri, participated in this virtual convention. K K Ghosh, Director (Projects), RINL & Chairman, Vizag Chapter of QCFI, highlighted the growth of the chapter,. During the inaugural session of the convention, B.V. Viswanadham, management consultant from Visakhapatnam, and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-meet-on-quality-concepts-begins/article32840052.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister seeks report on encroached lands||Agriculture Minister and District in-charge Minister Kurasala Kannababu has directed the officials concerned to identify government lands, which were encroached in the district, and submit a detailed report on them within two weeks. At a review meeting here on Monday, he asked the officials to identify the illegal mining being done in the district and initiate action on the accused and inform him(the Minister) of the same. He inquired about the sand policy implementation and to keep adequate sand stocks to prevent inconvenience to the people. He directed the officials of Simhachalam Devastham to identify the temple lands, which were grabbed, and submit a comprehensive report at the next review meeting. He suggested the formation of a permanent committee, under the aegis of the Joint Collector, on Simhachalam temple lands. Interacting with the media, Mr. Kannababu said that he had directed Registration Department to adopt adequate safeguards to prevent irregularities as Visakahapatnam was declared as Executive capital of the State. The officials were directed to initiate action on illegal mining within five days. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-seeks-report-on-encroached-lands/article32840061.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take steps to prevent loss of lives, Minister tells officials||District in charge Minister Kurasala Kannababu has directed the officials concerned to take all measures needed to prevent loss of human lives in view of the heavy rains predicted during the next two days. The Minister held a review meeting with the officials at the Collectorate here on Monday.  ‘Ensure sanitation’ He also asked the officials to prepare enumeration reports on the crop loss immediately and initiate necessary steps to provide relief to farmers. He also asked the GVMC officials to be alert and ensure proper sanitation. Earlier, District Collector V. Vinay Chand explained about the steps taken in view of the threat of heavy rains in the district. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, Anakapalle MP B.V. Satyavathi, Government Whip Budi Mutyala Naidu, Joint Collector M. Venugopala Reddy and GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-steps-to-prevent-loss-of-lives-minister-tells-officials/article32840059.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Committed to welfare of genuine journalists’||AP Press Academy Chairman Devireddy Sreenath has attributed the delay in the issue of new accreditation cards to journalists in Andhra Pradesh to the process of weeding out of bogus journalists. At a meet-the-press programme, organised by Vizag Journalists’ Forum(VJF) here on Monday, Mr. Sreenath said that he was committed to the welfare of journalists, which would be possible only when bogus journalists were sent out. . Training classes were conducted for journalists of Visakhapatnam, for the first time in the State, through video conference in view of the COVID-19. Training classes would also be conducted for media persons in other districts to equip them with the necessary skills. Underlining the need for journalists to adapt to the latest technologies, he called upon the gathering to make use of the services of the Academy in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/committed-to-welfare-of-genuine-journalists/article32840060.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM convocation on Nov. 7||The 11th convocation of GITAM Deemed to be University for candidates who have studied at GITAM Visakhapatnam, Hyderabad and Bengaluru campuses will be held on November 7. This was informed by the university Registrar D. Gunasekharan here on Monday. The convocation will be held online. He said that the candidates who have qualified for the award of degrees and diplomas during 2019-20 only are eligible to apply to get their convocation degrees. He advised the students to apply online through GITAM websitewww.gitam.eduon or before October 21, to participate in the e-convocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-convocation-on-nov-7/article32840062.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 135 new cases, one death||The total number of discharges or recoveries from the COVID-19 mark crossed the 50,000-mark in the district on Monday. With 305 persons undergoing treatment in hospitals, COVID care centres and at home isolation, recovering from the virus on Monday, the number has gone up to 50,097, said COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. Meanwhile, the number of active cases on Monday stands at 2,623, with 135 new cases. This takes the total number of cases in the district to 53,163, since the outbreak of the pandemic. The district also recorded one death, taking the total count to 443. This was for the first time in the last two months that the death toll was just one. On an average, the district was recording three to four deaths daily. In The district, very active clusters are nine, active clusters are 65, dormant are 244 and de-notified are 627.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-135-new-cases-one-death/article32840064.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutkha seized||The city police carried out raids on pan and kirana shops at various places here on Monday and seized prohibited tobacco products such as ‘gutkha’ and ‘khaini’, worth over Rs. 2.1 lakh. The police also nabbed some persons for storing the banned tobacco products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gutkha-seized/article32840053.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Residents panic after reported gas leak from plant||There was mild flutter at Siriharipuram area under Malkapuram Police Station limits late on Monday night, as residents panicked after a reported gas leak from an industrial plant in the vicinity. ‘Four fell sick’ The residents came on to the roads, complaining of breathlessness and burning eyes. They also claimed that four persons had fallen sick. ‘Everything normal’ However, DCP V. Suresh Babu, after verifying informed The Hindu that some waste gas was released, which is a normal practice by the industries in the locality. But since there was a change in weather due to the heavy rains and depression, the residents would have felt the impact. The officer assured them that everything was normal and there was nothing to panic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/residents-panic-after-reported-gas-leak-from-plant/article32840054.ece
13 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Address concerns of Amaravati farmers: TDP||TDP State secretary Md Nazeer on Monday said that the YSR Congress Party government was not responding to 300 days of agitation by the farmers in Amaravati and it was high time the government addressed their concerns and took a decision to retain Amaravati as capital of the State. Addressing a press conference, he criticised Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for his ‘adamant attitude’ towards the farmers. Mr. Nazeer said that Amaravathi was one of the five holy pancharamas. Had the construction of the capital at Amaravati been completed, it would have been one of the wonders of the world. It was for the first time 33,000 acres were collected under land pooling from the farmers to build the capital and the then Chief Minister and TDP chief Nara Chandrababu Naidu made it possible, he said. He also criticised the government for filing cases against farmers who had given land for the capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/address-concerns-of-amaravati-farmers-tdp/article32840063.ece
13 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP in a fix over move to privatise MR College in Vizianagaram||The YSRCP leaders are worried over the affairs in MANSAS Trust and move to privatise MR College as the developments are likely cause a considerable damage to the party at a time when civic body polls are round the corner. MANSAS Trust, which runs MR College, has reportedly decided to cancel the admission process for this academic year. In such a case, it will be a concern for the students of poor and middle classes as they will have to depend on private colleges which collect a fee of up to Rs. 35,000 per annum for degree and PG courses. Some ruling party leaders are said to have urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to ensure continuation of college with current status since privatisation will be a setback to the party. They have reportedly explained the same to Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana. “The proposal will be highlighted by the opposition parties to target the government,” said a senior leader of the YSRCP. TDP MLC Gummadi Sandhya Rani said the people would teach a lesson for the YSRCP for interfering in the MANSAS affairs and damaging the image of MR College. “MANSAS has huge properties and funds. There is no need for privatisation. It should continue to be an aided college to provide quality education for students of Vizianagaram district and other places,” she added. Lok Satta Party State executive president Bhisetti Babji threatened to intensify the agitations over the MANSAS issue. “The government cannot escape from its responsibility by saying that the issue is related to MANSAS Trust as it was the YSRCP government which appointed Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju as chairperson of the trust replacing Ashok Gajapathi Raju, former Union Minister and son of P.V.G. Raju,” he pointed out. Stir continues Meanwhile, students’ organisations continued their agitation on Monday braving heavy rain in the town. Several parties and organisations extended their support to the students’ unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-in-a-fix-over-move-to-privatise-mr-college-in-vizianagaram/article32839935.ece
13 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SITAM to start Diploma courses||Satya Institute of Technology and Management (SITAM) got the State government’s permission to start Diploma in vocational courses from the academic year 2020-21, according to a press release from college Director M. Sasibhusana Rao. A high-level team of A.P. Technical Education visited the college on Monday and expressed satisfaction over the infrastructure in the college. The committee agreed to permit D.Voc courses in SITAM. The students who passed tenth class and Polytechnical Entrance Examination are eligible to do the three-year diploma engineering courses with subjects such as electrical appliances, mobile communication, automobile servicing, refrigeration and air conditioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sitam-to-start-diploma-courses/article32839209.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two minors ‘sexually assaulted’ in Vizag||Two minor girls were allegedly sexually assaulted by two men under Duvvada Police Station limits here. Though the incident took place on Saturday night, it came to light on Monday when the girls along with their parents lodged a complaint against the accused in the police station. According to the police, a man aged around 24 years befriended a 14-year-old girl from Gajuwaka area, sometime ago. Recently, he introduced her and another friend of the girl who is around 15 years, to his friend. On Saturday, both the men took the girls on their bikes to a beach. They later took them to an empty shed in Duvvada area where they allegedly sexually assaulted them. Based on the complaint from the girls, the Duvvada police registered a case against the duo and the case has been transferred to Disha police station for further investigation. The police shifted the girls to King George Hospital for medical examination and launched a manhunt for the accused. It may be recalled that a few days ago, a pastor was arrested on charges of attempt to rape a 16-year-old girl at Gajuwaka here. The leaders of Opposition parties and activists of various women’s organisations on Monday demanded stringent action against those involved in the crime against women and children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-minors-sexually-assaulted-in-vizag/article32839953.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A boxful||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-boxful/article32839957.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Test of endurance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/test-of-endurance/article32840066.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Motorists’ nightmare||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/motorists-nightmare/article32839212.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rain continues, two more wet days in store||Incessant rain continued its onslaught in the city on Monday too, with the Meteorology department predicting two more days of heavy to very heavy rains in several districts across Telangana. With no respite in the climate from Sunday, roads and low lying areas in several localities have been flooded, and water entered homes and apartment cellars, giving nightmarish experience to the residents. Traffic came to a stand still on many stretches due to flooding and overflowing nalas. Near Chaderghat railway bridge, the overflowing drain left the road flooded, causing untold misery to commuters. In view of two building collapse incidents during the last two days resulting in three deaths, Minister K.T.Rama Rao has issued express instructions to the GHMC officials to issue notices for vacation of the dilapidated buildings. He asked the officials of the town planning wing to be on high alert in view of continuous rain. GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar has through a statement, alerted about the possibility of very heavy rains in the coming days as per the estimates of the Met department. In a few locations, the rainfall could be as high as nine to 16 centimetres, he said, and issued instructions to the zonal and deputy commissioners to keep the monsoon emergency teams on alert and available, and identify relief centres such as schools, community halls, and other facilities and keep them ready. Through a separate note, Mr. Lokesh Kumar issued instructions for paying special attention to old compound walls and retaining walls of cellars adjoining open lands. Residents of structures adjoining the old and retaining walls should be advised to vacate immediately. While excavation of new cellars is not allowed, in case of the already dug cellars and work in progress, safety of the surrounding structures should be checked, and all standard safety precautions such as soil strengthening, retaining walls, barricading should be observed. As per the information available up to 8 p.m., Kapra area received the maximum rainfall at six cm, followed by Hafeezpet at 5.6 cm. L.B.Nagar, Lingampally, Trimulgherry, KPHB, Cherlapally, Chandangar, Begumpet, Kondapur, West Marredpally, Peerzadiguda, Malkajgiri, A.S.Rao Nagar, Mallapur, Cantonment, Habsiguda, Moulali, Pashamylaram, Kushaiguda, Allwyn Colony, Ramnagar, Ramanthapur, and other areas received heavy rainfall. GHMC has received 211 complaints about drainage overflow, and 29 about water logging. At 10 locations, trees and tree branches fell obstructing traffic. Hyderabad Meteorological Centre has sounded weather warning for Telangana for the coming two days, with forecast of thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at isolated places, heavy to very heavy rain at a few places and extremely heavy rain at isolated places. Depression in the West Central Bay of Bengal is expected to intensify further into ‘Deep Depression’, and move West-Northwest wards and cross the Northern coast of Andhra Pradesh between Narsapur and Visakhapatnam close to Kakinada during the early hours of October 13. Under its influence, enhanced rainfall activity is expected over the State from October 12 to 14, the department informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-continues-two-more-wet-days-in-store/article32839802.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Release funds to compensate for losses||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has demanded that the Central government release the amounts to meet the losses suffered by the State on account of recommendations made by the 15th Finance Commission. The Minister said the Finance Panel had reduced the share of the State in the divisible pool of tax devolution from 2.43 % to 2.13 %. Telangana was expected to suffer losses in devolution to the tune of Rs. 723 crore and the Centre should release the amounts to the State as one-time grant as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. He said that the formula of the Finance Commission had adversely affected developing states like Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka. He suggested that the Finance Panel should instead consider the formula on the basis of the capital expenditure and population of the respective States so that developing States would benefit from the package. The Minister made this remarks while participating in the 43rd meeting of the Goods and Services Tax Council headed by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman through video-conference on Monday. The meeting follows the Centre and states meeting last Monday where a consensus could not be reached on the issue of borrowing to make up for the compensation shortfall. Mr. Harish Rao recalled Section 7 (2) of the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017 prescribed that the compensation payable to the State should be released at the end of every two months and this should be mandatorily paid from the compensation fund. The Centre should ensure that the GST cess and other such amounts, as might be recommended by the GST Council, should be credited to the GST Compensation Fund, a non-lapsable fund forming part of the public account and should be utilized for the purposes specified in the GST Act. On the options proposed by the Centre for borrowing by the States, he said the Centre had proposed tht the States to borrow Rs. 1.1 lakh crore for losses arising from transition to the GST whereas according to the revised estimtes the total losses incurred by the States was Rs. 1.83 lakh crore. “The difference comes to Rs. 73,000 crore. Since this is not a large amount, the Centre should take steps to compensate the States to that extent,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/release-funds-to-compensate-for-losses/article32839820.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘COVID-19 needs national-level clinical, management guidelines’||There is an urgent need to establish clinical and management guidelines at the national level so that more efficacious and less harmful medicines are used for COVID-19 treatment. Guidelines should explicitly mention at what stage of the infection a specific drug should be given and it should be made clear all that medications should be ‘ONLY’ under medical supervision, say public health experts. None of the currently used medicines should be bought over the counter and consumed as they can cause irreversible harm to the person. “Gains of evidence-based medicine are being compromised by irrational use of drugs for COVID-19 under the pretext that something ‘has to be done’ – This is a dangerous argument as it is pushing many drugs licensed for other purposes into the COVID management cauldron without adequate rigorous trials,” warns Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI)’s Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad Director Dr. G.V.S. Murthy. This includes use of many anti-cancer, anti-protozoal, anti-biotic and anti-viral medications with no clinical trials to prove efficacy and safety of medications. Many of these may be no better than a placebo. Large clinical trials of more than 1,000 patients are going on with drugs like Remdesivir, Lopinavir/ Ritonavir, Tocilizumab or convalescent plasma used alone. Big trials with combination drugs like hydroxychloroquine + famotidine/lopinavir/azithromycin/ favipiravir, Remdesivir + Interferron, Favipiravar etc., plus stem cell therapy and colchicine are also being trialled, he says. The World Health Organisation (WHO) ‘living guideline’ gives a strong recommendation for systemic steroids like dexamethasone for patients with severe and critical COVID-19 though not for non-severe COVID-19, based on eight randomised controlled trials (more than 7,000 patients). Corticosteroids are cheap, readily available and included in the WHO’s list of essential medicines. “WHO says systemic steroids may reduce the need for invasive mechanical ventilation. The ‘Recovery’ trial using Dexamethasone showed it decreased 28-day mortality in patients requiring oxygen or invasive ventilation,” explained Dr. Murthy. COVID-19 deaths can also be reduced if accessible ventilation facilities supported by good maintenance care are provided for patients with moderate to severe symptoms. Since only 15 to 20% of such patients need these facilities, proper mapping and improved access to them should be ensured. For those with mild COVID-19, adequate hydration, fever management, improved nutrition and stress-free rest will go a long way to improve outcomes, he explains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-needs-national-level-clinical-management-guidelines/article32839837.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress wants OBC voters’ survey before GHMC polls||The Congress party has requested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to conduct OBC voters survey and categorisation of Backward Classes ahead of the forthcoming elections to several municipal corporations in the State, including GHMC. In a detailed letter addressed to the Chief Minister on Monday, national spokesperson of All India Congress Committee (AICC) Dasoju Sravan said social justice to BC communities was possible only with their enumeration for finalising BC reservations scientifically. Stating that BCs Cooperative Finance Corporation could conduct the survey in accordance with the 2018 Act ,Mr. Sravan felt that social justice to all communities of BCs could be ensured only if they were categorised into A, B, C, D and E groups and provided at least 33% reservation in the local bodies, which had been in practice in the State since 1993. The Congress leader also asked the Chief Minister to take appropriate legal measures to ensure that BCs get their due/proportionate share. He also wanted the State government to keep the proposed amendments to the GHMC Act in the public domain and seek people’s opinion before the changes were introduced in the State Legislature and passed. Highlighting the fact that Telangana was a unique State in the country where almost 90% of the population belongs to BC, SC, ST and minority communities, Mr. Sravan, quoting the “Samagra Kutumba Survey (SKS)” taken up by the State government in 2014, said the OBC population constituted nearly 52%. He stated that BCs had fought for Telangana and had even sacrificed their lives with a fundamental belief that there would be complete social justice with the formation of Telangana as envisaged by B.R. Ambedkar, which was being promised by Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao time and again. However, BCs were being denied their constitutional rights as they were deliberately being deprived of their due share in the socio-economic resources and political opportunities, Mr Sravan added. Despite repeated appeals to the Chief Minister and even directions of the High Court, the government had failed to conduct a comprehensive survey of BCs and denied due political justice to all sections of BCs in the Panchayat Raj elections held in 2019, Mr. Sravan alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-wants-obc-voters-survey-before-ghmc-polls/article32839804.ece
13 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three of Nepali dacoity gang in police net, two absconding||Cyberabad police arrested three members of a Nepali gang involved in a string of dacoities in the city, on Monday. A sum of Rs. 5.2 lakh and 300 grams of old jewellery were recovered from their possession. The accused, Netra Bahadur Shahi (40), Prakash Shahi (39) and Sita Lawar (25), who hail from different parts of Nepal, worked as domestic help in different houses at Raidurgam. “They sedated the inmates of the house of one Sailaja Reddy and looted valuables,” Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said. He said the case was investigated with the help of the personnel of a Central para-military force ‘Sashastra Seema Bal’ along with police from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. According to him, seven more accused involved in the case are still at large. Mr. Sajjanar said on the intervening night of October 5 and 6, the accused mixed sleeping pills in the food and tea served to the house inmates and other workers. “Once they were all knocked out, Janki and Manoj, two others of the gang who are absconding passed on information to Netra, who in turn sent two people inside the house to execute the dacoity,” said Mr Sajjanar. They beat up and blindfolded Sailaja Reddy, who was still conscious as she did not drink the tea, and threatened to kill her as well as her infant grandson Ayansh if she raised an alarm. “The gang looted gold, silver and other valuables, and decamped with the booty,” Mr. Sajjanar said. Two held for cheating Meanwhile, two employees of a financial services company were arrested on Monday on charges of cheating and misappropriation of stock holding of investors without authorisation. The accused are G. Mounika (25), branch manager, and Shivini Gari Shetty Vasundhara (41), assistant branch manager of Karvy Stock Broking, Tarnaka branch. Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said Mounika and Vasundhara took the signatures of Ramarao Nagaraj, an overseas citizen of India, and his wife on blank papers, when they visited the branch office for activation of their demat accounts in February 2018. The accused traded the demat account of the couple, between May 2018 to February 2019, without their consent and caused a loss of Rs. 1 crore by repeatedly trading nearly Rs. 100 crore for brokerage sharing between 60% and 40% between the Karvy stock broking office and Karvy main office. “They violated the rules of SEBI and NSE without taking any purchase order from the complainant and his wife,” Mr. Mohanty added. Based on a complaint filed by Mr Nagaraj on September 25, a case was registered and the accused were arrested, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-of-nepali-dacoity-gang-in-police-net-two-absconding/article32839806.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC cautions govt. about possible second wave||Expressing dissatisfaction over report on COVID-19 status presented by Public Health director in-charge Srinivasa Rao, Telangana High Court issued a slew of directions to the government on Monday. While cautioning the government about the reports of possible second wave of coronavirus, the HC said the statistics about the deaths due to COVID-19 furnished by the Public Health department were not trustworthy. A division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing 25 PIL petitions relating to COVID-19, said the voluminous 520-page report presented by the government “was vague”. Government figures indicated that 1,219; 1,378 and 1,417 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the State on September 20, 27 and 30 respectively. Deaths reported on these days were 9,7 and 13 respectively. Average number of deaths in October month was being shown as 10. The bench wondered if the government directed Lord Yamaraja not to take away more than 10 lives due to coronavirus each day. The bench wanted the government to collect details of number of tests conducted, positive cases and deaths in the States of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Delhi from July 1 to October. Same data for Telangana State should be gathered. A comparative analysis with graphs of the data must be presented before the court by November 16, the bench said. The bench, expressing dissatisfaction over the government failing to comply with the directions given by the court on COVID-19, said it would be compelled to summon the Chief Secretary for appearance if the same situation continues. The CS was instructed to appear earlier in these PIL pleas since authorities did not adhere to the instructions passed by the court, the bench said. The bench made it clear to the government that the latter should increase the availability of hospital beds as the State has only 1.3 beds for 1,000 population as against WHO norms of three beds for 1,000 people. Earlier, the government gave an undertaking to establish live dash boards at hospitals indicating number of beds available and other details. The bench said the government should install such boards at least at Gandhi hospital and Government Chest hospital and eventually at all other COVID-19 designated hospitals. The PIL pleas were posted to November 19 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-cautions-govt-about-possible-second-wave/article32839835.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Himayatsagar reservoir close to full tank level||Incessant rains during September and October have seen one-half of the twin reservoirs receive inflows almost up to the full tank level (FTL), bringing cheer to heritage lovers and activists fighting to save the two water bodies. Himayatsagar reservoir may reach the full tank level for the first time since 2010, given that heavy rain warning has been issued for the coming two days, say officials from the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board. Reserves in Himayatsagar tank are inching towards the FTL, and once it is reached, officials sounding warnings on Monday said the reservoir gates would be opened to let the flood water into the Musi River, which could result in inundation of areas bordering the river. As per information last received, water level in the reservoir was hovering at 1,762 feet, a little short of the FTL of 1,763.5 feet. Against the full capacity of 2.97 tmcft, the tank is holding 2.603 tmcft of water. Hyderabad and Rangareddy district administrations, along with GHMC and police have been alerted about the possible flooding, an information note from the water board said. Osmansagar reservoir, however, has not seen much inflows, say officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/himayatsagar-reservoir-close-to-full-tank-level/article32839813.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Left parties resolve to support Nageshwar||The Left parties have resolved to field journalist B. Jayasarathi Reddy of the CPI as their combined candidate from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam graduates constituency and support former MLC K. Nageshwar, who will contest from Hyderabad - Rangareddy - Mahbubnagar graduates constituency in the elections to the Legislative Council. This was announced at a media conference by CPI, CPI(M), Socialist Unity Centre of India (C), Revolutionary Socialist Party and Forward Bloc. Their leaders held elaborate discussions on the choice of candidates before coming to the conclusion. CPI (M) State secretary T. Veerabhadram and his CPI counterpart Chada Venkat Reddy said the parties tried to evolve consensus among the opposition parties, including the TDP and the TJS, for fielding a common candidate, but in vain. The detailed discussions held on Sunday in this regard failed to yield any result and hence, a decision was taken to field the candidate of their choice in the ensuing elections. It was accordingly decided to field Mr. Jayasaradhi Reddy, who is with the CPI since his student days. The parties decided to extend their support to Prof. Nageshwar as he could effectively raise the issues of immediate public importance in the Elders’ House in his earlier stint as MLC. The absence of the voice of Left parties in the Legislature was palpable as issues of immediate public importance were not coming up for discussion in both the Houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/left-parties-to-support-nageshwar/article32839826.ece
13 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Minor, new born die during delivery||A delivery performed by a woman in an inebriated condition in her house at Dharmapuri of Jagtial district led to the death of her minor daughter and the new born baby, the police said. Later, the woman with the help of her relatives and locals buried the bodies in a burial ground stating that the duo died of bad health. Police said that the incident took place on Saturday afternoon, and came to light only on Sunday evening, when municipal department officials informed them about it. ‘Raped’ The 16-year-old victim got pregnant after she was allegedly raped by an unknown person nine months ago, Dharmapuri SI Kadiri Srikanth said. He said that for the last six months, the girl did not step out of her house. “On Saturday afternoon when she developed labour pains, her mother tried to perform the delivery in their home without proper medical observation, which resulted in the death of the girl and her new born,” Mr. Srikanth said. He said that on Monday, the bodies of the duo were exhumed and sent to Government Hospital, Jagtial for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minor-new-born-baby-die-during-delivery/article32839827.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,021 COVID-19 cases reported in Telangana||Telangana recorded 1,021 COVID-19 cases on Sunday as only 30,210 tests were conducted. Usually, 50,000 to 55,000 samples are checked in a day. The total stands at 2,13,084. Six more COVID-19 patients died on October 11. The new 1,021 cases include 228 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 84 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 68 from Rangareddy district. Results of 628 people were awaited. From March 2 to October 11, a total of 35,77,261 samples were put to test and 2,13,084 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 24,514 are active cases; 1,87,342 have recovered and 1,228 people have died. In the 62 State government hospitals, 4,614 oxygen beds and 1,031 ICU beds were available on Sunday. And in case of 228 private hospitals, 2,650 oxygen beds and 2,180 ICU beds were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1021-covid-19-cases-reported-in-telangana/article32839832.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Self-medication can prove fatal, says expert||It’s been more than seven months that people are being flooded with various aspects of COVID-19. Yet, a few patients relied on self-medication and the disease only aggravated in them. Professor of Pulmonology at Government and General Hospital, Erragadda, Dr M Narender said that fearing stigma, some patients bought drugs over the counter or followed a prescription issued to other COVID-19 patients. When their health condition worsened, the patients were rushed to government hospitals. Stressing that this was observed only in a few patients, the pulmonologist cautioned people to consult doctors who have been attending COVID-19 patients immediately after testing positive. “The kind of medicines prescribed, their dosage change from patient to patient depending on age, severity of COVID-19, co-morbidities such as diabetes, and other factors. One prescription does not serve all patients. Self-medication can worsen their health condition and can have long-term effects also,” Dr Narender said. Doctors who attend to COVID-19 patients stressed multiple times that regardless of whether COVID-19 is mild or severe, consulting the doctors immediately after testing positive for the disease helps in early recovery. Since there is no cure for COVID-19, doctors are relying on drugs or medical procedures to treat complications arising out of the infectious disease.  Medicines prescribed change from patient to patient depending on age, severity of COVID-19, and co-morbidities. Dr M Narender,Professor of Pulmonology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/self-medication-can-prove-fatal-says-expert/article32839833.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Focus on alternative crops to maize for Yasangi||The State government has decided to discourage cultivation of maize for the second successive agricultural season in a row keeping in view the prevailing adverse marketing conditions for the crop with huge stock of the crop lying at national and international level. Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy held a video conference with the all district agriculture officers (DAOs) and other senior officers of the Agriculture Department and discussed about alternative crops to maize that could be cultivated during the Yasangi (Rabi) season. It was decided at the virtual meeting to identify crops that have demand in the market could be cultivated instead of maize and take the matter to the Chief Minister’s notice for taking a final decision. Thanking the farming community in the State for following the regulated farming practice during the Vanakalam (Kharif) season, the Minister said the government had decided to allow cultivation of maize during Yasangi at the beginning of this year’s agricultural season but the national and international conditions had forced the government to change its view since the chances of farmers not getting the support price and suffering huge losses was very high. The Minister told the agriculture officers and agriculture extension officers to educate the farming community about the impending chances of suffering huge losses with maize cultivation. He directed the officials to identify the areas suitable for cultivation of greengram, blackgram, bengalgram, sunflower, mustard, sesamum and other crops, which have demand in the market and have support price, this season so that they could be encouraged. Noting that COVID-19 pandemic had forced many sections of people who were living in the urban areas to return to rural areas, the Minister said such reverse migration was expected to increase the extent of Yasangi cultivation this year and could be around 72 lakh acres. He asked the officials to keep the seed of crops being planned available to the farming community. On fertilizers, the Minister said the Centre had allotted 18.3 lakh tonnes, including 10 lakh tonnes of urea, for the Yasangi season and directed the officials to take all precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-alternative-crops-to-maize/article32839817.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSBDB distributes cheques to 11 biodiversity committees||The Telangana State Biodiversity Board has distributed Rs. 2.25 lakh each to the relevant 11 Biodiversity Management Committees (BMCs) at its meeting held here on Monday. The amount was received from the National Biodiversity Authority (NBA) as a benefit-sharing component from Sri Biotech Laboratories India Ltd, Hyderabad for accessing biological resources for research purposes. The identified benefit claimants from among the BMCs are based on geographical location of the respective village/taluk/district from where the biological resources were collected. The cheques were handed over by TSBDB secretary Kalicharan S. Khartade to the BMC chairpersons/ members. He advised them to utilise the amount towards the conservation and promotion of biological resources and socio-economic activities of BMCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsbdb-distributes-cheques-to-11-biodiversity-committees/article32839839.ece
13 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Young woman found dead||A 21-year-old woman was found dead in her house in Jeedimetla on Monday. The victim, Sanju Yadav, wife of Thufani Yadav from Ayodhya Nagar, was found hanging after her husband chided her for eating chalk pieces, police said. The couple had migrated to the city from Uttar Pradesh for livelihood.  (Suicide intervention helpline, Roshni: 040-66202000/66661117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/young-woman-found-dead/article32839807.ece
13 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Newborn girl’s body found in nala||A newborn’s body was recovered from the Shiva Nagar nala at Kapra here on Monday morning. Kushaiguda police of Rachakonda said passers-by alerted them about the baby girl’s body in the nala which was flowing towards Kapra lake. “The infant was aged around four or five days,” said police. A case was registered and the body was sent to Osmania General hospital morgue for preservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/newborn-girls-body-found-in-nala/article32839808.ece
13 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Short film (with photo)||Jagtial Superintendent of Police Sindhu Sarma on Monday called for entries for photography and short films on the occasion of Police Flag Day, which is observed on October 21. “Youngsters can take photograph and shoot short films on police related subjects and submit them in CDs or pen drives on or before October 17 at district police headquarters,” Ms. Sarma said. She said that the short film should not be more than three minutes, including all credits. “Best three short films will be nominated for State-level competition held in Hyderabad,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/short-film-with-photo/article32839831.ece
13 October 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Gear up for paddy and cotton procurement’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has directed officials to get ready for paddy procurement. Procurement centers can be started tomorrow itself. depending upon the requirement, he said. Participating in a review meeting held here on Monday over procurement and cultivation of crops, Mr. Harish Rao said the crop was expected to come to harvest after Dasara and at some places like Chegunta crop was already drying up. He said that State-wide paddy was sown in 54 lakh acres while it was 79,200 acres in the district. Noting that some 6,000 procurement centers are being established, he underlined the need for more centers in the district. Officials told the Minister that the number of centers are being doubled to 130 for paddy procurement. The Minister directed the officials to get ready with required gunny bags and tarpaulins at the centers. He was informed that 700 tarpaulins had already been ordered. He directed the officials to create awareness among farmers to limit the moisture content below 17 % so that paddy can be procured without delay and payment would be made within three days. Referring to procurement of cotton, Mr. Harish Rao said that the crop cultivation has increased to 3.75 lakh acres in the district. MLA Ch. Kranthi Kiran suggested that more vehicles be deployed to transport paddy and to speed up the process of unloading at rice mills. Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) official, Amarnath Reddy, said that 16 ginning mills will procure cotton in addition to five market yards. He has anticipated the problem of moisture and warehouse. He said that due to global and local conditions already procured cotton could not be cleared from warehouses and hence they need space to stock that was procured last year. He said that the CCI can purchase cotton only if moisture content is between 8% and 12 %. The Minister directed the officials to create awareness among farmers in this regard. Mr. Harish Rao expressed serious concern over slow progress of work on rythu vedikas and directed officials to complete them within deadline of Dasara. He has warned of imposing huge penalties against those who could not complete them by Dasara. He said that all rythu vedikas will be inaugurated by Dasara. Collector M. Hanumantha Rao, MLA M. Bhupal Reddy, ZP Chairperson P. Manjusree and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gear-up-for-paddy-cotton-procurement/article32839822.ece
13 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Postal ballot for aged, differently abled and COVID-19 patients||For the first time in the country, postal ballot facility is being extended to aged persons, differently abled and those suffering with corona in Dubbak by-elections According to Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy, the postal ballot facility is being offered to differently abled and those who crossed 80 years of age. Booth level officers (BLO) will send the required documents to those who were identified in the voters’ list and they have to opt for postal ballot. Once consent is accorded, they would be supplied with 12-D form, which will be returned to BLO. Then BLOs will forward the same to Returning Officer (RO). Based on the 12-D forms received from the voters, the RO will decide the number of postal ballots required to get printed under each polling station. Later, the officials will visit the houses of those who opted for postal ballot along with security personnel and explain how to vote in the postal ballot. All the due secrecy procedure of voting will be maintained. The postal ballot will be put in sealed cover and will be handed over to booth level officer and from there to RO for depositing. The entire process will be videographed for transparency. The postal ballot facility can be used by the persons in the categories identified by the Election Commission of India (ECI). Those in home isolation can also opt for this facility. The Collector said that this is in no way related to the regular postal ballot being extended to service voters.  The postal ballot facility is being offered to differently abled and those who crossed 80 years of age. P. Venkatarami Reddy,   Siddipet Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/postal-ballot-for-aged-differently-abled-and-covid-19-patients/article32839825.ece
13 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Congress, a hurdle in development of State : Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that Congress is creating hurdles in development of Telangana and that it has no right to seek votes. Maddula Nageswara Reddy, who contested the general elections in 2018 from the Congress and stood second, joined the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the presence of Mr. Rao at Telangana Bhavan in Hyderabad. Addressing a gathering, Mr. Rao said that Congress is putting spokes on the path of development and that people are rejecting it. “CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka says that the party would stop establishment of Pharma City while youngsters are waiting to get employment there. They are responsible for filing several cases against Kaleshwaram. The Congress, which was unable to provide drinking water for people, has requested Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO) not to give loan to the government for Mission Bhagiratha,” said Mr. Harish Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-a-hurdle-in-development-of-state-harish/article32839990.ece
13 October 2020||V. GeetanathHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Testing, tracing should go hand in hand’||PHFI’s IIPH-Hyderabad Director Dr. G.V.S. Murthy reiterated testing and tracing for COVID-19 should go “hand-in-hand”. There was an initial thrust on contact-tracing protocols but the surge of positive cases simply overwhelmed the health systems — already strained due to shortage of personnel, and the effective tracing has therefore faltered. “This could have been avoided if the governments concerned had called upon other staff and community leadership, trained them and equipped them for contact tracing. Unfortunately, this has not happened and only testing was ramped up and tracing given a short shrift,” he points out. Digital applications were launched with a lot of fanfare and had tremendous potential for tracing, but this potential was hardly harnessed. A review of 94 studies showed the overall estimate of people infected with SARS-CoV-2 and asymptomatic was 20%. It means majority of infected show some symptoms of COVID-19 which may remain unrecognised or are hidden due to stigma, he explains. The more such people are tested, the higher will be the test positivity. So there will be a direct relationship between testing and case positivity. To increase the yield of cases through effective tracing will reduce the transmission and that is why testing and tracing should go hand-in-hand, he maintained. Case load India at nearly 48,000 tests per million population is at the 8th spot in terms of testing volumes and in 2nd spot just after US in case load at 4,085 cases per million population||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/testing-tracing-should-go-hand-in-hand/article32839841.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||One killed in accident||A man in his 30s was killed, and five others suffered minor injuries, after an SUV driver lost control and rammed vehicles on NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) on Monday. The victim was identified as one Nagaraj of Hayathnagar in Hyderabad. The others suffered simple injuries and bruises. According to the police, the incident took place around 11 a.m., when a few highway motorists were briefly stopped for other vehicles to pass through the junction, and a speeding SUV came from behind and mowed them down. “The SUV driver was speeding and lost control. It hit a metal barricade and a few motorcycles at the junction. The whole accident was caught on our CCTV,” the police said. One of the motorcycles also caught fire in the crash and drag caused by the SUV. Nagaraj, who suffered severe head injuries, was rushed to a nearby hospital. But he breathed his last while undergoing emergency treatment. Along with his fiancée, Srilatha a.k.a Archana, he was driving to Chervugattu in Nalgonda for a temple festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-killed-in-accident/article32839816.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||New COVID-19 cases dip below 2,000||The city recorded 1,849 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 3,11,188, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. The number of tests done in the past 24 hours was less than last week’s daily average by 26.3%. The drop in the number of tests is usual in Monday bulletins as it reflects tests done on Sunday. Also, 40 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 5,809. Of the total cases, 2,84,844, people have recovered and there are 20,535 active cases. The number of new cases has been less than 3,000 for the past 11 days. But the number of daily tests, which was above 60,000 in mid-September was only 35,947 in the past 24 hours. As per Monday’s bulletin, the number of active cases, people in hospitals, and people under home isolation have decreased for the second consecutive day. Bed availability Out of the total 16,118 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 68.04% were vacant, as per government data. But 54.9% of the ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 54.2% of the ICU beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) was 5.1%, which is lower than September. The overall positivity rate till now is 8.5%. The number of containment zones in the city on Monday was 2,726. Union Home Secretary took a meeting on public health response to COVID-19 with senior officials of various States, including Delhi, the bulletin added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/new-covid-19-cases-dip-below-2000/article32839793.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Dust control steps must be adopted at all worksites: Rai||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Monday said dust control measures should be adopted by big and small construction sites, including construction of houses, and the government will take action against violators. “Any construction site in Delhi, big or small, government or private, have to give guarantee of five things: a 10-metre-high metal sheet wall has to be installed, a tarpaulin to cover the wall, water has to be sprinkled at the site, construction materials have to be covered, and vehicles transporting materials have to be covered,” said Mr. Rai. He added that the government has started micro-monitoring of 13 air pollution hotspots and has appointed nine Deputy Commissioners of the municipal corporations as nodal officers of the hotspots. Bio-decomposer launch Mr. Rai further said that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate bio-decomposer spraying in paddy fields on Tuesday at Hiranki village in Narela. The air quality in the city continued to be in the “poor” category on Monday at 261, and is expected to improve to “moderate” on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dust-control-steps-must-be-adopted-at-all-worksites-rai/article32839791.ece
13 October 2020||Mumbai,||COVID-19 hospitals unaffected amid power outage in Mumbai||Despite the unprecedented power outage in Mumbai and its surrounding areas on Monday, COVID-19 hospitals continued to work uninterrupted, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “Even though the frequency of power cuts within BMC limits is less, all municipal hospitals are equipped with automatic diesel generators at all times. Today, after the power outage, the automatic diesel generators started immediately. The solid waste management department was directed to ensure diesel storage. As a result, all hospitals continued to function without interruption,” the BMC said. The civic body said its disaster management department ensures that all private COVID-19 hospitals also has necessary supplies of diesel to run generators in case of emergency. “No health services were hampered due to the power outage in Mumbai,” the BMC said. An AEML spokesman said, “Due to transmission network failure outside of our system at 10.05 this morning, the power grid saw outages across utilities in Mumbai. However, the AEML distribution system operated islanding facility successfully and continued power supply to vital installations with the help of the Dahanu Thermal Power Station. We wish we had more power for which we are dependent on grid input. Power supply to remaining consumers is being restored in a phased manner.” Tata Power, in its statement, said, “It is understood that MSETCL had taken emergency shutdown for 400 kV Kalwa-Padghe line-1 at 6.54 hrs this morning to attend fault and was expected to be revived by 09:30 hrs, but could not revive it. As understood, at 09:58 hrs 400 kV Kalwa-Padghe-2 carrying 633 MW tripped. The flow on Pune-Kharghar rose upto 900 MW and tripped at 10:00hrs, resulting in load drop in Mumbai system. Mumbai’s islanding system that saves the city from major power outages was separated, however it could not hold as additional 900 MW load dropped at 10:05 hrs.” It added, “Tata Power swiftly began restoration work to bring back supply from the three hydro units and Trombay gas and coal units as soon as the MSETCL transmission lines were connected. Tata Power started restoring supply to its consumers progressively from 12 noon onwards.” Navi Mumbai and Raigad implemented rotational load shedding throughout the day after the power failure at 10.10 a.m. disrupted traffic signals, online classes, work from home schedules and household chores. Around 12 p.m., power in Navi Mumbai started being restored. “In the afternoon, on a priority basis, we started switching on the feeders providing power to the hospitals with the existing load. Once the work at the main line of fault was completed around 7 p.m., electricity was restored in a step by step manner to avoid overloading,” Rajaram Mane, superintendent engineer, Vashi circle of MSEDCL, said. At the time of going to press, many areas in Koparkhairane, Ghansoli, Airoli, Taloja, Panvel, Nerul, Kharghar, Kamothe, where power had been restored in the afternoon, plunged into darkness again. “We started rotational load shedding till the main fault was rectified. The feeders were supplying power in rotation so that power supply to hospitals do not go off,” an executive engineer from Navi Mumbai said. The 400 kV Kalwa-Talegaon line was undergoing repairs since October 10. On Monday, when the 400 kV Kalwa–Padghe circuit no. 1 of MSETCL was being repaired, all the load was transferred to circuit no. 2. Milind Awatade, MSETCL PRO, said due to the sudden technical fault in circuit no. 2, power supply was affected in Mumbai, Thane and parts of Raigad. The officers and employees of MSETCL worked on a war footing to restore power supply. He said, as three of the four lines supplying power to Kalwa substation tripped, all the load was transferred to the 400 kV Talegaon–Kharghar and 400 kV Kharghar–Kalwa lines. “Due to heavy sparks, those lines tripped too. The Kharghar-Kalwa line got deenergised (zero load) and the Mumbai system got delinked,” Mr. Awatade said. As the 500 MW unit of Tata Power tripped, 1700 MW load in MMR region was affected. “This multiple power grid failure at this massive level at the State Load Dispatch Centre happened for the first time,” he said.  (With additional inputs from Lalatendu Mishra and Raina Assainar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-hospitals-unaffected-amid-power-outage-in-mumbai/article32839453.ece
13 October 2020||Mumbai,||Richa Chadha, Payal Ghosh get 2 days to file consent terms||The Bombay High Court on Monday granted two days to actors Richa Chadha and Payal Ghosh to file their consent terms for settling a defamation suit filed by the former against the latter. A single judge Bench of Justice A.K. Menon was hearing a suit filed by Ms. Chadha through advocate Saveena Bedi Sachar. The suit says Ms. Ghosh made claims in a video to cause damage to the goodwill, and seeks an apology and an interim injuction against her to withdraw her statement, video, articles and tweets. On September 19, Ms. Ghosh gave an interview titled, ‘Anurag Kashyap Opened His Zip & Pushed it Inside-Payal Ghosh’ and ‘Sensational Things That Payal Ghosh Told ABN.’ On October 7, advocate Nitin Satpute, for Ms. Ghosh, said his client was willing to tender an apology to Ms. Chadha as she regretted the statements. However, on Monday, Ms. Sachar told the court that Ms. Ghosh put up a post on her social media saying she would never apologise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/richa-chadha-payal-ghosh-get-2-days-to-file-consent-terms/article32839458.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Adarsh Nagar murder witness claims police damaged her SIM||Delhi Police personnel allegedly damaged the SIM card of the 21-year-old woman who has accused the police of inaction in the October 7 murder case of Rahul Rajput in Adarsh Nagar. The woman, who has become a witness in the case, made a video call from her phone on Sunday and alleged police inaction when she approached them after Rahul was attacked by her brother and cousins. The second-year student at Delhi University’s School of Open Learning was allegedly beaten to death by the woman’s relatives. On Sunday afternoon, the woman had called up a police personnel related to the case and requested that she be allowed to meet Rahul’s parents otherwise she would go to the media for help. Around 8 p.m., three police personnel, including a woman in civvies, reached the shelter home where the woman is staying. “On pretext of getting some details in the case, they took my phone. Two other policemen engaged me in some paperwork and the woman somehow damaged my SIM card. When I found there was no network in my phone and confronted the police personnel, they left the shelter home,” said the woman on a video call to a friend. ‘Forced to write’ She alleged that the policemen asked her to write on paper that she is getting full support from the police. She allegedly followed their instructions in the hope that she would get help in the investigation of the case. The police personnel left after allegedly promising her a new SIM card, but she has allegedly not received anything yet. She managed a call up a friend with the help of the shelter home’s warden. DCP (North West) Vijayanta Arya has denied the allegations made by the woman about the conduct of the police personnel. Rahul and the woman are said to have known each other for three months. The woman’s brother was against their relationship as they belonged to different faiths. Meanwhile, AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Monday said that the party would launch a protest if action is not taken against police personnel for allegedly not saving Rahul. The party added that the police destroyed the woman’s SIM card so that they and the BJP would not be “exposed”. The AAP leader added that the BJP was trying to give a communal colour to the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/adarsh-nagar-murder-witness-claims-police-damaged-her-sim/article32839445.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal hits out at BJP, calls for withdrawal of anti-farmer laws||Asserting that the BJP has “left farmers to die”, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that the three “anti-farmer” laws recently passed by Parliament should be withdrawn. Addressing farmers from Punjab at Jantar Mantar, Mr. Kejriwal said: “AAP opposes these three anti-farmer laws and we demand that these laws should be withdrawn. Secondly, a law should be brought that 100% produce will be purchased at MSP [Minimum Support Price] and farmers will get 1.5 times their cost of production. I support your demands and stand with you along with the people of Delhi.” He said that in 2014, before the elections, the BJP had promised that the Swaminathan Committee report will be implemented and the report says that MSP should be 1.5 times the cost of production. “But after winning the election, they have ended Minimum Support Price. As per media reports, only 6% of produce is taken by the government at MSP. Farmers are demanding that 100% of produce should be purchased at MSP and the price should be 1.5 times the cost of production and you did the opposite. You have left the farmers to die,” Mr. Kejriwal said, attacking the BJP. Through the laws that have been passed by the Centre, the BJP wants to take farming away from farmers and give it to corporates, Mr. Kejriwal said. “When the country got independence, there was a heavy scarcity of grains in the country for the next 20-25 years. The farmers of Punjab made the country self-reliant in grains. Today, our farmers are being turned into poor labourers and the farming sector is being handed over to the companies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kejriwal-hits-out-at-bjp-calls-for-withdrawal-of-anti-farmer-laws/article32839447.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. writes to civic bodies on non-payment of salaries||Delhi’s Urban Development (UD) Department on Monday wrote a letter to the three municipal corporations asking them to consider handing over their hospitals to the Delhi government if they are unable to pay salaries of staff or are facing difficulties in running the institutes. In a letter addressing the commissioners of the civic bodies, the department raised concerns regarding non-payment of salaries and other dues to doctors as well as paramedical and other staff working in Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals — both run by the north corporation. The letter said civic bodies should “expeditiously” clear the salaries of medical staff, and in case they are unable to do so, they must consider handing over their hospitals to the Delhi government. Around 20 COVID-19 patients were recently shifted from Hindu Rao to Delhi government hospitals. “Resident doctors’ association of the above-mentioned hospitals have threatened to go on strike if their dues are not cleared in time. The civic bodies have failed to meet the deadlines. The situation has led to inconvenience and improper treatment of COVID-19 patients,” said Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain. “It is evident that the civic bodies are finding it difficult running their hospitals, which has led to anguish among medical staff and inconvenience to patients during the ongoing pandemic,” he added. The letter asked the civic bodies to submit a report in this regard to Mr. Jain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-writes-to-civic-bodies-on-non-payment-of-salaries/article32839449.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Open Kisan Bhavan, demand BJP||The BJP Opposition on Monday demanded that the Kisan Bhavan outside the Azadpur Mandi be opened within next 24 hours to facilitate travelling farmers seeking to sell their produce. The party said its workers would open it if demand not met. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the Delhi government should also pay Rs. 200 crore for wheat to farmers. LoPRamvir Singh Bidhuri alleged that ‘Mukhya Mantri Kisan Mitra Yojana’, launched by CM Kejriwal, had remained limited only to Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/open-kisan-bhavan-demand-bjp/article32839448.ece
13 October 2020||NUH,||33 years after crime, police arrest three dacoits||Even after managing to stay away from the long arm of the law for over 30 years, three proclaimed offenders in a dacoity case finally got arrested on Monday. In the case that became infamous in the late 1980s, more than a dozen armed men had laid siege to the house of a prominent moneylender — Swami Ram — in Punhana, shot his neighbour Jagdish Patel dead and decamped with 1kg gold, 150kg silver and some cash. Nuh Police arrested three of those accused from U.P.’s Bulandshahar on Monday. As part of its special campaign since March 1 against the proclaimed offenders and those who have jumped the bail, the police stumbled upon the records of three accused in a 33-year-old dacoity case in Pinangwan village. “The accused —Yaseen, Babu and Manjoor Ahmed — were declared proclaimed offenders in 1988 and were leading normal lives in their respective villages. Two of the accused were arrested soon after the dacoity in 1987. The rest 10 accused are now dead,” said SP (Nuh) Narendra Bijarniya. Recounting the horror, Naresh Singla, one of the sons of Ram, told The Hindu that the armed dacoits, suspected to be around 30, laid siege to their house at 10 p.m. “Some construction work was going on in our house at that the and a few of the dacoits climbed up the terrace through the scaffolding. They then opened the door to allow their accomplices inside. When the villagers tried to raise an alarm, the dacoits opened fire at them. One of our neighbours was killed and many sustained bullet and shrapnel injuries,” said Mr. Singla, 53. He recalled how there were no means of communication and the police reached in the morning. The police station, he said, was around 10 km from their house. “Two people were arrested, but the rest managed to flee. Though the dacoits came from U.P., we suspected that someone known to us was involved. The entire conspiracy was never unravelled though,” said Mr. Singla. The police recovered only six kg of silver then. The family was pushed into huge financial distress, said Mr. Singh, adding that they had to sell their landholdings. Mr. Singh, a businessman, said the arrests now meant very little to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/33-years-after-crime-police-arrest-three-dacoits/article32839450.ece
13 October 2020||Pune,||LIC chips in to help Mumbai Police||The Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), Western Zone, has contributed 1,000 raincoats to the Mumbai Police to support its personnel who are fighting on the frontline against the COVID-19 pandemic. The raincoats were handed over by C. Vikas Rao, zonal manager, Western Zone, LIC, to the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Administration), Crawford Market, at a ceremony last week. The gesture was a token of appreciation for the services being rendered by the Mumbai Police. At the function, Mr. Rao thanked the personnel for their unswerving devotion to duty and said the LIC was proud that 35,643 policies of the Mumbai Police are being serviced by the LIC’s Western Zone. The LIC has in the past been associated with the Mumbai Police. It has donated a police shelter booth at Gateway of India and contributed to setting up traffic barricades. The Mumbai Police have been at the forefront in the city’s fight against COVID-19. Most of the 259 fatalities owing to the virus among the police force in Maharashtra have been reported from Mumbai. More than 20,000 police personnel in the State have tested positive for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lic-chips-in-to-help-mumbai-police/article32839456.ece
13 October 2020||Pune,||Pune division cautious ahead of festive season||Despite a continuing dip in COVID-19 cases across the five districts in Pune division, authorities have warned that a complacent attitude during the upcoming festive season could result in a further spike. From being India’s worst-hit district, Pune’s active cases have come down below 32,000 — a marked improvement from its previous figure of 40,000 a month ago. The district has reported 3.06 lakh cases and until three weeks ago, was reporting alarming daily spikes of over 4,000 cases. That has reduced to less than 1,500 cases in the past fortnight, with Pune’s recovery rate surging past 87%. “This dip in cases must be kept up even during the crucial festive season. One must bear in mind that Pune’s case positivity rate, while down from 30% from 10 days ago, is still hovering between 20-23%, which is still high,” said Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao. He said the positivity rate had dipped to 15-18% in Pimpri-Chinchwad, while the Pune Municipal Corporation stood somewhat on the higher side, between 21-23%. Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad said the case doubling rate in Pune Rural region had improved to 32 from the previous figure of 27 in the first week of October. Despite these positive signs, Mr. Rao said authorities were not taking it easy and were focussing on increasing the bed capacity across hospitals. \ “We are striving to increase beds each day and have now reached a situation where we are in a relatively comfortable position with regard to critical care beds. Sassoon Hospital has increased its capacity by more than 45-50% and Ruby Hall by nearly 40%,” he said. Mr. Rao said quality contact tracing had been the key in checking the spread of the contagion in Solapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pune-division-cautious-ahead-of-festive-season/article32839457.ece
13 October 2020||Pune,||At 7,089 cases, State sees lowest surge in 2 months||Maharashtra saw its lowest case surge in over two months, with 7,089 new COVID-19 cases being reported on Monday, taking its total case tally to 15,35,315. With 165 fatalities, the death toll has climbed to 40,514. While 15,656 patients were discharged, active cases dipped below the 2.20 lakh mark, and stands at 2,12,439. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 12,81,896. “The State’s recovery rate has reached 83.49%, while the case fatality rate is 2.64%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. The low surge must be viewed in the context of only 54,000 samples being tested in the past 24 hours as opposed to the daily average of over 80,000 samples. Pune district reported less than 1,000 cases to take its tally to 3,16,731, while 12 deaths saw its toll climb to 6,260. As per the Pune district administration, the recovery rate has exceeded 87% and the active cases have dipped below 32,000. Mumbai reported 1,620 cases to take its tally to 2,31,066, of which 25,380 are active. With 36 deaths, the city’s toll has risen to 9,469. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported more than 445 new cases as its tally crossed the 74,000 mark. Four more deaths saw its toll rise to 1,997. The Kalyan-Dombivali civic body reported 13 deaths as its toll rose to 954 while 242 cases saw its tally rise to 50,232.  Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported over 450 cases, taking its case tally to 87,349, of which 8,704 are active. Five deaths saw the toll climb to 2,335. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported nine deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 1,277. As many as 246 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 42,787, of which 7,633 are active. Sangli reported more than 200 cases to take the district’s total case tally to 43,211, of which 6,094 are active. With eight deaths, the toll has risen to 1,334. Kolhapur recorded just 77 new cases to take its total case tally to 45,924, of which 4,098 are active. Hearteningly, not a single death was reported in the last 24 hours. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported its lowest surge in nearly three months, with less than 180 cases taking its total tally to 85,906, of which 14,388 are active. With only a single fatality, the district’s total death has reached 1,449.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/at-7089-cases-state-sees-lowest-surge-in-2-months/article32839454.ece
13 October 2020||Stockholm,||American duo win Economics Nobel||U.S. economists Paul Milgrom and Robert Wilson won the Nobel Economics Prize on Monday for work on commercial auctions, including for goods and services difficult to sell in traditional ways such as radio frequencies, the Nobel Committee said. The duo was honoured “for improvements to auction theory and inventions of new auction formats,” the jury said. The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences noted that the discoveries by Mr. Milgrom, 72, and Mr. Wilson, 83, “have benefitted sellers, buyers and taxpayers around the world,” it said in a statement. Mr. Wilson, a professor at Stanford in the U.S., was spotlighted for developing a theory for auctions with a common value, “a value which is uncertain beforehand but, in the end, is the same for everyone,” according to the academy. Mr. Wilson’s work showed why rational bidders tend to bid under their own estimate of the worth due to worries over the “winner’s curse,” or winning the auction but paying too much. Mr. Milgrom, also at Stanford, then came up with a more general theory of auctions, by analysing bidding strategies in different auction forms. The academy noted that while “people have always sold things to the highest bidder,” societies have also had to allocate “ever more complex objects... such as landing slots and radio frequencies.” Broad societal benefit “In response, Milgrom and Wilson invented new formats for auctioning off many interrelated objects simultaneously, on behalf of a seller motivated by broad societal benefit rather than maximal revenue,” the academy said. The winners will share the prize sum of 10 million Swedish kronor (about $1.1 million). Speaking to reporters in Stockholm via a telephone link, Mr. Wilson said the announcement had been “very happy news,” conceding that despite his research focus he himself had “never participated in an auction.” However, he quickly had to retract his statement. “My wife is pointing out that we bought ski boots on eBay, I guess that was an auction,” Mr. Wilson said. Last year, the honour went to French-American Esther Duflo, Indian-born Abhijit Banerjee of the U.S., and American Michael Kremer for their experimental work on alleviating poverty. Even if it might be the most prestigious prize an economist can hope to receive, the Economics Prize has not reached the same status as the awards originally chosen by Alfred Nobel in his 1895, which included medicine, physics, chemistry, literature and peace. It was instead created in 1968 through a donation from the Swedish central bank and detractors have thus dubbed it “a false Nobel.” The award closes the 2020 Nobel season, which saw the closely-watched peace prize awarded to the UN’s World Food Programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/american-duo-win-economics-nobel/article32839097.ece
13 October 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka in talks to secure $500 mn in Chinese loans||On the heels of a top Chinese delegation’s visit to Sri Lanka, Colombo is negotiating a $500 million loan with Beijing as it gears up to repay a daunting $4.5 billion of its outstanding debt next year. The Chinese Embassy tweeted on Sunday that “a $500 million concessional loan” requested by Sri Lanka’s Ministry of Finance to a “China financial institute” is under negotiation, but yet to be finalised. This is in addition to Beijing’s $90 million grant to Sri Lanka, announced days after a visit by a Chinese delegation led by Yang Jiechi, a top foreign policy official in the Beijing administration. If sanctioned, the loan will take Sri Lanka’s total borrowings from China over $1 billion, after the $500 million “urgent financial assistance” that Beijing extended in March to help Sri Lanka cope with the economic impact of the pandemic. The negotiations come at a time when Sri Lanka is mulling ways to repay its mounting foreign loans. State Minister of Money and Capital Market and State Enterprise Reforms Ajith Nivard Cabraal recently told the media that Sri Lanka is “exploring all options”, including the $1 billion currency agreement with India — under negotiation — greater investment in the securities market and bonds, as well as a $700 million syndicated loan from China.   Debt freeze Diplomatic sources in Colombo told The Hindu that the Sri Lankan government did not discuss a possible debt freeze in talks with China’s visiting officials, though Colombo had earlier indicated that it was considering making such a request. “The focus now is on possible investment from China, not just loans,” an official source said , a fortnight after the U.S.-based credit rating agency Moody’s downgraded Sri Lanka’s sovereign credit rating by two notches, to the “very high credit risk” category. Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, during his visit to New Delhi in February, had sought a debt moratorium from India, to help Sri Lanka tackle the debt repayment schedule. The request, along with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s request for a $1 billion currency swap facility, is “being discussed at the official level”, India said, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s virtual summit with PM Rajapaksa on September 26. India sanctioned a $15 million grant for the promotion of Buddhist cultural exchanges. Theatre of geopolitics Meanwhile, Sri Lanka is gearing up for yet another likely “high-level visit” later this month, pointing to the heightened geopolitical interest in the strategically located island nation. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo “is expected to come”, Foreign Secretary Admiral Jayanath Colombage told the Sunday Times . While the U.S. Embassy here told The Hindu “no official visit has been confirmed at this time”, sources mentioned October 27 as the likely date, around the time of the scheduled visit of Mr. Pompeo and U.S. Defence Secretary Mark Esper to India. News of the visit assumes significance, coming a year after Secretary Pompeo cancelled his scheduled visit to Sri Lanka. Though the Embassy cited “scheduling conflicts” as reason last June, the development coincided with considerable resistance here, to the then proposed ‘Visiting Forces Agreement’ (VFA) with the US. The Rajapaksa administration has also opposed the Millennium Challenge Corporation Agreement — for a $480 million grant — negotiated by the former government. Further, if Secretary Pompeo visits Sri Lanka, he would be coming weeks after attending the Australia-India-Japan-U.S. Quadrilateral (Quad) Foreign Minister’s meeting in Tokyo. Members of the Quad will be closely watching the Rajapaksa administration’s engagement with Beijing for more reasons than one. Last month, Sri Lanka ordered the termination of a $1.5-billion Japanese-funded light rail project on grounds that it is not a “cost-effective solution” for Colombo and raising “environmental” concerns. Moreover, the East Container Terminal in Colombo that India and Japan agreed to jointly develop with Sri Lanka last year, has run into trouble with workers opposing “foreign involvement” in “national assets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-in-talks-to-secure-500-mn-in-chinese-loans/article32839103.ece
13 October 2020||Washington,||U.S. Senate begins Barrett’s confirmation hearing||The U.S. Senate kicked off a four-day confirmation hearing of President Donald Trump’s nominee Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court, with Republican and Democratic lawmakers outlining their party positions on policy and their views on the fact that a hearing is taking place at all, this close to Election Day on November 3. Judge Barrett, whose record of judgments and statements puts her on the conservative side of the Bench, was nominated by President Donald Trump on September 26 as a replacement for liberal justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who died in September. The Court will have a 6-3 conservative-liberal split, possibly for decades, if the 48-year-old Ms. Barrett is confirmed. The hearings are taking place in the shadow of the coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 2,15,000 Americans. At the start of the hearing, Senate Judiciary Chairman Lindsey Graham said the room had been set up to be compliant with CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) regulations. “The COVID problem in America is real, it’s serious, it’s dangerous,” Mr. Graham said, striking a markedly different note from Mr. Trump and the White House whose nomination ceremony for Judge Barrett on September 26 did not meet health safety standards and likely resulted in a number of COVID-19 cases — including the first couple. Two Senate Judiciary Committee members had also tested positive for the coronavirus and some planned to participate in the week’s hearings virtually. Mr. Graham, who had opposed Obama-nominee Merrick Garland in 2016 earlier on in the election cycle and had said if a judicial opening occurs in the last year Mr. Trump’s term, the Republicans would wait until after the election to decide on a new candidate, sought to explain his volte face in his opening remarks. “The bottom line here is that the Senate is doing its duty constitutionally,” he said, acknowledging that it was going to be a “long, contentious week.” Mr. Graham suggested his opposition to nominations in the final year of a Presidency only applied when the President and Senate majorities were from different political parties. ‘World is watching’ Calling for a “respectful” but “challenging” hearing, he said, “Let’s remember the world is watching.” Ranking Member (Democrat) Dainne Feinstein said Democrats too hoped to have a “very good hearing”. In her opening remarks, she said the Democrats would focus on the Affordable Care Act (ACA), an Obama-era healthcare policy establishing universal coverage, which the Trump administration is trying to overturn in Court. The Supreme Court will hear the case in November. “Most importantly, healthcare coverage for millions of Americans is at stake with this nomination,” Ms. Feinstein said. She also referred to Judge Barrett’s criticism of an opinion by Chief Justice Roberts, who had sided with the liberal judges in, thus far, upholding the ACA. Democrats had tried to stop the confirmation, which they say should take place after the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-senate-begins-barretts-confirmation-hearing/article32839673.ece
13 October 2020||Hong Kong,||Anti-microbe drug can fight coronavirus, say scientists||An affordable anti-microbial drug used to treat stomach ulcers and bacterial infections has shown promise in combating the coronavirus in animals, scientists in Hong Kong announced on Monday. Researchers set out to explore whether metallodrugs — compounds containing metal that are more commonly used against bacteria — might also have anti-viral properties that could fight the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. Using Syrian hamsters as test subjects, they found that one of the drugs, ranitidine bismuth citrate (RBC), was “a potent anti-SARS-CoV-2 agent”. “RBC is able to lower the viral load in the lung of the infected hamster by tenfold,” Hong Kong University researcher Runming Wang told reporters on Monday as the team presented their study. “Our findings demonstrate that RBC is a potential anti-viral agent for COVID-19.” The Hong Kong scientists said RBC was a commonly available drug used against stomach ulcers with a safe and comprehensive pharmacological profile. “It’s been used for decades, so it’s pretty safe,” Mr. Wang said. They added that their research has been published in the journal Nature Microbiology .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/anti-microbe-drug-can-fight-coronavirus-say-scientists/article32839101.ece
13 October 2020||Geneva,||‘Climate change to blame for doubling of disasters’||Climate change is largely to blame for a near doubling of natural disasters in the past 20 years, the United Nations said on Monday. The UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction said 7,348 major disaster events had occurred between 2000 and 2019, claiming 1.23 lives, affecting 4.2 billion people and costing the global economy some $2.97 trillion. The figure far outstrips the 4,212 major natural disasters recorded between 1980 and 1999, the UN office said in a new report entitled “The Human Cost of Disasters 2000-2019”. The sharp increase was largely attributable to a rise in climate-related disasters, including extreme weather events like floods, drought and storms, the report said. Extreme heat is proving especially deadly. “We are wilfully destructive,” UNDRR chief Mami Mizutori told reporters. “That is the only conclusion one can come to when reviewing disaster events over the last 20 years.” She accused governments of not doing enough to prevent climate hazards and called for better preparation for looming disasters. ‘Uphill battle’ “The odds are being stacked against us when we fail to act on science and early warnings to invest in prevention, climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction,” she said. The report did not touch on biological hazards and disease-related disasters like the coronavirus pandemic. But Ms. Mizutori suggested coronavirus was “the latest proof that political and business leaders are yet to tune in to the world around them”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/climate-change-to-blame-for-doubling-of-disasters/article32839099.ece
13 October 2020||Kandahar,||U.S. strikes target Taliban in Afghanistan||U.S. air strikes targeted Taliban fighters outside a key city in southern Afghanistan over the weekend, officials said on Monday, with violence in the country surging despite ongoing peace talks. Heavy fighting erupted on the outskirts of Lashkar Gah, the capital of Helmand province, after the Taliban attacked several outposts. The U.S. “conducted several targeted strikes in Helmand” to defend Afghan troops as they came under attack, said military spokesman Colonel Sonny Leggett. Under a deal the Taliban signed with the U.S. in February, the insurgents are not supposed to hit urban areas and are meant to shun violence. The U.S. had committed to pulling all foreign troops by next May in return for Taliban security pledges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-strikes-target-taliban-in-afghanistan/article32839108.ece
13 October 2020||Dhaka,||Death penalty for rape in Bangladesh||Bangladesh introduced the death penalty for rape on Monday after days of protests sparked by a string of sexual assaults, the government said. Demonstrations have broken out across the country after harrowing footage of a group of men stripping and attacking a woman went viral on social media. The clip sparked outrage in the South Asian country, where activists say only a tiny percentage of sexual assault victims see justice. Previously, the maximum punishment for rape was life imprisonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bangladesh-will-execute-rapists/article32839098.ece
13 October 2020||Ankara,||Turkey to send research ship to Mediterranean||Turkey will redeploy the research ship at the centre of an energy row with Greece to the eastern Mediterranean on Monday, a decision slammed by Athens as a “direct threat to peace”. The row over gas exploration in the eastern Mediterranean saw the two NATO countries stage rival military drills in August in strategic waters between Cyprus and the Greek island of Crete. Greece claims rights over the waters around its island of Kastellorizo but Turkey says its longer coastline makes the territory a legitimate area for its vessels to explore. The Turkish Navy said the Oruc Reis ship will carry out activities in the region, including the south of Kastellorizo, until October 22. The vessel will be joined in the latest “seismic survey” mission by two other ships called Ataman and Cengiz Han, the message said. Turkish Energy Minister Fatih Donmez delivered a defiant message via Twitter on Monday that Turkey “will continue to search, dig and protect our rights”. “If there is (natural gas), we will absolutely find it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/turkey-restarts-hunt-for-mediterranean-gas/article32839107.ece
13 October 2020||Islamabad,||Imran Khan’s top aide steps down amid corruption allegations||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Special Assistant on Information and Broadcasting Lt. Gen. (retd.) Asim Saleem Bajwa resigned on Monday, amid allegations that he used his offices to help family set up several off-shore businesses. He has also served as Commander of the Southern Command.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/imran-khans-top-aide-steps-down-amid-corruption-allegations/article32839104.ece
13 October 2020||Dushanbe,||Dushanbe, Tajikistan, Oct 12, 2020 (AFP) -||Tajikistan’s leader Emomali Rakhmon was re-elected with over 90% of the vote on Monday following a presidential poll in which he faced only token opposition. The Central Electoral Commission said that 90.9% of voters in Sunday’s poll had cast their ballot for 68-year-old Rakhmon, who will secure a fresh seven-year term.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/dushanbe-tajikistan-oct-12-2020-afp/article32839106.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Federalism, now a partisan internal dialogue||At the first signs of stress, the grand vision of a nation unified in a singular system of taxation, was supplanted by a policy of every-state-for-itself. Just over three years ago, the introduction of a unified “goods and services tax” (GST) was heralded by a midnight session of Parliament, a theatrical invocation of India’s 1947 “tryst with destiny”. It was a moment of seeming vindication for the vision of a nation united in its singularity, which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have made their own. Miscued estimates The triumphalism lived on, but only in the alternative world created by BJP acolytes in the media. In the real world, evidence of seriously miscued revenue estimates, premised upon an ideological rather than pragmatic tax rate, was accumulating at an alarming pace. The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India (CAG) recently revealed how a cess meant to remedy shortfalls in GST yields, was retained in central government revenues, in violation of all applicable norms. This revelation does little to build trust at a time when the States’ treasuries are running dry and the central government is gratuitously advising them to borrow on the strength of its guarantee. States ruled by the BJP are willing to go along, but others believe that the onus of borrowing should rest with the central government, given that it is the absolute sovereign and enjoys vastly greater taxation rights. Fiscal deficit and investors It could be surmised that the central government’s refusal to contemplate the option that Opposition states are urging, stems from legitimate concerns over its fiscal deficit, a parameter in turn seen as crucial to retaining the confidence of foreign institutional investors. Many of these investors who turn over vast sums of money in India’s currency and share markets, have short-term perspectives. Yet, it does little for public confidence that the central government should base policy upon this thin artifice, when the States’ fiscal health is in serious jeopardy. The central government, in May, sanctioned a higher borrowing limit for States through the current year. In the bargain, it imposed conditionalities which reflected two deep dogmas: enforcing a singular standard for the implementation of policies across a vast and diverse country, and improving India’s ranking as a place for “doing business”. States will have unconditional access to borrowings equivalent to half a percentage point of their gross output. But, subsequently, every tranche of a quarter point will be premised on progress in implementing the “one nation, one ration card” scheme, and improvements in the “ease of doing business”. “Doing business” is a parameter the World Bank has devised as an indicator of a country’s economic prospects. The Modi government has prided itself on rapid improvements registered in this index since 2014. This, despite criticism that the parameter is indifferent towards issues of equity, welfare and environmental sustainability, and concerns within the World Bank that data manipulations may have distorted estimates. The agrarian crisis The “doing business” objective seemingly guided the central government when it introduced and pushed through — despite loudly vented reservations — laws that transform the infrastructure and regulatory processes of agricultural markets. There is a deep crisis in the agrarian sector that most evaluations have concluded, arises from ingrained asymmetries of market power. Absent a remedy for these, the malaise is only likely to be aggravated by the entry of private corporate buyers, who could overwhelm the fragile yet workable systems built up by State governments. Federalism has always been a contested concept in Indian politics. Aside from the contents and definitions sections, the word “federal” occurs in only one operational article of the Indian Constitution, in reference to the apex judicial body created in colonial times. When this body was transformed into the Supreme Court at the moment the Constitution came into force, the word seemingly lost all operative value. The administrative matter of the distribution of powers and responsibilities between various tiers of the governmental system, was achieved without explicit recognition of federalism as a governing principle. In actual operational terms, the relationship of Centre and States followed different paradigms through various phases of politics. In the single-party state that India essentially was at the time of Independence, the distribution of powers between Centre and States was transformed into an internal discussion of the Congress. Evolution of power sharing The “Congress system”, as the political scientist Rajni Kothari called it, was seen at one time to have sufficient internal flexibility and resilience to absorb all factional pressures and create a grand national synthesis. The challenge to that hegemonic vision came first from the cultural terrain, compelling a reluctant national leadership to concede the principle of the linguistic reorganisation of States. And then, as ambitions of nation-building through rapid industrialisation began to flounder, agrarian interest groups in particular began peeling off, joining other factions to create the possibility of a non-Congress politics. The Congress lost power in a number of key States in 1967, retaining only a parlous grip at the Centre. Then, as political scientists Suhas Palshikar and Yogendra Yadav have theorised, the polity moved into a new phase, when politics was about “waves” at the national or State level either in favour of, or against the Congress. From 1989 onwards, politics settled into another distinct phase, when outcomes at the national level were the resultant of very separate State-level results. This was a process driven by the emergence of regional parties through the 1970s and 1980s, and the consolidation of Left politics in West Bengal and its continuing relevance in Kerala. Since emerging in 2014 as the pole around which the polity revolves and underlining that status in 2019, the BJP has taken all the cues, and now seeks to transform federalism into an internal dialogue. There is a hint here, that India could be living through a reprise of the “Congress system” of the 1950s and 1960s. Significant differences exist, though, which could make a difference to the BJP’s re-enactment. Agriculture subsumed First, the BJP has grown in most parts of the country by wedging itself firmly into the deepest cultural fault lines in Indian society. This is integral to its ideology and not merely the kind of pragmatic tactical recourse that the Congress on occasion adopted. Second, the Congress’s inattention to the rural agrarian sector was relatively benign, born in its belief that agriculture was a vast reservoir that would gladly yield its surpluses of manpower and product to fuel the growth of the urban industrial frontier. In the BJP’s vision, agriculture is the tail-end of the economy which should be forcibly absorbed into the logic of private enterprise and the aggrandisement of India’s wealthiest business groups.  If there is a parallel to be drawn with the splintering of the Congress system and its replacement by a complex mosaic of politics led by the regions, it is simply this: that the agrarian sector could soon emerge as the force driving change. And typically, these interest groups begin coalescing at the level of State politics and then forge larger unities, which begin to contest the overweening power of the Centre. Sukumar Muralidharan teaches at the school of journalism, O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/federalism-now-a-partisan-internal-dialogue/article32839082.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The purpose of protests||Shaheen Bagh is not past us. The recent order of the Supreme Court on the protests in Shaheen Bagh in Delhi can help the state or the government further subjugate the people, and that too lawfully. The court made the dangerous observation that “the mode and manner of dissent against colonial rule cannot be equated with dissent in a self-ruled democracy.” The term “self-ruled” is a trap. Mahatma Gandhi had famously said that “we want English rule without the Englishman”. He was blunt: “I have no desire to exchange ‘king log’ for ‘king stork’.” The temptation to colonise was not unique to the British. The state in itself is coercive, and people have to be eternally alert so that they are not robbed of their sovereignty. One is also compelled to ask: who is this ‘self’ in ‘self-rule’? Does it encompass all our diverse selves? The answer again comes from Gandhi. He said: “Real Swaraj will come not by the acquisition of authority by a few, but by the acquisition of the capacity by all to resist authority when it is abused. In other words, Swaraj is to be attained by educating the masses to a sense of their capacity to regulate and control authority.” An attempt to restore equality Resistance to authority or protest is thus intrinsic to citizenship or peoplehood. Protests cannot be made to order. Protests are speech acts. What to speak and how to say it is something you and I decide. Governments cannot be allowed to dictate to you or me in these matters. This is precisely what the Supreme Court has unfortunately tried to do in its judgment on the propriety of the nature of the Shaheen Bagh protests. When you speak, you expect a willing listener. But protests happen because the conditions for dialogue seem non-existent. Dialogues presuppose equality. People protest because they feel that they have been forced into an unequal situation. Protests attempt to gain or restore equality. It is not the protests which cause a crisis. Protests arise simply because the governments create a crisis — that too by lawful means, through the passage of discriminatory laws. Protests do not disturb the balance in society; they erupt only because a balance has been upset. Is it not true that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) of 2019 was designed to upset the equilibrium in society? It was the severe feeling of discrimination inherent in the law which brought not just Muslims but many others out on the streets. Police action The CAA not only diminishes Muslims; it demeans India by making discrimination and inequality lawful. The protesters were there not only fighting for their rights, but also for a universal principle which does good to all. When Muslims and believers in the principle of equal citizenship came out to lodge their protest, they were brutalised by the police. Observers have noted the viciousness of police action in Uttar Pradesh, Jamia Millia Islamia and Aligarh Muslim University. Police action was carried out not to maintain order, but to teach the protesters a lesson. The Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh had said that he would take revenge on those involved in violence, effectively treating protesters as vandals. When senior lawyers Indira Jaising and Colin Gonsalves approached the Supreme Court requesting it to restrain the police, the court said first the violence on the streets needed to stop. The court effectively negated the right to protest then. It failed the people. It was this impossible situation which led to the imagination of Shaheen Bagh. It has been rightly observed that the court should have thought about the compulsion of the protesters to choose a site like this, which is not in the centre of the capital. Many Shaheen Baghs across India are celebrated, but should lead institutions like the Supreme Court to introspect and take a hard look at the Indian reality where Muslim women do not feel safe and comfortable to protest in spaces which are available to other sections of the society? Shaheen Bagh was a choice arising out of a huge trust deficit in society, which has only been aggravated by this majoritarian regime. Balancing two rights The court was hearing a petition by a citizen who felt aggrieved by the Shaheen Bagh sit-in as the protest and, as a consequence, the blocked roads had deprived him of his right to mobility. The court equated the two and felt that there had to be a balance between the right to mobility and the right to protest. The court was convinced that the prolonged sit-in caused traffic snarls and violated the right to mobility of the people. The court did not feel the need to find out if the traffic congestion was entirely due to the protests or whether it was caused by the Delhi Police and the Uttar Pradesh Police which had blocked alternate roads leading to the capital. It did not ask the police why were they causing inconvenience to the commuters by closing certain routes. When asked about the same during the protest, the police said it was “a security measure”. Was this not done to create animosity against the protesters? Should this not have been treated as a clever way of instigating violence against the protesters? Why were they turning one section of society against the other? The court thought it fit to send interlocutors to the protesters to persuade them to stop the sit-in, but it did not ask the government a simple question: why was it not talking to the protesters? Why were its Ministers spewing venom against them, instigating violence against them? The court accepts that democracy is not democracy if dissent is disallowed, but it says protests cannot be indefinite and have to be done in designated spaces. Protests are not done for the sake of pleasure. It has to be appreciated that peaceful protesters endure suffering to force the unjust party or the powers that be to speak to them. Protests cannot be time bound. They’ll be indefinite if injustice is indefinite. Apoorvanand teaches Hindi at Delhi University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-purpose-of-protests/article32839089.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Gene editing, the good first and then the worries||The Nobel Prize in Chemistry for 2020 (https://bit.ly/3iR8UfJ) which was announced on October 7, Wednesday, has two women scientists as its recipients. That, in it, is a first in the sciences. Emmanuelle Charpentier, a French microbiologist working at the Max Planck Unit for the Science of Pathogens in Berlin, Germany, and Jennifer A. Doudna, a biochemist from the University of California, Berkeley, U.S. shared the honour “for the development of a method for genome editing”. Discovery, likely omissions The two scientists have pioneered the use of CRISPR (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats) – Cas9 (CRISPR-associated protein 9) system as a gene-editing tool. In a short period of eight years since its discovery, the method has already made a significant impact in biology, medicine, and agriculture. It is not often that one sees practical applications of scientific findings in such a short time. The only other work with such a quick and revolutionary impact, is PCR (polymerase chain reaction) invented by Kary Mullis in 1983. The Nobel Prize as the most coveted prize, especially in science, often attracts controversy; this year too is no exception. The discovery of CRISPR can be traced back to 1987. This was when a group of Japanese researchers observed an unusual homologous DNA sequence bearing direct repeats with spacing in a eubacterial gene. Several important discoveries followed. In subsequent years, Francisco Mojica, Rodolphe Barrangou, Luciano Marraffini and Erik Sontheimer discovered CRISPR and showed it to be a bacterial adaptive immune system and to act on DNA targets. A notable discovery on the use of CRISPR as a gene-editing tool was by a Lithuanian biochemist, Virginijus Šikšnys, in 2012. Šikšnys showed that Cas9 could cut purified DNA in a test tube, the same discovery for which both Charpentier and Doudna were given the credit. Thus, the conspicuous exclusion of Siksnys from this year’s Nobel, especially when the Nobel Prize can be given to three individuals (the will of Alfred Nobel has it that the Prize can only be shared among a maximum of three individuals), is going to raise discussions. This is especially noteworthy when Siksnys along with Charpentier and Doudna shared another coveted award, the Kavli Prize for Nanoscience, in 2018 (https://bit.ly/36UYnO6). However, the Nobel committee recognised Charpentier and Doudna as the sole discovers for programming a Cas9 protein to cut a piece of DNA at a specific site with the help of a small piece of RNA, thereby proving the ability of CRISPR-Cas9 to function as a gene-editing tool. Other notable early contributors to the field that many believe deserve mention are Feng Zhang of Broad Institute of MIT-Harvard and George Church of Harvard. Feng Zhang, a past postdoctoral fellow in Church lab, and Church himself, the named inventor of many genome science methods, have made several early contributions to the field. These notable exclusions may raise controversy, but Church described the reason for the exclusion best. He saw it this way — that Charpentier and Doudna made a discovery, which is what the committee prefers to reward, and he and Zhang were inventors. In the male-dominated world of science, this year’s Nobel chemistry prize should be widely celebrated worldwide. The recognition that Charpentier and Doudna’s work has received will encourage women to take up science as a career, despite the hard struggle to balance family life and an arduous life in a scientific career. Although CRISPR became a household name for its ease of use, other systems discovered before CRISPR can cleave DNA at specific sites, an example being the Zinc-finger nucleases. In this, Dana Carroll, who developed the system, is another notable exclusion from this year’s chemistry prize. It would have been an excellent choice if the Nobel committee had named Carroll alongside Charpentier and Doudna. When the world was shocked In India, there is a long way to go before realising the utility of gene editing for therapeutic applications. That said, we cannot be complacent and wait for a rogue individual or entity to try it out in humans. The world was alarmed by such a mission in 2018 when Chinese scientist He Jiankui edited genes in human embryos using the CRISPR-Cas9 system that were subsequently implanted and resulted in the birth of twin girls. He claimed this was ostensibly to prevent them from contracting HIV, and the incident became known as the case of the first gene-edited babies of the world. Following a global outcry, the World Health Organization formed a panel of gene-editing experts which said “a central registry of all human genome editing research was needed in order to create an open and transparent database of ongoing work”. It called upon WHO “to start setting up such a registry immediately”. Situation in India In India, several rules, guidelines, and policies backed by the “Rules for the Manufacture, Use, Import, Export and Storage of Hazardous Microorganisms/Genetically Engineered Organisms or Cells, 1989” (https://bit.ly/33OIuXx) notified under the Environment Protection Act, 1986, regulate genetically modified organisms. The above Act and the National Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical and Health Research involving human participants, 2017 (https://bit.ly/34LykGI), by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and the Biomedical and Health Research Regulation Bill implies regulation of the gene-editing process. This is especially so in the usage of its language “modification, deletion or removal of parts of heritable material”. However, there is no explicit mention of the term gene editing. It is time that India came up with a specific law to ban germline editing and put out guidelines for conducting gene-editing research giving rise to modified organisms. Binay Panda is a Professor of Biotechnology at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/gene-editing-the-good-first-and-then-the-worries/article32839084.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The tyranny of TRPs||Nothing can better describe the current TRP (target rating points) controversy better than the Hindi proverb ‘ Hamaam mein sab nange hain (Everyone is naked in a public bath)’. Before understanding the controversy, nay scam, let’s understand the ecosystem at play. In India, no one wants to be regulated. The judges believe that they can self-regulate better than the National Judicial Appointments Commission ever can. The media, especially television media, swears by self-regulation. Energy regulators are mostly parking places for retired civil servants, few of whom have the guts to implement genuine ‘open access’ or tariff fixation. Today TV is perhaps the single biggest window of entry into any home for any business. About 760 million-800 million individualsview TV in India per week. While TV penetration in rural India is about 52%, in urban India it is about 87%. Of this DTH (Direct to Home) is used by about 70 million-80 million households, cable is used by 60 million, and terrestrial by about 10 million-20 million households. About 550 million individuals tune into the TV daily and spend roughly 3.45 hours per day watching TV. The industry boasts of more than 800 channels across various genres. Of the total revenue of about Rs. 66,000 crore, about 40% is attributable to advertising and 60% to distribution and subscription services. India’s total advertising market is $10 billion-$12 billion, of which digital advertising is about $2 billion, according to Dentsu in 2020. The nature of the game What channels are not admitting is that the TRP system has been rigged for many moons now, by the channels themselves. That is the nature of the game. Channels cannot play the game without rigging the system. In the TAM (Television Audience Measurement) and INTAM (Indian National Television Audience Measurement) days, motorcycle riders used to be sent to follow those from TAM to retrieve data/install meters and identify ‘confidential homes’. Those homes would be given a new plasma TV, in vogue those days. In those households, a particular channel would be turned on and put on mute on the new TV. And the people in the house would continue watching whatever they wanted to on their regular TV sets. Needless to say, TAM and INTAM gave different ratings reports to suit different clients. Soon, they discovered that it was best to have the cake and eat it too, so they merged. When BARC (Broadcast Audience Research Council) came about, it took over the flawed TAM meters which are now said to constitute about a third of its own metering. I have unlearnt everything I learnt in statistics to make sense of the fact that about 22,000 bar-o-meters (or 44,000 households) are used to distribute digital advertising goodies worth about Rs. 25,000 crore. So, a back-of-the-envelope, and not scientific, bar-o-meter equals approximately Rs. 1 crore of ad revenue, though the geographical coverage is tiny. Don’t ever ask how 22,000 bar-o-meters can be statistically significant to explain a TV viewing universe of 200 million households (Z-Tests and P-values be damned, they matter only for PhD theses, not in the real world). There are other goodies for media-buying agencies in the form of fees, commissions, kickbacks, both over and under the table. Even a cursory glance at the balance sheets of the top agencies would reveal these staggering amounts. It is no wonder that no advertising agency worth its salt wants to upset the applecart and look at a ‘better’ rating system. In today’s world of hyperconnectivity, can we not become self-reliant enough to manufacture bar-o-meters connected to the Internet securely which give us not only channel-wise, but also programme-wise and hour-wise data? That way, measurement would be continuous and transparent instead of being discrete, periodic, and tamperable. Netflix and YouTube not only know what you watched and how long you watched it, but also what else you may like and what you may ignore. Why can’t India come up with connected bar-o-meters or set top boxes when almost everything is now down to digital zeros and ones and measurable? The way forward What is the way forward? If you take Ofcom or the Federal Communications Commission, the two main independent regulators in the U.K. and the U.S., respectively, they consist usually of government-appointed officials along with distinguished members from the corporate world. But in India, we all disagree on what constitutes ‘independent’. If a government of a particular ideology appoints a regulator, it will be almost certainly deemed partisan. So, it really comes down to this: who do we trust more, the private sector or the government? Do we want BARC ‘self-regulation’ or an independent authority established by a constitutionally elected government? This opens up a Pandora’s box on who should regulate, how they should regulate, and who should regulate the regulators. The hype will end soon, but it looks like nothing is going to change, for ‘Hamaam mein sab nange hain’ . Srivatsa Krishna is an IAS officer. Views are personal. Twitter: @srivatsakrishna||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-tyranny-of-trps/article32839092.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Towards cleaner air in Delhi||Every year, Diwali fireworks blanket Delhi in a haze, compounding air pollution’s health risks, particularly to children, the elderly and those with underlying illnesses. The difference this year is that rare respite from pollution as COVID-19 slammed the brakes on economic activity. But with air pollution returning to pre-COVID levels, it is opportune that the Delhi administration has launched a major anti-pollution campaign this month. The campaign is rightly focused on cutting the deadly smoke from thermal plants and brick kilns in the National Capital Region as well as on chemical treatment of stubble burning from nearby States. Delhi’s long-term solution will depend importantly also on abating emissions from transportation. This agenda could cut air pollution from all sources combined by one-quarter to one-third by 2025, which, if sustained, could extend people’s lives by two-three years, ameliorating respiratory complications from COVID-19. Air pollution before COVID-19 was dire. Particulate matter, PM2.5 and PM10, exceed national standards and the more stringent World Health Organization limits. Delhi’s toxic air also contains high doses of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide. The lack of wind worsens the pollutant concentration. Delhi needs a 65% reduction to meet the national standards for PM2.5. Vehicles, including trucks and two-wheelers, contribute 20%-40% of the PM2.5 concentrations. Tackling vehicle emissions would be one part of the agenda, as in comparable situations in Bangkok, Beijing, and Mexico City. A three-part action comprises emissions standards, public transport, and electric vehicles. Control emissions The first part is stricter enforcement of emission controls — and a willingness to impose tougher penalties. Two-wheelers and three-wheelers were as important as cars and lorries in Beijing’s experience. Bangkok ramped up inspection and maintenance to cut emissions. The first order of business is to implement the national standards. Emission testing of vehicles under Delhi’s Pollution Under Control Policy was only 25%. The second prong is reducing private vehicles on the road by strengthening public transport. Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) systems in Mexico City, Bogota, Istanbul, and Johannesburg show how the sizeable investment cost is more than offset by the benefits, and that financing pays off. Delhi has lessons from its BRT experience in designating better BRT lanes, improving the ticketing system and synchronising with the Metro. The Supreme Court’s ruling to increase Delhi’s bus fleet and align it with the Metro network must be carried out. The ‘odd-even’ number plate policy can help, but the system should reduce exemptions, allow a longer implementation period, and complement it with other measures. A longer-term solution The third prong, even if longer term, involves electric vehicles (EVs). Subsidies and investment will be needed to ensure that EVs are used to a meaningful scale, without fossil fuels for charging them. The Delhi government’s three-year policy aims to make EVs account for a quarter of the new vehicles registered in the capital by 2024. EVs will gain from purchase incentives, scrappage benefits on older vehicles, loans at favourable interest and a waiver of road taxes. Transport solutions need to be one part of pollution abatement that includes industry and agriculture. Delhi’s own actions will not work if the pollution from neighbouring States is not addressed head on. Technical solutions need to be underpinned by coordination and transparency across Central, State, and local governments. Public opinion matters. Citizen participation and the media are vital for sharing the message on pollution and health, using data such as those from the Central Pollution Control Board. It is a matter of prioritising people’s health and a brighter future. Once the pandemic is over, Delhi must not stumble into yet another public health emergency. The time to act is now. Vinod Thomas is Visiting Professor at the National University of Singapore and a former senior vice president at the World Bank. He tweets @vthomas14. This article is based on research with Alyona Seth, Nimrita Singh and Chitranjali Tiwari at the National University of Singapore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/towards-cleaner-air-in-delhi/article32839093.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Equal stakes||For the first time in nearly 25 years, all members of the Union Cabinet are from a single party, the Bharatiya Janata Party. The death of Lok Janshakti Party leader Ram Vilas Paswan, three weeks after the Shiromani Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Cabinet in protest against legislation that her party sees as anti-farmer, has suddenly created this situation, but it has been in the making for a while. In 2019, the Shiv Sena’s Arvind Sawant resigned from the Cabinet after the party broke with the BJP. In 2014, the BJP won more than half the seats in the Lok Sabha, the first time a single party won a majority since 1984. In 2019, the party increased its tally and is not dependent on any other party for the government’s survival, though it has at least two dozen allies in the NDA. Alliance politics had come to be derided as a sign of instability, indecision and policy paralysis in the dominant discourse of Indian politics before 2014. Conversely, the emergence of a single party’s dominance was welcomed as a new era of stability and decisiveness. The BJP chose to be more triumphalist than gracious in its victory. Decisions of far-reaching consequences such as the changes in the status of Jammu and Kashmir and eligibility of citizenship were made with no inputs from regional political groups, including its own allies. Involvement of regional and smaller parties will only make governance more robust and inclusive at the national level. The tendency to consider regional forces as a hindrance to a national vision is not the BJP’s creation, though it amplified it. The emergence of regional and communitarian politics is in part a response to the Congress’s failure to be sufficiently sensitive and accommodative of various social and linguistic groups. SAD leader Sukhbir Badal flagged this as a lesson for the BJP — that domination can easily lead to a total collapse. In the case of the BJP, its parliamentary majority itself is concentrated in the north and the west of India, and among particular communities. There is a strong case for the party to be more accommodative towards regions and communities that are not part of its political map. The party has taken some steps such as inducting Nirmala Sitharaman, a Tamil, and V. Muraleedharan, a Malayali, in the Union Council of Ministers though the BJP is not dependent on Tamil Nadu or Kerala for its parliamentary majority. Stability is only enhanced when the stakes are widely distributed in a polity. The situation created by the death of Paswan and the resignation of Ms. Badal opens an opportunity for the BJP to re-examine its approach to regions and social groups. Adequate representation in the Council of Ministers is a necessary condition, and a starting point, towards a more consultative decision-making process that might guarantee more desirable outcomes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/equal-stakes/article32839077.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Feat of clay||The 2020 French Open was unlike any previous edition of the Major. The COVID-19 pandemic ensured that players who are usually accustomed to embracing the summer warmth of Paris had to endure the autumnal cold and rain. The new retractable roof over court Philippe-Chatrier, play under lights and the reportedly “slow and heavy” Wilson balls made clay-court tennis drastically different. What was unchanged, however, was Rafael Nadal holding aloft the Coupe des Mousquetaires for a record-extending 13th time in 15 years and the patented trophy biting celebration. The straight sets demolition of World No.1 Novak Djokovic, his toughest rival, brought the Spaniard level with Roger Federer’s men’s record for Grand Slam titles (20) and has set up a mouth-watering 2021. But Nadal’s preparation for the tournament was far from ideal. The coronavirus situation, especially in his home country, had left him deeply distressed. A quarterfinal loss in Rome last month meant that the 34-year-old entered Roland Garros without winning a clay event for the first time in his career. But the way Nadal negated all potentially inhibiting factors, and reached unprecedented heights of excellence against an opponent who was undefeated in five straight Slam finals, was gunning for his 18th Major, and whose only loss in 38 matches this year was through a disqualification in unfortunate circumstances, made the victory probably his best. What also came to the fore was Nadal’s longevity — 15 years between the first and latest Slam, and a record six Majors after turning 30 — and his drive to constantly seek perfection. Djokovic’s role in this is central. Though they had met 55 times before, very few came when both were at their absolute peaks. Yet, their tactics have continuously evolved like in a cat and mouse game. After the nearly six-hour long Australian Open final defeat to Djokovic in 2012, Nadal spruced up his attacking play. Since the return from the 2015-16 slump, he continuously worked to better his backhand and break out of the losing patterns Djokovic drew him into. Sunday seemed the culmination of all the hard work. While Nadal led Djokovic by just one point in rallies lasting five shots or more (53-52), he crushed the Serb 53-25 in those that had four shots or less. Where Nadal made just nine backhand errors, he drew 26 more from Djokovic’s favoured wing. Over the last fortnight, this first-strike strategy was also perfected by the 19-year-old Iga Swiatek. The Pole felled the tactically astute Sofia Kenin with a ruthless display of power and intelligence to claim her maiden Major without losing a set. The French Open has crowned four straight first-time women’s Grand Slam champions, rewarding styles ranging from all-out attack to nimble-footed craftiness. Swiatek’s all-round game is a worthy addition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/feat-of-clay/article32839078.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Anti-English ‘Satyagraha’||A group of 36 anti-English agitators including two members of Parliament were arrested while staging a ‘satyagraha’ outside the Supreme Court to-day [October 12, New Delhi]. Those arrested included Mrs. Tarakeshwari Sinha (Cong.-O) and Mr. Ramgopal Shalwale (J.S.), both M.Ps., Mr. Sanwal Das Gupta (SSP), President of the “Angrezi-Hatao Sena”, and a few members of the Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha. One of the five women arrested carried a child with her. For over an hour, the volunteers shouted anti-English slogans and demanded that Hindi and other regional languages be allowed in courts. They were addressed by Mr. Raj Narain M.P. (SSP), Mrs. Sinha and Mr. Shalwale. Mr. Raj Narain left the scene before the arrests were made. Mrs. Sinha said that the Chief Justice of India had “reversed” his decision to constitute a Bench of Hindi-knowing judges to hear Mr. Raj Narain last month, and this, she contended, was against the spirit of the Constitution. The satyagrahis wanted an assurance from the Chief Justice that people would be allowed to argue their cases in their own language. In a memorandum, they demanded that the Supreme Court should permit all languages being allowed to be used in Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/anti-english-satyagraha/article32839086.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The Congress and Non-Cooperation||There have been very few comments in the British Press on the Non-Co-operation Resolution passed at the special session of the Indian National Congress. The “Times”, the “Daily Telegraph,” and the “Morning Post” have all written in that strain of uncomfortable hostility which was to be expected of them. They cannot conceal their misgivings as to the insecurity of the existing regime, but they affect to believe (as they always have done) that the considered declarations of the Congress are nothing but the vapourings of a noisy minority of extremists. But they are not the only people who have misgivings as to the tendency of Indian politics at the moment. With every desire to support the indignant protest of the Indian nation against the misgovernment of which they have been the victims, there are not many British Radicals and Socialists who agree with the policy of general boycott. They are not yet convinced that the wrongs inflicted upon the Indian people can be righted in no other way, and they are far from being satisfied that a withdrawal from a participation in the administration of the country can be made effective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-congress-and-non-cooperation/article32839085.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Factory output shrinks for sixth month||India’s industrial output fell for the sixth month in a row this August, even as consumer price inflation surged past the 7% mark, hitting 7.34% in September, with food price spikes reaching 10.68% compared with 9.05% in August. The index of industrial production (IIP) shrank 8% in August on a year-on-year basis, quick official estimates suggest, marking a marginally improvement compared with July when output contracted 10.8% as per revised estimates. Earlier quick estimates had pegged July’s contraction at 10.4%. August’s output does mark the lowest contraction since factory production began falling in March. Output had shrunk 18.7% in March, followed by contractions of 57.3% in April and 33.4% in May. Between April and August, industrial output has now shrunk 25%. Heightened inflation, driven by food inflation and transport costs, will make it difficult for the Reserve Bank of India to cut rates in its December policy review meeting, economists reckoned. “CPI inflation came in higher at 7.4% against our forecast of 6.4%... This number will be in the range of 6%-7% in October too as vegetable prices continue to rise and will exert pressure,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE Ratings in a note titled ‘Double Jeopardy for the Economy.’ All segments of industrial production contracted in August, including food, pharma products and fast-moving consumer goods, which Mr. Sabnavis termed as a surprise. “Quite clearly, the initial boost received (after the lockdown began to wind down) has [become] diluted post the unlock,” he noted, adding that basic metals, tobacco and transport equipment were the only manufacturing sectors that saw some growth. Overall, the mining sector shrank 9.8% in August, manufacturing output declined 8.6%, while power sector output contracted 1.8%. Capital goods, primary goods and consumer durables all clocked negative growth rates over 10% — 15.4%, 11.1% and 10.3%, respectively. ‘Highest in 24 quarters’ Barring March 2020, retail inflation had been over the RBI’s tolerance band of 6% for 10 months and the overall inflation rate for the second quarter of FY21 is now the highest in 24 quarters at 6.95%, said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research. “It appears that the supply disruptions-led inflation is slowly coming under control, as core inflation (5.67%) moderated in September 2020 over the previous month. However, this is the fifth consecutive month of core inflation in excess of 5%,” Mr. Sinha said, though he was hopeful of some comfort on inflation in October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/factory-output-shrinks-for-sixth-month/article32839058.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Value of homes sold fell 43% in 9 months of 2020: Anarock||Homes worth about Rs. 88,730 crore were sold during the first nine months of the current year in the top seven markets, which was a decline of 42.5%, or Rs. 65,590 crore, over the same period last year, according to Anarock Property Consultants. The decline was attributed to the impact of COVID-19. The total value of homes sold in the seven markets — Bengaluru, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Chennai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Delhi NCR, stood at about Rs. 1.54 lakh crore in the same period of 2019. Between January and September 2020, as many as 87,460 units were sold across these cities as against about 2.02 lakh units sold in the year-earlier period, as per Anarock. MMR clocked sales of Rs. 49,313 crore, followed by Bengaluru (Rs. 12,569 crore), Delhi NCR (Rs. 9,430 crore), Pune (Rs. 8,692 crore), Hyderabad (Rs. 3,116 crore), Kolkata (Rs. 2,833 crore) and Chennai (Rs. 2,777 crore) ‘Worst is over’ However, it added that the quarterly numbers indicated that the worst was over for the residential sector. In July-September 2020, the value of homes sold rose by more than 2.3 times to about Rs. 29,731 crore, up from Rs. 12,694 crore in the preceding quarter (April-June 2020). In the January-March 2020 quarter, home sales value stood at about Rs. 46,306 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/value-of-homes-sold-fell-43-in-9-months-of-2020-anarock/article32839060.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Cash-for-LTC a big blow to tourism’||While the tourism sector has termed Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s cash-for-LTC announcement a ‘major blow’ to the sector, the consumer durables sector has welcomed it along with the festival advance scheme, calling these a boost to consumer sentiment and economic activity. However, experts warn that this ‘boost’ is likely to be temporary and the measures may be inadequate to sustain demand. The Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH) said the government’s move to redirect LTC funds to consumer goods was a “vote of no-confidence” for the sector, which is among the worst-hit by COVID-19. After eight months of almost zero tourism activity, the industry was expecting the festive season to give the sector a boost. However, the government’s decision is likely to sap funds that could have gone into travel, FAITH said. “The government’s move is contrary to our suggestions where we demanded that LTAs be used to incentivise travel. But the government announcement will discourage travel as even those who have savings would like to encash their LTAs,” said Jyoti Mayal of the Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI). An industry source however, said there will be no material impact on the industry as the LTA money would not have come to the travel industry in any significant way before March 2020. FAITH added that since this is a four-year block scheme, it will also cut away funds for future travel demand for the next year. On the other hand, Kamal Nandi, president, Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufacturers Association (CEAMA), and Business Head & EVP, Godrej Appliances said, “The special festival advance schemes will provide more liquidity to the customers for discretionary spends. With the upcoming festive season, this will augur well for the consumer durables segment.” ‘Not sustainable’ Edelweiss Research said in a note that the overall fiscal outgo owing to these measures amounts to Rs. 400-500 billion (0.2-0.3% of GDP). However, this is not a fresh fiscal expansion as the government is sticking to its existing borrowing programme. “Therefore, while the measures could support sentiments and demand during the immediate festive season, they may be inadequate to boost aggregate demand sustainably... more [is] needed for sustained recovery,” it added. Aditi Nayar, principal economist, ICRA, said she anticipated the announcement to result in a temporary boost to consumer sentiment and economic activity, with sharper pick-up in festive season sales that would “subsequently fizzle out”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cash-for-ltc-a-big-blow-to-tourism/article32839067.ece
13 October 2020||COLOMBO,||Delhi, Male ink $400-mn pact for connectivity||Following up on India’s announcement of a $500 million package to the Maldives, the Exim Bank of India and the Maldives’s Ministry of Finance on Monday signed an agreement for $400 million in Male. The line of credit (LoC) will fund the Greater Male Connectivity Project (GMCP), a key pledge of President Ibrahim Solih, a statement from the Indian Embassy in Male said. India has also pledged a grant of $ 100 million for the initiative. The initial announcement was made at a virtual meeting between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Maldives Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid in August. “The Greater Male Connectivity Project will lead to greater possibilities. It is the gateway to a more developed and economically-resilient nation,” tweeted Mr. Shahid on Monday. The grant and LoC come in addition to the previous LoC of $800 million, among India’s largest loans extended in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/delhi-male-ink-400-mn-pact-for-connectivity/article32839063.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Intel India sets up centre for artificial intelligence||Intel India said it had partnered IIIT Hyderabad, Public Health Foundation of India and the Telangana government to unveil a research centre to focus on leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) to solve India’s population-scale challenges in sectors such as healthcare and smart mobility. The applied AI research centre, INAI, here will act as a catalyst to accelerate India’s leadership in AI while creating national assets such as curated data sets and computing infrastructure with the aim to attract global talent for high-impact research towards social sector development, Intel India said. In his address, Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said India was bound to be a robust player in AI application as data was the ‘oxygen’ for AI and India’s huge population, along with a robust digital ecosystem, was going to generate huge amounts of data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/intel-india-sets-up-centre-for-artificial-intelligence/article32839065.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Vedanta plunges almost 21% after delisting ‘fails’||Shares of Vedanta on Monday plummeted close to 21% after the company’s delisting went from almost-a-success to failure, on account of a large quantity of unconfirmed orders. The stock plunged 20.6% to close at Rs. 96.95 on the BSE. During the day, it tanked 23% to Rs. 94. On the NSE, the shares tumbled 20.7% to Rs. 96.65. The company’s market valuation declined Rs. 9,347.78 crore to Rs. 36,038.22 crore on the BSE. In volume terms, 85.06 lakh shares were traded on the BSE and over 14.5 crore shares on NSE. In a regulatory filing, Vedanta said its buy-back offer is deemed to have failed as per the terms of the delisting regulations after promoter Vedanta Resources did not receive the required number of shares to delist the firm. A large number of unconfirmed bids and some technical glitches in the tender process are likely to have contributed to the failure. The BSE, on October 9 evening showed 137.74 crore shares, out of a total 169.73 crore shares held by the public, to have been offered for sale to promoters, larger than the threshold of 134.12 crore. Some bids, however, were pending confirmation from custodians. Reconciliation of data led to the number of shares offered for sale being trimmed to 125.47 crore. This, Vedanta said, was “less than the minimum number of offshore shares required to be accepted by the acquirers in order for the delisting offer to be successful.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vedanta-plunges-almost-21-after-delisting-fails/article32839069.ece
13 October 2020||new delhi,||Mazagon Dock rises 19% on debut||Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders made a stellar debut in the bourses on Monday and closed over 19% higher from the issue price of Rs. 145 per share. Shares listed at Rs. 216.25 on the BSE, a premium of 49.1% over the issue price. During the day, it zoomed 49.4% to Rs. 216.65. It later closed at Rs. 173, a gain of 19.3%. On the NSE, the stock debuted at Rs. 214.90 apiece, rising 48.2% from the issue price. It closed at Rs. 171.95, or 18.6% higher. The company’s market valuation stood at Rs. 3,489.24 crore at close of trade on the BSE. Price range for the IPO was Rs. 135-145 per share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mazagon-dock-rises-19-on-debut/article32839068.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,||PAG-led group set to acquire Anjan Drug||PAG, an Asia-focussed private equity firm, along with its consortium partners CX Partners and Samara Capital, is all set to acquire a controlling stake in Anjan Drug Pvt. Ltd, a Chennai-based manufacturer of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API). However, the terms of the deal were not disclosed. The acquisition is part of the PAG-led consortium’s strategy to create a platform for the development and production of bulk drug ingredients, PAG said in a statement. “We see the Indian API market as a very attractive opportunity and well-positioned for the future,” said Nikhil Srivastava, managing director and head, India private equity, PAG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pag-led-group-set-to-acquire-anjan-drug/article32839072.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Walmart, Flipkart make additional investment in Ninjacart||Walmart and the Flipkart Group announced the second round of investment in Ninjacart, a start-up focusing on supplying fresh produce to consumers by leveraging modern supply chain infrastructure and technology solutions, as per the Flipkart Group. This follows the investment made by the U.S. retail giant Walmart and the Flipkart Group in December 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/walmart-flipkart-make-additional-investment-in-ninjacart/article32839061.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,||Sundaram blue chip reopens||The New Fund Offering (NFO) by Sundaram Blue Chip Fund , an open-ended equity scheme of Sundaram Mutual, has garnered more than Rs. 650 crore. The NFO was open from September 17 to October 1. The fund will reopen for subscription on October 14. Despite the challenges of the lockdown, this figure was a significant rise over the previous two NFOs, the fund house said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sundaram-blue-chip-reopens/article32839073.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Telecom ARPU poised for ‘structural uptrend’ via tariff hike, high data usage post COVID-19: Report||The Telecom industry’s Average Revenue Per User (ARPU) is expected to see a ‘structural uptrend’ via a mix of tariff hikes, a report said. The note by JM Financial said, with the consolidation in India’s telecom industry largely complete, the wireless industry’s revenue is expected to double to about Rs. 2,60,000 crore by 2024-25 as an increase in ARPU looks ‘inevitable.’PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/telecom-arpu-poised-for-structural-uptrend-via-tariff-hike-high-data-usage-post-covid-19-report/article32839074.ece
13 October 2020||Mumbai,||RBI announces portfolios of deputy governors||The RBI on Monday reallocated the portfolios of deputy governors, with the department of regulation entrusted to the newly-appointed M. Rajeshwar Rao. Mr. Rao was executive director of the Reserve Bank before being elevated to the post of deputy governor. He took the new charge last week. Mr. Rao was appointed to the post vacated by N. S. Vishwanathan.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-announces-portfolios-of-deputy-governors/article32839670.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A.B. de Villiers’ masterful blitz flattens Kolkata Knight Riders||When A.B. de Villiers finds form, there is not much the bowlers can do, as Kolkata Knight Riders found out at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Monday. The blistering 73 not out off just 33 balls (5x4, 6x6) from the South African powered Royal Challengers Bangalore to an 82-run victory. The fifth win also took RCB to the third spot on the IPL table. On a night when de Villiers ruled, skipper Virat Kohli (33 not out, 28b, 1x4) was content to play the spectator’s role during their unbroken 100-run stand for the third-wicket. The de Villiers show began with a straight drive off Prasidh Krishna; not even the stumps at the bowler’s end could take the power off the shot. He plundered 18 off Kamlesh Nagarkoti’s last over, hitting him for two massive sixes off successive balls. Earlier, openers Aaron Finch (47, 37b, 4x4, 1x6) and Devdutt Padikkal (32, 23b, 4x4, 1x6) put on 67, justifying Kohli’s decision to bat first. KKR would have appreciated a solid start from Shubman Gill and Tom Banton, who was making his IPL debut. It didn’t prove a particularly memorable beginning for the highly rated 21-year-old who was bowled by a Navdeep Saini delivery clocked at 148.1kmph. Nitish Rana was then beaten and castled in his attempt to slog-sweep the impressive Washington Sundar. Watching all this from the other end was Gill (34, 25b, 3x4, 1x6). He was dropped on 31, but failed to capitalise on it; he was run out. KKR plunged into deeper trouble in the next over when captain Dinesh Karthik was castled by Chahal. Four balls later, Eoin Morgan was sent back by Washington. Only a series of mighty sixes from Andre Russell could have revived KKR’s hopes, but the giant only managed one before holing out to extra cover off Isuru Udana.   KKR 69 for five  KKR was 69 for five in 12 overs, with Russell (1) and Tripathi (4). Banton (8), Rana (9), Gill (34), Karthik (1) and Morgan (8) were out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-villiers-blitzkrieg-takes-rcb-to-194/article32839175.ece
13 October 2020||ORLANDO,||Lakers equal Celtics’ record of 17 crowns||Los Angeles Lakers, fuelled by superstar LeBron James’ triple-double, dominated Miami Heat 106-93 on Sunday to win its 17th NBA championship. It’s first in a decade pulled Lakers level with the Boston Celtics for the most number of crowns. James added another chapter to an epic career, delivering 28 points, 14 rebounds and 10 assists as he captured his fourth NBA title with a third team. He earned NBA Finals Most Valuable Player honours for a fourth time, and said the accomplishment had a special flavour with the Lakers. Anthony Davis, playing in his first title series after years of frustration in New Orleans, added 19 points and 15 rebounds as the Lakers completed a 4-2 triumph more than eight months after the helicopter crash that killed team legend Kobe Bryant, who had led the Lakers to their last title in 2010. The Lakers out-hustled, out-muscled and out-played Miami, making sure it wouldn't come down to any last-gasp effort as it did when Los Angeles were denied in game five on Friday. The Lakers had taken hold of Game 6 by half-time, their 36 second-quarter points equalling Heat's entire first half total. The Lakers took a 64-36 lead into the break with four players already scoring in double figures. Heat, which had stunned the Lakers on Friday on the back of Jimmy Butler's gritty triple-double, couldn't produce another miracle. No answer Bam Adebayo led Heat with 25 points and 10 rebounds and Butler and Jae Crowder added 12 apiece, but Miami simply had no answer for the knockout blow Los Angeles delivered in the first half. James played his 260th playoff game, surpassing Derek Fisher for the most all time. James said one of the great satisfactions of the victory was helping Davis gain a title.  The result (Game 6):   LA Lakers 106 (James 28) bt Miami Heat 93 (Adebayo 25). Lakers win 4-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakers-equal-celtics-record-of-17-crowns/article32839227.ece
13 October 2020||PARIS,||‘It means a lot to share this number with Roger’||Rafael Nadal’s 13th French Open was hailed as “one of sport’s greatest achievements” by close friend and rival Roger Federer, but for the chasing pack of players, it was another dagger in their hearts. Nadal, who has now gone level with Federer on 20 Grand Slams, has won six since turning 30. World No. 1 Novak Djokovic has won five of his 17 since leaving his 20s while Federer, now 39, claimed four after his 30th birthday. The numbers illustrate how big the gap remains between the Big Three and the rest. Nadal’s 6-0, 6-2, 7-5 win over Djokovic in the Roland Garros final allowed him to join the Serb in winning Majors in three different decades. The 34-year-old Spaniard insisted that he won’t become obsessed with ending his career as the all-time highest Slam winner. “I would love to finish my career being the player with more Grand Slams,” he said after winning his 100th match at Roland Garros against just two losses in 15 years. Practical “But I’m not going to be thinking all the time Novak has this one, Roger is winning the other one. You can't be always unhappy because your neighbour has a bigger house than you, a bigger boat or a better phone. “In terms of these records, of course I care. For me, it means a lot to share this number with Roger. But let’s see what happens when we finish our careers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-means-a-lot-to-share-this-number-with-roger/article32839177.ece
13 October 2020||Abu Dhabi,||MI bowled really well as a unit: Krunal||Mumbai Indians’ all-rounder Krunal Pandya credited the team’s bowling unit for the five-wicket win over Delhi Capitals, saying that taking wickets in the PowerPlay and not conceding too many runs at the death overs proved crucial. “We bowled really well as a unit, especially in the PowerPlay, we got the early breakthrough,” Krunal, who took two wickets for 26 runs in his tight spell, said at the post-match press conference. “In the T20 format, whenever you get the early breakthrough, the pressure is more on the opposition, we did not concede too many runs in the death overs, in between, Chahar also really bowled well, it was a good team effort. A blessing “It is a blessing, we have three bowlers who can bowl at 140 consistently. For any team to have three bowlers who can bowl quick and swing the ball is really good.” Talking about his own performance, Krunal said: “I am happy with the way I bowled against Delhi Capitals, my strength has been varying the pace, I was able to execute the plans overall. Obviously, you have to see the strength of the batsman and the situation.” Opener Quinton de Kock and Suryakumar Yadav smashed 53 to help Mumbai Indians script a successful chase. Good start “When you have 180 you know you have to go hard and when you are chasing 140 odd, then you can take your time. In-between totals are really tricky, we got a good start, the way Surya and Quinny batted, they never allowed the opposition bowlers to settle,” Krunal said. DC skipper Shreyas Iyer admitted they were outplayed in all departments and credited the Mumbai spinners for not allowing them to score freely. “...they did not give us a single opportunity to take them on. I think they really outplayed us in all three departments, the credit goes to their spinners, they bowled really well and they bowled as per their plans,” he said. Dhawan praised Shreyas heaped praise on Dhawan for returning to form with a 52-ball 69 which was studded with six boundaries and a six. “It was important for us to get Shikhar back in form, he is an amazing batsman, he paced his innings really well. He can give us great starts in tough situations. I am happy for him and the team would be hoping for good performances from him,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mi-bowled-really-well-as-a-unit-krunal/article32839904.ece
13 October 2020||ABU DHABI,||‘The next seven games will be important’||Defending champion Mumbai Indians has been the team to beat in the IPL once again, and skipper Rohit Sharma stressed on the need to remain ahead of the opponents, especially at the back-end of the tournament. “We have had a good run so far. Like we all know, this is where the challenges will be more. The teams will start catching up and we just got to be ahead of them,” said Rohit in a video posted on Mumbai Indians’ Twitter handle. Mumbai jumped to the top of the points table after defeating Delhi Capitals by five wickets on Sunday. Quinton de Kock and Suryakumar Yadav scored blazing half-centuries as the defending champions chased a tricky 162. “We have always spoken about it. Individuals know exactly how to figure that out. Whatever we have discussed, whatever we have planned, I think we have executed those plans very well so far,” said Rohit. “But this is not the end and this is not the start. We are right in the middle, we know that. Let’s keep our focus as it is always important. The next seven games will be important, but at the same time, we should not forget to enjoy. “This is a tough tournament, but having fun with each other, having that bonding is important and I see that happening. Let’s continue to do that,” said Rohit. The Mumbai Indians skipper, who played his 150th game for the team on Sunday, said that the support of teammates was vital during this journey. “I think it’s been a great journey, very, very happy about it. At the same time, I would also appreciate the support that I got from all my teammates through the years. “We had many players come and go, and to have them supporting me on the field meant a lot,” said Rohit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-next-seven-games-will-be-important/article32839906.ece
13 October 2020||Chennai,||CSK needs to dig itself out of a crater||CSK finds itself in a hole at the halfway mark — just two victories and five defeats. The side needs to win six of its remaining seven matches and even then, may have to reckon with net run-rate. There is a remote possibility of CSK going through with seven wins overall provided many other results go its way. From the time the prolific Suresh Raina, at the pivotal No. 3, flew home because of personal reasons, things have gone wrong for CSK. Baffling Tactically, CSK has been baffling. The Chennai outfit is a side of multi-dimensional cricketers but these men are of little consequence if they surface too late in the order. For instance, Dhoni arrived in the 15th over against RCB. Ideally, the skipper should have surfaced at No. 3 and given himself the space, time and freedom to bat through the innings. Ravindra Jadeja has been indifferent with the ball, but CSK has not utilised his immense batting ability. The southpaw needs to walk out when there are enough overs left. Somehow CSK, save openers Shane Watson and Faf du Plessis, has not been dishing out smart cricket. Ambati Rayudu has been charging quick bowlers and missing his shots rather than caressing them with footwork and timing as he did in 2018. N. Jagadeesan showed promise on debut, but CSK needs some serious rethinking on its composition. In bowling, someone as skilful as Josh Hazlewood can swing games in Dubai where there is assistance for pacemen. Sam Curran, zestful and enthusiastic, has his limitations. Mitchell Santner is a match-winning, left-arm spinning all-rounder and he is warming the bench. Energy-booster Then there is Imran Tahir, who can create a buzz on the field and lift the side with his energy. Specialists, who come with a clear role definition, have their advantages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-needs-to-dig-itself-out-of-a-crater/article32839168.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Suryakumar, de Kock do it for MI||Suryakumar Yadav played another match-winning knock to help Mumbai Indians register a comfortable victory against Delhi Capitals and go to the top of the table on better Net Run Rate. Suryakumar (53, 32b, 6x4, 1x6) and Quinton de Kock (53, 36b, 4x4, 3x6) came good as Mumbai Indians hunted down the target of 163 with five wickets and two balls to spare at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Sunday. When de Kock mistimed a sweep to Prithvi Shaw at deep square-leg in the 10th over, the Mumbai side was still 86 runs away. Suryakumar and Ishan Kishan, however, kept scoring boundaries to ease the pressure. Suryakumar perished off the last ball of the 15th over, with Mumbai needing 33 off five overs. Kieron Pollard and Krunal Pandya took the team home in the final over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suryakumar-de-kock-do-it-for-mi/article32839165.ece
13 October 2020||CHENNAI,||MAC set very high standards: Murali||Rich tributes were paid to industrialist M.A. Chidambaram for his contributions to various fields, including arts, sports and industry, in the first Dr. M.A. Chidambaram Memorial Lecture, hosted virtually by the Southern India Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SICCI) on Monday. N. Murali, Director, Kasturi & Sons Limited, and chief guest for the function, said Chidambaram made a strong imprint in several walks of life. Although a great promoter of different sports such as table tennis, tennis, hockey, horse racing and polo, cricket remained his first love, revealed Murali. “As president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) and treasurer of BCCI, Chidambaram set very high standards of probity, transparency, and integrity,” Murali said. “He was able to build a team, motivate them, and work selflessly with discipline. Chidambaram [TNCA president] and Sriraman [secretary] were a formidable duo, which was the envy of all [State] Cricket Associations. He had an army of volunteers whom he motivated and helped organise [international] cricket matches with clockwork precision,” he said. The construction of MAC Stadium would not have been possible without Chidambaram’s single-minded devotion. “When there was a shortfall of Rs. 1.5 crore, MAC single-handedly raised Rs. 15 lakh and in an unprecedented large-hearted gesture, he made a personal guarantee to Indian Bank which was later repaid in an out-of-gate collection from international matches,” Murali said. The BCCI’s financial self-sufficiency, Murali said, was almost entirely due to the efforts and vision of Chidambaram. Former India leg-spinner V.V. Kumar recalled Chidambaram’s prominent role in recruiting sportspersons in the 1950s and 60s. A.C. Muthiah, former SICCI president and son of M.A. Chidambaram, also spoke. SICCI president Ar. Rm. Arun delivered the welcome address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mac-set-very-high-standards-murali/article32839224.ece
13 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Carlton Chapman passes away||Former Indian football team captain Carlton Chapman passed away here on Monday. Chapman complained of back pain in the early hours of Monday, and breathed his last a couple of hours later, his close friends stated. He was 49. Chapman — an integral part of the Indian team from 1995 to 2001 — was among the last footballers from Karnataka to make a big impression on the international stage. A midfielder known for his speedy runs and clever assists, Chapman was the perfect foil for strikers. Achievements Under his captaincy, India won the SAFF Championship in Kathmandu in 1997. Chapman was part of the Indian team which won the SAF Games (1995) in Chennai, Nehru Cup (1997) in Kochi, and SAFF Championship (1999) in Margao. He was an accomplished performer at the national club level as well. A precocious young talent, Chapman started his career at SAI Centre (Bengaluru), before moving to Tata Football Academy (TFA) in Jamshedpur in 1990. His big break came in 1993, when he joined East Bengal. Chapman made an instant impression, scoring a hat-trick in East Bengal’s 6-2 win over Iraqi club Al-Zawra in the Asian Cup Winners’ Cup. After two seasons with East Bengal, he signed for JCT Mills, where he played alongside Baichung Bhutia and I.M. Vijayan. The midfielder returned to East Bengal in 1998, and led the club to the National Football League (NFL) title in 2001. After his playing career, Chapman took up coaching. He worked with Royal Wahingdoh, Sudeva FC, Bhawanipore FC and other clubs. Chapman was due to join Gokulam Kerala FC as the reserve team head coach in November. Vijayan’s homage Former teammate and close friend Vijayan stated that Chapman was a once-in-a-generation talent. “Chapman is one of the greatest footballers that India has seen. Krishanu Dey was the best midfielder of his generation, and Chapman was one of the best from our generation,” Vijayan said. “Carlton was a great midfielder. I am probably the one who played the most with him as a striker. I played with him at JCT and FC Kochin. We won a lot — Durand Cup, Federation Cup, etc — together. He was a brilliant player; selfless on the field. I was very close to his family. I used to stay at his Austin Town house in Bengaluru when I came over for India camps,” a heartbroken Vijayan said. Condolences Praful Patel, All India Football Federation president, said, “It’s sad to hear that Carlton Chapman is no more. His contribution to Indian football will never be forgotten. I share the grief.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-india-captain-chapman-passes-away/article32839217.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad FC steps up preparations||Hyderabad FC, which will be making its second appearance in the Indian Super League (ISL), has stepped up its preparations by moving into Level 3 training in Goa. This after successfully completing Level 2 of training, as per ISL guidelines, during the first week of the pre-season in Goa. Hyderabad FC took to the field with its entire Indian contingent at the St. Anthony’s High School ground in Guirim on Monday. First team Assistant Coach Thangboi Singto was in-charge of the training as Hyderabad FC became the first ISL team to enter Level 3. “The last few weeks have been challenging for all of us. “While we were really happy to step on to the field after quarantine, training as one group is something important,” Singto said. “Working with the larger group allows us to focus on a lot of aspects regarding the team, and so we’re really happy to enter into Level 3. “As a team, we continue to maintain the protocols set by the league and the club at all times.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-fc-steps-up-preparations/article32839796.ece
13 October 2020||Kolkata,||East Bengal doffs hat to Chapman||East Bengal club remembered one of its brightest stars Carlton Chapman, who passed away at the age of 49 on Monday, as a player who contributed in a big way to its success. “We are deeply saddened by the passing away of Carlton Chapman. Our thoughts and prayers are with the family,” Shree Cement managing director H.M. Bangur said. Shree Cement now has the majority stake in East Bengal. “Chapman played for India between 1995 and 2001, leading the national team to the 1997 SAFF Cup victory. He had two successful spells with East Bengal and one with now-defunct JCT Mills at the club level. “Chapman, who joined East Bengal in 1993, is best remembered for his hat-trick in the team’s 6-2 win over Iraq side Al Zawra in the Asian Cup Winners Cup. “He returned to East Bengal in 1998 and helped the red and gold brigade win their maiden National Football League (NFL) title in 2001. He called time on his illustrious career in 2001,” said a statement from the club remembering the outstanding midfielder.  Chapman returned to East Bengal in 1998 and helped the red and gold brigade win its maiden National Football League (NFL) title in 2001||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/east-bengal-doffs-hat-to-chapman/article32839901.ece
13 October 2020||Nurburgring,||Grey hair won’t stop him, says Hamilton||Lewis Hamilton issued a clear warning to his rivals after his record-equalling 91st career win at the Eifel Grand Prix when he said he wants to keep chasing records until he turns grey. The runaway series leader and six-time world champion equalled Michael Schumacher’s total of wins and moved closer to levelling him on seven drivers’ titles with his victory at the Nurburgring on Sunday. It was his first win at the circuit for Mercedes and the team’s first triumph at the historic venue since Juan-Manuel Fangio’s victory in 1954. “Of course, I can set goals and I will continue to charge on and see what is possible,” said Hamilton. “I love the sport — the smell of it, the whole aura and atmosphere it creates. While I am older now than these guys, I feel as young as them in spirit. That will change when I start seeking grey hairs, but for now I am good.” Hamilton achieved his landmark win after 260 races while Schumacher, whose 21-year-old racer son Mick gave him one of his father’s helmets to mark his achievement, raced in 246.  Hamilton, who grew up watching Schumacher win races during his and Ferrari’s domination, can move one clear of that total if he wins the inaugural Formula One race at the Portimao circuit in Portugal on October 25. “Michael is, and always will be, a legend of the sport.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/grey-hair-wont-stop-him-says-hamilton/article32839902.ece
13 October 2020||DUBAI,||Faltering Super Kings up against Sunrisers||Time is fast running out for Chennai Super Kings. The team desperately needs its batting to click when it takes on Sunrisers Hyderabad here on Tuesday. CSK needs a stronger show from its faltering middle-order. After facing brickbats for persisting with Kedar Jadhav, CSK dropped him in the last match and his replacement N. Jagadeesan (33, 28b) came good. Sam Curran, Ravindra Jadeja and Dwayne Bravo failed to come to the team’s rescue once they fell. Dhoni, too, has not been able to force the pace. Batting has not been SRH’s concern, as Jonny Bairstow, skipper David Warner, Manish Pandey and Kane Williamson have been among the runs. It’s the bowling that let SRH down on Sunday. Rashid Khan and T. Natarajan have done a good job, but lack support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/faltering-super-kings-up-against-sunrisers/article32839173.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Supremacy is His Swabhava||The Sarira-Sariri tenet is central and exclusive to the Visishtadvaita philosophy. It explains the relationship between the Lord and the entire creation. The Lord is the Sariri and the entire creation comprising the chetana and the achetana beings and objects is His Sarira. As long as the chetana and achetana beings exist, He supports them and keeps them under His control. They cannot exist independently and are bound to Him seamlessly. In a discourse, Aasuri Sri Madhavachariar drew attention to the Phala Sruti verse in the Vishnu Sahasranama Stotra that captures the essence of this bhava. The heavens, the moon, the stars, and all the heavy objects in the entire creation are kept in their respective places and supported and made to function owing to His Sankalpa. In the individual chetana and achetana beings and objects, the body exists as along as the jivatma exists. It becomes lifeless when the atma exits. Just as a jivatma directs his body, mind, intellect, etc according to his will, the Lord is the sole master. All others in creation are His possessions and exist to serve Him as Sesha bhutas. Brahma, Rudra, Indra, etc, are subordinate to Him. There is none who can equal His supremacy nor is there anyone who is above Him. This supremacy is His natural swabhava. When in life there are masters with servants to work for them, these are roles that are obtained by circumstances and for limited periods of time. But the Lord is the Master at all times and for the entire creation. It means no one can be His master and He is not obliged to serve anyone. Still, out of His own Sankalpa, as in Rama and Krishna avatars, He willingly plays the role of a Seshi, when He serves Vishwamitra and fights Tataka, or when He drives the chariot for Arjuna, or goes as a messenger for Pandavas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/supremacy-is-his-swabhava/article32839162.ece
13 October 2020||CAIRO,||Winning start for Ghosal and Joshna||India’s leading squash players Saurav Ghosal and Joshna Chinappa tasted success in their first competitive outing in six months, comprehensively winning their opening matches at the CIB Egyptian Open here. World No. 13 Ghosal defeated 34th-ranked Englishman Tom Richards 11-9, 11-4, 11-1 in the second round. “It was good to be back playing again. My basic game was ok, but I was not sharp enough,” Ghosal said. Women’s World No. 11 Joshna downed Scotland’s Lisa Aitken 7-11, 11-4, 11-3, 11-6. Both got a bye in the first round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/winning-start-for-ghosal-and-joshna/article32839228.ece
13 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Bayliss calls for better plan execution||Sunrisers Hyderabad has to ensure it executes its plans better, says head coach Trevor Bayliss. After the loss to Rajasthan Royals on Sunday, Bayliss said the team had batted well on a slow surface, but could have done with a few more runs. “But credit to them (Royals). They bowled extremely well on that surface. It is all about adjusting to it,” he said. “Any loss is difficult, obviously we were in a good position for almost three-quarters of the match.” Bayliss also had words of praise for T. Natarajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayliss-calls-for-better-plan-execution/article32839179.ece
13 October 2020||KOLKATA,||East Bengal appoints a new CEO||East Bengal has appointed Col. Shivaji Samaddar (Retd.) as its CEO ahead of the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) season. A professional with more than 40 years of experience, Col. Samaddar is currently the CEO of Royal Calcutta Golf Club and will be joining Shree Cement East Bengal Foundation, the new entity governing East Bengal, from Oct. 16, 2020. “The club has a rich history of 100 years. We will undertake all measures to live up to the expectation of our fans and take the professional legacy of the club forward,” Col. Samaddar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/east-bengal-appoints-a-new-ceo/article32839900.ece
13 October 2020||DUBAI,||ICC chairman: nomination by Oct. 18||The ICC on Monday set October 18 as the deadline for its board of directors to send names of potential candidates for the chairman’s post to replace Shashank Manohar, ending the impasse on the nomination procedure. The process will be overseen by an independent chairman of the ICC Audit Committee. However, the global body has not specified the voting procedure in case there are multiple candidates. The ICC has stated that the next chairman might assume office only from the month of December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-chairman-nomination-by-oct-18/article32839169.ece
13 October 2020||PARIS,||France, Portugal play out a goalless draw||Portugal and Italy kept hold of first place in their UEFA Nations League groups on Sunday with goalless draws against France and Poland on a night of little drama, while England saw off Belgium to take the initiative in their pool.  A star-studded line up of players including Cristiano Ronaldo, Kylian Mbappe and Antoine Griezmann failed to muster much of a spectacle in the League A, Group 3 match here. The 1,000 fans gathered in the cavernous stadium to watch World champion France host the reigning European champion were treated to just four shots on target as two rugged defences cancelled out each team’s attacks. Close calls Pepe headed home what he thought was a 74th-minute opener when he got on the end of Bruno Fernandes’ free-kick but was flagged offside. Ronaldo, chasing his 102nd international goal, was denied by a flying save from Hugo Lloris in added time. England manager Gareth Southgate said his side showed what it is made of after coming from behind to beat Belgium 2-1 and move top of League A, Group 2 earlier on Sunday. The Three Lions are on seven points, one ahead of the world’s top-ranked side after Marcus Rashford’s spot-kick and Mason Mount’s deflected winner 25 minutes from time cancelled out Romelu Lukaku’s early penalty.  Important results: League A: Group 1: Poland 0 drew with Italy 0; Bosnia and Herzegovina 0 drew with the Netherlands 0; Group 2: England 2 (Rashford 39-pen, Mount 64) bt Belgium 1 (Lukaku 16-pen); Iceland 0 lost to Denmark 3 (Sigurjonsson 45-og, Eriksen 46, Skov 61); Group 3: France 0 drew with Portugal 0; Croatia 2 (Vlasic 32, Kramaric 84) bt Sweden 1 (Berg 66). League B: Group 3: Russia 1 (Anton Miranchuk 28) drew with Turkey 1 (Kenan Karaman 62) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/france-portugal-play-out-a-goalless-draw/article32839218.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 07:30 IST,||Sudoku - October 13, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-13-2020/article32840108.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The not-so-common house crow||The Kerala Bird Atlas, one of the largest citizen science projects in Asia, conducted jointly by the Kerala Agriculture University, Bird Count India and supported by the Kerala Forest Department, concluded last month. This mammoth exercise, which took five years and enlisted over 1,000 birders, aims to document the birds of the State systematically and collect information about species distribution, abundance and seasonality across over 30,000 square km of forests, wetlands, urban and rural areas. According to project head P.O. Nameer from Kerala Agricultural University, the data generated will be analysed over the next six months, “and findings may possibly debunk some long-standing notions”. Co-coordinator Praveen J. says that the birding community is excitedly awaiting the findings that will throw new light on all aspects of birding and birds in the State. “So far, we were comfortable with certain ideas, for instance the house crow, jungle crow and babblers are found across the State; but the study proves otherwise. Such observations and information will be established once the data is studied,” he says. Conducted over two seasons (dry from January to March, and wet from July to September), the area was divided into 38,000 grids of one square kilometre each and converted to 4,000 cells. The entire State was broken up into blocks of 6.6x6.6 km each. Each was then divided into 3.3x3.3km cells. These were further partitioned into 1.1x1.1km sub-cells. From the last, one sub-cell was randomly selected for rigorous and scientific mapping of bird distribution in the State. What is unusual about the survey is that it enlisted citizen birders to help with the process. Around 1,000 volunteers and over 25 NGOs participated. “We were capacitating the participants, so it is a win-win situation for all. The individuals were excited to learn the ropes of birding and bird survey techniques. Beginners who joined us in 2015 had become expert birders by the end of it,” says Nameer. Praveen says though they have been conducting surveys from 1990, they had not worked on this scale before. “We had to work within spatially distributed areas and within constraints of time.” The project was first launched in 2015 at Alappuzha and Thrissur, the former being the smallest district with a thriving birding community. Once concluded successfully, in a year, it was rolled out across the State. “The requirements to conduct a survey in forest and non-forest areas and rural and urban areas had different challenges,” explains Praveen, adding that, in areas like Idukki district that did not have a resident birding community, they had to rope in and train volunteers from outside. The districts of North Kerala and some remote areas of Kasaragod, Wayanad and Kannur also came with some challenges. The Kerala Forest Department pitched in in areas such as Periyar Forest Reserve, Munnar Wildlife Division, Parambikulam Tiger Reserve etc., where almost 80 birders participated. Birdwatchers from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra too were invited to participate in forest surveys. Maxim Rodriguez, who headed the project in Kasaragod, points out that making notes on the ecology of the place was equally important, “like the presence of a water body or growth of invasive species of foliage...” From a bird conservation point, says Nameer, they now have a baseline data of the birds of Kerala as of 2020. “The beauty is that this data is structured and, if the process is repeated after five or 10 years, one will be able to compare the distribution of birds of Kerala. This information can be used for the long-term management of the habitat as well as the bird species.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-not-so-common-house-crow/article32839430.ece
13 October 2020||October 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Serving up art on a p la te||At his home in Nanayakarar Chetty Street, Thanjavur, which doubles up as his workshop, M. Paramasivam, 72, covers a brass kodam (water pot) with ornate etchings of floral motifs, using a tiny chisel. Paramasivam, who started working at the age of 16, is one of a dwindling number of old-school artisans who specialise in what used to be known as ‘Thanjavur kalai ’ (an umbrella term for an art that incorporates embossing, etching, engraving and filigree on metallic surfaces). Thanjavur kalai requires the skills of a metal worker, jeweller and a designer of not just patterns but also tools. That is why it is quite common to see four or more people work on each step of an artefact. “I am the last in five generations of my family in Thanjavur kalai ; I hope the glory days of our craft will come back in my lifetime,” says Paramasivam. Vintage craft Patronised by Maratha ruler Serfoji II (1777-1832),Thanjavur kalai craftsmen were kept busy with orders for royal gifts, mostly decorative salvers, jewel boxes and vessels like water pots and ewers. In its contemporary version, the craft has been commercially reinterpreted as ‘Thanjavur kalai thattu ’ or Thanjavur Art Plate, a ceremonial platter made with silver, copper and brass layers in three stages: the base plate with alternate copper and silver panels, a bigger embossed silver motif on the central section, and the setting of globular jigna or sequins in the secondary relief. Thanjavur Art Plate was given a Geographical Indication (GI) tag in 2007, as a proof of its long heritage. Once prized as the pinnacle of artistry in Tamil Nadu, it was often presented to visiting dignitaries by the State government. In 1980, for instance, an elaborately embellished Thanjavur Art Plate was gifted by the then-Governor Sadiq Ali to Britain’s Prince Charles during his visit to India. With prices fixed according to size, Thanjavur Art Plates can fetch anywhere upwards of Rs. 4,000. “Every Thanjavur kalai piece is unique because the artisan will customise the design to suit the surface. It is a pity that it has become confined to a single product,” says N. Paramasivam, president of the district-level Thanjavur Art Plate Artisans’ Welfare Association. The recently-formed industry body has 200 members. “We formed the welfare association mainly to protect the authenticity of our products,” says PGA Babu, the secretary. “While a genuine 10-inch Thanjavur Art Plate in the government-run Poompuhar showroom costs Rs. 4,500, you can find something similar with fake metal adhesive strips for as less as Rs. 700 just a few shops down the road. Customers should respect the workmanship, and patronise only genuine outlets for buying our plates,” he says. Designer ware Watching the artisans work requires several trips to the home-based pattrais (workshops) in the Therku Veedhi area in Thanjavur, where plates travel from hand to hand in different stages of completion. Traditional artisans tend to buy old brassware from shops because their thicker gauge allows them to work on intricate designs from scratch. A hot paste of pungaliya tree resin and brick powder or red sand is poured into orifices of vessels which solidifies as it cools, allowing the artisan to work on the outer surface without denting the base. Once the design is finished, the solid paste is carefully removed from the interiors. A similar waxy background fixes plates firmly to the work surface until the embellishment is over. While religious motifs such as Ashtalakshmi (eight avatars of Goddess Lakshmi) and Dasavatharam (10 incarnations of Lord Vishnu), are commonly used on Thanjavur Art Plates, designs can be varied to include corporate logos and Nature themes. Aided by lathes, iron tools and ground-level forges, the artisans also create lead dies for the motifs from scratch, transferring paper patterns to copper and silver foil by punching tiny dots through the diagram. “Artisans of my father’s generation worked long hours to keep up with orders. There was healthy competition among peers to see who would come up with the prettiest product,” says Babu. Changing times The cottage industry has been witnessing a slow decline despite its protected status. Once employing over 200 artisans and their families in Thanjavur, today there are only around 60 people still active in this art form. Many artisans feel that the concentration on plates has left little scope for them to work on other items like vessels and devotional images that used to be valued both as artefacts and for religious worship. “I used to participate in workshops held by handicraft emporia across India, and also send products to the bigger cities. But for the past 15 years, the market for other items bearing Thanjavur kalai embellishments has died out,” says artisan Paramasivam. “If art lovers and artisans both return to the heritage roots of the craft, it will definitely flourish again.” Poompuhar, the State government-run handicraft emporium, is the sole authorised source for genuine Thanjavur Art Plates, and so, saw a steady demand that kept sales as high as Rs. 6-10 lakh per month. The recent lockdown changed that. “The orders have stopped because of the restrictions on public meetings, especially government functions where our plates are usually given away as mementoes,” says K. Arun, the showroom manager. To encourage revival, the authorities are planning to open a dedicated unit to produce Thanjavur Art Plates. “The machines will be available in our common workshop, which can be used by artisans for a nominal charge,” says Arun. “We may be able to draw a younger crop of artisans to this craft if we use technology to ease some of the hard physical labour involved in plate production.” To create a genuine Thanjavur Art Plate, artisans need to develop a high level of artistic skill that requires knowledge of mathematics, geometry and metallurgy, besides drawing. Many of the older artisans achieved this despite never having attended school. “The young people in our community are getting educated these days, to find better paying jobs. I hope education will inspire them to reinvigorate our profession,” says Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/serving-up-art-on-a-p-la-te/article32839424.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Day 1 of DU online admission process sees 19K applications||On the first day of admissions for merit-based undergraduate courses, Delhi University (DU) received over 19,000 applications to various colleges. University officials said around 1,628 students were approved while 920 have paid the fees.  Keeping in mind the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the admission process is entirely online, including verification of documents, and students have been advised to not visit college campuses. The portal opened at 10 a.m. on Monday and will remain available to applicants till 5 p.m. on Wednesday. Due to the rolling process, college-specific data regarding applications and admissions were not available. Hindu College principal Anju Srivastava said, “We got quite a number of applications but cannot give exact data as it is a continuous process. We are processing applications, but we cannot give an exact number at the moment.” At Lady Shri Ram College, which has set 100% cut-off for psychology, economics and political science, principal Suman Sharma said that several applications had been received for the courses. “We have received quite a few applications for the three courses, especially political science. It is difficult for us to give data as we are still processing. We have approved some applicants already, while things are being clarified for others. All that I can say is that the rush at LSR is the usual,” she said. Smooth process Stating that the online admission process has remained largely smooth apart from a few glitches, Ms. Sharma added: “We were worried about the procedure but it was quite smooth. There were some minor glitches but we coordinated with DU. They had given us a comprehensive list of people who we could contact.” Meanwhile, approximately 600 applications were processed at Gargi College till 6 p.m. while around 126 admissions took place at Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College. Ramjas College processed around 155 applications at the department level while 25 applications were approved by the principal till 6.30 p.m. Regarding verification of documents, Ramjas College principal Manoj Khanna said: “There were some issues with viewing the CBSE marksheet as it was not visible for some applications. Hence, it was becoming difficult to verify the marksheets uploaded by students. We have raised the issue with the university.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/day-1-of-du-online-admission-process-sees-19k-applications/article32839790.ece
13 October 2020||chandigarh,||Declare entire Punjab as notified principal market area, says SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Monday said the Punjab government should in the next seven days convene a special Assembly session to declare the entire State a notified ‘mandi’ (principal market area) and reject the Centre’s recent agriculture laws. It should also repeal its own amended APMC Act of 2017. The SAD core committee announced that in the event of the State government’s refusal to convene the session, the party would ‘gherao’ Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s residence. The meeting was chaired by party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal here. Harcharan Bains, principal adviser to the SAD chief, said: “The ultimatum to Amarinder Singh has become necessary in view of the CM’s continued refusal to take a clear stand against the Central anti-farmer Acts, besides his stubborn refusal to declare the entire State a principal market area where the Central Acts would no longer be implementable.” The SAD core committee also decided to take up the issue of early reopening of the Kartarpur corridor with the External Affairs Ministry soon to ensure Sikh pilgrims could pay obeisance at the shrine in Pakistan during the run-up to the 551th ‘Parkash Purab’ of Sri Guru Nanak Dev. ‘Ensure justice’  The committee also expressed serious concern at the alleged mishandling of the Hathras incident by the Uttar Pradesh government and asked it to ensure that the victim’s family received justice by taking exemplary action against police officers who had cremated the body forcibly, said Mr. Bains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/declare-entire-punjab-as-notified-principal-market-area-says-sad/article32839440.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Students’ groups protest against DU’s high cut-offs||Various students’ groups on Monday carried out protests against the high-cut off scores released by Delhi University for its merit- based undergraduate courses. The protests, held by the Krantikari Yuva Sangathan (KYS) and Students’ Federation of India (SFI), termed the cut-offs as “discriminatory” and “exclusionary” and demanded scrapping of the same. Quality education “This cut-off is nothing but a policy of educational apartheid meant to keep public-funded higher education beyond the reach of students from government schools, an overwhelming number of whom hail from socio-economically deprived backgrounds,” the KYS said in a statement. The students’ group further said, “Students from marginalised and vulnerable sections find their access to quality education barred due to paucity of seats and consequent high cut-offs. The KYS demands more seats, low cut-offs and enabling policies such as deprivation points.” In the first cut-off list announced by the university on Saturday, Lady Shri Ram College pegged the asking score at 100% for three honours programmes: psychology, economics and political science.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/students-protest-high-cut-offs-demand-more-seats-in-du/article32839783.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Court seeks response of BJP leader on plea by CM, 3 others||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response from BJP leader Rajeev Babbar on a plea by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and other AAP leaders challenging summons issued to them in a defamation case for their alleged remarks over deletion of names from the voters’ list of the Capital. The court has posted the case for further hearing on November 23. It had on February 28, this year stayed the defamation proceedings in the trial court. The court said the issue has to be heard expeditiously in terms of a recent directions of the Supreme Court asking the chief justices of all High Courts to list before an appropriate Bench all pending criminal cases involving sitting and former lawmakers where stay was granted. The Chief Minister and three others — AAP Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Gupta and party leaders Manoj Kumar and Atishi Marlena — have sought quashing of a sessions court order, which upheld a magisterial court’s decision to summon them as accused in the complaint. Mr. Babbar, on behalf of the Delhi unit of the party, sought the prosecution of AAP leaders for harming the reputation of the outfit by blaming it for the deletion of names from the voters’ list. AAP leaders in their plea before the High Court have claimed that the trial court failed to appreciate that they did not make or publish any statement against Mr. Babbar or his party as alleged by him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-seeks-response-of-bjp-leader-on-plea-by-cm-3-others/article32839780.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Assembly panel continues its proceedings against Facebook||The Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony continued proceedings related to grave allegations against social media platform Facebook here on Monday. Prabir Purkaystha, editor of NewsClick and Pratik Sinha, co-founder of non- profit fact-checking website ‘Alt News’ were examined by the committee. In a statement, the committee said, Mr. Purkaystha categorically deposed that there is “a direct correlation” between Facebook’s business model, which “purportedly thrives on hate for maximising its engagement thus leading to disturbing the peace and harmony.” ‘Thrives on virality’ The committee also stated that he also deposed that Facebook, through its business model allegedly thrives on “virality of hate as it catches more eyeballs” and curbing hateful content “does not incentivise them” on their platform. He also deposed that there should be more effective measures undertaken by Facebook with respect to grievance redressal mechanism as persons sending their grievances must be entitled to know as to what fate their complaint met, the committee said. Calls for transparency According to the committee, Mr. Sinha stated that there is “a total opacity in the functioning and structure of Facebook” as there is “no transparency” in their operations. He also cited various posts which were widely shared during recent Delhi riots but despite being declared as fake, still exist on the platform without any requisite mark of caution, indicating Facebook’s alleged “incompetency in eliminating fake content off its platform.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assembly-panel-continues-its-proceedings-against-facebook/article32839788.ece
13 October 2020||Kharar,||2 weeks into paddy procurement, farmers still waiting for payment||Amid the COVID-19 scare, 44-year-old Gurpreet Singh from Tole Majra village with his paddy-laden tractor-trolley arrived at Kharar’s grain market in Punjab on a sunny day on October 10 — he seems content with the procurement arrangements at the ‘mandi’ (market yard). However, he, as many other farmers, is anxious about “timely payment” of produce purchased by government agencies. “I brought 40 quintal paddy in the morning to the mandi here and by afternoon my produce was sold. I didn’t have to wait for long... everything was seamless. There’s no space crunch in the mandi nor labour shortage. However, my main concern is about receiving the payment. My ‘arthiya’ [commission agent] told me that I’ll get the payment at least 12-15 days later because the process of payments has not yet started from the government’s end,” said Mr. Gurpreet.  ‘Pay within 3-4 days’ “I’ll get around Rs. 75,500 for the paddy that I had sold. But if I get the payment after 15 days then it will create difficulties for me. I need to prepare my field for sowing of wheat for which I need money immediately. If my payment is delayed how will I plant my next crop? The government should make the payment within 3-4 days at the most after the crop is sold,” he said. Mr. Gurpreet’s commission agent, who requested anonymity, said: “Till October 10, at least 30 farmers have sold paddy at the Minimum Support Price through me, but payment for none of them has been received from the government agencies. As far as I know, only three day ago the cash credit limit has been sanctioned by the RBI for making MSP payment. So, now I am hopeful that payments would start coming in from the ensuing week,” said the agent. ‘It will add to woes’ Expressing similar concern, Harbans Singh of Jandpur village said the delay in timely payment would hamper his sowing for rabi (winter) season. “I have to buy seeds and other things for wheat sowing, but if there’s a delay in the payment, which is quite evident, then I’ll have to borrow money from someone... It will only add to the woes,” said Mr. Harbans, who had sown paddy in 17 acres. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had recently asked the Food and Civil Supplies Department to ensure prompt lifting of the produce and release of payment within the stipulated time-frame of 72 hours. Paddy procurement commenced on September 27 due to early arrival of the crop this year owing to advance planting. The procurement operations would continue till November 30. Till October 10, 23.11 lakh tonnes of paddy has arrived in the ‘mandis’ across Punjab, of which 21.93 lakh tonnes has been procured by various agencies. Punjab is targeting procurement of 171 lakh tonnes in the ongoing season. Kesar Singh, a farmer from Khanpur village, said procurement arrangements are far better this season in comparison to the wheat procurement in April-June. “The State government has increased the number of centres for crop’s purchase, which has reduced crowding. I have come with over 100 quintals and my commission agent has informed me that payment is expected to come in my account in the next 15 days... It’s a long wait,” said Mr. Kesar, who has planted paddy in close to 20 acres.  4,200 purchase points To ensure hassle-free and safe procurement amid COVID-19, the Punjab Mandi Board has notified over 4,200 purchase points for procurement of paddy. To avoid mass gatherings and ensure staggered procurement, the Mandi board has issued 7.71 lakh passes to farmers till October 10. Four State procurement agencies besides the FCI are procuring paddy. The A grade paddy is being procured at the MSP of Rs. 1,888 per quintal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2-weeks-into-paddy-procurement-farmers-still-waiting-for-payment/article32839441.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||HC advises Lt. Colonel to let his son choose his life path||Observing that it is not a father’s ambition that defines the standards for selection as a Commissioned Officer in the Indian Army, the Delhi High Court has rejected the plea of a young aspirant seeking to take him back in the training at the Indian Military Academy (IMA). The aspirant’s father, a Lieutenant Colonel himself, had made a fervent plea to consider the case of his son leniently, as the commissioning of his son as an Officer of the Indian Army meant a lot to him as it would be the fourth generation from his family to join the Indian Army. However, a Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Asha Menon said that while it may be possible for them to sympathise with the Lieutenant Colonel, but the records reveal that the aspirant Dhruv Jakhar was finding it difficult to settle into the regimented and highly disciplined lifestyle at the IMA. Absenteeism, lying Mr. Jakhar used to absent himself from training and special and critical events by malingering or reporting sick. “It was this absenteeism and lying about the reasons for such actions that led to several of the punishments as also the Honour Code Committee being constituted against him,” the court noted. “He was punished for misbehaviour too. Repeatedly he was found disregarding the chain of command and punishments did not seem to bring about the desired result,” the court said. “Right from the first term till the third relegation, the petitioner [Mr. Jakhar] continued committing the same kind of offences which were in the areas most crucial to the Armed Forces, namely, building physical and mental strength and developing utmost and unquestioned discipline in following the orders of the superiors,” it added. Non-disciplined lifestyle The Bench said it was amply clear to them that Mr. Jakhar was not suited to a military lifestyle and possibly the desires of his father pushed him into this direction. “The father would be well advised to allow his son the freedom to choose his life path and allow him to blossom forth in whatever he so chooses, which is certainly not the Indian Army,” it added. The High Court’s decision came on Mr. Jakhar’s plea seeking to quash the order to withdraw him from the IMA. Mr. Jakhar had contended that the Honour Code Committee instituted against him was illegally constituted with members of the same battalion where he was training. He argued that as per the rules, they were supposed to be from different battalions to ensure transparency and prevent miscarriage of justice. The High Court, however, noted that the Honour Code Committee has been properly constituted and proceedings fairly conducted and decision taken fairly. “The records that were maintained contemporaneously show that the members of the committee were drawn from three other Company,” the court said while dismissing the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-advises-lt-colonel-to-let-his-son-choose-his-life-path/article32839778.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT breather for MSME unit||Following a plea challenging an order passed by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) which imposed an environmental compensation of Rs. 3 lakh for violation of environmental norms by a MSME unit, the National Green Tribunal observed that the compensation assessed by the DPCC was “disproportionate” and reduced it to Rs. 25,000. Marginal violation A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “We are of the view that having regard to the fact that the unit is a small one and violation was marginal which was later rectified to the satisfaction of the DPCC, we are of the view that compensation assessed is disproportionate... having regard to the entirety of the matter, we reduced the compensation to Rs. 25,000”. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by Kee Diagnostics Private Limited — engaged with the manufacturing of diagnostic reagent kits — against an order passed by the DPCC. “The DPCC collected sample of waste water on January 24 from the unit appellant and the result of test showed minor deviation from prescribed standard... Contentions in appeal are that variation in norms was marginal. The sample was taken on January 24 but the result was given only on June 12. Due procedure for taking sample was not followed,” the plea had contended.  ... having regard to the entirety of the matter, we reduced the compensation to Rs. 25,000 NGT Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-breather-for-unit/article32839785.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Owner of app-based taxi aggregator firm arrested for duping investors||A 47-year-old woman was arrested from south Goa for allegedly duping people by inducing them to invest in her app-based taxi aggregator company on the pretext of assured high returns, the police said on Monday. Others involved The police said one Dharmender, along with other victims, accused a company called SMP Impex Pvt. Ltd. (Hello Taxi) and its office-bearers Saroj Mahapatra, Rajesh Mahto, Sunder Bhati, Harish Bhati, and the woman director of cheating them by inducing them to invest in their company Hello Taxi and promised to pay higher rate of interest, up to 200%, on a monthly basis. However, they neither paid the interest nor returned the money. There were more than 900 investors so far and the amount involved is around Rs. 250 crore, said the police. “During investigation, it was found that the directors of the company actively induced the victims to part with their money on the pretext of high returns by investing in Hello Taxi company,” Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) O.P. Mishra said. The company accepted bookings from the investors without taking approval from the authorities concerned like RBI or SEBI, the police said. They initially paid returns to the investors to win their confidence, but later stopped the payments after collecting huge amounts, and escaped, the police said. The locations of the company also changed frequently to trap new victims. Initially, the company started its operation from Ghaziabad. After a couple of months, they shifted to Patparganj Industrial Area and then Sector 16 in Rohini, Mr. Mishra said. The firm’s bank accounts were frozen after scrutiny of statements. Rajesh Mahto was arrested on August 23, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/owner-of-app-based-taxi-aggregator-firm-arrested-for-duping-investors/article32839786.ece
13 October 2020||Srinagar,||‘Stop plan to move govt. offices into monuments’||Several renowned personalities from J&K have asked Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday to intervene and stop any move to set up government offices in two protected monuments: Mubarak Mandi in Jammu and Shergarhi complex in Srinagar. A joint letter signed by 22 dignitaries from different walks of life pointed out that Shergahi complex, Srinagar, an 18th century structure, was declared a State Protected Monument in July 2017. “We have received disturbing information that the Union Territory administration is proposing to shift some government departments to the complex. This will irreversibly tamper with its historic character. It is requested that no action should be taken to dilute the integrity of the complex, like locating government offices in protected monuments,” the signatories said. The joint petition underlined that “any inappropriate use of these buildings will go against the letter and spirit of their status as State protected monuments.” Those who signed the petition included academic Prof. Amitabh Matoo; former deputy chairman, legislative council, M.Y Taing; former principal secretary to Prime Minister S. Misra; poet and Gyan Peeth Awardee Prof. Rehman Rahi; former Vice Chancellor of Jammu University Prof. R.R Sharma; former chief secretaries Hindal Tyabji and Dr. S.S Billouria; former chairman of the J&K Public Service Commission M.S Pandit; and former secretary, tourism, Government of India, Parvez Dewan. Film-maker Mohiuddin Mirza and Santoor maestro Pandit Bajan Sopori have also signed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stop-plan-to-move-govt-offices-into-monuments/article32839442.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal meets V-C of new skills university||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday met with the newly appointed Vice-Chancellor and the board members of the Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University at its first board meeting. The Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University, which has been established through an Act of the Delhi Assembly, Mr. Kejriwal announced, will impart skills and training seeking to ensure that they easily get a job as soon as they pass out or can pursue business by getting hands-on business training.  “We have appointed the Vice-Chancellor of the university and its board members. I spoke to all the board members and told them that the only objective and ideology of this university will be ensuring jobs for every student passing out from this university, or they should be able to pursue business,” he said at a digital briefing. Prof. Neharika Vohra has been appointed the Vice-Chancellor. She has work experience of 20 years and she was the chairperson of the Centre for Innovation and Incubation at IIM Ahmedabad. Mr .Kejriwal expressed confidence that the university would be a global model and many such universities would come up in the country. The first academic session, he said, was expected to start next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-meets-v-c-of-new-skills-university/article32839784.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||Five arrested for duping people in need of tickets||Five persons of a gang were arrested for allegedly duping people on the pretext of providing them confirmed tickets of bus or trains, the police said on Monday. The accused have been identified as Sanjay Yadav (40), Lal Babu Sahani (27), Santosh Kumar (27), Rakesh Mandal (26) and Rajeev Mandal (22). The police said one Sanjay Kumar lodged a complaint on October 6 at Mahendra Park police station where he said that on October 5, he, along with his 15-year-old son, had come to Singhu Border from Rai, Sonipat to go to his hometown in Barabanki, U.P. They boarded an e-rickshaw from Singhu Border to ISBT, Kashmere Gate. Meanwhile, three more passengers also boarded on the e-rickshaw. They pretended that they were also going to Lucknow and started befriending the complainant. The accused asked Kumar for train or bus tickets and when he said that he was not having any ticket, they asked him to come with them to a bus ticket booking office at Jahangirpuri, an officer said. ATM pin number A person, posing as ticket agent, came and they asked the complainant to give them his ATM card and pin number to buy the tickets. Kumar gave his ATM card and pin number to his son and sent him with them to buy the tickets, the officer said. One person remained with Kumar and after 20 minutes, he told the complainant that he was going to check whether tickets had been booked or not, the police said. Thereafter, Kumar received messages on his phone regarding withdrawal of Rs. 68,500 from his account. Kumar started looking for his son and found that he had reached his home in Rai, Sonipat. His son said that the accused had asked the pin of the ATM from him, withdrawn money and fled, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-arrested-for-duping-people-in-need-of-tickets/article32839794.ece
13 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab BJP chief’s car attacked||Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma’s vehicle was allegedly attacked by a group of people on Monday near the Cholang toll plaza in Hoshiarpur district. Mr. Sharma said the windowpanes of his car were damaged in the attack. Senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia said the incident was the handiwork of the Congress, an allegation rubbished by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-bjp-chiefs-car-attacked/article32839776.ece
13 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Woman held over drug peddling||A 55-year-old woman was arrested from near Majnu Ka Tilla for allegedly peddling drugs, the police said on Monday, adding that contraband worth Rs. 10 lakh was recovered from her possession. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Anto Alphonse said that the accused has been identified as Seema, a resident of Aruna Nagar, Majnu Ka Tilla and a total of 110 gm of smack worth around Rs. 10 lakh in international market was recovered from her. The police said that she was arrested on a tip-off and during interrogation, she allegedly told the police that she was in this business for the last few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-held-over-drug-peddling/article32839911.ece
13 October 2020||New Delhi,||HC tells DU to declare PG results by month-end||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed the Delhi University to declare results of all the postgraduate courses by October 31 and to upload the marksheets on its website. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad also directed the varsity to ensure that the students are not required to go to the college to physically collect it. The court also fixed various deadlines for declaration of results of undergraduate courses, between October 20 to 31 with a buffer of maximum of three days from the date fixed. It also said that the marksheets downloaded from the website should not carry any footnote that it is subject to physical verification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-tells-du-to-declare-pg-results-by-month-end/article32839787.ece
13 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Deceased MLAs’ sons in Odisha bypoll||With less than a month left for the bypoll to two Assembly seats in Odisha, the Biju Janata Dal and the Bharatiya Janata Party have fielded sons of deceased MLAs who had represented the Tirtol and Balasore Sadar seats. The ruling BJD on Monday announced Bijaya Shankar Das for the Tirtol seat, represented by his father late Bishnu Charan Das. He would cross swords with BJP candidate Rajkishore Behera in the reserved seat for the Scheduled Caste candidates. The BJP has fielded Manas Kumar Dutta in Balasore Sadar seat which fell vacant after his father, former MLA Madan Mohan Dutta, died of cardiac arrest in June last. Swarup Kumar Das, who had a successful stint in the civic body elections, is the BJD candidate. The two politicians in their early thirties have already started campaigning, seeking votes in the name of their late fathers. Mr. Bijaya Shankar said his victory margin would be 50,000. “Our key issues will be unemployment and issues of farmers which were addressed by the BJD government.” Mr. Manas Kumar said, “My father was very popular in Balasore. He was always available when people needed him. I have confidence on the goodwill my father used to carry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/deceased-mlas-sons-in-odisha-bypoll/article32839443.ece
