15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||On day 1 of monsoon session, 25 MPs test COVID-19 positive||On the first day of the monsoon session of Parliament, 25 lawmakers are reported to have tested positive for COVID-19 even as Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan admitted in a statement in the Lok Sabha that the “battle against COVID-19 is still far from over”. Both Houses of Parliament did not release an official list of those who have tested positive. Most from BJP However, sources said that 17 from the Lok Sabha and eight from the Rajya Sabha have been reported to be infected. According to sources, among the infected Lok Sabha members, the BJP has the maximum number of 12. The YSR Congress has two MPs and the Shiv Sena, the DMK and the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party one each. In the Rajya Sabha, two each were from the Congress and the BJP and one each from the TRS, Trinamool Congress , the AIADMK and the Aam Aadmi Party. Dr. Vardhan said, “We are in the stage of unlock to revive the economy and it is important that sustained community support is ensured consistently to control the spread of COVID-19 infection and break its chain of transmission.” Currently, the maximum COVID-19 cases and deaths have been reported from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Bihar, Telangana, Odisha, Assam, Kerala and Gujarat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/on-day-1-of-monsoon-session-25-mps-test-covid-19-positive/article32605304.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||Centre opposes move to recognise same-sex unions||The Centre on Monday opposed before the Delhi High Court a petition seeking recognition of same-sex marriages, saying, “our legal system, society and values do not recognise marriage between same sex couples”. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said the 2018 judgment of the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court “merely decriminalises homosexuality or lesbianism, nothing more, nothing less”. Struck down in 2018 On September 6, 2018, a five-judge Constitution Bench, led by then Chief Justice Dipak Misra, unanimously held that criminalisation of private consensual sexual conduct between adults of the same sex under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code is clearly unconstitutional. “This is my version on record. I will not even file an affidavit. I will only rely on statutory provisions. If a wife dies within seven years, there is a separate punishment. Now, who will be treated as a wife [in same sex marriage]?” Mr. Mehta asked. Contrary to provisions The Solicitor General said the petition was not permissible as it was asking the court to legislate and also that any relief granted “would run contrary to various statutory provisions”. Responding to the submission, a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said, “As far as maintainability part is concerned, today what we are thinking is whether a PIL [Public Interest Litigation] should or should not be entertained... At the moment, we are trying to understand whether we should get into the issue or whether we have to wait.” “Worldover, today things are changing. Those changes may be applicable in our country or they may not be,” the Bench said, adding that for “our country we have to see what our constitutional values say”. Later, the Bench asked if any of the petitioners or others have faced difficulties while trying to register same-sex marriages. “If these petitioners are well-educated and their marriage registration is denied, they can surely come to the court,” the Bench said. The court also asked petitioners to bring on record details of people whose application for same-sex marriage registration was denied. The petition was filed by Abhijit Iyer Mitra, a member of the LGBT community, and three others seeking to recognise same sex marriages under Section 5 of the Hindu Marriage Act on the ground that “it does not distinguish between homosexual and heterosexual couples”. The petitioners argued that “despite the fact that there is absolutely no statutory bar under the Hindu Marriage Act of 1955 and the Special Marriage Act of 1956 against gay marriage, the same are not being registered throughout the country and also in the National Capital Territory of Delhi”. “The prohibition of marriage of LGBT people on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity is an absolute discrimination towards them and is also violative of Right to Equality as granted by the Constitution of India,” it argued. The petition also cited names of 27 countries including the U.S. where same sex marriage is legal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-opposes-move-to-recognise-same-sex-unions/article32605290.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||United Parliament must to back soldiers at borders: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday called for unity and said it was Parliament’s “special responsibility” to give a strong, united message of support to the country’s brave soldiers guarding the borders, as the monsoon session began in New Delhi. The remarks, made just before Parliament convened, were a reference to the ongoing border row with China in Ladakh, which shows no prospects of de-escalating soon. “This Parliament also has a special responsibility, especially in this session. This Parliament, its every member will give this message in one voice, one sentiment and one resolve that the country is standing behind our soldiers. It [country] is doing so through Parliament and its members. I am confident that this Parliament will give this very strong message that it is standing behind our country’s brave soldiers in one voice,” Mr. Modi said. Border stand-off The Prime Minister’s call for maintaining unity comes even as the opposition parties have demanded a discussion on the border situation with China, including what went down in the meeting between the Foreign Ministers of India and China last week. The Opposition has been sharply critical of the Modi government’s handling of the border stand-off, and a Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting is being held on Tuesday to determine the time and duration of a debate on this issue in the Lok Sabha. “It is our experience that the more deep and diverse debate happens in Parliament, the more benefits it brings to the subject of discussion and the country,” Mr. Modi added. The Prime Minister also struck a cautious note on the raging COVID-19 pandemic across the country, stating that the Parliament session was taking place under special circumstances and asserted that the MPs have chosen the path of duty. ‘Follow guidelines’ He referred to the host of changes, including staggered timings of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha and the decision to run them on weekends too, brought to the running of this session due to the COVID-19 crisis, and said that MPs had welcomed them. “Everybody has to strictly follow the guidelines and precautions about which they have been informed,” Mr. Modi said, adding, “ Ye bhi saaf hai jab tak dawai nahi tab tak koi dhilai nahi ” (It is clear that there can be no laxity till a vaccine is found). He expressed the hope that a vaccine would be available soon, and people are helped out of this global crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/united-parliament-must-to-back-soldiers-at-borders-pm/article32605292.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No immediate action against Delhi slums’||The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Monday that no immediate action will be taken to demolish 48,000 slum clusters situated within safety zones along the rail tracks in Delhi. Appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said consultations were on among the Railways, the Delhi government and the Union Ministry of Urban Development to reach a solution, taking into consideration the fact that any immediate move would cause the displacement of over two lakh families living in these clusters amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The court scheduled the case for hearing after a month. The dispute is based on an order issued by the Supreme Court itself. On August 31, a Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra, who is now retired, ordered the removal of the clusters within three months along with garbage piled up near the rail tracks. The court said no interference would be brooked from politicians or otherwise against the order. It also said that any order of stay by any court would be deemed ineffective. It is in this background that Congress leader Ajay Maken and several residents of these clusters urgently approached the court, challenging the blanket order of destruction of their homes passed without even hearing them first. Mr. Maken called the August 31 order a “devastating” one. The former Union Cabinet Minister and the residents informed the court that the Ministry of Railways, the Delhi government and local authorities had already initiated the process of identification and removal of ‘jhuggis’ and had issued demolition notices in various slums in Delhi. ‘Rehabilitation first’ “They have circumvented the established procedure by law with respect to rehabilitation prior to demolition as under the Delhi Slum and JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015,” Mr. Maken submitted in court through his lawyer, Nitin Saluja. He said a slum could not be demolished and its people could not be evicted without first making provisions for their rehabilitation. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said he would not let slum dwellers encroaching on railway land be displaced. “I assure slum dwellers that I will not let them be displaced till I am alive. I assure them that the Central and Delhi governments will work together for ensuring pucca houses to slum dwellers,” he said in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-immediate-action-against-delhi-slums/article32605736.ece
15 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Panel names Naidu, TDP leaders for ‘insider trading’ in Amaravati||The Cabinet sub-committee, which scrutinised the land transactions in the capital region, mentioned several prominent politicians and businessmen as involved in insider trading that allegedly took place between June 1, 2014 and December 31, 2014, in its report submitted to the High Court a few days ago. The committee, headed by Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, stated in its affidavit that at least 4,070 acres were purchased by persons who were privy to information on the location of the capital, and their “benamis” in Amaravathi, Mangalagiri, Pedakakani, Pedakurapadu, Tadepalli, Tadikonda and Thullur mandals in Guntur district and Chandarlapadu, Ibrahimpatnam, Penamaluru and Vijayawada rural mandals of Krishna district at nominal prices from farmers in the run-up to issuance of notification of the capital. It (the committee) named former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, former minister Paritala Sunitha, Public Accounts Committee chairman and MLA Payyavula Keshav, NRI Vemuru Ravi Kumar Prasad, Lingamaneni Ramesh, former MLAs G.V.S. Anjaneyulu and Dhulipalla Narendra, Kambampati Rammohan Rao, Putta Mahesh Yadav and Lanka Dinakar among a host of others. The Cabinet panel submitted to the court that the purchase of lands was in blatant violation of the AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfer) Act, 1977 and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. While some persons knew the location of the capital in advance, others holding lands on the fringes benefited by way of defining of it (capital)’s boundaries in a manner that suited their interests. Besides, large tracts of land, including those owned by the government, were fraudulently surrendered towards the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS). The committee further mentioned the names of former Ministers Nara Lokesh, P. Narayana and Prathipati Pulla Rao, Ravela Kishore Babu and Palle Raghunadha Reddy and former MP M. Murali Mohan as involved in the “capital area benami transactions”. The committee asserted that the Land Pooling System was itself deviant from the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 and AP Land Acquisition (Relief and Rehabilitation) Act, 2013. The land transactions outlined procedural, technical, financial and legal improprieties of far greater magnitude than had been put in the court’s notice on the basis of available data, hence, an in-depth investigation would bring out the true extent of irregularities, the committee opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-panel-names-naidu-others-for-insider-trading/article32605227.ece
15 September 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata announces honorarium for Hindu priests in West Bengal||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced an honorarium of Rs. 1,000 per month to nearly 8,000 Hindu priests in the State. The move which may have far reaching political implications comes ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls and drew a sharp response from the Opposition parties. Almost eight years back Ms. Banerjee had announced an honorarium for Imams and muezzins, a decision that was struck down by the Calcutta High Court. Their monthly allowances are now routed through the State Wakf Board. “The Brahmin priests of the Sanatan Dharma, who for years carry out prayers in temples, have never received any help. There is a section among them who are very poor… I had meetings with representatives of the Sanatan Dharma and they had asked for a plot of land, and we gave them land in Kolaghat where a pilgrim site will come up,” Ms. Banerjee said on Monday. Regarding the honorarium for Imams and muezzins, she said the Wakf Board provides them a stipend, but there was no such provision for the Hindu priests. She urged the Chief Secretary to start the honorarium before Pujas.  The Opposition parties were quick to criticise the move and accused Ms. Banerjee of mixing religion with politics. Leader of the Left Legislature party and CPI(M) MLA Sujan Chakraborty said she is trying to divide the society. “This is an indication of the frustration of the government,” he said. “It is Mamata Banerjee who has introduced communal politics in West Bengal. She decided to give allowance to Imams and muezzins. Now she has been told that she has lost the Hindu votes, so she has announced an allowance for priests,” said Bengal unit BJP vice-president Joyprokash Majumdar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-announces-honorarium-for-hindu-priests-in-west-bengal/article32605492.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||SC vacates stay on proceedings against Ramesh Hospitals MD||A three-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court on Monday vacated the stay ordered by High Court last month on the criminal proceedings against Ramesh Hospitals MD Pothineni Ramesh Babu in the COVID Care Centre fire case. During the hearing on a Special Leave Petition (SLP) through which the State government challenged the High Court order, Justices Rohinton Fali Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee directed that the respondents should not be taken for custodial interrogation upon their cooperation with the police, and said the High Court could pass further orders as to whether the respondents ought to be continued to be let out on anticipatory bail. Appearing on behalf of the government, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and Andhra Pradesh government’s advocate-on-record Mahfooz A. Nazki argued that the impugned order was completely unjustifiable in as much a blanket stay of investigation ought not to be granted within five days of registration of the FIR. They submitted that there were direct allegations made on the management of the hotel (Swarna Palace in Vijayawada) by the witnesses in 161 statements. Countering their argument, senior advocates Shyam Divan and K.V. Vishwanathan asserted that the High court was seized of the matter and since the order was interlocutory, it should not be interfered with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-vacates-stay-on-proceedings-against-ramesh-hospitals-md/article32605296.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Umar Khalid remanded in 10-day police custody in Delhi riots case||A Delhi court on Monday sent former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, who was arrested late on Sunday under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, to police custody for 10 days in a case related to the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February. Mr. Khalid was produced before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat through videoconferencing. The police had sought his custody for 10 days saying they wanted to confront him with documents running into 11 lakh pages. They said the Computer Emergency Response Team had extracted 40 GB data from Mr. Khalid’s mobile phone and they wanted to question him on it. Mr. Khalid was arrested on Sunday night over allegations of conspiracy in the riots. His counsel opposed the remand application saying he was not in Delhi during February 23-26, when the riots broke out. In the FIR, the police has claimed that the communal violence was a “premeditated conspiracy” which was allegedly hatched by Mr. Khalid and two others. Mr. Khalid has also been booked for the offences of sedition, murder, attempt to murder, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and rioting. According to the FIR, Mr. Khalid had allegedly given provocative speeches at two different places and appealed to the citizens to come out on streets during the visit of U.S. President Donald Trump to spread propaganda about how minorities in India are being tortured. In this conspiracy, firearms, petrol bombs, acid bottles and stones were collected at numerous homes, the FIR claimed. Several activists, academics, prominent personalities decried the arrest. “It’s a conspiracy by the police to frame peaceful activists in the guise of Investigation,” advocate Prashant Bhushan tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/umar-khalid-remanded-in-10-day-police-custody-in-delhi-riots-case/article32605741.ece
15 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||ED has no case against Jaleel: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had no case against Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel. “There is neither any charge against him nor is Jaleel the subject of a criminal investigation,” he said. He said the ED had received a slew of complaints against Dr. Jaleel. The petitioners had alleged that the Minister had received copies of the Koran from the UAE consulate for distribution during Ramzan illegally. They also stated that the Koran import was a cover for smuggling gold. The agency wanted to verify the integrity of the complaints and found Dr. Jaleel’s answers to its queries satisfactory. Mr. Vijayan said accepting and distributing the Koran was not a criminal offence. Moreover, Dr. Jaleel had interacted with the UAE consulate in his capacity as Minister for Minority Welfare and Wakf. Mr. Vijayan said a mere summons by an investigating agency was not a ground for quitting office.  He said misleading complaints to law enforcement to put opponents on the back foot was usual in politics. The CBI had summoned Mr. Vijayan in 1996 based on a petition that he had received Rs. 2 crore as bribe. “The petitioner said I promised to unduly favour the bribe-giver when I took charge as Power Minister. At the time, the electoral process had just started and there was no guarantee that the Left Democratic Front would assume power or I would take oath as Electricity Minister,” he said. He said the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party were propagating extreme conspiracy theories against Ministers and their families. Some news outlets were backing them without fact-checking. Indira, the wife of Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, was the victim of a media witch-hunt because she had gone to take a one-sovereign gold chain from a bank locker. The scandalmongers also insinuated without evidence that agencies were probing Mr. Jayarajan’s son on the charge of partnering with Swapna Suresh, an accused in the gold smuggling case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-has-no-case-against-jaleel-cm/article32605522.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. creates Assembly replica to meet COVID-19 challenge||When the Tamil Nadu Assembly met on Monday, the historic chamber looked just the same. Only, it was not at Fort St. George. Over 150 workers worked for nearly 10 days and nights and multiple departments of the Tamil Nadu government coordinated to recreate a replica of the House a few kilometres away. Kalaivanar Arangam, a theatre-cum-convention venue managed by the Information and Public Relations (I&PR) Department on Wallajah Salai here, was chosen for the Assembly’s three-day session in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. It was spacious enough to ensure physical distancing norms for legislators and officials. After Speaker P. Dhanapal announced the session on September 1, the Public Works Department (PWD), along with the I&PR Department and the Assembly Secretariat, swung into action to create the replica in the multi-purpose hall on the third floor of Kalaivanar Arangam, which offers over 10,000 sq ft of space. “We worked day and night to complete the work. We commenced work soon after the Speaker’s announcement. We planned to replicate every single thing in the original,” said a PWD official. Except for the chandelier in the Assembly, almost everything else was reproduced. One original remains Yet, one original piece was retained – the historic Chair of the Assembly Speaker, which has been shifted to the temporary venue. This Chair, resembling the Speaker’s Chair in the British House of Commons, was presented in March 1922 by Lord Willingdon, Governor of Madras Presidency and Lady Willingdon, to the President of the Madras Legislative Council as a personal gift. The PWD’s collection of wooden chairs and furniture in the MLAs’ hostel, near the Arangam, came in handy. “It is a mix of own property and hired furniture,” a Public Works Department official said. But if everything was replicated, then what was different to ensure safety norms against COVID-19? “The spacing between rows and columns of chairs. Also, we have installed ceiling fans to circulate air-conditioned air and will not close the doors,” he pointed out. The PWD had some portraits of leaders and historical personalities in the traditional Hall at Fort St. George and that came in handy, while others were made afresh. Apart from the Speaker, legislators, seven Secretary-level IAS officers and over fifty journalists, there is no room, including for visitors. Chambers for the Speaker, the Chief Minister and others were also created.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-creates-assembly-replica-to-meet-covid-19-challenge/article32605306.ece
15 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra adds over 17,000 cases||Maharashtra reported 17,066 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking its total case tally to 10,77,374. A total of 363 more deaths — of which 257 were new, while 106 were from an earlier period — pushed the total death toll to 29,894. Of these, 185 fatalities are from the last 48 hours, while 65 occurred last week. The remaining 113 occurred in the period prior to last week, said State Health Department authorities. The State’s recovery rate stands at 70.16%, while its case fatality rate has reduced to 2.77%. Mumbai recorded 2,269 cases to take its total tally to 1,72,010, of which 31,123 are active. With 31 deaths, the city’s toll has risen to 8,181. Pune reported more than 2,500 cases, pushing its tally to 2,35,419. The district also reported 25 deaths to take its toll to 4,838. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases has exceeded 41,400. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported over 800 new cases as its tally crossed the 56,000 mark, while seven more deaths saw its toll touch 1,676. Nagpur reported 1,168 cases, taking its case load to 52,053, of which 20,826 are active. Two more deaths pushed its toll to 1,358. Kolhapur reported 36 deaths as its toll rose to 968. With 399 new cases, its tally has reached 33,214, of which 9,239 are active. Sangli reported 595 cases to take its case load to 25,659, of which 10,180 are active. With 31 more deaths, the district’s toll has risen to 771. Ahmednagar reported over 1,000 new cases as its tally rose to 30,113, of which 7,352 are active. With 11 more deaths, the toll has climbed to 446. Fewer samples tested The State has been reporting daily spikes of over 20,000 cases for the last six days. Monday’s relatively low surge has to be seen in the context of lower samples — 68,000 as opposed to the daily 90,000 tested each day in the past week — being tested in the last 24 hours. The active cases in the State have now risen to 2,91,356 and total recoveries have surged to 7,55,850, with 15,789 patients being discharged on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-adds-over-17000-cases/article32605901.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Lawyers, former judges urge CJ not to initiate contempt action against Suriya||A day after Justice S.M. Subramaniam of the Madras High Court sought the initiation of contempt proceedings against actor Suriya for his remarks against the judiciary on the issue of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), six retired judges wrote to Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi on Monday, requesting him not to initiate any such action. Justices K. Chandru, K.N. Basha, T. Sudanthiram, D. Hariparanthaman, K. Kannan and G.M. Akbar Ali said the judiciary must show “generosity and magnanimity” by not taking cognisance of the actor’s statement. Noting that they were concerned about the prestige and honour of the court, the former judges said it should leave the matter as it is and get rid of unnecessary controversies. In his communication to the Chief Justice on Sunday, Justice Subramaniam had taken exception to the actor having said that the judiciary, which had been conducting proceedings virtually “due to fear of life”, was, however, expecting medical and dental aspirants to sit for NEET without fearing COVID-19. “The said statement, in my considered opinion, amounts to contempt of court, as the integrity and devotion of honourable judges as well as the judicial system of our great nation are not only undermined but criticised in a bad shape,” the judge had said. Countering his view, the six retired judges said, “We are afraid that such a construction made on the statement of Mr. Suriya will be slightly off the mark.” Pointing out that the actor, who is involved in social work like educating children and finding employment for youngsters through the Agaram Foundation, had made the statement in a surcharged atmosphere, when as many as four students had committed suicide one after the other due to fear of NEET, the former judges said, “An artistic person’s over-reaction should not be taken seriously and out of context.” Separately, 25 High Court lawyers, including N.G.R. Prasad, Sudha Ramalingam, Anna Mathew, designated senior counsel V. Prakash, V. Suresh of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, D. Nagasaila, T. Mohan and D. Geetha, also wrote to the Chief Justice, saying the actor’s statement was just an expression of opinion and not a contemptuous act. “Of late, every criticism of the judiciary is being seen as contemptuous. As practising lawyers, we feel that if the expression of an opinion is treated as contempt, it would amount to stifling the freedom of speech and expression. This would have a chilling effect on basic constitutional guarantees,” they said. “The Supreme Court too has held that dissent is the safety valve of democracy. In a democratic country governed by the rule of law, there should be space for a wide array of opinions on any issue. We, therefore, request your Lordship not to initiate contempt [proceedings], and thereby uphold the majesty of the law and of courts,” the representation read. On the other hand, the Tamil Nadu Advocates’ Association (TNAA), led by designated senior counsel S. Prabakaran, who is also the co-chairman of the Bar Council of India, wrote to the Chief Justice, saying Mr. Suriya’s statement was highly condemnable. It was the Supreme Court which had ordered the conduct of NEET this year, and hence, the actor’s criticism of such an order passed by the apex court amounted to interference in judicial functions, the association said. Accusing Mr. Suriya of making such statements for the sake of publicity, the TNAA said he had crossed the limits this time by accusing judges of conducting virtual courts due to fear for their lives. According to TNAA, the courts had been dispensing justice even during the troubled times of COVID-19, and had disposed of a good number of cases through both physical and virtual hearings. Actors must be responsible and not make public statements akin to movie dialogues, it said. Countering his view, the six retired judges said, “We are afraid that such a construction made on the statement of Mr. Suriya will be slightly off the mark.” Pointing out that the actor, who is involved in social work like educating children and finding employment for youngsters through the Agaram Foundation, had made the statement in a surcharged atmosphere, when as many as four students had committed suicide one after the other due to fear of NEET, the former judges said, “An artistic person’s over-reaction should not be taken seriously and out of context.” Separately, 25 High Court lawyers, including N.G.R. Prasad, Sudha Ramalingam, Anna Mathew, designated senior counsel V. Prakash, V. Suresh of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, D. Nagasaila, T. Mohan and D. Geetha, also wrote to the Chief Justice, saying the actor’s statement was just an expression of opinion and not a contemptuous act. “Of late, every criticism of the judiciary is being seen as contemptuous. As practising lawyers, we feel that if the expression of an opinion is treated as contempt, it would amount to stifling the freedom of speech and expression. This would have a chilling effect on basic constitutional guarantees,” they said. “The Supreme Court too has held that dissent is the safety valve of democracy. In a democratic country governed by the rule of law, there should be space for a wide array of opinions on any issue. We, therefore, request your Lordship not to initiate contempt [proceedings], and thereby uphold the majesty of the law and of courts,” the representation read. Contrary view On the other hand, the Tamil Nadu Advocates’ Association (TNAA), led by designated senior counsel S. Prabakaran, who is also the co-chairman of the Bar Council of India, wrote to the Chief Justice, saying Mr. Suriya’s statement was highly condemnable. It was the Supreme Court which had ordered the conduct of NEET this year, and hence, the actor’s criticism of such an order passed by the apex court amounted to interference in judicial functions, the association said. Accusing Mr. Suriya of making such statements for the sake of publicity, the TNAA said he had crossed the limits this time by accusing judges of conducting virtual courts due to fear for their lives. According to TNAA, the courts had been dispensing justice even during the troubled times of COVID-19, and had disposed of a good number of cases through both physical and virtual hearings. Actors must be responsible and not make public statements akin to movie dialogues, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lawyers-former-judges-urge-cj-not-to-initiate-contempt-action-against-suriya/article32605375.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Assembly passes TS-bPASS||To put in place an effective mechanism to enable instant permission and registration of buildings avoiding hassles to land owners or property developers, the Legislative Assembly on Monday passed the Telangana State Building Permission Approval and Self Certification System (TS-bPASS). Piloting the Bill, Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao said no permission would be required for houses being constructed in area below 75 sq.yds and instant permission would be accorded to buildings being constructed in areas between 75 sq.yds and 600 sq.yds through TS-bPASS subject to a few conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assembly-passes-ts-bpass/article32605773.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Fighting fire with fire||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fighting-fire-with-fire/article32605335.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Muttamsetti tests positive||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and his son, M.V. Siva Sai Nandeesh, tested positive for COVID-19 and are in home isolation. According to an official release here, they are undergoing treatment at home and appealed to visitors not to come to meet them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muttamsetti-tests-positive/article32605299.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||DMK protests against NEET||DMK MPs staged a protest on the Parliament premises on Monday, demanding that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) be scrapped. They later raised the issue in both Houses.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dmk-protests-against-neet/article32605300.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No data on migrants’||The Ministry of Labour and Employment does not have any data regarding migrant workers who lost their jobs and lives during the lockdown, Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar informed the Lok Sabha.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-data-on-migrants/article32605301.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Question Hour goes||The Lok Sabha on Monday adopted a motion to do away with Question Hour and private members’ business this session citing curtailed hours, much to the resentment of the Opposition parties.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/question-hour-goes/article32605302.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||Retail inflation eases to 6.69% in August||Retail inflation softened slightly to 6.69% in August, even as food prices continued to rule high, official data showed on Monday. The government has revised downwards the retail inflation for July to 6.73% from the earlier estimate of 6.93%. Food inflation during the month stood at 9.62%. Food inflation in August fell marginally to 9.05%, according to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) data. The retail inflation, mainly taken into account by the RBI to arrive at its policy decisions, has been above the regulator’s comfort level. The government has mandated the central bank to restrict the inflation at 4% (+/- 2%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/retail-inflation-eases-to-669-in-august/article32605307.ece
15 September 2020||Kolkata,||covid||West Bengal on Monday recorded 3,211 COVID-19 cases taking the tally to 2,05,919. The State recorded 58 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the fatalities to 4,003. Of the 58 deaths, 16 deaths were recorded in Kolkata taking the total deaths in the city to 1,489. North 24 Parganas recorded 10 deaths taking the fatalities to 899. Kolkata reported 553 COVID-19 cases, taking the case tally to 47,141. North 24 Parganas recorded 559 cases taking the tally to 42,153. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that nearly 86% of those who died had co-morbidities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid/article32605495.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Prashant Bhushan pays fine and files review plea||Advocate Prashant Bhushan filed a review petition in the Supreme Court on Monday against its decision finding him guilty of criminal cont-empt by “scandalising the court” with his tweets. Mr. Bhushan was punished with a Rs. 1 fine. He paid it by draft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prashant-bhushan-pays-fine-and-files-review-plea/article32605738.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘30% recovered patients did not have antibodies’||Seventy nine of 257 people who underwent antibody test after recovering from COVID-19 did not have antibodies, said a report of the second serological survey done in August by the Delhi government. Experts, however, said that there was no need to panic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30-recovered-patients-did-not-have-antibodies/article32605739.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||Ex-IPS officers ask Delhi CP to ensure ‘fair probe’||Nine retired IPS officers have written to Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava decrying “flawed investigation” into the riots that erupted in February, and called for a free and fair probe. They argued that a “majoritarian attitude” in police leadership would lead to “travesty of justice”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ex-ips-officers-ask-delhi-cp-to-ensure-fair-probe/article32605740.ece
15 September 2020||Mumbai,||State moves to ensure steady supply of oxygen||A day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray admitted to shortage of oxygen for COVID-19 patients, the State government on Monday directed all district officials to register expected demand with the departments concerned to ensure uninterrupted supply. Around 11% of COVID-19 patients require oxygen supply, which comes to around 500 metric tonnes (MT). At present, the State is producing 1,000 MT oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-moves-to-ensure-steady-supply-of-oxygen/article32605902.ece
15 September 2020||Mumbai/Shimla,||Kangana Ranaut calls PoK analogy bang on||Actor Kangana Ranaut on Monday left Mumbai for her home State, Himachal Pradesh, saying she has been terrorised with “constant attacks and abuses” and declaring that her analogy comparing the city with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir was “bang on”. Ms. Ranaut took a flight to Chandigarh and then travelled by road to reach Manali. In Shimla, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said the actor will continue to get the security provided by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kangana-ranaut-calls-pok-analogy-bang-on/article32605903.ece
15 September 2020||Chennai,||State reports 5,752 fresh infections, 53 deaths||Another 5,752 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday, taking its tally to 5,08,511. Of this, 991 persons tested positive in Chennai, followed by 498 in Coimbatore. Fifty-three persons died of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-5752-fresh-infections-53-deaths/article32605377.ece
15 September 2020||Chennai,||Don’t glorify student suicides, says judge||Justice N. Kirubakaran of the Madras High Court said the media should stop "glorifying" student suicides, and political parties must stop the practice of paying lakhs of rupees as assistance to families of the deceased if they were really interested in preventing suicides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-glorify-student-suicides-says-judge/article32605378.ece
15 September 2020||Chennai,||DMK has no moral right to oppose NEET: Minister||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Monday said the DMK and the Congress had no “moral right” to oppose the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). “It was introduced in 2010 when the Congress was in power at the Centre, with the DMK as its ally," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dmk-has-no-moral-right-to-oppose-neet-minister/article32605379.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Plaints of glitches during NLAT re-test too||Complaints of technical glitches marred the re-test of National Law Aptitude Test (NALT) 2020 on Monday with some candidates complaining that they were unable to login for the second consecutive time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plaints-of-glitches-during-nlat-re-test-too/article32605331.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,||BBMP ward reservation: Draft notification issued||The State government, on Monday, issued a draft notification on Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) ward reservation for women, SC/ST, general category and others. However, opposition parties have alleged that the draft exercises bias by targetting prominent leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-ward-reservation-draft-notification-issued/article32605332.ece
15 September 2020||MYSURU,||Mandya temple killings: Five arrested||Three persons, accused of being involved in the murder of three priests of Sri Arakeshwara Swamy Temple in Mandya, were arrested in a dramatic encounter early on Monday. The Mandya district police had arrested two persons on Sunday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mandya-temple-killings-five-arrested/article32605333.ece
15 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Karnataka adds 8,244 cases, testing level dips||Once again, Telangana’s test numbers for COVID-19 dropped on Sunday. While the normal is about 60,000 samples on weekdays, it dropped to about 60% on Sundays, starting from July 26. On September 13, only 34,427 samples were tested and 1,417 were found to be positive. The death toll touched 974 with 13 more patients succumbing to the disease. Of the new cases, 264 were from Greater Hyderabad, 133 from Rangareddy, 108 from Karimnagar, 107 from Sangareddy and 75 from Siddipet. There were 30,532 active cases. In the 42 State government hospitals, 3,563 oxygen beds and 545 ICU beds were vacant on Sunday. In case of 203 private hospitals, 2,811 oxygen beds and 1,186 ICU beds were available. Andhra Pradesh reported 7,956 new infections and 60 deaths on Monday. There was a continuous dip in new infections over the past five days and decrease in positivity rate for two weeks. In the past day, 61,529 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 12.93%. The overall positivity rate was 12.34%. East Godavari reported the highest single-day tally of 1,412 infections besides four deaths. West Godavari reported 1,091 cases and four deaths. They were followed by Nellore (756 cases, 3 deaths), Chittoor (748, 9), Guntur (666, 2), Srikakulam (517, 4), Visakhapatnam (490, 5), Anantapur (483, 7), Vizianagaram (481, 4), Prakasam (444, 5), Kurnool (341, 5), Kadapa (326, 4) and Krishna (201, 4). New cases showed a dip in Kerala on Monday at 2,540 cases, in proportion to tests on Sunday, which were down to 22,279 samples. The number of recoveries reported on the day was 2,110. The cases in the State stood at 1,10,818. With the total recoveries reaching 79,809, the number of patients undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the State is 30,486. Fifteen more deaths, from August and early September, were added to the State’s provisional list of COVID-19 fatalities on Monday. Two deaths had occurred as early as August 3 but were added to the official list only now. Three deaths each were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Palakkad, and Malappuram and one each from Kozhikode, Kasaragod, and Ernakulam. Malappuram reported 482 cases, Kozhikode 382, Thiruvananthapuram 332, Ernakulam 255, Kannur 232, Palakkad 175, Thrissur 161, Kollam 142, Kottayam 122, Alappuzha 107, Idukki 58, Kasaragod 56, Wayanad 20, and Pathanamthitta 16 cases. Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan said a genomic study in north Kerala done by CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, showed virus strains in Kerala belonged to the A2a clade, marked by the D614G mutation, linked to possible higher infectivity potential.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-adds-8244-cases-testing-level-dips/article32605248.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||It’s official: Question Hour gone||The Lok Sabha on Monday adopted a motion to do away with Question Hour and private members’ business during the current monsoon session of Parliament owing to the special circumstances and curtailed hours of the House, but not without facing a push back from the Opposition benches who termed it the Executive prevailing over the Legislature and violating norms of separation of powers. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi moved the motion in the Lok Sabha citing the extraordinary circumstances amid which the House was being convened, and the allotted four-hour sittings per day. The Opposition refused to be convinced, however, with Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, terming Question Hour as the “golden hour” of the House. “We get a chance to raise issues of common people. Question Hour is simply a golden hour of the House,” he said, adding that by doing way with it, the government is trying to suppress this democratic practice which has been followed since Independence. All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen MP Asaduddin Owaisi said Question Hour and private members’ business were the cornerstone of democracy and were essential for the existence of parliamentary democracy. “I urge the Speaker not to allow the executive to encroach on the territory of the legislature. It is a shameful day,” Mr. Owaisi said. He also requested for a division on the motion, which was not accepted by Speaker Om Birla. Congress MP Manish Tewari said Question Hour was the only time when the Opposition could hold the government accountable. ‘Integral part’ Trinamool MP Kalyan Banerjee said Question Hour is an integral part of the basic structure of parliamentary procedure and “we cannot destroy that part”. “We also have our views to express,” he said adding, “Kindly do not take away this advantage. It will take the entire glamour, 50% glamour of running Parliament.” Mr. Joshi, however, pointed out that before arriving at this decision, deputy leader in the Lok Sabha, and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had spoken to almost all leaders of various parties. “I would like to ask various leaders who questioned the suspension of Question Hour that all State Assemblies, including Punjab, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala have run sessions for a day or two and passed several bills, whereas the government of India decided to run for 18 days and hold discussion on bills,” he said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said he had discussed the matter with several leaders and noted that this session is being held in an extraordinary situation. He added that Mr. Choudhary had agreed with the proposal to do away with Question Hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/its-official-question-hour-gone/article32605253.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bhushan pays fine, files review plea||Advocate Prashant Bhushan filed a review petition in the Supreme Court on Monday against its decision finding him guilty of criminal contempt by “scandalising the court” with his tweets. Mr. Bhushan was punished with a Rs. 1 fine. He paid it by draft on Monday. Speaking to the media outside the Supreme Court complex, Mr. Bhushan said the payment of the fine did not mean he had accepted the judgment finding him guilty. In his petition, Mr. Bhushan said the judgment finding him guilty of contempt had a sweeping effect. In fact, the verdict made “any and all criticism on the institutional role of the Supreme Court an offence of criminal contempt”. The review is a limited and rare remedy against a Supreme Court verdict. The two grounds for review are apparent errors in the judgment and factual or legal mistakes. Mr. Bhushan said the suo motu contempt was taken on the basis of a petition filed by a lawyer about one of the tweets. The petition seeking contempt action against him, however, did not receive prior approval from the Attorney General. Besides, the Attorney General was not heard extensively. The contempt proceedings conducted through video conferencing failed the “fundamental due process requirements”. The court neither took into account nor allowed Mr. Bhushan an opportunity to prove his statement that truth was his defence. He argued that the power of contempt of the Supreme Court under Article 129 was not absolute. The review petition referred to a letter from Mr. Bhushan to the CBI about his reservations of having Justice Arun Mishra on the Bench hearing the contempt case. However, no action was taken. “On several occasions, Justice Arun Mishra has orally accused Prashant Bhushan of committing contempt of court when he had merely mentioned that it may be inappropriate for a particular judge to hear a particular case in circumstances where conflict of interest was involved,” it stated. Besides the review plea, a writ petition had been filed in the Supreme Court challenging the lack of an “intra-court appeal” mechanism against a judgment in a suo motu contempt case under Article 129 of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhushan-pays-fine-files-review-plea/article32605269.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three agri reform Bills introduced||Three Bills on agriculture reforms were introduced in Parliament on Tuesday to replace the ordinances issued during the lockdown. Opposition parties and farmers groups are opposing the move to enact amendments to the Essential Commodities Act, new laws to bypass the State APMC Acts and to facilitate contract farming. The Centre introduced the Bills on food and agriculture reform in the Lok Sabha on Monday, amid vehement protest from the Opposition parties and the farmers groups. The proposed legislations will replace the ordinances promulgated during the lockdown and will bring about changes to the marketing and storage of farm produce and agri commodities outside registered markets, as well as the facilitation of contract farming. Introducing The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and The Farmers Empowerment and Protection Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the new laws would benefit farmers by empowering them to decide the price of their produce, which was earlier determined by traders. It would also encourage private investments and technology introduction in the sector, he said. “It is beyond the legislative competence of this House to enact any law on agriculture, which is a domain of the State governments,” said Congress MP Shashi Tharoor. Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy called them “draconian” and “anti-farmer” legislations.  Minister of State for Consumer Affairs Raosaheb Danve introduced the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, noting that the ordinance was introduced after recommendation from a high-powered panel, including six Chief Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-agri-reform-bills-introduced/article32605256.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||DMK MPs protest against NEET||DMK MPs held a protest on Parliament premises on the first day of the monsoon session demanding that the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for medical students be scrapped. They later raised the issue in both the Houses. In Lok Sabha, former Union Minister T.R. Baalu said students were committing suicide in Tamil Nadu because of NEET. Raising the issue during Zero Hour, Mr. Baalu said it was unfair to expect students who had cleared the Class XII exams from the State Board to prepare for NEET, which is based on the Central Board of Secondary Education syllabus, in a month. “Bright students, our future doctors and medical professionals are being discriminated against just because the Central government wants to implement NEET,” he said. In Rajya Sabha, P. Wilson also flagged the recent deaths of three aspirants in the State. “Till date, 13 young students from Tamil Nadu have sadly taken their lives fearing that they will not succeed in NEET,” he said. NEET not only gives students studying in CBSE schools an upper hand, but also greatly disadvantages the economically weaker sections of the society, Mr. Wilson said. He added that students studying under the State syllabus needed extra coaching for the entrance test at a considerable cost. “Education is a matter placed in Entry 25 of List III of Schedule 7 of the Constitution, meaning thereby the State Legislature also has legislative competence over the field and by extension, the Executive of that State. By unilaterally assimilating to the Central Government the power to conduct such entrance examinations, the basic feature of the Constitution, particularly the federal structure is violated,” Mr. Wilson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dmk-mps-protest-against-neet/article32605259.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Umar Khalid sent to 10 days police custody||A Delhi court on Monday sent former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, who was arrested late on Sunday under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, to police custody for 10 days in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Mr. Khalid was produced before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat through video conferencing. Police had sought his custody for 10 days saying they wanted to confront him with documents running into 11 lakh pages. Mr. Khalid was arrested on Sunday night over allegations of conspiracy in Delhi riots. His counsel opposed the remand application saying he was not in Delhi during February 23-26, when the riots took place. In the FIR, the police has claimed that the communal violence was a “premeditated conspiracy” which was allegedly hatched by Khalid and two others. Mr. Khalid has also been booked for the offences of sedition, murder, attempt to murder, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and rioting. According to the FIR, Mr. Khalid had allegedly given provocative speeches at two different places and appealed to the citizens to come out on streets and block the roads during the visit of U.S. President Donald Trump to spread propaganda at international level about how minorities in India are being tortured. In this conspiracy, firearms, petrol bombs, acid bottles and stones were collected at numerous homes, FIR claimed. A police officer said at one of the occasions Mr. Khalid had met with Tahir Hussain, ex-AAP councillor, during the anti-CAA protest at Shaheen Bagh. He also held a meeting with various group members in Seelampur to carve out a plan on how the anti-CAA protest could be intensified. In March, Delhi police crime branch registered a case of rioting on the complaint of a Delhi police sub-inspector who mentioned the speeches of Mr. Khalid where he had purportedly provoked people to block roads during President Trump’s visit. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 leaving at least 53 people dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/umar-khalid-sent-to-10-days-police-custody/article32605273.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘The pandemic has necessitated a reconsideration of the 42% devolution’||The Fifteenth Finance Commission (FFC) will submit its report, containing recommendations on the sharing of tax revenues between the Centre and the States, for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26 to the President on October 31. FFC Chairman N.K. Singh spoke with Puja Mehra about the challenges posed by the COVID-19 crisis. Edited excerpts:  The FFC was supposed to submit its final report last year but didn’t because it was a year of unusual revenue trends. 2020 is even more unusual. Yes, 2020-21 is undoubtedly an unusual year with attended uncertainties and unpredictabilities. Whatever award the FFC had to give for 2020-21 that was already in the report submitted to the President for 2020-21. It was accepted by the government. Also placed in Parliament with Action Taken Report on recommendations. Therefore, 2020-21 doesn’t matter from the point of view of the award. But it is relevant because we need to make projections. Although everyone tells me to treat it as a non-year, and that for the base we should go back to 2019-20, I don’t think that is possible. The FFC is of the view that we cannot evade making predictions. In the Economic Advisory Council (EAC) of the FFC, there are differences of opinion on the decline in both the nominal and the real GDP growth. We will look at what will be a realistic and appropriate number. Their rebound estimates also vary … for example… the Chief Economic Advisor [Dr. Krishnamurthy Subramanian] believes that the rebound might be in the region of +19%. Others feel that the rebound would be slower. The pandemic will have lasting impact on deficits, consolidation plans and fiscal balance of the Centre and the States. There are multiple ways of looking at this. First is that, unlike in the past, we may not have the luxury, if I may say so, of assuming constant rates of growth throughout the period — both in nominal and real GDP numbers. A judgement call will be necessary. The EAC members have given the variations in the patterns which can be adopted for the award period. From out of those, the FFC will decide to finally adopt one. Second, the variability in the revenue assumptions. Again, we have received a multiplicity of advice and will need to adopt tax buoyancy numbers which may vary during the award period. Third, as a consequence of this, on the issue of fiscal numbers and the path of fiscal consolidation and the path of debt — for the Centre, the States, as well as, more importantly, for the general [that is Centre plus States] government. We will have to select a path which recognises the fact that the arrangement which earlier existed may have to be re-adapted taking into account the issue of the pandemic. Finally, under our Terms of Reference (ToR), we have to look at the issue of performance-based criterion and in appropriate cases sector-specific considerations. The issue of the health sector is a prominent aspect of the overall consideration of this FC — not only by means of a health chapter but factor in the liability on account of this. Particularly with regard to those States where the health infrastructure is rather weak. How will you ensure fiscal space for the Centre’s defence budget and allocations for reviving growth, and at the same time States’ public health expenditure, when revenues are far from buoyant? It would be naive to pretend that these can be reconciled perfectly. There will be attempts at reconciliation. It will have to be both by way of enhanced public outlays, both by the Centre and the States, and reprioritisation of expenditure patterns to address the issues of the pandemic and health. For instance, under the National Health Mission by 2017, the States were expected to spend a certain proportion of their public outlay on the health sector which has eluded most of the States. As far as the Central government is concerned, it has too to be consistent with the policy of 2017. Is the option of increasing States’ share in the divisible tax pool beyond 42% on your table at all? You will have to wait till you see the report. What all FCs have to do is to recalibrate. Recalibration can be both upwards and downwards. Our report for the first year [2020-21] of the six-year award period, had stayed the course with 42%. Taking off Jammu & Kashmir, [it] came to 41%. The caveat in that report is that for all the numbers, the FFC reserves the right to reconsider, re-adapt, modify them in a manner considered appropriate based on the ensuing situation. When we were submitting this report, around this time October last year, there was no sign of the pandemic whatsoever. It appeared as a completely exogenous variable from nowhere in February. Therefore, it has necessitated us to go back to the drawing board to reconsider whatever we had assigned in the 2020-21 report. What have the States and the Centre told you about the extent of the damage to their finances on account of the pandemic? Almost all the States have emphasised that 41 or 42% was too low; the sharing should be on the basis of fifty-fifty. The Central government has not told me what number they would be comfortable with on the vertical [devolution] but have emphasised what pressures are going to be on their own finances. It is for the FFC to make up its mind on the demands of the States. Not only on account of the States’ own normal committed liabilities and committed revenue expenditure but more so on account of the shortfall of revenues triggered both by the decline in the State GST [Goods & Services Tax] and by the fact that other sources of State revenues are proving to be somewhat inelastic. Their revenue numbers have fallen. The Central government’s own revenue projections are below expectations in the BE [Budget Estimates]. Borrowings are likely to be the only option. Will the overall government debt be sustainable? Are you suggesting that the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act needs to be updated and that we should forget about fiscal consolidation till 2023? Many members of the EAC have promoted that the FFC take the view that the FRBM Act, as it was amended in 2018, by placing equal emphasis on debt as an important macroeconomic anchor in addition to the fiscal deficit, may need a significant modification in light of the current situation. Introducing the amendments in 2018, the then Finance Minister did mention the possibility of the range instead of a fixed point in the fiscal target. Implied in a range is the element of cyclicality. The EAC have commented on this. To say, like the old saying, ‘The king is dead, long live the king’; Equally of the FRBM. The FRBM, both in the earlier version and in the subsequent version, has been a valuable instrument to ensure a macroeconomic stability framework. In the pre-FRBM scenario, fiscal rectitude was not a key policy parameter. Recognising the continued long-term value of macroeconomic stability of fiscal deficit and debt as an anchor, we will certainly look at the possibility of both the issue of fixed versus range for fiscal targets. Equally the direction of the debt more than in particular fine point in the debt. Do you endorse the Centre’s move to place conditionalities on the States for increasing their borrowing limits as fair? All FCs ask States to undertake structural reforms but what about the Centre? The States’ borrowing has to be circumscribed within the framework of Article 293 of the Constitution. There are no constitutional limitations on levels of borrowings the Central government wish to contract. But the Central government has been wise and sagacious and has learnt from the past to follow policies which are broadly embedded in fiscal rectitude than fiscal profligacy. You do require a framework for anchoring both your debt and fiscal deficit in broad conformity with the purpose and objective of continued macroeconomic stability.  (Puja Mehra is a Delhi-based journalist)   The FRBM has been a valuable instrument to ensure a macroeconomic stability framework||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-pandemic-has-necessitated-a-reconsideration-of-the-42-devolution/article32605280.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Meet gives impetus to ease tensions, says China||The September 10 meeting between the Foreign Ministers of India and China will provide the “political impetus” to ease the tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), China’s envoy to India Sun Weidong said on Monday. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and his counterpart Wang Yi agreed on a “five-point consensus” in their meeting in Moscow on Friday, including to quickly disengage troops and abide by existing agreements. Tensions, however, have still remained high on the LAC with troops still in close proximity, particularly on the heights south of Pangong Lake and in the Chushul sector. The south bank had witnessed firing incidents on August 30 and September 7, the first incidents of firing along the LAC since 1975. Since the September 10 meet, there has been a freeze on movement and activity along the LAC, The Hindu reported on Monday, though there are, as yet, no signs of disengagement. Mr. Sun, the envoy, said the five-point consensus “is an important step towards the right direction and will provide political impetus to ease the border situation and promote the bilateral relations,” in a statement issued by the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi in response to queries. ‘Expedite work’ “Regarding the future development,” he said, “the two Foreign Ministers agreed that as the situation eases, the two sides should expedite work to conclude new confidence-building measures to maintain and enhance peace and tranquillity in the border areas. The way ahead for solution is very clear.” Besides the five-point consensus, both sides issued separate statements following Friday’s talks that underlined differences remained on several issues. China has continued to blame India for “illegal trespassing” and for firing first — claims Mr. Sun repeated in Monday’s statement, that have been strongly denied by Delhi. Delhi has said that since May, it was China that has violated several past border agreements by mobilising a large number of troops and seeking to unilaterally redraw the LAC in several areas in Ladakh, from the Depsang plains and Galwan Valley to Pangong Lake and the Gogra-Hot Springs area. A June 15 clash in Galwan Valley led to the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese troops. Friday’s five-point consensus did not mention a return to the status quo prior to May’s transgressions, which India has made clear has to be fulfilled to fully restore peace on the LAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meet-gives-impetus-to-ease-tensions-says-china/article32605283.ece
15 September 2020||KOCHI,||Court to hear plea to cancel Dileep’s bail today||The trial in the woman actor rape case is entering a crucial stage with the Special Judge set to consider the submission of the prosecution to cancel the bail granted to actor Dileep, the 8th accused, on Tuesday. Besides pressing for the cancellation of the bail, the prosecution may also argue for alteration of the charges framed by the court against some of the accused in the case for conspiring, while in jail, to extort money from Dileep. The prosecution had moved the trial court on February 2 for this purpose citing that such a charge might weaken its case. The police had earlier submitted before the court that it was also probing the conspiracy to extort charge. However, the prosecution had never pushed the conspiracy charges against the accused while they were in jail, sources said. ‘Threatening calls’ While arguing for the cancellation of bail to Dileep, the prosecution may highlight the alleged threat faced by a witness in the case, who had reportedly stated that he had received threatening telephone calls. The presence of lawyers along with some of the prosecution witnesses in the court may also be highlighted as attempts at influencing the witnesses. The prosecution has already examined around 40 of the 300 witnesses it had listed in the case. Actor Mukesh and two others are scheduled to appear for the examination of the witnesses on Tuesday. The prosecution case is that the first six accused abducted the actor who was going to Ernakulam from Thrissur and sexually assaulted her in a moving car. Dileep is facing conspiracy charges in the case.  Dileep, the 8th accused, is facing conspiracy charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-to-hear-plea-to-cancel-dileeps-bail-today/article32605825.ece
15 September 2020||Thrissur,||Report on hospitalisation of Swapna, Rameez sought||The Prisons Department has sought a report from the Viyyur Jail Medical Officer on Swapna Suresh and K.T. Rameez, accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, being admitted to the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) at the same time for treatment. While Swapna complained of chest pain, Rameez was hospitalised for stomach ache, vomiting, and indigestion. Swapna was admitted to the hospital earlier last week too. After six days of treatment, she was discharged on Saturday. But she complained of chest pain again on Sunday evening. MCH sources said tests, including echo-test and angiogram, were being done on Swapna. Tests, including endoscopy, would be done on Rameez too. The Opposition parties have alleged conspiracy in both accused being hospitalised at the same time. The Prisons Department has asked the medical officer to include in the report details of the treatment given to the duo. There were allegations that Swapna had called a few people from nurses’ phones. MLA’s allegation Wadakkanchery MLA Anil Akkara alleged that the duo’s hospitalisation was planned. The purpose was to bring forth clarity and uniformity in their statements to the investigation agencies, the MLA alleged. He also raised doubts about the visit of Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen to the medical college on September 9 while Swapna was admitted there. Meanwhile, the National Investigation Agency court has given permission for close relatives to see Swapna at the jail. They can meet Swapna for an hour once in two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/report-on-hospitalisation-of-swapna-rameez-sought/article32605240.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon session kicks off with MPs maintaining distance, sporting masks||Throughout the four hours that the Lok Sabha sat on Monday (less an hour adjournment over obituary references), the phrase most frequently heard and which best described the very act of holding the session was “extraordinary circumstances”. The sweeping pandemic, which shows no signs of abating, has led to many changes in the way business is to be conducted during this session, not least of which was the holding of both the Houses in separate four hour shifts, and seating spread over both the Houses, and the visitors galleries. According to an estimate by sources in Parliament, 359 out of 540 Lok Sabha members turned up, despite at least 25 MPs (from both Houses) said to have tested positive for COVID-19. Veterans in attendance Veteran lawmakers, including National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah and Samajwadi Party’s Mulayam Singh Yadav, the latter on a wheel chair, also made it to Day One of the session, despite exemption from attendance being granted to members over 65 years. Prime Minister Modi entered the Lok Sabha to applause from the treasury benches, and kept his three-ply mask on at all times, an example followed by all MPs. This sense of participation led Speaker Om Birla to thank all members, even those Lok Sabha MPs ploughing a lonely furrow in the sparsely occupied Rajya Sabha, visible to their colleagues in the Lok Sabha via an LED screen. “This is possibly for the first time in the history of this Parliament that the Lok Sabha MPs are sitting in the Rajya Sabha and in the galleries. We always say that our attempt is to shorten the distance between the people and their representatives, but, under these extraordinary circumstances, we have had to keep distance between ourselves too,” said Mr. Birla. Separate seating Every party leader had been given a bunch of seats according to their strength and asked to divide the seating by four, some to be seated in the Lok Sabha, some in the Lok Sabha galleries, some in the Rajya Sabha and some in the Rajya Sabha galleries. The Telegu Desam Party (TDP) with just three MPs faced a piquant situation, where one MP was seated in the Lok Sabha, another in the gallery of that House, and a third in the Rajya Sabha. Those seated in the Rajya Sabha looked a forlorn lot, a presence only via a TV screen, which is why perhaps Union Ministers Piyush Goyal and Dharmendra Pradhan were despatched to keep them company. Another aspect of this session under “extraordinary circumstances” was that MPs were asked to be seated while addressing the House. A situation that proved difficult to master when the reflex is to stand and declaim. A fiery speech while seated possibly doesn’t have the same impact. Parliament is usually a space for much collegial joshing, but MPs mingled only during the break for obituary references and made haste to leave once the day’s sitting was done. However, the government managed to get at least seven Bills introduced and one Bill passed, and the Opposition managed to raise objections to almost every one of them, and thus was parliamentary democracy reinvented for these “extraordinary circumstances”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monsoon-session-kicks-off-with-mps-maintaining-distance-sporting-masks/article32605251.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Truth Fund to provide legal aid in fight for free speech||With hundreds of people wanting to support advocate Prashant Bhushan by symbolically contributing Re.1 — or more — towards his fine in the contempt of court case in the Supreme Court, a fund has been set up to use the money to help others fighting for free speech. “The Satyamev Jayate or Truth Fund will be used to provide legal support and amplify the voices of those facing criminal charges for standing by their conscience and speaking truth,” said activist Anjali Bhardwaj at a webinar organised by Swaraj Abhiyan and the Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) on freedom of speech and the judiciary. Participating in the discussion, retired Supreme Court judge Madan Lokur said, “The State is using an iron hand to curb free speech. Suddenly you have a lot of cases charging people with sedition. Common citizens who say something are charged with sedition. Already 70 cases of sedition this year,” Justice Lokur said. He said the arbitrary use of preventive detention, the increase in sedition charges, the labelling of opinion as “fake news” and the misreading of statements such as Mr. Bhushan’s tweets have all resulted in the curbing of free speech in unconstitutional ways. Justice Lokur noted that there were 3.4 crore cases pending in district courts and a crisis of vacancies in the judiciary. “The courts need to introspect or our justice system is in danger of complete collapse,” he asserted. N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group of Publications, said the Prashant Bhushan case had instilled a stimulating effect on free speech and expression. The contempt judgment against Mr. Bhushan was a “fierce” one and contained “strong language, “the punishment (Rs. 1) was certainly incongruous... something very odd. There was no real substantiation for this kind of punishment”. ‘Sky-high powers’ Contempt powers affected the fundamental rights of free speech under Article 19 and that of equality under Article 14. Certain judges believed they had “sky-high powers”. They slipped into absolutism, particularly when dealing with suo motu contempt powers, he stated. Mr. Ram said he was encouraged by the public response to the case against Mr. Bhushan. “We often say that contempt cases have a chilling effect on free speech. Paradoxically, Prashant Bhushan’s case has had a stimulating effect. It has put the Supreme Court under a spotlight, and will put its judgments under intense scrutiny... On the whole, I am optimistic that this has led to an awakening, perhaps even within the judiciary that this has gone too far and that we must come out on the side of freedom of speech.” There was an unequal application of the law, he noted, referring to Kafeel Khan of Uttar Pradesh being held in preventive custody for months for giving a speech on unity and integrity of the country, even while others who openly called for violence went free. Mr. Ram also referred to reports of a Madras High Court judge wanting to initiate action against Tamil actor Suriya for his comments on NEET. It was time that the “hue and cry factor” was raised louder in this issue, he observed. Citizens empowered Activist Aruna Roy said ordinary citizens had been empowered by Mr. Bhushan’s fight for his constitutionally protected right to free speech. Condemning the recent charges slapped on Sitaram Yechury, Yogendra Yadav, Umar Khalid and others in the Delhi riots case, she observed, “The real intent is to shut these voices down. This intent to spread fear will not work. We will not be silenced. The more people are sent to jail, with that much more courage, we will stand.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/truth-fund-to-provide-legal-aid-in-fight-for-free-speech/article32605265.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No data available on deaths of migrants’||The Ministry of Labour and Employment does not have any data regarding migrant workers who lost their jobs and their lives during the COVID-19 lockdown, Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar informed the Lok Sabha on Monday. The Minister told the House “no such data is maintained” when asked if the government had carried out any assessment of job losses of migrant workers and also if it was aware of workers who died on their way back to their home States. In written replies to questions posed by several members, the Minister said 1,04,66,152 workers had returned to their home States, with 32,49,638 returning to Uttar Pradesh and 15,00,612 to Bihar. Replying to a question from BJP member Kaushal Kishore, the Minister said “forced retention during COVID-19 has not been reported” when asked for “details of reasons to withhold the migrant labourers in these States itself due to corona and non-availability of prompt facility of their shelter and food”. Mr. Kishore asked for thedetails of migrant workers, labourers and daily wagers “for whom the arrangement of job has been made”. To this, the Minister replied, “No such data is maintained.” Activists have been raising their concern over the lack of a database of migrant workers, which is supposed to be maintained under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979. “Since the government now has the data of a large number of workers who returned to their home States, they can continue the process of registration and then real-time tracking. They need to take this as an opportunity,” said Asif Shaikh, director, Jan Sahas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-data-available-on-deaths-of-migrants/article32605249.ece
15 September 2020||Mysuru,||Brindavan Gardens to be thrown open for visitors from September 16||The Brindavan Gardens near here will be thrown open for visitors from September 16 for the first time since it was closed due to COVID-19 lockdown in March this year. Executive Engineer of Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Limited (CNNL) Raju M.B. told The Hindu that the government had finally permitted the reopening. Instructions have been issued to the agency manning the entrances to ensure proper safety measures are adopted by the visitors. “We will not allow people without masks. Also, crowding will not be allowed by the visitors at any place so that proper social distancing norms are practised”, he said. However, officials at KRS reservoir said they do not expect tourists in large numbers. Citing the poor turnout of visitors at Mysuru palace and Mysuru zoo, the two other main attractions for tourists in and around Mysuru, the officials said Brindavan Gardens too is unlikely to attract many visitors. Meanwhile, Brindavan Gardens presents an immaculate view while the water has reached the brim in KRS reservoir. Mr. Raju had written to the State government seeking permission for reopening on September 1. But, in view of the Centre’s latest relaxation in the lockdown guidelines to permit reopening of entertainment parks, the Deputy Commissioner of Mandya District M.V. Venkatesh has given permission for reopening of Brindavan Gardens, said Mr. Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brindavan-gardens-to-be-thrown-open-for-visitors-from-september-16/article32605339.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Centre is imposing Hindi Divas’||Slamming the Union government for “imposing” Hindi Divas on non-Hindi-speaking people in the country, former Karnataka Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday said Hindi Divas was a symbol of linguistic arrogance. In a series of tweets, he said Hindi was neither a national language nor the aspiration of the Constitution. “However, there are attempts to portray Hindi as a national language and there have been attempts in the past to politicise it. This has reached new heights now. Hindi imposition should stop before the people of the country rise against it.” “Learning is being used to impose Hindi. Learning should be optional, not imposed. The imposition of one language should not lead to the decline of another. It should not affect the country’s culture, diversity, and integrity,” he said. Hindi Divas is being observed on the birth anniversary of Beohar Rajendra Sinha, who fought for the implementation of Hindi, he said, adding that for the speakers of other languages there was nothing to cheer about Hindi becoming the administrative language. Mr. Kumaraswamy also said that if Hindi Divas had to be observed, the Centre should observe regional language days, including one for Kannada, across India. “November 1 should be declared and observed as Kananda Day,” he said. Pointing out that the three-language learning introduced in the National Education Policy (NEP) was also a way to impose Hindi, he asked what was wrong in having two languages. “Which Hindi-speaking State has a three-language policy in the country? Why is the three-language policy introduced in non-Hindi-speaking States?” he asked. He also claimed that efforts were being made to merge Hindi with Hindutva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-is-imposing-hindi-divas/article32605230.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka to seek nod for Mekedatu project||The State government is likely to take a delegation, headed by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, to bring pressure on the Centre to approve the construction of the Mekedatu balancing reservoir that has been proposed to impound water for drinking purposes. The Rs. 9,000-crore project, approved by the State government in 2017, has received approval from the Union Water Resources Ministry for the detailed project report (DPR) and is awaiting approval from the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) even as Tamil Nadu has approached the Supreme Court against the project. Speaking after visiting the proposed reservoir site near Kanakapura in Ramanagaram district, Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that with additional ground reports and data, he will meet Union Minister for Environment and Forests Prakash Javadekar either on September 16 or 17. “We are thinking about taking a delegation headed by the CM,” he said, adding that work on the project will commence after getting the Centre’s approval. Mr. Jarkiholi also referred to his earlier meetings in November 2019 and this July seeking approvals for the reservoir project. The Minister on Monday visited Ontigondlu, the proposed reservoir site, in the midst of Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary. The Minister said that 5,051 hectares of forests will be submerged and it includes 3,181 hectares in the sanctuary and 1,870 hectares in the reserve forest. “The approval from MOEF is crucial since 63% of the forest area that will be submerged is in the sanctuary,” he added. Referring to the current status, Mr. Jarkiholi said that the State submitted a DPR to the Centre in January 2019, and it is currently being reviewed by various directorates in the Central Water Commission. “Once approvals are received, the DPR will be placed before the Cabinet for approval and tender process will follow,” he added. The Minister also said that 4.75 tmcft of water can be drawn from the reservoir to partially meet the needs of Bengaluru and that it will not affect the flow of water to Tamil Nadu.  Fact sheet  Reservoir to come up in Muggur and Hanur forest areas of Ramanagaram  It will have a span of 674.5 metres and a height of 441.2 metres Total storage will be 67.17 tmcft of water of which 7.7 tmcft will be dead storage capacity  Original project cost: about Rs. 6,000 crore. Current cost: Rs. 9,000 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-to-seek-nod-for-mekedatu-project/article32605233.ece
15 September 2020||MYSURU,||Amid high drama, 3 held for killing Mandya temple priests||Three persons, accused of being involved in the murder of three priests of Sri Arakeshwara Swamy Temple in Mandya, were arrested after a dramatic encounter early on Monday. The Mandya district police had arrested two persons on Sunday night. Three more were nabbed from their hideout at Sadolalu Gate in Maddur on Monday. Based on information provided by the two persons arrested earlier, a police team, led by Maddur Rural Police circle inspector N.V. Mahesh went to Sadalolu Gate only to face resistance from the three accused who were holed up in their hideout. When the police asked them to surrender and fired in the air, the accused rained stones on the police and attacked them with machetes. The police, eventually, opened fire at the accused when they tried to flee. The accused suffered leg injuries and were taken into custody. The accused were treated at Maddur Taluk Hospital and later admitted to Mandya district hospital. Police sub-inspector Sharat Kumar and constables Anil Kumar and Krishna Kumar, who also suffered injuries in the encounter, were provided medical treatment. The accused arrested on Monday were identified by the police as Viji from Andhra Pradesh, Manja from Thoppanahalli village in Mandya, and Gandhi from Arekal Doddi village, also in Mandya. The two arrested on Sunday were Abhi and Raghu. Superintendent of Police, Mandya, K. Parashurama said the police are on the lookout for a few more persons in the case. The accused are part of a gang of dacoits, who move from one place to another. “They are involved in other cases also, but hadn’t been arrested. Interrogation is on about their involvement in other cases,” he said. A total of Rs. 1.73 lakh, which was part of the money looted from the temple hundis, had been recovered from the two accused arrested on Sunday. A bag, which had been recovered from the three accused on Monday, has been handed over to the Forensic Sciences Laboratory team. Three priests of Sri Arakeshwara Swamy Temple at Guttalu, on the outskirts of Mandya, were found murdered early on Friday morning, sending shock waves across the town. Ganesh, 55, Prakash, 58, and Anand, 40, were lying in a pool of blood on the temple premises. The culprits, who had crushed the heads of the priests with boulders, had taken away only the currency in the hundi boxes. The Muzrai Department, under whose jurisdiction the temple falls, estimated that about Rs. 5 lakh had been looted from the hundi boxes of the temple. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who had announced compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased, had called upon the police to arrest the culprits at the earliest. Meanwhile, Mr. Parashurama went to the spot of the encounter on Monday and also visited the hospital in Maddur to enquire about the condition of the injured policemen. He appreciated their efforts in nabbing the accused. Minister in charge of Mandya district, K. Narayana Gowda, complimented the police for their swift action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-high-drama-3-held-for-killing-mandya-temple-priests/article32605234.ece
15 September 2020||SIDDIPET,||Concern as water leaks from Kondapochamma reservoir||Water is leaking from Kondapochamma Sagar reservoir located at Markook mandal headquarters. The leakage has been taking place near Beerappa temple in the village. It is part of Kaleswaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIS) in Gajwel Assembly constituency represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The locals observed water leakage from the reservoir and tried to arrest it by placing boulders and sand bags. The flow is like a small stream and locals are worried that any damage to the reservoir will put Markook’s existence in question. Officials have not visited the site of the breach. When contacted, an official told The Hindu , on condition of anonymity, that ‘seepage’ from any reservoir is quite natural and there is nothing to worry. “We cannot arrest the seepage from reservoirs and the number of seepages will be high for the first three months and they settle down gradually. Even at Nagarjunasagar you can find seepage and it is a healthy sign of any project. We will construct drains with metal filters and sand filters to remove the seepage water,” he explained. This is the third incident that took place involving Kondapochamma reservoir in the recent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/concern-as-water-leaks-from-kondapochamma-reservoir/article32605245.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||Will PM speak in Parliament on China issue, asks Congress||The government should provide a clarification on the India-China border issue, the Congress said on Monday, the first day of the monsoon session of Parliament. Speaking to mediapersons, Deputy Leader of Congress in the Lok Sabha, Gaurav Gogoi, said the government had so far not said a word on when this subject would come for a debate in the Lok Sabha or the Rajya Sabha. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has been questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence. “Will the Prime Minister speak on this issue? These are clarifications, we did not want debate, but, at least a clarification should be given on day one as the entire country is watching,” Mr. Gogoi said. The party, meanwhile, has upped the ante on the three agriculture ordinances. Over the past two days, both chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala and Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh have spoken out on the subject. The issue was raised again in the Lok Sabha on Monday. “These three legislations will give freedom to corporates to brutally exploit the farmers and take away the protection that the Minimum Support Price and the various State Mandi Acts give them,” Mr. Gogoi said. The party also once again objected to the way Question Hour had been suspended and Zero Hourcurtailed. “This is nothing but an attack on the dignity of the Indian Parliament, curbing the rights of legislatures and taking away the accountability the Government of India has towards the people of India,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-pm-speak-in-parliament-on-china-issue-asks-congress/article32605263.ece
15 September 2020||Srinagar,||Budgetary allocation for development in J&K villages||Jammu & Kashmir Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday announced a budgetary allocation for every panchayat halqa, as he hinted at an economic package for the ailing sectors in the Union Territory (UT) in the coming weeks. “Every panchayat halqa will get Rs. 10 lakh for various development works. The officers from the administration will only facilitate these works and everything else will be done by the panchayat members themselves. The aim is to make every village in J&K a model village,” Mr. Sinha said at a press conference in Srinagar. ‘Public darbar’ The allocation comes as J&K embarks on the third phase of ‘Back to the Village’ programme from October 2 (Gandhi Jayanti). “There will be a ‘public darbar’ at the divisional and sub-divisional levels across the J&K UT every Wednesday. Divisional Commissioners and Deputy Commissioners will listen to the grievances of the people and ensure timely redressal,” he said. Mr. Sinha said the J&K administration had constituted a committee to suggest a package for the revival of business and other ailing sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/budgetary-allocation-for-development-in-jk-villages/article32605285.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||Disciplinary proceedings stayed in Budgam ‘friendly fire’ case||The Armed Forces Tribunal on Monday stayed all disciplinary proceedings against two Indian Air Force officers facing court martial for their alleged role in the ‘friendly fire’ incident of an IAF Mi-17 helicopter after the Balakot strikes last year. The Tribunal’s Principal Bench at Delhi headed by Justice Rajendra Menon directed that till the next date of hearing on September 30, “further action on the report of the Court of Inquiry” shall be kept in abeyance. “...We find that various statutory provisions of the Air Force Rules and the regulations are prima facie demonstrated to have been violated in the matter of conducting the Court of Inquiry (CoI) particularly non-compliance with the statutory requirement of Rule 156 (2) of the Air Force Rules,” the Tribunal noted. The order came on pleas by Wing Commander Shyam Naithani, who was senior air traffic controller, and Group Captain Suman Roy Chowdhury, who was chief operations officer, at Air Force Station Srinagar when the incident took place on February 27, 2019. Their pleas stated that following the IAF’s Balakot air strikes in which camps were demolished and several militants killed, the Air Force Station in Srinagar was put on high alert against attack from the other side of the border. Subsequent to the ‘friendly fire’ incident of the IAF Mi-17 helicopter at Budgam, which left six IAF personnel onboard dead, a CoI was convened by the Chief of the Air Staff in March 2019. ‘Flaws in process’ Advocate Ankur Chhibber along with advocate Karn Deo Baghel, representing the two IAF officers who are facing court martial in connection with the incident, argued that the very composition of the CoI to investigate the Mi-17 accident was bad in law as it was in contravention of the Air Force Order. “However, despite the fact that the CoI was not even competent to investigate the accident, it continued to conduct the proceedings,” the advocates contended. They also submitted that the CoI did not have a specialised investigation of the ATC aspect of the accident, which was a mandatory requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disciplinary-proceedings-stayed-in-budgam-friendly-fire-case/article32605742.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Digital divide, state of economy questioned during Zero Hour||From the digital divide affecting access to online classes to the state of the economy, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the toll it has already extracted loomed large over the curtailed 30-minute Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha. Apna Dal member Anupriya Patel raised the issue of the digital divide between rural and urban India and the effect it was having on the educational opportunities among rural children, with them being deprived of online classes. “Most of our students in the rural areas do not have laptops, tablets or even smartphones to avail classes, those who do so on educational channels on television find that sporadic power supply affects their chances of benefiting from online classes. The pandemic has created a new situation of haves and have nots,” said the MP from Uttar Pradesh.  Lakshadweep MP Faizal P. Mohammad observed that while the Union Territory was the only part of the country that hadn’t seen a single case of COVID-19 till date, the situation with regard to more than 3,000 students from the islands, who had returned from different parts of the country from educational institutions where they had been studying, was dire.  Supriya Sule of the Nationalist Congress Party said the state of the economy was worrisome and that a full-fledged debate on the same should take place in the House. “Our State in particular, Maharashtra, is facing the most challenging time due to the COVID-19 pandemic and we are not getting the help we require,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/digital-divide-state-of-economy-questioned-during-zero-hour/article32605254.ece
15 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan to give help, credit to urban poor||The urban poor are being identified in Rajasthan for the State government’s assistance during the COVID-19 pandemic with the emphasis on creating livelihood opportunities for them. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has given instructions for releasing institutional credit to enable the urban poor households to access gainful self-employment. Mr. Gehlot, who reviewed the progress of various projects of the Local Self Government Department here, said the street vendors residing in the urban and Municipal Council areas would get the highest priority in the schemes. “The government will address livelihood concerns of the urban poor by facilitating their access to social security and skill development,” he said. Mr. Gehlot suggested that the Prime Minister’s Svanidhi Yojana, in which loans up to Rs. 10,000 were provided at low interest rate, could be utilised for helping thestreet vendors by launching a campaign for them. The National Urban Livelihood Mission should also be implemented effectively in the State, he said. The administration in several districts had prepared lists of street vendors during the COVID-19 lockdown in April this year. The State government proposes to get correct information about vendors from these lists and give them an interest subsidy of 7% for the credit. The Chief Minister also gave instructions for speeding up works under the smart city project in Jaipur, Udaipur, Kota and Ajmer, and expanding the coverage areas of the Indira Rasoi Yojana launched recently for providing food at subsidised rate to the poor people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-to-give-help-credit-to-urban-poor/article32605743.ece
15 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Two held for abetting TV actor’s suicide||The S.R. Nagar police on Monday arrested television actor Ambati Devaraja Reddy and realtor M. Sai Krishna Reddy, who were accused of driving TV actor Kondapalli Sravani to suicide. Twenty-six-year-old Sravani of Manasu Mamatha TV serial was found dead in her home in Madhuranagar on September 8. Her body was found hanging from the ceiling. Her family members alleged that Devaraja Reddy had been harassing her for quite some time, thus leading to her suicide. Based on their complaint, a criminal case was registered against Devaraja Reddy of Kakinada, Sai Krishna Reddy of Yousufguda, and film producer Ashok Reddy. The latter is still absconding. Explaining the circumstances that compelled the television actor to end her life, Hyderabad Joint Commissioner of Police (West Zone) AR Srinivas said that Devraj Reddy and Sravani were moving closely. "In November last, Devaraja stayed in Sravani’s house during his visit to Hyderabad for audition of a serial. That time he cast aspersions on her behaviour, accusing her of moving closely with others,” he said. On February 22, Sravani invited Devraja Reddy to her house for a birthday party. In the presence of all family members and friends, she proposed to Devraj Reddy. But the latter rejected the proposal suspecting her fidelity. The woman tried to convince him that she wanted to marry him but the actor turned down her repeated pleas, said the officer. "On September 7, Sravani and Devraja Reddy had dinner at a hotel in Punjagutta. While they were leaving the place, Sai Krishna Reddy turned up, slapped Sravani, and tried to attack Devraja,” the officer said. Later, he forcibly took the woman to her house in a three-wheeler. A little while later, Sravani rang up Devaraja and told him that Sai Krishna Reddy and his family members were harassing her to snap ties with him, the Joint Commissioner said. On the night of September 8, she phoned Devaraja Reddy again and told him that she got fed up with her life and wanted to end her life, the officer explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-held-for-abetting-tv-actors-suicide/article32605797.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||On day 1, 25 MPs test COVID-19 positive||The Minister said, “As on September 11, a total of about 40 lakh persons have been kept under surveillance and extensive contact tracing of all positive cases is regularly being undertaken through disease surveillance network so as to break the chain of transmission. In our country, about 92% of the cases are reported to be having mild disease. In only about 5.8 % of cases oxygen therapy is required and the disease may be severe enough to require intensive care in only 1.7% cases’’. Many epidemiological parameters such as mode of transmission, sub-clinical infection, period of virus shedding and role of immunity were being researched. Lockdown steps The early lockdown measures was estimated to have prevented approximately 14–29 lakh cases and 37–78 thousand deaths. This time was also utilised to create additional health infrastructure, enhance human resource and produce within the country critical elements such as PPEs, N-95 masks and ventilators. “A case in point is the increase in dedicated isolation beds 36.3 times and dedicated ICU beds above 24.6 times to what existed in March 2020. Whereas, there was no indigenous manufacturing of PPE, with the requisite standards, at that point in time. We are now self-sufficient and in a position to even export the same,’’ Dr. Vardhan noted. According to the Minister, as on September 12, a total of 15,284 treatment facilities, with 13,14,646 dedicated isolation beds without O2 had been created. Also, a total of 2,31,093 oxygen-supported isolation beds and 62,717 ICU beds (including 32,575 ventilator beds) had been created. In addition, a total of 12,826 quarantine centres with 5,98,811 beds have been set up. The government was proactively identifying gaps and building an Atmanirbhar Bharat that would be able to take challenges of similar pandemics, epidemics and disasters in future. “An Expenditure Finance Memorandum of Rs. 65,560.98 crore under the Prime Minister Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana for strengthening it is under consideration. This includes investment in research, healthcare and public health infrastructure with particular focus on pandemic management,’’ the Minister asserted. Repurposed drug use Speaking about repurposed drug use in COVID-19, he said that 13 clinical trials of repurposed drugs and harnessing of traditional knowledge using the modern medicine approach were building a portfolio of therapeutic options for COVID-19 patients. “Phase 2 clinical trial of immune modulator Sepsivac has been completed successfully. Phase 2 clinical trial of the first-ever phytopharmaceutical ACQH is underway. One prophylactic trial of Aswagandha and three trials of Guduchi + Pippali; Yashtimadhu; and polyherbal AYUSH drug (AYUSH-64) are planned on moderately ill COVID-19 patients,’’ he stated. The world was looking at around 145 candidate vaccines in preclinical evaluation and currently 35 vaccines in clinical trials. “In India, the major focus has been on facilitating the development of COVID-19 vaccine. More than 30 vaccine candidates have been supported and they are in different stages of development; 3 candidates in advanced stage of Phase I/II/III trials and more than 4 are in the advanced preclinical development stage,’’ he observed. COVID-19 biorepositories have been set up and they have collected more than 40,000 samples which have been made available to researchers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-day-1-25-mps-test-covid-19-positive/article32605242.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||Shah pushes for use of Hindi in official work||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said in a video message on Monday that Hindi had played a role in uniting the country. He requested the senior officials and heads of all Central government offices, ministries and banks to use Hindi for official work in addition to other Indian languages. Mr. Shah released the 10-minute video message on the occasion of Hindi Divas on Monday. He said the new education policy provided for parallel development of Hindi and other Indian languages. Hindi was an unbreakable part of Indian culture and it had been an effective and powerful medium of national unity and identity since the freedom struggle. The greatest strength of Hindi was that it was scientific and known for its originality and simplicity as well, he stated. “Hindi has strengthened other Indian languages and it should be amply clarified that Hindi doesn’t compete with any other language… Hindi should be made attractive for the younger generation and they should be provided with all help. I want to request parents to use Indian languages while speaking to their children,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-pushes-for-use-of-hindi-in-official-work/article32605276.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Arrest is a conspiracy’||Several people have voiced their support for former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid, who was arrested on Sunday. Advocate Prashant Bhushan said on Twitter, “Umar Khalid’s arrest by Delhi police after naming Yechury, Yogendra Yadav, Jayati Ghosh & Apoorvanand leaves no doubt at all about the mala fide nature of its investigation into Delhi riots. It’s a conspiracy by the police to frame peaceful activists in the guise of Investigation.” A statement signed by 36 persons including Delhi University professor Apoorvanand and JNU professor Jayati Ghosh said the arrest by the Delhi police was part of a brazen attempt to try to suppress Mr. Khalid’s voice of dissent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arrest-is-a-conspiracy/article32605277.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre opposes move to recognise same-sex unions||The court also asked petitioners to bring on record details of people whose application for same-sex marriage registration was denied. The petition was filed by Abhijit Iyer Mitra, a member of the LGBT community, and three others seeking to recognise same sex marriages under Section 5 of the Hindu Marriage Act on the ground that “it does not distinguish between homosexual and heterosexual couples”. The petitioners argued that “despite the fact that there is absolutely no statutory bar under the Hindu Marriage Act of 1955 and the Special Marriage Act of 1956 against gay marriage, the same are not being registered throughout the country and also in the National Capital Territory of Delhi”. “The prohibition of marriage of LGBT people on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity is an absolute discrimination towards them and is also violative of Right to Equality as granted by the Constitution of India,” it argued. The petition also cited names of 27 countries including the U.S. where same sex marriage is legal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-opposes-move-to-recognise-same-sex-unions/article32605224.ece
15 September 2020||B. ChandrashekharHYDERABAD,||Spillway discharge of flood begins at SRSP||The much awaited spillway discharge of flood from Sriramsagar project this season commenced on Monday afternoon with inflows into the major reservoir in the Godavari Basin crossing 50,000 cusecs. Last year, the release of flood from the crest gates of the project began on September 21. According to the officials of the water resources department, four crest gates of Sriramsagar project (SRSP) were lifted for a height of two feet each around 3.30 p.m. to discharge about 12,500 cusecs water into the river course and by 6.30 p.m. two more gates were lifted for the same height to increase the flood release to 18,750 cusecs. As the flood cushion of the project came down below 3 tmcft, as against its capacity of 90.31 tmcft, the dam authorities started releasing water to the flood flow canal four days back, on September 10, to take water to Mid-Manair reservoir with the gravity flow. The reservoir holds key in the Kaleshwaram irrigation system too by acting as a balancing reservoir to supply water to all major storage facilities in the uplands of Telangana. The water released to the river course from SRSP would flow towards Yellampally, Sundilla, Annaram and Medigadda barrages. With SRSP becoming surplus, only Singur and Nizamsagar projects in the Godavari Basin remain empty now with major flood forecast for them yet. With the Central Water Commission (CWC) issuing advisory stating that isolated heavy to very heavy rains are forecast in the north interior Karnataka, Marathwada, Vidarbha and central Maharashtra till September 17, the inflows are expected to continue further. With increase in inflows into Jurala to over 1.12 lakh cusecs, the spillway discharge at the project was also increased to over 98,000 cusecs from the 14 crest gates. Another, 33,200 cusecs water was also being let into the river course after power generation. In the downstream at Srisailam too, the flood discharge from the spillway was increased to about 2.52 lakh cusecs with the nine crest gates lifted for 10-foot height each in addition to nearly 31,000 cusecs water release to the river course after power generation in the right bank hydel staiton of Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spillway-discharge-of-flood-begins-at-srsp/article32605816.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Glitches during NLAT re-test too||Several candidates who appeared for the re-test of the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) 2020 on Monday were relieved that they got another opportunity to write the test as they were unable to write the test on Saturday due to technical glitches. However, many candidates said they continued to face technical glitches because of which they were unable to login. According to a press release issued by the university, nearly 80% of the candidates who were offered the re-test appeared for the examination. However, National Law School of India University (NLSIU) Bengaluru did not specify how many students appeared for the re-test. NLSIU conducted a re-test following complaints by candidates about technical glitches during the exam on Saturday. The announcement of the re-test was made late on Sunday night. A few students The Hindu spoke to, who were unable to appear even for the re-test, wondered if they would get another opportunity. “I logged in at noon. The photo verification process took half-an-hour. I later received a message stating that they are unable to set up my audio proctoring. I didn’t attempt a single question on Saturday, and the same on Monday,” a candidate said. The university, however, said this was because they may have not met the necessary infrastructural requirements or must have not uploaded the correct photo identification documents. A student in one of the districts in the Malnad region had to travel 20 km to attempt the test from a cyber cafe so that there would be no distractions or technical glitches. “On Saturday, I had travelled a long distance but was unable to attempt the test soon after which I raised the issue with the authorities concerned. I got a message on Sunday night informing that I could attempt a re-test. It created last minute panic and tension, as I had to again travel 20 km. Worse, I was unable to appear for the test for the second consecutive time,” the student said. However, a candidate, who appeared for the re-test from Kerala, said: “I was glad that I was able to attend the examination without any glitch.” NLAT was conducted for admission to UG and PG law courses at the premier NLSIU in Bengaluru after it decided to opt out of Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) for this year. This had created controversy and a few persons had approached the Supreme Court questioning the validity of the exam. Though the court allowed NLAT to be conducted, it ordered NLSIU not to declare results and not to proceed with admissions until the final decision was out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/glitches-during-nlat-re-test-too/article32605228.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||People’s right to question curtailed: Azad||By suspending the Question Hour, the government has deprived the people of India of an opportunity to question the government, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, said on Monday. Mr. Azad said that in a democracy the government is answerable to people. “People of the country have no access or means to ask the question to the minister inside Parliament; their representatives are MPs. The people of India have been deprived of asking the question,” Mr. Azad said. Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’ Brien moved the amendment against the government decision. “If this government really wanted to make a meaningful suggestion they would not have struck at the very heart of parliamentary democracy,” Mr. O’ Brien said. Chairman Rajya Sabha Venkaiah Naidu said Parliament was meeting in extraordinary times. Question Hour would have meant that government of India officials had to be present and that would have led to overcrowding in the officer’s gallery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/peoples-right-to-question-curtailed-azad/article32605257.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||Harivansh re-elected RS Dy. Chairman||The Opposition parties on Monday let go of a contest for the post of Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, allowing JD(U) MP Harivansh to be re-elected for a second time by voice vote. Mr. Harivansh’s name was proposed by BJP president and party MP Jagat Prakash Nadda. Leader of the House Thawarchand Gehlot seconded it. The Opposition had fielded RJD MP Manoj Jha. Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad moved the motion for Mr. Jha, which was seconded by DMK MP Tiruchi Siva and Samajwadi MP Javed Ali Khan. The Opposition, however, did not ask for a vote as it was clearly short of numbers. Mr. Jha said the Opposition decided that Parliament should always be a ground for consensus and this was never a contest between two individuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/harivansh-re-elected-rs-dy-chairman/article32605261.ece
15 September 2020||Pune,||Maratha outfits on the warpath over quota||With the Supreme Court staying the implementation of the Maratha quota law, Maratha outfits across Maharashtra have said they will intensify their agitation despite calls for restraint by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Community leader Suresh Patil said a ‘round table conference’ of Maratha outfits under the umbrella of ‘Maratha Arakshan [reservation] Action Samiti’ (MAAS) would be held in Kolhapur on September 23, while the ‘Maratha Kranti Morcha’ has announced that it will stage a protest outside the Pune District Collectorate on September 17. “As Parliament is now in session, it is our fervent hope that all the 48 MPs from Maharashtra make a concerted effort and present a proposal before Narendra Modi that would help in vacating the apex court’s stay on the quota law,” Mr. Suresh Patil said. Failing a strong push by Maharashtra’s elected representatives, Mr. Patil warned that effigies of all 181 MLAs and 48 MPs from the State would be burnt in their constituencies. The opposition BJP, adding fuel to the fire, has cornered the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on its alleged lack of political willpower in ensuring that the Maratha quota law endured in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maratha-outfits-on-the-warpath-over-quota/article32605274.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC reserves orders on Medha’s plea||The Supreme Court on Monday indicated that it may direct the Maharshtra High-Powered Committee (MHPC) to examine the merits of every individual case for emergency parole or bail of prisoners in overcrowded jails. Banking on broad restrictions to approve or deny bail or parole may not help when the ground situation regarding the health crisis was fluid, it pointed out. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde reserved for orders a plea by activist Medha Patkar, represented by senior advocate S.B. Talekar and advocates P.B. Suresh and Vipin Nair, against the MHPC blanket ban on grant of bail or parole to undertrials and prisoners involved in offences under special laws like the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. Such committees were formed in every State on the basis of an order of the Supreme Court on March 23. The court had used its extraordinary powers to pass the March 23 order in order to decongest prisons as a preventive step against the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-reserves-orders-on-medhas-plea/article32605284.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||3,186 incidents of ceasefire violations along LoC in Jammu this year||There have been 3,186 incidents of ceasefire violations along the Line of Control in Jammu region till September 7 this year, the Parliament was informed on Monday. “Also, 242 incidents of cross-border firing have occurred along the Indo-Pak International Border (IB) in Jammu region [till August 31],” Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3186-incidents-of-ceasefire-violations-along-loc-in-jammu-this-year/article32605267.ece
15 September 2020||Srinagar,||Delhi riots chargesheet: CPI(M) activist hold protests in J&K||Activists of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Monday held street protests in parts of Jammu & Kashmir against the chargesheet filed against party general secretary Sitaram Yechury by the Delhi police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-riots-chargesheet-cpim-activist-hold-protests-in-jk/article32605271.ece
15 September 2020||Srinagar,||PDP seeks permission to hold youth meet||The youth wing of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has approached the Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, for permission to organise a party meeting on September 16, weeks after the administration denied it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pdp-seeks-permission-to-hold-youth-meet/article32605286.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Busy with peacocks’, says Rahul in dig at PM over rise in COVID cases||Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the rise in COVID-19 cases, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the government had asked the people to become “aatmanirbhar”, which means that they should save themselves as Mr. Modi was “busy with peacocks”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/busy-with-peacocks-says-rahul-in-dig-at-pm-over-rise-in-covid-cases/article32605287.ece
15 September 2020||Bhopal,||Bhopal gas tragedy victims launch fast to demand resumption of pension||A group of women who lost their husbands in the Bhopal gas tragedy began a relay fast here on Monday demanding the resumption of Rs. 1,000 a month pension pending disbursal since December last year. They have threatened to go on an indefinite hunger strike from Wednesday in the Jeevan Jyoti colony, if no one acted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhopal-gas-tragedy-victims-launch-fast-to-demand-resumption-of-pension/article32605289.ece
15 September 2020||Bodi,TAMIL NADU||Induction programme||A five-day induction programme for students of first year of Cardamom Planters' Association College concluded here on Friday. Syndicate member of Madurai Kamaraj University S. Theenathayalan, who addressed the students at the valedictory ceremony via videoconferencing, said that it was heartening to see a large number of students who were ready to attend the course. According to the press statement from the institution, the induction programme was aimed at improving English training, general awareness and individual competence. President of CPA society and CPA College S.V. Subramanian presided over the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/induction-programme/article32605883.ece
15 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Domestic help killed in freak accident in Pulianthope||A domestic worker in Pulianthope was electrocuted after she accidentally stepped on a live electric cable near a lamp post in a waterlogged street on Monday. The incident was captured on Closed Circuit Television Camera (CCTV) installed in the vicinity. Residents alleged that though they had been complaining about the exposed cable a week ago, no action was taken by the authorities concerned. The police said the victim, S. Alima, 35, was living in Periyar Nagar. She earned her living working as a domestic worker in the area. After completing work in a house, Ms. Alima was on her way to another house on Narayanaswamy Street when she stepped on a slushy surface beneath which a live electric cable was lying exposed. She was instantly electrocuted and fell to the ground. Residents and passersby attempted to resuscitate her. On failing to do so, they called an ambulance, and informed the Pulianthope police. She was rushed to the Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital, where the doctors declared her “brought dead.” The body was sent for post-mortem examination.  A senior police officer in Pulianthope said, “The cause of death is electric shock. A case has been registered under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code for unnatural death. Further investigation is on with officials of civic departments (responsible for the negligence).”  Past incidents In September 2019, a 14-year-old speech impaired boy was electrocuted when he stepped on a live wire protruding from a pit dug by Chennai Corporation in Mugalivakkam. In November 2017, two girls, both aged eight years, were electrocuted when they stepped into stagnant rain water near an electricity junction box at R.R.Nagar in Kodungaiyur.  Investigation is on with officials of civic departments (responsible for the negligence) Pulianthope police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/domestic-help-killed-in-freak-accident-in-pulianthope/article32605381.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK tries to raise NEET issue on day 1 of Assembly session||On the first day of the Assembly session at Kalaivanar Arangam on Monday, DMK legislators, led by party president and Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin, took part in the proceedings wearing customised face masks emblazoned with slogans against the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The masks worn by the DMK members featured the message ‘Ban NEET, save T.N. students’ in Tamil and English. Soon after Speaker P. Dhanapal entered the House, Mr. Stalin rose to raise an issue. However, he was not allowed to do so by the Chair. Addressing the media outside the House following its adjournment after homage was paid to former President Pranab Mukherjee, DMK MLA J. Anbazhagan, Congress MP H. Vasanthakumar, frontline health workers and others who died of COVID-19, Mr. Stalin said though he had requested the Speaker to make an obituary reference regarding the deaths of students who had committed suicide fearing failure in NEET, it was not accepted. The DMK had submitted requests for taking up 15 to 20 special calling attention motions over NEET-related suicides, the National Education Policy and the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2020, among others, he said, and wondered how all of them could be taken up in the two remaining days of the ongoing session. DMK’s general secretary and Deputy Floor Leader in the House Duraimurugan had stated at the Business Advisory Committee’s meeting that an Assembly session for three days would not be enough, Mr. Stalin pointed out. When asked about the AIADMK government's actions on NEET, he alleged that though the ruling party had opposed in its election manifesto, passed a resolution against the test during its general council meeting and supported a resolution against it in the Assembly, “it was all a drama to cheat the people”. “Our accusation is that not once did the Chief Minister or the Ministers concerned go to Delhi to meet the Prime Minister or the [Union] Ministers concerned to raise the issue [with them]. The government headed by Edappadi [K. Palaniswami] is a slave to the Centre,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-tries-to-raise-neet-issue-on-day-1-of-assembly-session/article32605415.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Murugan, Perarivalan inimical to each other: DG prisons tells HC||The Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services on Monday told the Madras High Court that there was pre-existing enmity between former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convicts Murugan alias V. Sriharan and A.G. Perarivalan. Therefore, both of them could not be lodged in the same prison, he added. The submission was made in a counter affidavit filed before Justices N. Kirubakaran and P. Velmurugan who were seized of a habeas corpus petition filed by S. Padma to get her daughter S. Nalini and son-in-law Sriharan transferred from central prison in Vellore to the one at Puzhal near here. Opposing such a plea, the DGP told the court that Deputy Inspector General of Prisons, Vellore Range as well as Deputy Superintendent of Police, Intelligence-cum-vigilance wing of the prisons, had opined against transferring Nalini and Sriharan from Vellore to Puzhal where Perarivalan had been lodged at present. The officers had in their individual reports to the DGP stated that Sriharan and Perarivalan had developed enmity when they were lodged together in Vellore prison a few years ago and hence lodging them back together in Puzhal would put the safety and security of the prisoners at risk. In the counter affidavit served upon Nalini's lawyers M. Radhakrishnan and P. Pugalenthi, the DGP also accused her of unruly behaviour, creating a ruckus and making suicide threats besides indulging in intimidation and abusing prison staff in filthy language. Frequent quarrels According to DGP I. Sunil Kumar Singh, Nalini was lodged along with two other women life convicts, Saral alias R. Santhi and K. Radha. There were frequent quarrels between them over cleaning their block. Further, Nalini had begun to suspect Radha of having complained to jail authorities that she was using a mobile phone and hence picked up quarrels with her frequently. When Radha made a request to the prison officials to shift her to some other block, Nalini opposed it and insisted that she should stay with her until she proves the charge of possessing mobile phone. In a fit of rage, Nalini also threatened to commit suicide and prevented the officials from discharging their duties. She was imposed with the punishment of stoppage of prison canteen facilities for one month for her unruly behaviour, the DGP said and denied the petitioner's charge of her daughter being treated badly inside the Vellore prison. The DGP said Nalini was being allowed to make telephone calls as usual to her lawyers and also video calls to her mother and other family members within the country since personal interviews had been stopped now due to threat of COVID-19. Though she was entitled to make two phone calls, for a duration of seven minutes each, every week, she had not shown much interest in making phone calls. On the other hand, she had made video calls to her relatives on 14 occasions between March 31 and June 26, the officer said and termed as a blatant lie the petitioner's claim that other prisoners were being allowed to talk to their lawyers too on video call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murugan-perarivalan-inimical-to-each-other-dg-prisons-tells-hc/article32605404.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Krishna water from A.P. likely to be released soon||Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh is likely to be released in one or two days to fulfill the drinking water needs of the city. The Kandaleru reservoir, the body that provides water to Chennai, now has storage of 35 thousand million cubic feet (tmc). Officials of the Water Resources Department said nearly 800 cusecs (cubic feet per second) was being expected at the entry point of the Kandaleru-Poondi (KP) Canal at Uthukottai, Tiruvallur. Issues related to Krishna water discharge were discussed at a permanent technical committee meeting between officials of both States held last month. The Andhra Pradesh authorities said they would provide water once the reservoir’s storage touched 30 tmc. According to the agreement, about 8 tmc has to be given between July and October. Water discharged from the reservoir upstream is expected to reach K.P. Canal in three days. “We have asked nearly 4 tmc to be discharged in two months and expect to receive 2 tmc every month. If 800 cusecs is realised daily, we may be able to receive the maximum quantity,” an official said. Water from Andhra Pradesh will help boost the storage in the four city reservoirs, which currently stand at 3.9 tmc against their total capacity of 11.2 tmc. At present, Metrowater is supplying about 700 million litres of water on alternate days. “We plan to seek more water depending on the performance of the northeast monsoon and inflow into the city’s reservoirs in November,” the official added. Both States are considering various measures to transmit more water through the K.P. Canal. Proposals under consideration include doubling the carrying capacity of the canal to 2,000 cusecs from the stretch in Andhra Pradesh. The stretch of the canal in Tamil Nadu limits will also be improved simultaneously. Proposals such as laying additional pipelines to the Poondi reservoir were also under scrutiny, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishna-water-from-ap-likely-to-be-released-soon/article32605389.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK has no moral right to oppose NEET: Vijayabaskar||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Monday said that the AIADMK government had always been firm in its decision to oppose the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), and the DMK and the Congress had no “moral right” to oppose it. “The concept of NEET was introduced in 2010 when the Congress was in power at the Centre, with the DMK as its ally. NEET, as a policy decision, was introduced through a notification of the Medical Council of India on December 27, 2010. Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had sternly opposed NEET and sought its ban,” he told reporters. “So, after allowing it to be introduced, the DMK is now opposing the NEET, and people will definitely not accept this. The DMK has no moral right to oppose it, and it is the AIADMK that has been firm in its decision,” he said. The Minister was at the Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children to launch a deworming campaign. He added that the DMK was confusing students and the people. “Today, the implementation of NEET is as per the orders of a Supreme Court bench,” he said. COVID-19 violations Replying to a question on the fines being collected as per provisions of the amended Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, Mr. Vijayabaskar said that around Rs. 13.39 lakh had been collected from persons across the State for having violated COVID-19 norms. “Our aim is not to punish the people. We continue to emphasise the need to wear masks. When compared to States such as Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra, COVID-19 cases are under control in Tamil Nadu. We are taking steps to reduce the number of deaths. Fatalities have reduced from 129 to 70-80 now,” Mr. Vijayabaskar said.  Positivity rate “We are maintaining a positivity rate of less than 10%,” he added. He added that a total of 4,380 pregnant women, who tested positive for COVID-19, had been successfully treated in the State. He said that oxygen pipelines had been installed at government hospitals at a cost of Rs. 150 crore. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said that excluding Chennai, there had been 1,134 cases of violations under the Act till now. A total of 54,439 persons, including anganwadi workers and Health Department staff, were involved in the three-phased deworming campaign that will cover children aged one to 19. Deworming camps The first phase of the campaign will be held from September 14-19, followed by the second round from September 21-26. The third phase of the programme, which will cover the children who were left out in the earlier phases, would be conducted till September 28. Camps will be held at all health sub-centres and primary health centres. Children aged one to two will receive half a tablet, while those aged two to 19 will receive one. Albendazole tablets are safe for all, said a press release. Among others, T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health; R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education; and S. Gurunathan, Director of Medical and Rural Health Services, were present at the launch of the campaign.  NEET, as a policy decision, was introduced through a notification of the Medical Council of India on December 27, 2010. Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had sternly opposed NEET and sought its ban C. Vijayabaskar Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-has-no-moral-right-to-oppose-neet-vijayabaskar/article32605418.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Number of discharged persons crosses 4.5 lakh||Another 5,752 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday, taking the State’s tally to 5,08,511. Of this, 991 persons tested positive for the infection in Chennai, followed by 498 in Coimbatore. The total number of persons discharged in the State crossed 4.5 lakh, as another 5,799 persons were discharged after treatment. The number of active cases stood at 46,912. Fifty-three more persons, including 23 in Chennai, succumbed to the infection. With this, a total of 8,434 persons have died in the State. Among the deceased was a 29-year-old man from Tiruvallur district. He had Non-Hodgkin lymphoma and was admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on September 13 after testing positive for COVID-19 on September 12. However, he died on the same day due to COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, Non-Hodgkin lymphoma and acute kidney injury.  Chennai’s tally rose to 1,49,583, of which 1,36,155 persons have been discharged, 10,436 are active cases and 2,992 persons have died. Chengalpattu recorded 364 fresh cases, while Salem saw 297 and Cuddalore 296. In Tiruvallur, 294 persons tested positive for COVID-19, and as many as 222 persons tested positive in Tiruvannamalai. The number of fresh infections stayed high in Tiruppur, with 192 more persons testing positive, while Tiruvarur reported 143 cases. Nine more districts recorded 100-plus cases. In the last 24 hours, 80,123 samples were tested in the State, taking the total number of samples tested to 59.68 lakh. Two more private laboratories — Bioline Lab in Coimbatore and Muthu Meenakshi Hospitals in Pudukottai — were approved for COVID-19 testing. As of date, there are a total of 170 testing facilities in the State — 65 in the government sector and 105 private facilities.  In the last 24 hours, 80,123 samples were tested in the State, taking the total number of samples tested for COVID-19 so far to 59.68 lakh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-discharged-persons-crosses-45-lakh/article32605427.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers help officials fine motorists||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started deploying volunteers for collection of fines from motorists not wearing masks. The volunteers were found detaining residents and motorists along many roads on Monday in the presence of Corporation officials. Persons not wearing masks were made to pay a penalty of Rs. 200, while those spitting in public were asked to cough up Rs. 500. Over 15,000 volunteers have been at work during the pandemic, screening residents and monitoring violators. Many accompanied civic officials during the fine collection drive in commercial areas. Volunteers stopped motorists in violation of COVID-19 safety norms and took them to the officials who were empowered to collect the fine. “We are focusing more on mask wearing in public places. Some motorists protested, saying that they were only riding their vehicles without masks. We warned them,” an official said. On Monday, a total of Rs. 2.5 lakh was collected from violators. Civic officials said over 1,000 persons who did not have masks were penalised. Fine collection was more in zones such as Perungudi, Teynampet, Tiruvottiyur, Madhavaram, Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Ambattur, Perungudi and Alandur. Corporation officials in Teynampet collected the highest amount from residents and motorists. Officials in zones such as Manali, Tondiarpet, Anna Nagar, Kodambakkam, Valasaravakkam, Adyar and Sholinganallur did not collect fine from violators on Monday. The civic body has collected Rs. 1.9 crore in fines during the pandemic, with Royapuram zone generating the highest at Rs. 44 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteers-help-officials-fine-motorists/article32605383.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Children, adolescents advised to be mindful in cyberspace||Children and adolescents are glued to computers and mobile phones these days as their regular classes are conducted online. Naturally, they use the internet in their free time as well. The police have taken this opportunity to create awareness on cyber security to them. Officers of the special wing of the Crime against Women and Children have undertaken a door-to-door campaign to make children and adolescents more vigilant about the dangers they may face online. They frequently visit residential apartments, resident welfare associations and slums to provide tips to children on how to avoid trouble. An officer of the special wing said, “Earlier, we used to conduct awareness programmes on cyber crimes at schools and colleges. Now, the pandemic and subsequent online classes have resulted in this doorstep initiative. This is the right time for us to tap young minds.” The police advised children not to talk to or accept friend requests from strangers and to not share personal information, photos or passwords with anyone on the Internet. H. Jayalakshmi, Deputy Commissioner, told The Hindu , “The meetings and awareness campaigns are regularly organised in apartments and residential areas. Parents and children have been sensitised about the dangers of cyberspace. As most children are attending online classes, there are more chances of them falling prey to internet fraudsters. We are talking to them about harassment, cyber bullying, cyber grooming and other issues, and the available mechanisms to complain.” Immediate complaints The police asked residents to immediately register a complaint with the Cyber Crime Cell or the National Cyber Crime Reporting portal. An online complaint reporting system has been launched by the Greater Chennai Police to seek immediate remedies. A special control room to handle complaints on crimes against women and children is also functional. Any complainant can report grievances through WhatsApp video calls at the number 91502 50665, between 12 p.m. and 1 p.m. on Tuesdays and Fridays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/children-adolescents-advised-to-be-mindful-in-cyberspace/article32605386.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special flights being operated to U.S., U.A.E. and London||Even though commercial international flights are yet to take off, a few special ones to select destinations have become operational as part of the “air bubble” arrangement. The arrangement was made to enable flight operations between India and select destinations by signing agreements with countries such as the United States, the United Arab Emirates, France, the United Kingdom, Qatar, Germany and the Maldives. Now, special flights to London, Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Qatar are being operated from the city airport. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that flights to London and Dubai were operated thrice a week, while the one to Doha was operated once a week. “While these three have been regular so far, some airlines may not operate the services, depending on the response they receive. We do not see too many travellers or packed flights. Sometimes, flights are operated with half or less than half their capacities,” an official said. The number of passengers, however, has increased. Most are travelling to attend to personal or family matters. “It is now easier to get a ticket, and the prices too have been reasonable so far. One need not rely on repatriation flights alone for travelling for personal needs,” another official said. Meanwhile, Vande Bharat flights continue to arrive in the city. “It is also easier for passengers to travel now because there is no institutional quarantine as they only need to quarantine themselves at home,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-flights-being-operated-to-us-uae-and-london/article32605410.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers, officials look up to northeast monsoon||With the southwest monsoon in its last leg, the focus of farmers and officials in charge of water and farm sectors will turn in the coming weeks to how much rain the State is going to get during the northeast monsoon to sustain agricultural activity, which is perceptibly higher this year than the previous year. The Meteorological Department’s forecast of the northeast monsoon is expected to be finalised in a week, said a senior official of the department. At the same time, the officials in the State government would want the State to have a reasonable amount of rainfall during the season for a variety of reasons. Thanks to several factors including the COVID-19 pandemic and better water availability, the coverage of paddy this time is, as of now, around one lakh hectares higher than what it was a year ago. The samba cultivation season is yet to pick up momentum but, if the State’s performance in 2019-20 is an indication, the coverage of paddy in the entire State may go up to 13 lakh hectares, of which 34% will be from the Cauvery delta. As of now, it is about 1.936 lakh ha, both in and outside the delta. As for the kuruvai this time, the delta accounts for about 1.67 lakh hectares and the rest of the State, 1.35 lakh hectares. The cumulative figure of the coverage for the two seasons is 4.95 lakh ha, which is about 1.1 lakh ha more than that of the previous year. As on September 10, the shortfall in realisation of the State’s share of the Cauvery water was around 10 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft). Since June 1, the total realisation was 85.86 tmc ft against the stipulated 98.63 tmc ft. If the State is to have nil shortfall in realisation, it should receive 37 tmc ft in the next two weeks, which can happen only in the event of heavy rainfall in the Cauvery catchment areas. It is in this context that the northeast monsoon acquires importance. The State’s normal rainfall for the season is around 45 cm. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam has convened a meeting of senior officials on Friday to take stock of preparedness of the government machinery for the monsoon.  The Meteorological Department’s forecast of the northeast monsoon is expected to be finalised in a week||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-officials-rest-hopes-on-northeast-monsoon/article32605399.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stop glorifying student suicides, HC judge tells media||Justice N. Kirubakaran of the Madras High Court on Monday said the media should stop “glorifying” student suicides and political parties must stop the practice of paying lakhs of rupees as financial assistance to families of the deceased if they were really interested in preventing suicides in the State. He was of the view that these two acts were the prime reasons for the spate of student suicides in the State in recent days, due to the alleged fear to take the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The judge felt that excessive media coverage and glorification of a suicide leads to another, and so on and so forth. He found fault with political parties too for vying with each other to provide financial assistance, in lakhs of rupees, to the families of the deceased. He said suicides would come down if these things were stopped. The judge expressed his opinion when advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam made a mention about the four suicides in the State and said they were the result of non-compliance with the comprehensive orders passed by the judge in minor S. Kiruthika’s case on August 24, 2017. The advocate was advised to file a contempt of court petition if he was of the view that the court orders had not been complied with, in letter and in spirit. In the verdict, the judge had advised students against taking the extreme step just because they couldn’t clear NEET. “The world has become a small global village. Chances are available not just in the State or within the nation but throughout the world,” he had said. The judge also said it was the duty of the government to give appropriate counselling to the children and the parents. He said prominent personalities could also be roped in to motivate children through the media. The verdict went on to read: “The irony is that Tamil Nadu is a highly literate State, having more higher education institutions than others, and inspite of that, the State is seeking exemption from NEET.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-glorifying-student-suicides-hc-judge-tells-media/article32605416.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen rescued off Myanmar coast||After drifting in the high seas for over 50 days, nine fishermen from Kasimedu were rescued by the Myanmar Coast Guard in the early hours of Monday. Boat owner Balaji got a call from the captain of the rescue vessel, stating that his men and the boat were safe, at 3.30 a.m. on Monday. “I spoke to the driver. He said the engine failed near Pulicat. Though they informed some boats in the area, help did not arrive and they were stranded at sea,” he said. The boat had left Kasimedu on July 27 and was slated to return on August 7. After the men failed to return, the families and the boat owner had filed a complaint with the police. Pavithran, whose uncle R. Desappan was among those on the boat, said they were celebrating the rescue of their relatives and friends. “It has come as a huge relief to us,” he said. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said the State government had written to the Centre and to neighbouring States asking them for any information about the missing boat. “Now that they have been rescued, we are taking steps to bring them back home,” he said. M.E. Raghupathi, former president of the Kasimedu Boat Owners’ Association, said usually a group of boats would go for gill net fishing. But due to the pandemic this particular boat was caught alone. Modern safety equipment should be made mandatory. “At the moment it is optional,” he said. K. Bharathi of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association, said the Indian Coast Guard had washed its hands of the search operation stating that the boat could not be located without the coordinates. M.D. Dayalan of the Indian Fishermen Association, said a separate wing should be set up in the department that would be responsible for making pre-departure checks of boats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-rescued-off-myanmar-coast/article32605396.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SFI activists held for protesting against NEET||Activists belonging to the Students’ Federation of India (SFI) were arrested on Monday when they attempted to take out a procession towards the State Assembly, which is currently in session at Kalaivanar Arangam, demanding legislation against the conduct of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance test. Holding placards, the activists assembled before May Day Park in Chintadripet and sloganeered against the Central and State governments. Police personnel stopped them as they were heading towards Kalaivanar Arangam. They had a heated exchange with the police before being detained. Over 25 people were charged with unlawful assembly. V. Mariyappan, State secretary of SFI, said, “The Central government has been continuing to deprive the rights of the State government over education” “Since 2017, 17 students in the State have lost their lives due to the pressure caused by NEET. The bereaved families should be compensated with Rs. 50 lakh each and a government job. We also demand the government to quash cases booked against students who agitated against the exam all these years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sfi-activists-held-for-protesting-against-neet/article32605391.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When Chinna Annamalai’s arrest led to jail break||Tiruvadanai, a small town in Ramanathapuram district of Tamil Nadu, enjoys a unique place in the Independence movement. On the night of August 9, 1942, scores of people laid siege to the prison in this obscure town and broke it open to release freedom fighter Chinna Annamalai, whose birth centenary is being celebrated now. When Mahatma Gandhi started the “Quit India” movement and called upon Indians to “do or die”, Chinna Annamalai launched a campaign in Devakottai to protest against the arrest of Gandhiji. Police arrested him at midnight and lodged him in the prison. His arrest resulted not only in the jailbreak but also in police firing, in which many people were killed. “Chinna Annamalai surrendered one month later as the police announced Rs. 10,000 for his head. He was awarded four-and-a-half-years rigorous imprisonment. Rajaji (C. Rajagopalachari) appeared on his behalf in the court and his arguments led to Chinna Annamalai’s release,” recalls Tamil scholar Somale in his book Pathipputhurai Munnodi Moover (Three pioneers in publishing). Chinna Annamalai remained an acolyte of Rajaji till his last days. Born Nagappan in Uyyakondan Siruvayal, near Karaikudi, his name was changed to Annamalai by his adoptive parents. Rajaji added the prefix “Chinna” to differentiate him from Annamalai Chettiar, the founder of Annamalai University. Drawn to freedom struggle As a student, he was attracted to the freedom movement and schools sent him out. His father then sent him to Penang in Malaysia. He launched a campaign against toddy shops there, and the British government deported him to India. Even though his role in the Quit India movement made him popular, Chinna Annamalai shifted base to Chennai and started Tamil Pannai, a publishing house. He published the works of Rajaji and Namakkal poet Ramalingam Pillai, and later mobilised financial assistance for the poet. “When Gandhiji visited Chennai, Rajaji introduced Chinna Annamalai to him. Gandhiji granted permission to Annamalai to publishHarijanmagazine in Tamil,” says Somale. An orator and writer, he penned stories and dialogues for films such as Thangamalai Ragasiyam, Naan Yaar Theriyuma, Dharmaraja, President Panchatcharam and Kadavulin Kuzhanthai . Former Union Minister P. Chidambaram said his speech would leave the audience in splits. “I listened to his political speech at Tilak Ghat. Though I do not share his views, his speech made me think,” Mr. Chidambaram said. A bitter critic of the Dravidian movement and a close friend of actor Sivaji Ganesan, he launched the All India Sivaji Ganesan Fans Club to attract youth to the Congress. He also ran a magazine Sivaji Rasikan . Chinna Annamalai died in a queer incident when he was celebrating his 60th birthday. When water was poured on him on the occasion of his birthday celebration, he suffocated and died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-chinna-annamalais-arrest-led-to-a-jailbreak/article32605402.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC calls for report on smuggling of red sanders||The Madras High Court on Monday took note of media reports of several poor people from Tamil Nadu being shot dead, injured and arrested after being engaged to illegally fell red sanders in the neighbouring State of Andhra Pradesh. Justices N. Kirubakaran and P. Velmurugan called for a report from the Director General of Police on the number of such incidents reported in the last 10 years, the quantum of red sanders seized and the number of people arrested. The judges said mostly people belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in Tiruvannamalai, Dharmapuri and Vellore districts were lured for the illegal work since they suffered from a lack of employment opportunities. Hence, the Bench wanted to know whether the State government had taken any steps to create job opportunities for the people residing in the border areas and whether sufficient infrastructural facilities had been provided to the locals. The judges directed the DGP to clarify whether the police in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh conduct any joint operations to identify the smugglers. The questions were raised during the hearing of a habeas corpus petition, and the officials were granted two weeks to reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-calls-for-report-on-smuggling-of-red-sanders/article32605408.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Philatelic Bureau to hold art contest for children||The Philatelic Bureau, Anna Road HPO, is organising a drawing competition for designing special covers with COVID-19 as the theme. The COVID-19 Special Cover Design Competition is open for children between ages eight and 14. The theme will include the causes, consequences and prevention of COVID-19, according to a press release. The entry fee is Rs. 200. The amount should be sent either by money order addressed to “The Supervisor (Philatelic Bureau), Anna Road HPO, Chennai-600 002” or by cheque drawn in the name of “The Chief Postmaster, Anna Road HPO, Chennai-600002”. The last date for receipt of entry fee and for sending in entries is September 30. The entry fee will be utilised for opening of a new philately deposit account in the name of the participant through which the new release of commemorative stamps will be dispatched until the amount is exhausted. If the participant already has a philately deposit account, the amount can be used to recharge their account. The drawings should be sent to “The Supervisor (Philatelic Bureau), Anna Road Head Post Office, Chennai-600002” through speed post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/philatelic-bureau-to-hold-art-contest-for-children/article32605384.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Theatre owners can’t set terms: Bharathirajaa||Tamil Nadu Film Active Producers’ Association president Bharathirajaa on Monday said while producers were inclined to screen films in theatres, cinema owners can’t dictate terms. “We want to screen our movies in theatres but if theatre owners are inflexible, we have other ways [to sell]. The product [film] is ours and they don’t have the right to say what and how we have to do business,” he said. Mr. Bharathiraaja said if the theatre owners’ association did not want to “talk” about their demands, producers would be forced to look for other ways to sell their films such as OTT platforms. Theatre owners were free to do what they want. “If the theatre owners don’t agree to our demands, we will embrace OTT platforms,” he said. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating the TNFAPA office, Mr. Bharathirajaa said that the actors and technicians should first complete projects signed before the lockdown. ‘Need to finish projects’  “This association was formed to look into the problems faced by producers at this moment in time. All big producers are in this association. We urge actors and technicians to complete the projects that they had signed before the COVID-19 lockdown and are currently under production before moving on to new project,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theatre-owners-cant-set-terms-bharathirajaa/article32605431.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CJ asks DMK MLAs to approach single judge||Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi of the Madras High Court on Monday said DMK president M.K. Stalin and 17 of his party MLAs must first approach a single judge of the High Court, challenging fresh notices issued to them on September 7 for breach of privilege proceedings initiated for displaying Gutkha sachets in the Assembly in July 2017. Leading the first Division Bench along with Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, the Chief Justice told advocates Amit Anand Tiwari and S. Manuraj that the writ petitions of the 18 MLAs would have to be listed for admission only before the single judge holding the relevant portfolio at present and not before a Division Bench. The lawyers had made a mention before the Chief Justice’s bench for early hearing of the new cases because it had on August 25 disposed of previous cases filed by the MLAs and held that similar notices issued to them in August 2017 suffered from foundational errors before leaving it open to the Committee of Privileges to issue fresh notices. As per procedure The Chief Justice told them that his Bench had disposed of the 2017 writ petitions because they had been referred to the Bench by a single judge in view of the importance of the matter. Now that the MLAs had filed fresh writ petitions, they must be placed first before a single judge as per procedure, he added. The lawyers accepted the CJ’s advice and agreed to make a mention before the single judge concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-justice-asks-dmk-mlas-to-approach-single-judge/article32605406.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘PMK not a sworn enemy, but reconciliation must’||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) general secretary and Villupuram MP D. Ravikumar on Monday said the PMK must do a “course correction” and move away from, what he deemed, “hate politics”. A day earlier, PMK founder S. Ramadoss told a television channel that the VCK need not be seen as the party’s “sworn enemy”. Endorsing it, Mr. Ravikumar told The Hindu, “No political party can be a sworn enemy. We were with them in the 2011 Assembly election. At a personal level, I know that he (Dr. Ramadoss) is not someone who would agree with hate politics and stands for social justice in society. It is my understanding that hate politics is being pursued by the party as an election strategy,” the VCK leader said. Mr. Ravikumar, however, felt that the PMK must undergo “course correction” irrespective of a possible electoral alliance next year, and that his comments should not be seen as though VCK was open for an alliance as well. According to him, the Vanniyar and the Dalit communities co-existed more peacefully in the northern districts, and instances of violence between the communities were recent. “The reconciliation is necessary. If there is no peace and harmony between the Dalits and the Vanniyars, who form the majority in the northern regions, they will continue to remain underdeveloped,” he said. Mr. Ravikumar said the PMK was in alliance with the BJP, “which is threatening social justice, especially reservations”, and Dr. Ramadoss should not be the reason for the growth of an ideology that was against what he believed in. “Course correction is essential for Tamil Nadu’s development, communal harmony and social justice. And also, this is needed to reclaim the very ideals for which Dr. Ramadoss started the party,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-not-a-sworn-enemy-but-reconciliation-must/article32605405.ece
15 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||G. Sugumar takes charge as Fisheries varsity V-C||G. Sugumar, who was appointed Vice-Chancellor of the Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University on August 20, received his appointment letter from Governor-Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit on Monday. Mr. Sugumar, who succeeds S. Felix, was earlier professor and head of the department of Fish Processing Technology at the Fisheries College and Research Institute in Thoothukudi. He will serve as the Vice-Chancellor for a period of three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/g-sugumar-takes-charge-as-fisheries-varsity-v-c/article32605400.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Girl who ran away traced in two hours||The Adambakkam police on Sunday found a girl two hours after she had run away from home. She was upset with her parents, who scolded her for playing with a mobile phone. Around 7 p.m., the 14-year-old girl’s father, who is a resident of Surendra Nagar, registered an oral complaint with the Adambakkam police, saying she was missing from their home. On instructions from Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, special teams were constituted under Adambakkam police inspector V. Balan and Tambaram police inspector R. Albin Raj. With clues provided by the family about her dress along with her photograph, police personnel fanned out across the city. She was located near Vadapalani at 9 p.m. and was taken into custody. She was immediately handed over to the family, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-who-ran-away-traced-in-two-hours/article32605390.ece
15 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Build walls at Ennore creek to reduce flooding: IIT-M||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) have proposed the construction of “straight training walls” at the mouth of Ennore creek to reduce risk of flooding. The study was commissioned by Kamarajar Port (formerly Ennore Port) in Chennai to propose a solutions to reduce flooding around the Kosasthalaiyar river banks. The researchers — K. Murali, S.A. Sannasiraj, and V. Sundar, faculty in the Department of Ocean Engineering, — studied the extreme storm surge and high tide levels along with flooding in the river. The study found that heavy siltation and narrow opening at the mouth of the creek posed a flood threat to areas adjoining the river. It suggested “straight training walls” at the mouth of Ennore creek to significantly minimise the flood risk in upstream areas. The study showed that regular desilting could also improve the situation and minimise the flood risk significantly in northern city suburbs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/build-walls-at-ennore-creek-to-reduce-flooding-iit-m/article32605392.ece
15 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. sets Sept. 30 deadline to complete a part of lake project||Coimbatore Corporation has set a new deadline to complete a part of the lake development project it has taken up under the Central Government’s Smart Cities Mission. “I’ve asked the engineers supervising work in Smart Cities Mission to complete the Quick Win component of the project by September 30,” Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian told The Hindu .  Quick Win component  The Quick Win component is part of the project that the Corporation took up for development to showcase to the public what it intended to do with the city’s water bodies. The Rs. 89- crore component covers the a kilometre of the northern bund of Ukkadam Big Tank (Periyakulam) and the stretch of Valangulam tank bund beneath the Sungam-Ukkadam flyover and the road across that connects Trichy Road to Sungam Bypass Road. The Commissioner said he gave the revised deadline to the engineers after visiting the lake fronts a few days ago and reviewing the progress make in the lake development project. The Corporation’s first deadline for the Quick Win component for which it had floated tender in 2018 was March 2019. It then revised the deadline twice and in May this year it had informed the Smart Cities Mission Director Kunal Kumar that it would complete the project by June. Sources familiar with the lake development project said the unavailability of workers, who had returned home because of the COVID-19 pandemic, was one of the reasons for further delay in the project. The Quick Win component forms part of the Rs. 700 crore-odd lake development work involving eight water bodies in the city. Of the eight tanks, the Corporation will do only eco-restoration and cleaning work in the Singanallur tank so as to preserve the environment there. The Corporation has also been facing challenge in developing the Krishnampathy tank as there have been no takers for the development work proposed there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-sets-sept-30-deadline-to-complete-a-part-of-lake-project/article32605447.ece
15 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Six arrested for murder of Hindu Munnani supporter||Special teams of the Coimbatore City Police arrested six persons late on Monday in connection with the murder of a Hindu Munnani supporter at Ram Nagar here on Sunday afternoon. Raja, Karthik, Ilaiyaraja, Aravind, Vivek Prabhu and Praveen alias ‘Kili’ were arrested for the murder of C. Biju (40), a resident of Dhanalakshmi Nagar near Avarampalayam and a supporter of Hindu Munnani. A seventh accused named Arumugam of Ganesh Nagar near Narasimhanaickenpalayam was at large. The police said Biju was running a soda shop and finance company on Gokhale Street at Ram Nagar where Arumugam’s son Nithish Kumar and Hindu Munnani workers including one Anandh used to hang out. Arumugam, an active member of Mukkulathor Pulipadai, a caste-based organisation, has been running a belt store at Ram Nagar. Biju, according to the police, had attempted to compromise clashes between Anandh and Kumar. The two groups had minor clashes in the past and Anandh’s friends Rahul from Ram Nagar and Vishnu from Kannappa Nagar had assaulted Kumar on September 12. Following the incident, Arumugam had demanded Biju to warn Anandh against getting into further clashes with his son Kumar, the police said. Biju reportedly backed Anandh, earning the wrath of Arumugam and the six others, who are also members of the caste outfit, said the police. The accused hacked Biju at Ram Nagar on Sunday afternoon and he succumbed to injuries at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. A senior police officer said that no communal angle was involved in the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-arrested-for-murder-of-hindu-munnani-supporter/article32605464.ece
15 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No major increase in occupancy, earnings of special trains||A week after the Salem Division of Southern Railway launched five special trains after the relaxation in COVID-19 lockdown, the occupancy and earnings of the trains are yet to see improvement. The operations of five special trains - Train No. 02675/76 Superfast Intercity Special, Train No. 02679/80 Intercity Superfast Special and Train No. 02673/74 Superfast Express Special between Coimbatore Junction and Dr. M.G.R Chennai Central, Train No. 02083/84 Janshatabdi Special between Coimbatore and Mayiladuthurai Junction and Train No. 02671/72 Superfast Daily Special between Mettupalayam Junction and Dr. M.G.R Chennai Central Junction - began on September 7. According to official sources at the Salem Division of Southern Railway, the four Chennai-bound special trains have seen an average occupancy of less than 60% in the past week. Train No. 02679/80 saw 55% occupancy, Train No. 02673/74 saw 50% occupancy, Train No. 02671/72 saw 42% occupancy and Train No. 02675/76 saw only 40% occupancy. On the other hand, the Mayiladuthurai-bound Train No. 02083/84 saw an average occupancy of 61%, sources told The Hindu . However, the earnings of all five trains had been less than 50%, with Train No. 02083/84 Janshatabdi train recording earnings of around 40% while Train No. 02671/72 Mettupalayam-Chennai train recording only 26% earnings in the past week. The occupancy saw a slight increase in weekends as around 545 passengers boarded Train No. 02673/74 and 340 passengers boarded Train No. 02671/72 at Coimbatore Railway Station. All the passengers were being allowed only if they were wearing masks and after screening for temperature. Personnel comprising the railway medical and ticketing staff members along with personnel from Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police were involved in monitoring the passengers at the Coimbatore Railway Station, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-major-increase-in-occupancy-earnings-of-special-trains/article32605463.ece
15 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Marathon to go virtual this year||The eighth edition of the Coimbatore Marathon organised by the Coimbatore Cancer Foundation (CCF) will be held as a virtual event due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation from December 1 to 31. According to the Race Director of Coimbatore Marathon, Ramesh Ponnuswami, the participants shall choose their date, start time, route, distance and run/walk from their preferred location and complete their race on any preferred date in December. As there will be no constraints regarding the route and timings in the virtual marathon, there will be four new event categories – a three-km run/walk, a 10-miler (16.1 km), a 20-miler (32.2 km) and a full marathon (42.2 km) – in addition to the usual 5 km run/walk, 10 km and half marathon (21.1 km) categories this year, Mr. Ponnuswami said in a press release. A donation of Rs. 99 to the CCF will be applicable for participants based in India and $5 for participants based outside India for all the categories. CCF managing trustee T. Balaji said that the COVID-19 pandemic has left cancer patients at greater risk and that calls for more awareness initiatives. “This year, we hope to see the community becoming bigger and better, enabling us to provide cancer care, financial support and counselling to more patients and their family members,” he said, according to the release. The theme for this year’s edition of Coimbatore Marathon will be ‘Run Smart’ and is expected to attract more than 25,000 participants. While the past seven editions of the event have been held in the first week of October, the marathon will be permanently moved to December from this year. The registrations are open for the Coimbatore Marathon. Those interested shall register online at www.coimbatoremarathon.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-marathon-to-go-virtual-this-year/article32605454.ece
15 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||GST evasion detected||Officials from Coimbatore Zonal Unit of the Directorate General of GST Intelligence detected evasion of Goods and Services Tax (GST) by two manufacturers of knitted fabrics in Tiruppur recently. A press release on Monday said that the search operations were conducted on the business and warehouse premises of the two taxpayers in Tiruppur on September 10. The search operations revealed that nearly Rs. 45 crore worth of sales were made by them without raising any GST invoices or bills. The officials recovered Rs. 2.2 crore from them for the past GST liabilities and seized unaccounted stock of knitted fabrics worth Rs. 2.7 crore from four of the premises. Two of the warehouses were not declared to the GST Department and the person in-charge of the knitted fabric units admitted that the GST invoices were not raised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gst-evasion-detected/article32605451.ece
15 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man dies in accident||A man hailing from Cheran Ma Nagar here died after the two-wheeler he rode was hit by a car on Monday. The police have identified the deceased as Muthukumar (35). He was travelling on the two-wheeler with his wife and son when the accident took place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-in-accident/article32605452.ece
15 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SHRC seeks report on alleged police excess||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC), Tamil Nadu, issued notice to the Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore District (Rural) Police, seeking a detailed report on the alleged police excess on a man from earlier this month. The action was taken in connection with alleged police torture on Kannan (27), a construction worker from Tenkasi, whom the Periyanaickenpalayam police had taken into custody and grilled as part of the investigation into an unsolved murder. SHRC took suo motu cognisance of the alleged police torture based on a report appeared in an English daily. The SP has been asked to submit a report before the SHRC within three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-seeks-report-on-alleged-police-excess/article32605470.ece
15 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online training course on on occupational safety||Coimbatore Productivity Council will organise an online training course on occupational health and safety from September 19. Those with any degrees or diplomas can participate in the five-week programme and the participants will be given e-certificates upon completion of the course, a release said. For further details, call or WhatsApp 99524 04302 and 82200 00371/2/3/4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-training-course-on-on-occupational-safety/article32605450.ece
15 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain damages road in Gundri hills||The recent rain in Gundri hills has caused extensive damage to the Gundri-Kadambur Road. Villagers want the road to be re-laid or repair works carried out. Over 6,000 people reside in various hamlets in Gundri village panchayat in Sathyamangalam Taluk. To reach the village, people have to take a 20-km road through a forest from Kadambur. Heavy rain from Wednesday to Friday caused extensive damage to the already battered road at many places, rendering it non-motorable. The villagers said that the only bus service to Gundri from Kadambur was also stopped six months ago. Hence, they had to depend on two-wheelers, pick-up vans and other commercial vehicles for commuting. Since the road condition was very bad, pregnant women and patients could not get to Kadambur to reach hospitals, they said, adding that there was no healthcare facility available in the panchayat. The villagers said that forest roads were re-laid only once in ten years as per norms. The Gundri-Kadambur Road was re-laid nine years ago. But, they could not wait for another year for this road to be re-laid as its condition was very poor. They wanted the works taken up soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-damages-road-in-gundri-hills/article32605445.ece
15 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Nine arrested for robbing families at knifepoint||Nine persons, including five college students, were arrested by the police for allegedly assaulting four members of two families and decamping with 13 sovereign gold jewellery and Rs. 70,000 here on September 8. According to a complaint lodged by S. Sajeev, a driver at Sathyamangalam Forest Division, with the Sathyamangalam police, unidentified persons entered his house and attacked his family and tenants and decamped with jewellery and cash. The police registered a case under Sections 395 (dacoity) and 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of IPC and four special teams were formed. Police arrested P. Prakash (25), who led the robbery along with an 18-year-old boy, N. Dhanush (19), N. Soudeswaran (19), A. Aruldas (19), S. Bhuvaneswaran, M. Srinath (19), D. Mahendran (48) and S. Muthu (34), all from different villages in Sathyamangalam. Police recovered jewellery and cash from them. Weapons, mobile phones and a vehicle were also seized. The accused were produced before the court and lodged in prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-arrested-for-robbing-families-at-knifepoint/article32605449.ece
15 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Bhavani Sagar dam level crosses 100 feet||The water level at Bhavani Sagar dam crossed the 100-feet mark here on Monday. At 4 p.m., the inflow was 2,857 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs in Lower Bhavani Project canal and 550 cusecs at Arakankottai and Thadapalli canals. The water level stood at 100.03 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet. The storage was 28.750 tmc, as against the capacity of 32.800 tmc.     A 36-year-old man, who made a hoax call to the Chennai police control room that he will plant a bomb at Erode Collectorate, was arrested here. The alert was forwarded to the District Police Office. Surampatti police traced the accused Gowri Shankar to Thudupathi Pallapalayam.     The modernised canteen constructed at a cost of Rs. 30 lakh on the District Police Office premises was thrown open for public use here on Monday. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai inaugurated the first sale. The canteen will be serving the public and police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhavani-sagar-dam-level-crosses-100-feet/article32605448.ece
15 September 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of deworming tablets begins in three districts||A deworming camp was flagged off by District Collector Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy here on Monday. The camp, organised under the National Deworming Programme, is held from September 14 to 28 to cover those aged between 1 and 19. The deworming camp is organised once in every six months. In Krishnagiri, the camp is expected to cover 5,20,012 children in three rounds. The first round will be held from September 14 to 19, second round from September 21 to 26, and finally those left out will be covered in the third round on September 28. Anaemia The camp entails the government administering Albendazole tablets for children in all primary health centres, and anganwadis. Worm infection is said to cause anaemia, malnutrition, impaired mental, and physical development, impinges on cognitive development and affects children’s participation in schools. Dharmapuri In Dharmapuri, the health department has proposed to cover about 5 lakh children this year.  Salem Staff Reporter adds  In Salem, Collector S.A. Raman launched the deworming camp at an anganwadi centre in Nainampatti on Monday. According to a release, 11.11 lakh children in the district would be covered under the programme and 6,984 workers are involved in the exercise The tablets would be provided in three rounds from September 14 to 28. The Salem Corporation would be distributing deworming tablets to 3.20 lakh children from September 14 to 26 in its limits. The deworming tablets would be distributed through 314 anganwadi centres and 16 primary health centres in Corporation limits and 457 workers are being involved in the exercise. Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh launched the programme in Salem Corporation limits at a PHC in NGGO Colony here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-deworming-tablets-begins-in-three-districts/article32605457.ece
15 September 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Rain lashes Krishnagiri dt.||The Krishnagiri Reservoir Project (KRP) dam was slowly filling up as rain continued to lash various parts of the district on Monday. The KRP reservoir received 1053 cusecs and recorded an outflow of 92 cusecs. The total capacity of the dam was 52 feet, and the reservoir level on Monday was 38.70mm. The district received an average rainfall of 7.20 mm with Thally recording the maximum rainfall of 30 mm, followed by Denkanikottai- 9mm, Hosur and Rayakottai -7mm, Shoolagiri - 6 mm. Krishnagiri registered 5.20mm rainfall. Kelavarapalli dam continued to receive copious amounts of rainfall with Karnataka recording heavy rain. The dam’s total capacity is 44.28 feet, and the current storage level was 40.18 feet on Monday. Kelavarapalli dam received 1,120 cusecs of water and the total outflow was 1208 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-lashes-krishnagiri-dt/article32605461.ece
15 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||File status report on illegal sand quarrying, says HC||Taking a serious view of illegal quarrying of top soil (‘savudu’) in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the State to respond to a series of queries with regard to the action taken so far in curbing such activities. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and B. Pugalendhi directed the State to file a comprehensive status report with regard to the steps taken to seize and confiscate vehicles and tools involved in the illegal activities, under the relevant Acts and Rules. The court asked the State as to whether the government has implemented or formulated any rules pertaining to the conservation of soil as per the direction of the Supreme Court and the High Court. Questioning the monitoring mechanism in place and whether the district and the taluk level task force were taking appropriate action in tackling the issues, the court also sought to know if any action was taken against officials for failing to stop the irregularities. The court directed the State to file a comprehensive status report and adjourned the hearing in the case to September 29. The court was hearing a batch of petitions alleging illegal quarrying of ‘savudu.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/file-status-report-on-illegal-sand-quarrying-says-hc/article32605554.ece
15 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Private colleges to postpone semester examinations||Many private colleges affiliated to Madurai Kamaraj University are likely to postpone the semester examinations which were scheduled for September 16 onwards, following a direction from the State government. A discussion was held between Principals and the MKU administration via video conferencing, here on Monday. Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan, who presided over the meeting, said 80 Principals attended the meeting and discussed the process of conducting the exam online. “Question papers will be mailed to the Principals by 9 a.m. The question papers must be given to the students by 9.45 a.m. so that they start the three-hour exam between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.," he said. Students can either scan and send their answer sheet via email to the Principal, submit it at the college or send their answer scripts via post by 2 p.m. for evaluation. “In case the students do not have email facility, the Principals can consider sending the questions via WhatsApp. The reason should be genuine though,” he said. According to sources, a number of queries regarding logistics and the conduct of the exams were raised. Principal of Saraswathi Narayanan College M. Kannan, who attended the meeting, said they were yet to get clarity on many questions raised to the administration. His college had initially scheduled the final year exams this week but had postponed them to September 21. “The administration has said that only 80% of the students have access to internet connectivity. How are we to accommodate the 20% who may not have a connection? Many students do not have smartphones and may feel inferior to those who may possess them. They may also believe that it may cost them marks during the exam. Many students may also not have the necessary internet bandwidth for the exam even if they do have a smart phone," he said. General secretary of Madurai Kamaraj University Private Colleges Management Association S. Rajagopal said there were no means to supervise students during the online exam. “We are treading uncharted territory. Future of many students could be spoiled,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-colleges-to-postpone-semester-examinations/article32605555.ece
15 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Thuvariman women demand closure of liquor shop||A group of women from Indira Colony of Thuvariman in Madurai staged a protest on Melakkal Main Road on Monday morning, demanding closure of a TASMAC retail outlet. With the women blocking the road, traffic movement was disrupted for around 15 minutes. The liquor shop has been functioning for the past one week. M. Palaniammal, a protester, said the womenfolk had to endure physical violence from their alcoholic husbands. “It is mentally agonising to encounter the violence every day,” she said. Since many houses do not have toilets, most of the residents defecate in the open. “It is a common sight to see men whiling away their time outside the home drinking. So women, especially young girls, feel unsafe to go to the open spaces because of them,” said M. Krishnamma, another resident of Indira Colony. M. Panchu, another resident, said a liquor shop in their midst would ruin their lives. “I work hard as a domestic worker but earn a pittance. But my husband spends the money on drinks,” she said. The protesters also complained that many school-going boys in their area have started drinking. “Two drunk boys met with a serious accident last night,” said A. Meena, another resident. The police assured the women that action would be taken to close the liquor shop following which the women dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thuvariman-women-demand-closure-of-liquor-shop/article32605559.ece
15 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Students participate in butterfly count||Students of The American College and M.S.S. Wakf Board College participated in the butterfly count on their college premises on Monday as part of the Big Butterfly month celebration. The American College is among the 50 organisations across the country, which is organising events as part of the celebrations. The butterfly count will take place from September 14 to 20. M. Rajesh, Assistant Professor of Zoology, said 20 species of butterflies were spotted by the students on Monday. It included dark blue tiger, common rose, crimson rose, chocolate pansy, yellow pansy, plain tiger and tiny grass blue. He said the movement of butterflies was good between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. on their campus. K. Shameem Rani, professor and Head, Department of Zoology, M.S.S. Wakf Board College, said 12 species were found in their college. “The presence of butterflies indicates the lower levels of pollution in that place,” she said. Mr. Rajesh said that the students displayed interest in taking part in the butterfly count. “For many students, it was the first time they had witnessed many species of butterflies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-participate-in-butterfly-count/article32605550.ece
15 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Robbers arrested||City police busted a gang of robbers with the arrest of five persons, and recovered 21 sovereigns of gold from them. The main accused, K. Muthu Irul (27) of Samayanallur, was accused in two murder cases, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) K. Palanikumar. “He had come out of jail only last month, and in the intervening period he was involved in nine cases. He used two motorbikes stolen from K. Pudur for highway robbery,” he added. Stating that the gang members – K. Vijayakumar (25) of Samayanallur, D. Balakumar (27) of Andalpuram, P. Loganathan (23) of Kodimangalam and K. Selvendran (24) of Tirupachethi – used to follow vulnerable people, especially couples, on two motorbikes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/robbers-arrested/article32605898.ece
15 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea in Sattankulam case not maintainable, says HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has held as not maintainable a plea that sought action against the Sattankulam judicial magistrate for allegedly passing the remand order against trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks mechanically. When the plea, listed on Monday under the caption “for maintainability”, was taken up for hearing, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam observed that the plea was not maintainable as a public interest litigation petition.  ‘Probe progressing’ The issue was a service-related matter, and, moreover, investigation into the custodial deaths case was already progressing, the court said. R. Rajiv Gandhi had sought appropriate action against the Sattankulam judicial magistrate. He said representations were sent seeking appropriate action against the official. As they were yet to be looked into, a plea was being filed as a public interest litigation petition, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-in-sattankulam-case-not-maintainable-says-hc/article32605420.ece
15 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Four killed in Madurai||A 38-year-old man, Prem Anand alias Manikanda Jothi, and his uncle P. Manoharan (62) were killed in an accident involving two motorbikes on Kulamangalam Road under Alanganallur police station limits on Sunday. The police said Prem Anand and Manoharan were returning home when another two-wheeler, ridden by N. Srinivasan, collided with their bike. All the three fell down and sustained grievous injuries. Prem Anand and Manoharan died on the spot. Srinivasan has been admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital. The police said that Prem Anand, who was determined to get married only after constructing a house, was returning home after his engagement when the accident took place. In another accident reported in Usilampatti, S. Perumal (56) of Poothipuram was killed when a truck hit his two-wheeler on Madurai Main Road. Perumal’s daughter Kaviya (19) was injured. In an accident reported on Saturday, driver of a lorry, S. Nainar (48) of Kanniyakumari district, was killed after his truck collided with a parked lorry on Virudhunagar-Madurai Highway near Kalligudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-killed-in-madurai/article32605896.ece
15 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs State to file status report in chit fund scam case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday observed that it would monitor the Ramanathapuram chit fund scam case in view of the serious nature of the case and the number of investors involved. The court was informed that the probe in the case was taken over by the Economic Offences Wing. Taking cognisance of the submission, Justice R. Pongiappan sought a status report. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by the investors in the chit fund who sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Neethimani, his wife Menaka and Anand were named as accused in the case based on a complaint lodged by one Thulasimanigandan. It is said Mr. Thulasimanigandan and 58 others had invested Rs. 3 crore in the chit fund firm and the amount was not repaid to them. A police complaint was lodged against the trio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-state-to-file-status-report-in-chit-fund-scam-case/article32605897.ece
15 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||IGNOU exams||Final year students will be appearing at various centres of the Indira Gandhi National Open University in the Madurai region to write their semester exams starting September 17 until October 16. According to a release, final year students of bachelors, masters, diploma and certificate courses who have applied can download hall tickets from IGNOU website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ignou-exams/article32605885.ece
15 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Identify alternative site for Collectorate complex’||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has ordered notice to the State on a petition that sought a direction to the government to identify an alternative site to construct a complex to accommodate the Collectorate and other offices in Tenkasi district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the State on the petition filed by advocate P. Siva Padmanabhan, who said the present site in Melagaram experienced waterlogging often. A suitable land must be identified for the construction of the Collectorate complex, he said. The case was adjourned for further hearing to October 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/identify-alternative-site-for-collectorate-complex/article32605553.ece
15 September 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Three-year-old girl killed by mother’s paramour||A three-year-old girl was reportedly beaten to death by her mother's paramour in Velankanni limits a few days ago. Ramdas (30), a driver belonging to Tiruvannamalai district, who had an extra-marital relationship with a woman of Paramakudi in Ramanathapuram district, was said to have beaten up the child in a lodge where they were staying. The duo had first taken the child, when it had fallen unconscious, to a private hospital and subsequently to the Government Hospital in Nagapattinam. After the child was pronounced brought dead, the duo abandoned the body at the hospital. On Sunday, they were picked up by the police from near the Velankanni Arch. Later in the day, they were remanded in judicial custody||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-year-old-girl-killed-by-mothers-paramour/article32605916.ece
15 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Unique ID for COVID-19 patients on the anvil in Puducherry||The Health Department is developing a technology-driven management information system in consultation with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for better monitoring of COVID-19 patients. The system envisages assigning a unique ID to patients for capturing all information right from testing to post-COVID-19 treatment. In a briefing with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, A. Anbarasu, Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner, and T. Arun, District Collector-cum-Health Secretary, said the system is expected to be rolled out by next week. “More practical and workable IT systems are being put in place to keep track of patients from the time of testing to their discharge. At the same time, bringing down COVID-19 related fatality remains a concern in Puducherry,” Ms. Bedi said. Scaling up testing The Health Department is also gearing to scale up testing for COVID-19 to about 5,000 samples within two weeks. The testing volume had already been increased to about 4,000 a day. Adequate stocks of test kits are being procured, along with life saving anti-viral drugs. Health workers will be given one-day off on rotational basis to keep them re-energised and sustain the pace of increased testing. Besides, a stand-by team will be ready when staff at a particular PHC are given a day off. The preliminary death analysis report has been worked out using the expertise of the World Health Organization. Various treatment protocol suggestions contained in the preliminary report would be finalised in consultation with ICMR, the officials said. More surveillance Surveillance is being intensified within containment zones. A surveillance SOP for contact tracing is being prepared in consultation with the central ICMR team. Training has been imparted to rural Self-Help Groups (SHGs) for surveillance. Training will be imparted to urban SHGs on Tuesday. The ASHA workers, ANMs/volunteers will carry out daily surveillance and will issue referral slips for symptomatic patients for preliminary assessment at the Primary Health Centres (PHCs). Another important decision was to convene a meeting with stakeholder departments such as Health, PWD and LAD on the prevention of co-existence of dengue with COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unique-id-for-covid-19-patients-on-the-anvil-in-puducherry/article32605434.ece
15 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tourism sector in U.T. showing signs of revival||With the first signs of tourists returning to the city, the hospitality sector is hoping to pick up the thread and attract more footfall in the closing months of a year battered by the COVID-19 pandemic. With tourism being the mainstay of the local economy, there is a lot riding on weekend travellers returning to the destination for not just the hospitality industry and its employees, but also for ancillary sectors such as two-wheeler rentals, curio boutiques and retail trade. Even in a normal year, weekend domestic tourism accounts for a lion’s share of business in Puducherry. “Budget hotels are seeing 25% to 30% business in restaurant sections, but room occupancy remains sporadic. Though we are seeing some inflow of tourists after the abolition of the e-pass, the non-resumption of inter-State public transport from other cities, especially Bengaluru, remains a major bottleneck,” said Prosper Anand, a spokesman for the Hotels Association of Pondicherry. A large section of tourists from Karnataka prefer overnight buses. The more expensive hotels have remained shut since March and are opening up only their banquet halls for marriages or special occasions. Unprecedented situation “There will have to be extensive government support for an asset and capital-based business like the hotel industry to come out of the unprecedented situation, where cash flow has been nil for several months,” said Amitava Roy, general manager at Atithi Hotel of the TGI group. Typically, food and beverages services account for 40% of the overall operations and top-line hotels need 50-60% room occupancy to break even. “The industry has been been asking the Centre for a one- or two-year moratorium on loans and extending the pay back term,” he said. Some properties are using the downtime for restoration or reinvention. “We are in the process of a makeover to present a new experience when we reopen,” said Dipen Desai at The Promenade. “On the bright side, with international travel likely to take months to normalise, we can hope to attract tourists who usually plan an overseas vacation,” said Mr. Amitava Roy. As early as mid-July, the Puducherry administration was batting for reviving tourism as proposed by the Centre by delinking the unlocking of the economy from the state of the pandemic. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy had said the administration was seriously thinking of re-starting tourism from August to check the slump in revenues and to revive trade and business. He pointed out that several countries, which were battered by the pandemic, had re-opened the tourism sector alongside COVID-19 control measures. Industry’s wish list Representatives of the hospitality sector are counting on a benign policy from the government. In a memorandum to the government, V. Ramachandran, president of the Hotels Association of Pondicherry, sought carry-over of the excise licence fee that had been paid upfront to the next fiscal as bars had been shut for over five months. The association sought relief in property tax, municipality trade licence and fixed electricity charges. The hospitality sector feels the government needs to do more to build the confidence of travellers on the lines of aggressive pitching by other tourism-dependent destinations. The government would have to take a call on reducing liquor prices, which it had raised on a par with rates in neighbouring Tamil Nadu to cut off influx of tipplers from neighbouring districts in the early stages of the COVID-19 spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-sector-in-ut-showing-signs-of-revival/article32605436.ece
15 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry’s tally crosses 20,000-mark||Puducherry’s COVID-19 tally crossed the 20,000-mark, with 414 more persons testing positive for the infection on Monday. Nine more deaths raised the Union Territory’s toll to 394. The capital recorded eight deaths, and Karaikal one. The patients, including four women, were in the 47-80 age group. The case fatality rate stood at 1.95%. With 447 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the recovery rate was at 74.3%. Puducherry now has 4,805 active cases, with 15,027 patients having been discharged so far. S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said that new cases were identified after testing 3,742 samples. Of the fresh cases, the Puducherry region saw 308, Karaikal 74, Yanam 29 and Mahe three. In all, 447 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. The Health Department has tested 1,03,743 samples so far, with results of 80,424 returning negative for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherrys-tally-crosses-20000-mark/article32605412.ece
15 September 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Tension as protest continues||Tension prevailed in Rajapalayam town after scores of villagers from Mudugudi gathered at Gandhi statue junction and staged a road blockade on Monday. The agitators were supporters of former Puthiya Tamilagam district secretary, Rajalingam, who was hacked to death by a gang on his way to his farm on Saturday. Rajalingam was accused in the murder of a local man Thangavel, who was hacked to death in January. Though the police had arrested four persons in connection with Rajalingam’s murder, the protesters sought the arrest of all the 11 accused named in the case. Tension mounted when some of the protesters forced shops in the vicinity to close down and pushed few motorbikes on the road. However, others pacified them. A huge posse of police personnel were posted at the scene. The agitation went on for nearly 30 minutes. However, a bigger crowd gathered at Mudugudi and continued the road blockade. Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, along with Deputy Inspector General of Police (Dingidul), Muthusamy, who holds additional charge of Madurai Range, and Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police, P. Perumal, held talks with protesters. “After we promised them that no one connected in the case would be spared, they relented and gave up the road blockade,” Mr. Kannan said. Vehicular traffic that had remained diverted through other route was brought back to normal. However, the agitators had said that they would accept the body of Rajalingam only on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-as-protest-continues/article32605887.ece
15 September 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Multiple strategies help check COVID-19 spread: Collector||Multiple strategies and effective coordination from different departments, led by Public Health officials and doctors, assisted by field staff kept the number of active cases of COVID-19 at 244 as on September 13, said Collector K Veera Raghava Rao here on Monday. Apart from the government hospitals in Ramanathapuram and Paramakudi, covid care centres in the district functioned round the clock that it had paved way in keeping the numbers low, he said, adding Ramanathapuram was in ninth position among the 10 southern districts. Speaking to reporters, he said out of the 244 patients, 159 were in home isolation with doctors periodically monitoring them. The district had so far treated 5181 patients and 4,824 were discharged from hospitals. The Collector said proper planning and handling among other factors helped the district keep the virus under check. Sustained treatment protocol, systematic follow-up of discharged patients and monitoring senior citizens were the strategies followed by the administration. Above all, aerial surveys designed as part of a containment plan helped in early identification of symptomatic cases. “Doctors, in many instances, did not wait for patients to come to medical facilities. When they got feedback from door-to-door surveys, medical teams visited them.” The public health teams did not wait until the people turned up at the Primary Health Centres. From the beginning of July, the district administration prepared a chart and village health nurses coordinated well with the teams of doctors. At the hospitals, isolation wards were given adequate strength of paramedical staff, who gave personalised attention to the patients, especially the senior citizens. Similarly, patients, who required oxygen support, were also given an exclusive ward/bed. Mr. Rao cautioned the public to be guarded and not to step out of their dwellings unnecessarily. Physical distancing and use of hand sanitisers and face masks were mandatory. He said with curfew in effect, he appealed to the people not to assemble on the seashores or other places of worship to perform rituals on Mahalaya Amavasai falling on September 17. On the occasion of National Deworming Day on Monday, the Collector inaugurated distribution of tablets to children aged up to 19 years. He said 3,49,572 children would benefit in the district. It would not cause any side-effects and would be repeated again on September 19, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/multiple-strategies-help-check-covid-19-spread-collector/article32605889.ece
15 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Major lakes filled to the brim in Salem, Namakkal||The recent rain in Salem and Namakkal districts has improved water levels at major lakes. According to officials from the Public Works Department, 19 lakes in Mettur and Sarbanga division were filled to the brim in the rain received over past week. In Salem district, nine lakes and in Namakkal district seven lakes were filled to the brim. In Mettur division, three tanks were filled up in the recent rain. PWD officials said the water storage was above 50% in five tanks under Sarbanga division. The district administration has identified 23 vulnerable points and formed multi-department teams as a precautionary measure to tackle any disasters during monsoon. The administration has also advised government hospitals to stock sufficient medicines, especially those required for anti-venom treatment. Officials have also been advised to keep rescue equipment like generators and JCB machines in ready state. The administration has also advised the public to contact 24-hour disaster control room in the numbers 1077 or 0427-2452202.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-lakes-filled-to-the-brim-in-salem-namakkal/article32605473.ece
15 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH handles 125 deliveries of COVID-19 patients||The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital has handled 125 deliveries of COVID-19 patients alone since May. The Hospital, which is the tertiary centre for COVID-19 treatment in the district, is also dependent by patients from neighbouring districts like Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Karur and Kalakuruchi for deliveries and other major treatments. Despite the pandemic, the Hospital handled more number of deliveries. According to Hospital authorities, between March and August, the Hospital has handled 5,888 deliveries. Among them, from May to August, the Hospital has handled 125 deliveries of COVID-19 affected women. In August alone, the Hospital has handled 76 cases. Of the total deliveries of COVID-19 patients, 96 were through c-section surgery. The Hospital has handled 1,047 non-COVID-19 deliveries in August alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-gh-handles-125-deliveries-of-covid-19-patients/article32605474.ece
15 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘CM should push for NEET exemption’||All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi founder R. Sarathkumar on Monday said that it would be good if Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami could stress [to the Centre] that National Eligibility cum Entrance Test was not needed for Tamil Nadu. Lack of clarity Talking to presspersons, Mr.Sarath Kumar said, “Tamil Nadu leads in education. In today’s scenario, the suicides show that students are not prepared to take the (NEET) examinations. While there is still lack of clarity about the need for a common entrance test, Tamil Nadu government should decide whether they should be asking for more time or exemption for the State. It would be nice if Tamil Nadu Chief Minister could stress that NEET is not required for the State.” Mr. Sarath Kumar also appreciated State government’s efforts in containing COVID-19 spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-should-push-for-neet-exemption/article32605432.ece
15 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Villagers demand better basic amenities||Demanding better basic amenities in their village, residents of Keezh Seithalai under Chandragiri panchayat in Ottapidaaram taluk submitted a petition to Collector Sandeep Nanduri on Monday. They staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate to highlight their demand. They said the main road was in the worst shape for the past six years and most of the street lights were not glowing. Though the villagers had submitted petition to the Block Development Officer on three occasions, no step was taken.  Plaint against plant Residents of Thennampatti under Ottapidaaram taluk submitted a petition accusing a solar power plant of encroaching upon the waterways taking water to the village tank. They said administration of the solar power plant, which had been set-up on over 400 acres of land, had “illegally occupied” the waterways. Since the obstructions made across these waterways would effectively stop the flow of water into the village tank, Thennampatti would be denied of water and become “desert”.   Petition submitted A group of women from Srini Nagar near Korampallam submitted a petition against a fish processing unit in their area. They said the fish processing unit, situated on the southern end of Srini Nagar, was posing serious health hazards to the residents as it was uncontrollably discharging the water used for washing and processing the fish, crab and the prawn. As the water discharged from the fish processing unit was emanating unbearable odour, the Collector should order the company to take immediate measures to address the problems causing health issues, they said.  Toll collection flayed Office-bearers of ‘Siva Bharatha Makkal Iyakkam’ submitted a petition against the collection of toll in the toll plazas at Vaagaikulam and Pudur Pandiapuram even as roads were not being maintained properly. Moreover, no mandatory medical facilities had been created in these toll plazas. Hence, the Collector should take steps to cancel collection of toll in these points, the petitioners said.  Action sought Hindu Makkal Katchi cadre submitted a petition accusing the Thoothukudi Roman Catholic Diocese of instigating the students to agitate against New Education Policy.  Fishermen’s plea A group of fishermen, led by one Annadurai, submitted a petition urging the Collector to negotiate with the Thoothukudi Port Trust, which was planning to close the entrance near the Port Guest House leading to the New Harbour Beach. Since good number of fishermen, all using ‘shore nets’ to harvest fishes for the past several years, were using New Harbour Beach for their fishing operations and using this entrance to take the harvested fishes to the market, the decision to close this entrance would seriously affect them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-demand-better-basic-amenities/article32605891.ece
15 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of deworming tablets begins||Distribution of deworming tablets to the children between the age of 1 and 19 in the second phase commenced here on Monday. Collector Sandeep Nanduri kicked off the distribution of deworming tablets at Terespuram. “In Thoothukudi district, the tablet will be given to a total of 4,38,655 children. Hence, all the children should take the tablets to save themselves from worms that cause anemia,” the Collector appealed. Since the schools and the anganvadis remain closed in the wake of pandemic, the tablets would be distributed through the primary health centres and the urban primary health centres from where the parents of the children could get the tablets between September 14 and 19 (for 3 days) and again from September 21 to 26 (except Tuesday and Wednesday). The health workers would visit the houses to administer the tablet to the uncovered children on September 28 for which the parents should cooperate, Mr. Sandeep appealed. Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan and City Health Officer Arun Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-deworming-tablets-begins/article32605892.ece
15 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Youth hacked to death||A youth was hacked to death by an armed gang at Thoothukudi Fishing Harbour on Sunday night following an altercation between the deceased and one of the assailants earlier in the day. Police said I. Samson, 24, of Sundar Nagar under Muthiahpuram police station and his friend Mukundan of the same area had come to a textile showroom here on Sunday evening. Even as they were purchasing dress, S. Rajavel alias Isravel, 19, of Kovilpillai Nagar near Thermal Nagar, who already had enmity with Samson, also came to the showroom. When an altercation broke out between Samson and Rajavel even as they were purchasing clothes, workers of the showroom pacified and moved them out of the shop. As Samson shared this incident with his friend J. Kapil Dev, 27, of Bharathi Nagar under Muthiahpuram police station limits, the latter called Rajavel over the phone around 11 p.m. and warned him of dire consequences for having threatened Samson. As it led to a heated argument between them over the phone, Rajavel and five of his friends came to Thoothukudi Fishing Harbour, where Kapil Dev was sitting, and hacked him to death. Thoothukudi south police registered a case and are on the lookout for the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-hacked-to-death/article32605893.ece
15 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||More shops open at central market||With the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business and the district administration giving a push to make the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi functional, more shops opened at the complex on Monday. While a set of shops, allotted to farmers groups, were opened last week, many of the traders who have rented shops at the market recently started business on Monday. District Collector S. Sivarasu inaugurated the sale at some of the shops. According to sources in the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, 351 shops out of the 830 in the market complex were open on Monday. This included 126 out of the 207 shops allotted to farmers groups and 225 out of the 623 allotted to traders. Under the latest system of allocation adopted by the District Market Committee, traders were allotted shops in pairs by bunching shops on the ground floor and ones directly above them on the first floor. All traders, who were allotted shops after the recent round of bidding, were asked to take possession of the shops and begin operations by September 12 on paying the rental advance. However, since September 12 happened to be a second Saturday, many allottees paid the advance only on Monday and more traders will open shops in the coming days, officials said. With a public interest litigation seeking the early opening of the market pending before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, the department was keen on making the market functional. The district administration has also promised to operate bus services as some of the farmers groups, who set shop in August, were forced to suspend operations due to poor patronage. The Central market, situated about 12 km away from the city off the Tiruchi-Madurai National Highway, has been at a centre of a row ever since it was opened in September 2017. Wholesale traders of the Gandhi Market in Tiruchi, for whom it was meant, had been refusing to shift to the market on the grounds that it was too far away from the city and did not suit their requirements. The High Court Bench, in an interim order, had directed that Gandhi Market shall remain closed till disposal of the PIL and traders of the market have been urging the government to get the injunction vacated. On Monday, M. K. Kamalakannan, president, Gandhi Market Vyabarigal Munnetra Sangam, maintained that the temporary markets at six places, including the wholesale market at G.Corner, would continue to function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-shops-open-at-central-market/article32605920.ece
15 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees 640 new cases and five deaths||Central districts registered 640 fresh cases of COVID-19 and five deaths on Monday. According to the medical bulletin issued by the State Government, the maximum number of fresh cases was reported in Tiruvarur district followed by Thanjavur. Out of eight districts in the region, three districts registered more than 100 cases. Five districts recorded less than 100 cases. Perambalur and Ariyalur district registered less than 20 cases. While Tiruvarur district accounted for 143 cases, Thanjavur 125 followed by Nagapattinam with 120 fresh cases. Pudukottai and Tiruchi district registered 95 and 74 cases, respectively. Fifty seven more persons tested positive in Karur, 16 in Ariyalur and 10 in Perambalur. Of the five deaths reported in central districts due to COVID-19, Thanjavur accounted for two and Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Karur for one each. Except one, all the other four who died were above 60 years of age. An 84-year-old male from Nagapattinam, who was admitted to a private hospital in Thanjavur on September 1, died on Sunday. Prior to the admission, he had complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for three days. He had also been taking drugs for hypertension. The patient, who died of COVID-19 pneumonia, in Karur was 68-year-old. He was admitted to a private hospital in Karur on August 30 with complaints of fever, cough and breathing trouble. He succumbed to the virus on Sunday. A 63-year-old male patient from Thanjavur with chronic kidney disease, who was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College on September 10, died on Sunday due to respiratory failure and viral pneumonia. Another patient from Thanjavur, who died at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Sunday due to respiratory failure and virus pneumonia, was a 50-year-old female. She had pre- existing conditions including coronary artery disease. The patient, who died of COVID-19 virus from Tiruvarur, was under treatment for coronary artery disease for a few years. The 72-year-old male was admitted on September 6 to the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital. He also had seizure disorder, according to the bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-sees-640-new-cases-and-five-deaths/article32605917.ece
15 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Boy dies in country cracker explosion||A seven- year-old boy died in a cracker explosion at S.N. Pudur village near Uppiliyapuram in the district on Monday. Police identified the victim as L. Sasidharan whose parents reside at Paramathi Velur in neighbouring Namakkal district. The boy's father Loganathan is a CRPF constable. The boy along with his parents had come to S.N. Pudur village where his grandfather resides to attend a temple function when the tragedy struck. Police sources said some country crackers were burst as part of the event. One of the crackers while exploding hit the boy on his right rib. The boy was rushed to a private hospital at Thuraiyur where he succumbed to the injuries. Sources said the boy's parents took the body to Paramathi Velur where it has been kept in the Government Hospital there. The Uppiliyapuram Police are probing the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-dies-in-country-cracker-explosion/article32605926.ece
15 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Water supply suspended||Drinking water supply will remain suspended in the following areas in the city on Tuesday, owing to a power shutdown announced by Tangedco for maintenance work at the Srirangam sub-station: Srirangam, Sanjeevi Nagar, Devadhanam, Viragupettai, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Nehruji Nagar, Ariyamangalam Ukkadai, Ariyamangalam, Jaganathapuram, Malaiyappa Nagar, Rail Nagar, Senthaneerpuram, Sangiliandapuram, Defence Colony, Vivekananda Nagar, J.K.Nagar, Mela Kalkandarkottai, Ponneripuram, Kallukuzhi, Ponmalaipatti, Central Prison, Subramaniapuram, Airport, Kamaraj Nagar, Sembattu, Khaja Nagar, Khajamalai, K.K.Nagar, Thendral Nagar, Anand Nagar, Sathyavani Muthu Nagar, Ayyappa Nagar, Woraiyur, Mangala Nagar, Fathima Nagar, Siva Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Selva Nagar, Anandam Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Puthur, Edamalaipattipudur, K.Sathanur, Anbu Nagar, Krishnamurthy Nagar, Thondaiman Nagar and Crawford. Regular supply will resume on Wednesday, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-supply-suspended/article32605921.ece
15 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of deworming tablets begins||Distribution of deworming tablets to children and adolescents between the age of 1 and 19 began here on Monday. An estimated 7.27 lakh children and adolescents would be given the tablets in Tiruchi district, Collector S. Sivarasu said launching the programme at an Anganwadi at Periya Milaguparai in the city. Of them, 4,87,316 children and adolescents were in rural areas, he said. The programme is being organised in three rounds and the first round of distribution would be held till September 19. The second round would be held from September 21 to 26 and the third round on September 28, he said. The deworming tablets would also help prevent anaemia and build IQ and immunity among the children and adolescents, he said. In Karur, Collector T. Anbalagan inaugurated the distribution at Nathamedu village. An estimated population of 3,67,842 children and adolescents would be given the tablets. Tiruvarur Collector T. Anand inaugurated the programme at an Anganwadi at Mudaliar Street in the town and said that about 2.87 lakh children and adolescents would be given the tablets. Half tablets (200 mg) should be administered to children in the age group of 1 to 2 and full tablets of 400 mg should be given to those above two years of age. The tablets would be distributed at 1,260 places in the district, he said. An estimated population of 1.70 lakh in the age group of 1 to 19 would be given the tablets in Perambalur district during the drive, Collector V. Santha said handing over the tablets for distribution to health officials at the Collector’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-deworming-tablets-begins/article32605923.ece
15 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cheated customers give petition||A group of about 35 depositors who were allegedly cheated by a private finance firm last year petitioned the district administration on Monday appealing to take steps to recover the amount. Police said the Economic Offences Wing, Tiruchi, had registered a case in June last year against the firm Chendur Fincorp that functioned at Thillai Nagar based on a complaint from a customer that the firm had shut business and the owner had escaped. Sources said the depositors handed over the petition to an official at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cheated-customers-give-petition/article32605927.ece
15 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Training to raise ‘nutri gardens’||About 100 anganwadi workers were briefed on how to raise ‘nutri gardens’ at an online training programme conducted by the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Sirugamani, recently. The programme aims to sensitise anganwadi workers and farm women on various aspects of nutrition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-to-raise-nutri-gardens/article32605922.ece
15 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Woman alleges wrong treatment to baby girl||Seeking assistance for a costly surgical procedure to correct the shrunken skin reportedly caused due to an intravenous injection administered to her two-month-old girl child at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, a mother submitted a petition at the Collector’s office here on Monday. The woman, R. Nambeeswari from Kallur near here delivered the baby at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH) on July 18 and the baby was shifted to the incubator where it was kept for three days. When the baby was returned to the mother with a bandage on the left hand, Ms. Nambeeswari asked the nurses about it. “The nurses said it was only an allergy caused by an injection which was curable with an ointment. Though the ointment was applied on the area, the wound did not heal. I informed the doctors about the medical negligence by the nurses, who abused me verbally for telling the doctor about this. When a radiological investigation was conducted, the doctors and the nurses said there was nothing abnormal and refused to discharge me,” Ms. Nambeeswari said. Even as the prolonged stay for the mother and the baby continued in the hospital, another scan was done on the hand on the 20th day. “When the second scan was done, the baby was crying continuously. As I sensed that there was something wrong, I asked the doctors to discharge my daughter and her baby, but they refused. Since the problem continued, we left the hospital and admitted the baby to a private hospital where the doctor said the wound was caused by the nurses’ fault. When the nurses administered an intravenous injection at the TVMCH, they had wrongly injected the medicine into the muscles that had caused all the problems, the doctors in the private hospital explained,” said Ponnammal, mother of Ms. Nambeeswari. Though the wound had healed to a greater extent, the skin covering the wound looks like a burn, requiring a plastic surgery. “I am a flower vendor, and I cannot meet the expenditure for a costly cosmetic medical procedure. Hence, the government should help us in this regard,” said Mrs. Ponnammal. A senior doctor at the TVMCH, while admitting that the problem was caused by “thrombosis”, said the mother and the baby left the hospital abruptly even as the “right line of treatment” was going on. “It was not a case of medical negligence… Even before the problem could be sorted out medically, she left the hospital,” the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-alleges-wrong-treatment-to-baby-girl/article32605894.ece
15 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||MSU final semester exam online from Sept. 21||The Manonmaniam Sundaranar University will conduct the final semester examinations of undergraduate, postgraduate and M.Phil. programmes, which should have been conducted in April last and were postponed due the pandemic, in online mode from September 21 onwards. An official statement said the regular and the private candidates who have applied for the final semester examinations can write their examinations from their places itself. While postgraduate, undergraduate – science (B.Sc. and BCA) and M.Phil. candidates will have to write the exam between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m., BA, BBA and B.Com. students will take the exams between 12 noon to 3 p.m. after downloading the question paper 30 minutes prior to the commencement of the examination. The candidates should upload their answer scripts after the completing the exam within the stipulated time. Candidates should use desktops or laptops or mobile phones with internet facility for downloading the question paper and also for uploading their answer scripts. Those who had applied for April 2020 semester should register through the MSU portal –www.msuniv.ac.in- for which a one-time password would be sent to the candidates’ registered mobile phone. If there is any change in the registered mobile phone number, the candidates should approach their colleges for registering the new mobile phone number. Mock tests, to identify the bottlenecks if any, would be conducted ahead of the semester examinations from September 16 and 18. If the students face any problem in downloading the question paper within 30 minutes before the commencement of the exam, they should immediately contact their College Coordinator concerned who would send the question paper either through e-mail or the app selected for this purpose. The candidates should scan their answer scripts after checking the pages and upload it in ‘pdf format’. Once the answer script is successfully uploaded, the candidate would get an acknowledgement on their mobile phones. Those who could not upload the scanned answer scripts due to problems in internet connectivity should submit the same in their colleges concerned and immediately get acknowledgement from the college officials. After the end of all the examinations, the candidates should send all the answer scripts after putting it in a cover either through speed post or any reliable courier to The Controller of Examinations, MSU, Tirunelveli – 627 012, Phone – 0462 – 25636121 before October 3 as no student would be allowed to keep the answer scripts, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msu-final-semester-exam-online-from-sept-21/article32605899.ece
15 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Case count crosses 11,000-mark in Kanniyakumari district||Kanniyakumari’s COVID-19 infection tally crossed the 11,000-mark to touch 11,094 on Monday as the district recorded 134 fresh cases. After 117 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district has 754 active cases. One person died in the district, taking its death toll to 208. Tenkasi’s tally rose to 6,344 with the addition of 80 cases. After 47 people were discharged from hospitals, the district, which has registered a toll of 118, has 588 active cases. A total of 73 people tested positive in Thoothukudi, raising the district’s tally to 12,374. The district, which marked the discharge of 46 people, has 709 active cases. Tirunelveli reported 72 new cases to have a total case count of 11,192. With 110 people having been discharged from hospitals, the district has 1,025 active cases. Its death toll stands at 191. A total of 95 people – all indigenous cases – tested positive in Madurai, taking its tally to 15,394. After 287 people were discharged from various COVID-19 treatment facilities, the number of active cases dropped to 692. One fatality was reported in the district. Theni recorded 58 fresh cases to mark a total case count of 13,833. There were 85 discharges from hospitals. Seventy-seven new cases were added to Dindigul’s tally, which now stands at 7,940. Hospitals in the district registered 116 discharges. Ramanathapuram witnessed 26 fresh cases, which took its tally to 5,207. There were 22 discharges. Thirty-six fresh cases took Sivaganga’s tally to 4,557. A total of 39 people were discharged from hospitals. Virudhunagar reported 42 fresh cases, with which the total number of positive cases in the district increased to 13,726. With 91 people having been discharged, the district has 386 active cases. State medical Bulletin added two more deaths to the district’s toll, which now stands at 204. However, Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said there were no details of the deaths, but for the increase in the toll. “It could also be due to cross-notification,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-count-crosses-11000-mark-in-kanniyakumari-district/article32605552.ece
15 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers to stage indefinite protest against IDPL project||Farmers from five villages in Tiruppur district will stage an indefinite protest against the Irugur – Devangonthi Petroleum and Petroleum Product Pipeline (IDPL) by Bharat Petroleum from September 15 (Tuesday). District secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association R. Kumar said the protest would be organised by the Federation of Farmers Affected by the IDPL Project at Kandiyankovil village panchayat in Pongalur block from 10 a.m. on Tuesday. Farmers from Alagumalai and Kandiyankovil villages in Pongalur block and from Padiyur, Sivanmalai and Maravapalayam from Kangeyam block will participate, he said. A group of farmers from the Federation met Tiruppur Revenue Divisional Officer Kavitha on Monday for talks to withdraw the protest. However, Mr. Kumar said that their talks were not successful and that the indefinite protest would be held as scheduled. The farmers’ demands were laying pipelines alongside roads instead of agricultural lands, stopping the project works immediately and passing of a resolution by the State government in the Assembly in this regard. Apart from Tiruppur district, the indefinite protests will be held in five other districts namely Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri. “The protest will continue till the resolution is passed in the Assembly,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-to-stage-indefinite-protest-against-idpl-project/article32605455.ece
15 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Residents want Pandalur GH renovated||Leaky roofs, damp walls and damaged structures at the government hospital in Pandalur are a source of concern for local residents, who have called for funds to be sanctioned for repair works. The hospital, visited on an average by more than 100 patients a day, is the only government healthcare facility in the taluk. Since the buildings were built four decades ago, the intense rains that characterise the region and general neglect of the buildings have led to structural damage. “This has resulted in water seepage in walls and damaged roofs every time there is heavy rainfall in the taluk,” said S. Sivasubramaniam, secretary of the Gudalur Consumer Protection Centre. Local residents said that the maternity ward was the most affected part of the hospital during the rain, while the hospital quarters, where doctors and nurses stay, are also damaged and the roofs had to be patched up with tarpaulin sheets. “Added to the crumbling infrastructure, the facility also lacks enough doctors and technicians, and if anyone needs emergency care, then they will either have to travel to Sultan Bathery in Kerala or to Coimbatore, which is more than 150 km away,” said S. Anish, a resident of Pandalur. The Gudalur Consumer Protection Centre has called on the government to renovate the hospital and to sanction additional medical facilities. Joint Director of Health Services, Nilgiris district, S. Palanisamy, said that he was aware of the issues plaguing the Pandalur GH, and said that an inspection has been ordered to look into whether the building can be repaired or it will have to be torn down and rebuilt again. “Once we get a report on the suitability of the buildings, we will propose a plan accordingly to improve the facilities,” said Dr. Palanisamy.  He added that the problem of water-logging occurred only during spells of heavy rain in the area.  The facility also lacks adequate doctors and technicians and for emergency care people will have to travel to Sultan Bathery in Kerala or to Coimbatore A. Anish Pandalur resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-want-pandalur-gh-renovated/article32605459.ece
15 September 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Seven held for PM KISAN fraud||The Crime Branch CID on Sunday night arrested seven contract employees attached to the Department of Agriculture for alleged irregularities in the implementation of the PM Kisan Nidhi scheme in Villupuram district. The arrested, identified as Venkatesan, Pushparaj, Palani Kumar, Pari, Mayavan, Prakash and Balakrishnan, who were employed as contract employees of the Department in Gingee block, were produced before a local court and remanded in custody. In Villupuram district, of the 90,000 ineligible beneficiaries, as many as 38,000 were from the district, while 60,000 were from other districts. The district administration, with the help of banks and the Agriculture Department, has recovered Rs. 7.5 crore credited into the bank accounts of 25,000 beneficiaries so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7-held-in-villupuram-for-fraud-in-pm-kisan-scheme/article32605437.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||8th century sculpture of Lord Vishnu found||An eight century Common Era (CE) sculpture of Lord Vishnu, belonging to the Pandya period, was found at the western bank of Gundaru river at Ulagani village of Kallikudi block. Madurai Government Museum Curator M. Maruthu Pandiyan and Udhayakumar, a researcher, checked the sculpture based on the information provided by Kannan, a Tamil student of a college affiliated to Madurai Kamaraj University, and Sangaiah, a professor from the college. Mr. Maruthu Pandiyan said the features of the sculpture indicated that it belongs to the Pandya period. “Mainly, the sacred thread of the sculpture goes above the right forearm and a broad ‘kanthi' (necklet) studded with big gems adorns the neck. Similar sculptures of Pandya period have been found in various places such as Thirumalapuram, Tirupparankundram and Sevalpatti,” he said. The sculpture has four hands. Among them, two arms are held up vertically. The right arm has a broken chakra and in the left arm a conch. “The chakra and conch are the main features of the Pandya period," said Mr. Maruthu Pandiyan. The village has also been mentioned in a book about the inscriptions of Madurai district, which was released by the State Archaeology Department. The book mentions that this village had an old name, ‘Kulasegara chathurvethimangalam or Ulagunimangalam.” Also, a 13th century Pandya inscription mentioned that the local village administrators had levied a special tax called 'pasipaattam' tax (a tax on fishing) for the renovation of the tank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8th-century-sculpture-of-lord-vishnu-found/article32605557.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Western region reports over 1,400 cases||Coimbatore district reported 498 new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday, taking the district’s tally so far to 22,662. Three patients aged 42, 57 and 83 died and the toll stood at 357. In Salem, two persons aged 60 and 82 died. Tiruppur reported the death of a 76 year old, taking the toll to 86. One more private laboratory in Coimbatore got approval to conduct COVID-19 testing. Metropolis Healthcare Ltd said in a statement that its Coimbatore Metropolis Lab on Cowley Brown Road, R.S. Puram, got the testing approval. Salem recorded 297 cases, of which 295 were indigenous including 189 in the Salem Corporation limits. Two patients returned from Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri. In Namakkal, 118 persons tested positive, 29 of them returned from Erode, Salem, Chennai, Karur, Kumbakonam and Coimbatore and one from Assam. Tiruppur saw 192 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 4,938. Of the total cases, 3,030 recovered and 1,822 were active cases. Eighty-four patients were discharged on Monday. A 24-year-old man arrested under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old tested positive. Erode district reported 133 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 4,668. A total of 116 persons were discharged while 1,055 persons were under treatment. With 94 persons testing positive in the Nilgiris, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 2,443, with 1,835 people having recovered so far. Krishnagiri district reported 78 cases and Dharmapuri 87.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/western-region-reports-over-1400-cases/article32605469.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lawyers, former judges urge CJ not to initiate contempt action against Suriya||Countering his view, the six retired judges said, “We are afraid that such a construction made on the statement of Mr. Suriya will be slightly off the mark.” Pointing out that the actor, who is involved in social work like educating children and finding employment for youngsters through the Agaram Foundation, had made the statement in a surcharged atmosphere when as many as four students had committed suicide one after the other due to fear of NEET, the former judges said, “An artistic person’s over-reaction should not be taken seriously and out of context.” Separately, 25 High Court lawyers, including N.G.R. Prasad, Sudha Ramalingam, Anna Mathew, designated senior counsel V. Prakash, V. Suresh of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, D. Nagasaila, T. Mohan and D. Geetha, also wrote to the Chief Justice, saying the actor’s statement was just an expression of opinion and not a contemptuous act. “Of late, every criticism of the judiciary is being seen as contemptuous. As practising lawyers, we feel that if the expression of an opinion is treated as contempt, it would amount to stifling the freedom of speech and expression. This would have a chilling effect on basic constitutional guarantees,” they said. “The Supreme Court, too, has held that dissent is the safety valve of democracy. In a democratic country governed by the rule of law, there should be space for a wide array of opinions on any issue. We, therefore, request your Lordship not to initiate contempt [proceedings], and thereby uphold the majesty of the law and of courts,” the representation read. Contrary view On the other hand, the Tamil Nadu Advocates’ Association (TNAA), led by designated senior counsel S. Prabakaran, who is also the co-chairman of the Bar Council of India, wrote to the Chief Justice, saying Mr. Suriya’s statement was highly condemnable. It was the Supreme Court which had ordered the conduct of NEET this year, and hence, the actor’s criticism of such an order passed by the top court amounted to interference in judicial functions, the association said. Accusing Mr. Suriya of making such statements for the sake of publicity, the TNAA said he had crossed the limits this time by accusing judges of conducting virtual courts due to fear for their lives. According to TNAA, the courts had been dispensing justice even during the troubled times of COVID-19, and had disposed of a good number of cases through both physical and virtual hearings. Actors must be responsible and not make public statements akin to movie dialogues, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lawyers-former-judges-urge-cj-not-to-initiate-contempt-action-against-suriya/article32605413.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till September 14   Cases on Monday: 498 Persons tested +ve so far: 22,662 Indigenous cases: 22,618 Imported cases: 44 Active cases: 3,549 Persons recovered: 18,756 Deaths: 357      Cases on Monday: 192 Persons tested +ve so far: 4,938 Persons recovered: 3,030 Active cases: 1,822 Deaths: 86||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article32605471.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||One killed in bus-truck collision near Usilampatti||The driver of a brick-laden lorry, M. Balasubramanian, 40, was killed in a head-on collision with a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation bus near Andipatti pass on Sunday night. The driver of the bus, proceeding towards Madurai, N. Krishnan, 55, of P.C. Patti, was among 14 persons who were injured when the speeding vehicles collided near Chettipatti under Usilampatti Taluk police station limits at around 9 p.m. While 11 of them were treated as outpatients, both the drivers and a passenger, P. Mandhaiammal, 66, of Gudalur, were admitted to Theni Government Medical College hospital. However, Balasubramanian succumbed to injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-killed-in-bus-truck-collision-near-usilampatti/article32605547.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shut down||Coimbatore  In view of the proposed maintenance works to be undertaken at the Sengaturai sub-station on September 16 (Wednesday), there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 pm. in the following areas: Sengaturai, Kadanpadi, Aero Nagar and Mathiyalakan Nagar.  MG Road sub-station: Mahatma Gandhi Road, SIHS Colony, Kaveri Nagar, Ganga Nagar and JJ Nagar.  Podanur sub-station: Nanjundapuram, Vellalore, Konavaikalpalayam, Sriram Nagar, Indira Nagar, Anbu Nagar, JJ Ngar, Annanapuram, Awai Nagar and Easwaran Nagar.  Kurichi sub-station -September 17 (Thursday): 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.: SIDCO, Podanur, Kurichi, Housing Unit, Malumichampatti, Sundarapuram, Eachanari and LIC Colony.  Erode   IRTT and Manickampalayam, 9.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. on September 15: Gandhi Nagar, Samathuvapuram, IRTT College, Sandai Medu, Anna Nagar, Tayirpalayam, Andikadu Thottam, Vasantham Paradise, Uthukadu, Ambedkar Nagar, Mamarathupalayam, Periyasemoor, M.G.R. Nagar, E.P.P. Nagar, Seenankadu and Ellapalayam Road.  Ashokapuram electric line , 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on September 16: Mettur Road, Municipal Colony, VCTV Road, Veerabhadra Street, Cauvery Road, Sakthi Road, 16 Road, Veerappanchatiram Theppakulam, Annamalai Nagar, Devarayankadu, Muniyappan Kovil Street, Bharathi Theatre Road and M.G.R. Road.  Kasipalayam electric line , 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on September 16:  NGGO Colony 5th Street, Rajagounder Thottam, Uzhavan Nagar and Marappa Thottam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shut-down/article32605453.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||15-09-2020-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA NAADA INBAM, 24993210 Today 6.15 p.m. on Parivadini Music Channel in You Tube(www.youtube.com/parivadinimusic)Concert by Amritha Murali, R.K. Shriramkumar, K.Arunprakash, N.Guruprasad, Anirudh Athreya. Online only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-09-2020-city-cinema/article32605394.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to bring chunk of deemed forest land under Revenue Dept.||The State government has decided to take about six lakh hectares out of the total 9.5 lakh hectares of deemed forest and bring it under the Revenue Department, which will help it distribute land to bagair hukum cultivators in the State, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said on Monday. Speaking to reporters here after attending a meeting of Revenue and Forest Department Ministers and officials, Mr. Ashok said the Forest Department would retain 3.5 lakh hectares and the government would soon file an affidavit in the Supreme Court in this regard. “The government will also consult the Advocate-General and seek his opinion,” he added. Forest Minister Anand Singh was also present at the meeting. He clarified that reserve forests and protected forests do not come under the category, and that it would be applicable to the deemed forest areas where cultivation has been taken up already and homes have come up. The decision will help distribute land among thousands of people who have filed applications under 94C to regularise their cultivation that have been pending for decades now, he added. Mr. Ashok said the Revenue Department has retained all the land documents pertaining to deemed forests, and the Forest Department has been claiming that the land belongs to them. “There are huge tracts of deemed forests where not a single tree exists, but the Forest Department continues to treat them as forest land. Any land granted by the land grant committee is opposed by the Forest Department. If the Supreme Court accepts our affidavit, it will solve a decades-old problem,” he said. Mr. Ashok also said they had decided to take a delegation to the Centre to seek higher compensation for flood relief. “We are thinking of taking a delegation, led by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, to Delhi for this purpose,” he said. Grant under SDRF Meanwhile, Karnataka has so far received Rs. 395 crore under the State Disaster Response Fund from the Centre to strengthen the States to deal with the pandemic. This was stated by Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Singh Thakur in Parliament on Monday. Furthermore, Karnataka has been allowed to raise Rs. 9,018 crore as additional borrowing of 0.5% GSDP during 2020-21.  Any land granted by the land grant committee is opposed by the Forest Department. If the Supreme Court accepts our affidavit, it will solve a decades-old problem R. Ashok, Revenue Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-bring-chunk-of-deemed-forest-land-under-revenue-dept/article32605363.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Not many takers for KSRTC’s luxury AC buses during pandemic||In April last year, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) inducted the brand new ‘Ambari Dream Class’ luxury buses into its fleet. Each bus was procured at a cost of Rs. 1.24 crore. Within weeks of their launch, these multi-axle sleeper AC buses were well-received by the passengers, both on the intra-State and inter-State routes, and helped the KSRTC generate more revenue. However, this year the scenario is different. Because of the pandemic, the transport corporation is not in a position to operate all 44 Ambari Dream Class buses, and only six are running now. Shivayogi C. Kalasad, managing director of KSRTC, said ridership in premier services would increase once the KSRTC resumed services to all the neighbouring States. “At present, services are operated to Andhra Pradesh, Goa, and as Onam special to Kerala. We are hoping to get permission to operate buses to Maharashtra, Telangana, and Tamil Nadu in a week’s time. As of now, we are running a limited number of AC buses. Once we resume inter-State services to all the neighbouring States, we will run more AC buses,” he said. The KSRTC has 500 premier services, and a majority of them remain off the road. He said that inter-city services within Karnataka have also increased gradually. “We have resumed Fly Bus on the Bengaluru-Mysuru route. Prior to the lockdown, 10 buses were playing; now two are operated. It will take time. There are various factors such as work from home and virtual meetings that have resulted in reduced travel. This has also resulted in lower occupancy in AC buses. But we are hoping that it will improve in the coming days,” he said. The official said the corporation has taken various safety measures, including sanitisation of buses, maintaining a temperature of less than 24°C, and ensuring good air flow as specified in the SOP. The MD also said that passenger ridership in non-AC buses had increased consistently over the weeks and had reached more than 8 lakh a day, and in the next couple of weeks would likely cross 10 lakh. “Once the festive season begins, we will have more ridership,” Mr. Kalasad said. It is not only the KSRTC buses struggling to find passengers for AC buses; even Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is finding it difficult. The corporation, for the second time, has withdrawn AC buses on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) because of poor patronage. The first time, services were withdrawn on this route in June. “Because of the presence of IT companies on the ORR, AC bus services were popular on the route. But now, because of work from home, there are no travellers. Prior to the lockdown, every month around 2,400 people were purchasing monthly passes to travel in AC buses, but now it has come down to 500. A majority of the people who have purchased monthly passes are those working at Kempegowda International Airport and air passengers,” said a BMTC official. The transport utility has a fleet of 860 buses, out of which 75 to 80 are operating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-many-takers-for-ksrtcs-luxury-ac-buses-during-pandemic/article32605359.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Draft notification of BBMP ward reservation issued||The State government, on Monday, issued a draft notification on the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) ward reservation for women, SC/ST, general category, and others. However, Opposition parties have alleged that the draft exercises bias by targeting prominent leaders. The move comes as the five-year term of the BBMP council ended on Thursday. The government had appointed senior IAS officer Gaurav Gupta as administrator, while BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad had, on Sunday, announced the appointment of senior officials of the civic body as ward-wise nodal officers. Recently, a joint select committee on BBMP Bill-2020, which is likely to be tabled in the next session starting September 21, had recommended increasing the number of wards from 198 to 225 wards as well as extending the Mayor’s term from 12 to 30 months. However, the draft on reservation has been published for 198 wards. The notification, issued by the Urban Development Department, states that the draft has been issued keeping in mind public interest. “Anyone affected by the draft notification within seven days can submit their suggestions or objections in writing with valid reasons to the Deputy Commissioner of the Bengaluru Urban district,” the notification states. Former Opposition party leader in the BBMP council Abdul Wajid alleged that the government had deployed “tactics for political gain” by targeting prominent Congress leaders in the BBMP council. “The reservation of wards that were earlier represented by Mayors such as Manjunatha Reddy, Gangambike Mallikarjun, Padmavathi G., Sampath Raj, and other leaders has been changed. The State government has followed RSS agenda; people who were very vocal against the ruling party have been targeted. The notification issued lacks clarity. The government should have made details about delimitation and population in the wards before issuing the notification on reservations. The notification has been issued amidst talks about increasing ward number, the matter being discussed by the legislature committee. It is clear that the government does not want to do the elections on time,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/draft-notification-of-bbmp-ward-reservation-issued/article32605350.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Prevalence of obesity during, after pregnancy high in 30 dists.’||A study published in the journal ‘Obstetrics and Gynaecology’ has found that the overall prevalence of obesity in India during and after pregnancy is high, with huge variation across regions. A high prevalence of obesity (>40%) was observed in over 30 districts across 10 States. The study titled ‘Population estimates, consequences, and risk factors of obesity among pregnant and postpartum women in India: Results from a national survey and policy recommendations’ was aimed at examining prevalence, risk factors, and consequences of maternal obesity; and provide evidence on current policies and programmes to manage maternal obesity in India. The authors - Mansi Chopra, Naman Kaur, Konsam Dinachandra Singh, Chandni Maria Jacob, Hema Divakar, Giridhara R. Babu, Vani Sethi and others - analysed the National Family Health Survey (NFHS)4 data (2015–2016) to estimate the prevalence and risk factors of obesity, followed by a desk review of papers published in India between January 2011 and November 2019 and stakeholder mapping with interviews to develop policy guidance. The authors analysed that the national prevalence of obesity (as defined by WHO as body mass index ≥25) was comparable among pregnant (12%) and postpartum women (13%) greater than or equal to 20 years of age. A high prevalence of obesity (>40%) was observed in over 30 districts in multiple States. “Older maternal age, urban residence, increasing wealth quintile, and secondary education were associated with increased odds of obesity among pregnant and postpartum women; higher education increased odds among postpartum women only. Dietary variables were not associated with obesity,” said Mansi Chopra, the corresponding author of the study. Bengaluru-based Consultant Obstetrician/Gynecologist Hema Divakar, who is one of the authors, said among the consequences, overweight/obesity among pregnant and postpartum women was associated with low birth weight, intrauterine growth restriction, macrosomia, and adverse pregnancy outcomes such as prolonged/induced labour, postpartum haemorrhage, high gestational weight gain, pregnancy-induced hypertension/pre-eclampsia and gestational diabetes mellitus. Prevalence More than 30 districts had a high prevalence of obesity (>40%) among pregnant and postpartum women, across the 10 States. Among pregnant women, the prevalence of obesity was over 40% in 31 districts, with the highest prevalence of 72% in Shopian district (Jammu and Kashmir). The prevalence of obesity among postpartum women was over 40% in 37 districts, with the highest prevalence of 61% in Pathanamthitta district (Kerala). This is based on the NFHS data analysis. “Our findings are consistent with previous estimates from Global Burden of Disease studies, which demonstrate an increasing trend in the prevalence of Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) such as diabetes in the States of Tamil Nadu and Kerala where the prevalence of undernutrition is low, highlighting the need to focus on both sides of the spectrums of malnutrition,” said Vani Sethi from UNICEF, another author. “Existing partnerships with other departments such as the Ministry of Women and Child Development and National/State Rural Livelihood Mission through their self-help group platforms, Panchayat Raj Institutions etc. to provide rations/supplementary foods and use behaviour change communication for better counselling in these areas should be strengthened,” she said. Asserting that a closer review of maternal nutrition services in districts with a high prevalence of obesity is needed, Dr. Hema Divakar said: “We have recommended the inclusion of BMI-based screening for overweight/obesity (BMI ≥23) and obesity (BMI ≥25) for all pregnant women contacted within the first trimester by a healthcare service provider, and weight gain over three kg per month after the first trimester as a high-risk indicator.” “Innovative strategies should be developed to counsel pregnant women and demonstrate low-cost, nutrient-dense meals to manage weight gain and follow up pregnant women to understand the effect of counselling on weight maintenance,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prevalence-of-obesity-during-after-pregnancy-high-in-30-dists/article32605352.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rules being flouted to procure laptops: BBMP Commissioner||One of the last important decisions of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) council was to utilise funds earmarked for various development works for the procurement of laptops and tablets. However, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad has, in a letter to the State government, noted that this was against the rules. The council, whose five-year term ended on September 10, had passed a resolution to re-appropriate special development grants earmarked for Assembly constituencies and wards. The council decided to use these funds to procure and distribute laptops and tablets to students from weaker socio-economic groups. While tablets were to be distributed to students of class five to 10, laptops were to be distributed to students pursuing higher studies. This, the council had resolved, was essential, given that following the outbreak of COVID-19, many schools and colleges were conducting classes online. However, in his letter, Mr. Prasad has noted that this sort of re-appropriation of funds was against the rules. The funds may be utilised only for the purpose for which they had been earmarked. However, he noted that the Standing Committee for Taxation and Finance had taken a suo motu decision, which was later passed by the council. The Commissioner also pointed out that the budget presented by the council over the past few years was unrealistic, as the actual revenue accrued was far lesser than the budgeted revenue. Given the COVID-19 situation, the revenue mobilisation had been hit, which had adversely affected the BBMP’s finances. Mr. Prasad had mentioned in the council that the BBMP’s coffers were nearly empty, and that the bank accounts had just Rs. 58 crore while pending bills amounted to Rs. 2,575.25 crore and outstanding loans to Rs. 286.34 crore. Incidentally, this is not the first time that Mr. Prasad has pointed out that the BBMP budget was unrealistic. Earlier, he had written to the State government stressing on the need to bring the civic body under the ambit of two laws – the Karnataka Local Fund Authorities Fiscal Responsibilities Act, 2003, and the Karnataka Municipalities Accounting and Budgeting Rules, 2006. The aim was to bring in fiscal discipline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rules-being-flouted-to-procure-laptops-bbmp-commissioner/article32605342.ece
15 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KSRTC press gets two ETM slitting machines||In view of modernisation and upgrade of Karnataka State Transport Press, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), on Monday installed two Electronic Ticketing Machines (ETM) slitting machines. KSRTC, in a release, said the machines are used for slitting of jumbo thermal reels into small rolls used by conductors in their hand-held ETMs. The cost per machine is Rs. 10 lakh, and it is the first of its kind in Indian State-run road transport undertakings. The machines are manufactured under the Make in India initiative. They produce small rolls without plastic cores making them eco-friendly. The release said KSRTC and its sister concerns use 1.5 cores of ETM rolls per year. Each plastic core, costing approximately 50 paisa, will save around Rs. 25 lakh per year to the Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-press-gets-two-etm-slitting-machines/article32605343.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. fiat to universities on method to promote intermediate semester students upheld||The High Court of Karnataka has upheld the State government’s policy decision of directing all universities – both State-governed or privately managed – to adopt a uniform method to promote students of intermediate semesters of undergraduate and postgraduate courses for the year 2019-20 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Ravi V. Hosmani passed the order while dismissing a petition filed by one S.P. Venkatesh of Bengaluru. Terming the method, prescribed by the government in its July 10, 2020, order, an unscientific one, the petitioner had claimed that the decision on adopting a suitable methodology as per the guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC) should have been left to individual universities as the UGC had left it to the universities to hold exams wherever possible or not.  For uniformity “The State government has the power as well as discretion to guide universities individually or issue advisories to the respective universities coming within the scope and ambit of the Universities Act, 2000,... in exceptional circumstance we cannot find fault with the State government taking a policy decision on behalf of all the universities so that the health and safety of the students, stakeholders is safeguarded and protected in such exceptional circumstances,” the Bench said. The Bench also observed, “The other reason why the State has taken such a policy decision is to ensure uniformity amongst all universities so that there is no disparity amongst the students or the students be put to any other difficulty in their future career progression on account of different methods being adopted by the universities in the State.” The government, the Bench said, has issued the order prescribing a uniform method, proposed by the UGC, of promotion for all universities keeping in mind the academic progress and the health and safety of students.  Promotion    As per the July 10 order, UG and PG students would be promoted to the higher semester based on the grading that would comprise 50% of the marks on the basis of the pattern of internal evaluation adopted by the universities and the remaining 50% to be awarded on the basis of performance in the previous year (if available). If previous semester marks are not available, particularly in the first year of annual pattern of examination, then 100% evaluation would be done on the basis of internal evaluation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-fiat-to-universities-on-method-to-promote-intermediate-semester-students-upheld/article32605371.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||8,244 new cases of COVID-19 reported in State||A total of 8,244 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Monday. With this, the total number of cases in the State stands at 4.67 lakh cases. Meanwhile, 8,865 patients were discharged on Monday, taking the total number of discharges to 3.61 lakh. Out of the 98,463 active cases in the State, 800 patients are in intensive care units of different hospitals. Meanwhile, 119 COVID-19 related deaths were reported on Monday, taking the total to 7,384.    According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 45,961 tests were conducted in the State on Monday. There was a sharp decline in the number of tests conducted on Monday. Out of the 45,961 tests conducted, 16,296 tests were rapid antigen tests. Meanwhile, out of the total 8,244 cases reported on Monday, 2,966 cases were reported in Bengaluru Urban. Of the 119 deaths reported in the State, 37 cases were reported from Bengaluru Urban. The media bulletin also states that in the last 14 days, 5.97 lakh primary contacts and 5.38 lakh secondary cases were reported in the state. Besides Bengaluru Urban, nine districts across the State reported over 200 cases on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/8244-new-cases-of-covid-19-reported-in-state/article32605357.ece
15 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||29 groups set to launch campaign against govt.||The BJP government is facing the heat with 29 organisations, including Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Dalit Sangarsha Samiti, and labour organisations, declaring that they would stage a joint struggle against the alleged dilution of land reforms, besides the “anti-labour” and “anti-farmer” pieces of legislation brought about by the government. The struggle is to be launched on September 21 in Bengaluru in the form of a protest rally when the legislature session begins. Announcing this at a press conference on Monday, leaders of the organisations, including Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’ Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar, said these organisations, which have formed an “aikya horata samiti” (united struggle committee) would also hold a parallel session during the proposed legislature session. He said farmers, Dalits, labourers, and members of progressive organisations would participate in the proposed struggle and parallel session. The 10-day parallel session is to be attended by famous personalities such as Yogendra Yadav and DevinderSharma, he added. He accused the BJP government in the State of subverting democratic principles by amending the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act through ordinances, without any discussion. He described some of the amendments to labour laws as anti-labour and maintained that the proposed changes to the Electricity Act were detrimental to the interests of farmers. Mr. Shanthakumar also described the BJP government as a “mafia” dispensation, and warned that the struggle would continue for a long time if the above changes were not withdrawn. Academician and former chairman of Karnataka Agricultural Prices Commission Prakash Kammaradi alleged that the changes to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act had gone against the spirit of land reforms. He said the government had diluted the land reforms Act following pressure from the capitalist lobby. He described it as a death knell for farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/29-groups-set-to-launch-campaign-against-govt/article32605365.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Paper was being circulated while exam was under way’||Candidates who appeared for the retest on Monday alleged that the question paper was doing the rounds on social networking sites even as they were appearing for the exam. Addressing these concerns, NLSIU issued a statement saying: “The test paper was accessible to candidates only after they logged into the platform. Therefore, it appears that some candidates have copied the questions and circulated this on some messaging apps/emails after logging in. While this is a malpractice under the NLAT proctoring guidelines, it does not affect the integrity of the exam as questions were already available to all the candidates after login. Our technical platform tracks and compares every candidate’s answer behaviour patterns and hence, any unusual candidate answer behaviour will be identified and result in disqualification.” NLSIU also said they, along with their technology partners, were carefully scrutinising the digital records of the exam to “accurately identify malpractice and disbar these candidates from considering for admission to NLSIU.” However, a few candidates complained that this reflected that the proctoring was “highly ineffective”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/paper-was-being-circulated-while-exam-was-under-way/article32605351.ece
15 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Last date to file ECR today||Employees Provident Fund Organisation has asked eligible employers to file Electronic Challan-cum-Return (ECR) by Tuesday to claim the subsidy under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. Rakesh S. Sekhar, Regional PF Commissioner, RO, Bengaluru Central, said employers who have already remitted monthly dues before availing themselves of benefits may update Form No. 5A. (Return of Ownership) with bank details, for claiming reimbursement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/last-date-to-file-ecr-today/article32605355.ece
15 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Supercomputer to power COVID-19 research||American semiconductor firm AMD has decided to donate a supercomputing system dedicated to COVID-19 research in India. It will be hosted and managed at the CSIR Fourth Paradigm Institute here. The research will focus primarily on genomics, vaccine development, transmission science, and modelling. The projects will range from evolutionary modelling of the virus to large-scale fluid dynamics simulations of COVID-19 droplets as they travel through the air, a company release said. “AMD’s decisionto donate a supercomputing system for COVID-19 research will augment our capacity as the leading R&D organisation in the country to provide world-class high-performance computational facilities to the researchcommunity,” said Shekhar Mande, director general of CSIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/supercomputer-to-power-covid-19-research/article32605360.ece
15 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||220 more test positive||As many as 220 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan district on Monday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 12,220. Including two deaths, the toll rose to 249 in the district. So far, 9,062 people have been discharged and 2,909 are undergoing treatment. Of these, 53 are in the intensive care unit. Among the fresh cases, 10 were from Alur, six from Arkalgud, 23 from Arsikere, 13 from Belur, 30 from Channarayapatna, 119 from Hassan, six from Holenarasipur and 13 from Sakleshpur taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/220-more-test-positive/article32605487.ece
15 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||101 COVID-19 positive women delivered of babies at KIMS||In a record of sorts, a dedicated team of doctors and para medical staff from Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and Hospital has successfully delivered 101 COVID-19 positive pregnant women of babies, between April first week and September 13 this year. Considering the pandemic situation, the team, however, has not taken much risk and consequently, the number Caesarean deliveries have increased. Director of KIMS Ramalingappa Antaratani told presspersons here on Monday that considering the COVID-19 situation, they conducted C-section on 66 women, while 35 pregnant women had normal deliveries. In fact, KIMS Hospital in Hubballi witnesses 900 to 1,000 deliveries monthly. However, due to COVID-19, there has been a 10 % to 15% decline in the number of cases. Dr. Antaratani said that nearly 100 COVID-19 positive women had been delivered of babies in Ballari and Bengaluru hospitals too. In some cases, there were severe complications. Despite that, they were operated upon carefully, he said and added that while four infants had died in their mothers’ womb before coming to hospital, three women died after giving birth to their infants. Dr. Antaratani said that despite the precautionary measures, three doctors of the maternity ward, eight post-graduate students and nurses were infected with COVID-19. “All of them have recovered and are back doing their duties now. They have done a commendable job,” he said. Head of the Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics Kasturi Donimath said that of the 101 deliveries conducted at KIMS, 55 were baby boys and 46 baby girls. “Initially, we too were hesitant considering the risk of infection. However, with the support of all doctors, we were able to conduct the deliveries smoothly and we are continuing to do that,” Dr. Donimath said She said that several pregnant women had been infected during their fourth and fifth months of pregnancy. Barring those who had already given birth, 59 pregnant women who had tested positive had recovered after treatment at KIMS, she said and added that 12 pregnant women were getting treatment in the hospital. Meanwhile, at KIMS, the designated COVID-19 hospital, 66 children were admitted for treatment after they tested positive for the infection. Paediatric surgeon Prakash Wari said that only 10 % of these children had symptoms of the disease and all of them had been cured and discharged from hospital.  4,300 treated Giving details of COVID-19 patients treated at the hospital, Dr. Antaratani said that so far 4,300 patients had been treated at KIMS Hospital, where patients with health complications from the neighbouring districts of Haveri, Gadag, Koppal, Bagalkot and other districts are also referred for further treatment. Dr. Antaratani said that as several among the COVID1-9 patients who were cured at KIMS Hospital had come forward to donate plasma for therapy, the doctors were able to treat 44 patients using this method successfully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/101-covid-19-positive-women-delivered-of-babies-at-kims/article32605477.ece
15 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Agitation seeking retention of KNNL office in Dharwad enters fourth day||The indefinite agitation by members of the Raita Sena, Karnataka, seeking retention of the office of Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Limited (KNNL) entered the fourth day in Dharwad on Monday with members of other organisations expressing solidarity with the protestors. Led by Veeresh Sobaradmath Swami, State president of Raita Sena, Karnataka, the protestors have been staging their indefinite agitation opposing the move to shift the office of KNNL to Belagavi. The objection of the protestors is that while the main demand for shifting of several offices to Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi had not materialised yet, a few corrupt officials were trying to shift KNNL office in Dharwad to Belagavi for the sake of their vested interests. Sobaradmath Swami has said that although elected representatives from the region had written to the Chief Minister previously, the few corrupt officers were trying to shift KNNL office to Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agitation-seeking-retention-of-knnl-office-in-dharwad-enters-fourth-day/article32605481.ece
15 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||A historical structure||The heritage building of KCD, earlier the central office of Southern Mahratta Railway (SMR), is a blend of colonial and local architecture and was built under the supervision of chief engineer Colonel James Gavin Lindsay, formerly of the famed corps of engineers of the East India Company. The construction was completed in 1890 and the central offices of SMR started functioning with G.M. Stewart as agent, Colonel J. Lindsay as chief engineer, C. White Combe as locomotive superintendent, J. Craik as traffic manager, and W.O. Donoghu as auditor. Subsequent to the merging of SMR with Madras Railway and the formation of the new company MSMR with its headquarters at Madras in 1908, the government of Bombay Presidency purchased this building at a cost of Rs. 3,26,956 from MSMR and established Karnatak College. It was inaugurated on July 15, 1920. The clock was imported from London by legendary clock maker P.Orr & Sons, Madras (Chennai), and commissioned in 1890. According to old-timers, its sweet chimes would reverberate up to a distance of 3 km, informing the inhabitants of the time. In the clock tower, gear boxes and mechanisms are housed in a large room on a raised wooden platform, 20 feet above the first floor. Clocks facing both sides of the building are connected with wire ropes and pulleys from the central mechanism. A beautiful brass bell adorns the clock tower. The hour needle of the clock is 1’9” long, while the minute needle is 2’5” long for proper visibility. The pendulum, 7’10” long, is equipped with a time-adjusting mechanism for temperature compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-historical-structure/article32605369.ece
15 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||State to soon acquire land for new railway line||Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar has said that the State government will immediately initiate the process for acquisition of land required for the recently sanctioned new Dharwad-Belagavi railway line via Kittur. It may be recalled that the long-pending demand for a direct railway line between Dharwad and Belagavi via Kittur, which would reduce travel time, has finally been sanctioned by the Union government. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad on Monday, Mr. Shettar said that in the wake of the Centre’s sanction, the State government, which has already agreed to give the required land free for the project, would immediately initiate the process and hand it over to the Railways at the earliest. He said that the new railway line would reduce travel time between the two destinations and it would also reduce fuel consumption, especially for freight services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-soon-acquire-land-for-new-railway-line/article32605484.ece
15 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Award||Placement officer of GM Institute of Technology, Davangere, Tejaswi Kattimani has received the National Eminent Educator Award instituted by the International Institute of Organised Research, India. He has also been chosen for the Inspiring Professor Award instituted by the Madras Journal Series Private Limited, which will be presented in December, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award/article32605483.ece
15 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Quadruple Therapy is effective in treating COVID-19 patients’||Elaborating on the effective methods being followed for treating COVID-19 across the globe, Shashikanth Manikappa, a specialist cardiac anaesthetist working at Monash Health in Melbourne, Australia, has strongly advised what he termed Quadruple Therapy involving four medicines — Ivermectin, Doxycycline, Zinc and Vitamin D3 — as a preventive as well as treating method. Addressing a media conference in Kalaburagi on Monday, the senior doctor said that the use of Ivermectin would be more effective than that of Hydroxychloroquine which was widely being used worldwide, right from the outbreak of the pandemic. Referring to a pre-official release of a randomised controlled trial using Ivermectin in three doses in primary contacts of COVID-19, Dr. Manikappa said that 93 % of primary contacts who received Ivermectin did not develop any symptoms and 58 % of primary contacts who did not receive Ivermectin did progress to have symptoms of the pandemic. “Quadruple Therapy includes Ivermectin 12 mg one dose, Doxycycline 100 mg once a day for four days, Zinc 50 mg once a day for four days and Vitamin D3 once a week. Ivermectin, Doxycycline and Zinc are to be repeated every 14 days and Vitamin D3 every week with blood levels monitored. The synergistic effect of these medicine acts to prevent viral multiplication and also stop the virus from entering human cells. Thomas Borody, an Australian gastroenterologist who is known for curing peptic ulcers with triple antibiotic therapy, has revealed that one block in South America that received Ivermectin combination prophylaxis did not contract coronavirus infection while others did,” he said. On the side effects, Dr. Manikappa said that Ivermectin was being used in 3.7 billion people for intestinal parasites and was found to be safe. “These are not new medicine. They are already in use for treating different ailments and are found to be safe. They can be prescribed by any doctor to control the pandemic,” he said. Asked about the statutory guidelines for the use of these medicine, Dr. Manikappa said that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had, though late, come up with new guidelines recommending Ivermectin. District Kannada Vaidya Sahitya Parishat president S.S. Gubb and joint secretary Shashishekhar Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quadruple-therapy-is-effective-in-treating-covid-19-patients/article32605479.ece
15 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kukke Subrahmanya temple re-starts sevas||After having suspended sevas for over five months due to the COVID-19 situation, the Kukke Subrahmanya Temple in Dakshina Kannada, one of the Muzrai temples having the highest footfall in the State, re-started them on Monday. The temple is known for conducting Sarpa Samskara seva which attracts hundreds of devotees from different parts of the State and also from outside. At present, due to COVID-19 restrictions, the temple administration has allowed 30 Sarpa Samskara sevas daily. But only four devotees performed it on Monday as others who had booked the particular seva got it postponed, sources in the temple said. The temple conducted 60 Ashlesha Bali, 30 Naga Prathisthe, 11 Sesha Seve, 10 Abhisheka and 10 Mahapuja sevas on Monday. The administration had arranged for lunch for the devotees on areca palm leaf plates. Though the government had allowed sevas in all temples in the State on September 1 itself, the Kukke Subrahmanya Temple administration did not re-start them till Sunday. It was allowing only darshan of the deity. Sources said that devotees have begun thronging the temple, especially during the week days, since the last over a month. Also, the temple has now begun providing accommodation to those who have booked the two-day Sarpa Samskara seva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kukke-subrahmanya-temple-re-starts-sevas/article32605486.ece
15 September 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Case Fatality Rate declines, but many districts fare poorly||Even though many districts in Karnataka had managed to reduce their Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in the COVID-19 pandemic over a period of four weeks ending September 5, they not only continued to remain behind the national average of 1.72%, but had also fared poorly among the districts of the country’s mega States. Dharwad, Bidar and Dakshina Kannada figured among the districts at the bottom of the table of 217 with a CFR of 2.86%, 2.85% and 2.72% respectively, taking the 199th, 197th and 192nd positions. Their CFR on August 8 was 3.2%, 3.3% and 3%, respectively. Faring slightly better were Mysuru, Tumakuru and Haveri with a CFR of 2.32%, 2.3% and 2.28%, taking the 175th, 174th and 168th positions on the table. Their CFR on August 8 was 3.3%, 2.8% and 1.9%, respectively. These six districts along with Hassan, Koppal, Davangere and Kalaburagi with a CFR of 2.1%, 1.94%, 1.94% and 1.75% are among the 10 districts of Karnataka with a CFR higher than the national average of 1.72%. This is part of the analysis of carried out by Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of Proxima, a management consulting firm, in 217 districts of the country’s mega States comprising Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, which had reported a minimum of 1,000 cases. “We have classified the States into three categories – Mega States, Empowered Action Group (EAG) States, Micro States and Union Territories for more clarity. For instance, the trend in Tamil Nadu can be compared with Maharashtra or Karnataka, but not with Mizoram and Manipur as the demographics are different,” said Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Jeevan Raksha. Mega cities including Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata and Mumbai are also excluded from the study. At the top of the table is Mahendragarh in Haryana with a CFR or 0.049% followed by six districts of Kerala – Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Palakkad, Idukki, Alappuzha and Mallapuram. So much so, a total of seven districts including Wayanad figure among the top 10 districts in the table with a CFR ranging from 0.064% to 0.3%. At the bottom of the table, however, is Punjab’s Kapurthala with a CFR or 4.61%, Ludhiana and Amritsar with a CFR of 4.15% and 4.11% respectively. Though the decline in CFR in many districts of Karnataka was attributed to the marked rise in the number of positive cases during the four-week period, Mr. Sanjeev sought to throw light on the inadequate medical infrastructure.  CFR in districts of mega States as on September 5  Mahendragarh (Haryana) ranked 1st with 0.049%  Kottayam (Kerala) ranked 2nd with 0.064%  Haveri ranked 168th with 2.28%  Tumakuru ranked 174th with 2.3%  Mysuru ranked 175th with 2.32%  Dakshina Kannada ranked 192nd with 2.72%  Bidar ranked 197th with 2.85%  Dharwad ranked 199th with 2.86%  Amritsar ranked 215th with 4.11%  Ludhiana ranked 216th with 4.15%  Kapurthala ranked 217th with 4.61%  India’s CFR on Sept. 5: 1.72%  Karnataka’s CFR on Sept. 5: 1.62%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-fatality-rate-declines-but-many-districts-fare-poorly/article32605354.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Custody of accused in drug racket extended||Actor Ragini Dwivedi was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days on Monday in connection with the drug racket connected to the Kannada film industry. She has been in Central Crime Branch (CCB) custody after being arrested along with her alleged associates, including a government official Ravi Shankar, for allegedly peddling drugs in the city. The CCB questioned Ragini in detail after obtaining her custody thrice to ascertain her exact role in the racket. While Ragini was remanded in judicial custody, actor Sanjjanaa Galrani has been taken into three days’ custody along with Ravi Shankar and party planner Viren Khanna for further investigation, a senior police officer said. The CCB officials said they have taken custody of Sanjjanaa as they need to question her about the data retrieved from her mobile phone, which is linked to the racket. The other accused, including Prashanth Ranka, Simon, Rahul Thonse and Niyaz Mohammed, have been remanded in judicial custody. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime), said that the custody of Viren and Ravi Shankar has been taken in another case registered in Banaswadi police station in 2018. Ragini, who was present during the proceedings, appealed before the 1st ACMM to allow her to get treatment at a private hospital as she is unwell. However, the court rejected her plea and asked her to get the treatment at the prison hospital. Meanwhile, the police continued analysing the data obtained from the mobile phones of the accused. Sources said they found photographs of Rahul posing with senior police officers, both serving and retired, and also with Revenue Minister R. Ashok, other politicians, film producers and businessmen. Rahul is also seen posing with a former BBMP councillor from the BJP. The police are verifying the time and date of the pictures to ascertain whether the officials have attended the parties hosted by Rahul. Mr. Ashok said that he does not know Rahul. “He might have taken the photograph during a private programme I attended and clicking pictures does not mean that I am linked to his activities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/custody-of-accused-in-drug-racket-extended/article32605348.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State permits prosecution of three more police officers||The State government accorded permission to prosecute E.B. Sridhar – then Deputy Superintendent of police, CID, Economic Offences Division; M. Ramesh – then Inspector, Commercial Street Police Station; and P. Gowrishankar – then sub-inspector, Commercial Street Police Station, in connection with the multi-crore IMA scam. The trio have been made accused, along with two senior IPS officers, for allegedly helping the kingpin Mohammed Mansoor Khan. The Anti Corruption Branch of the CBI registered a case against I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) Private Limited and 30 others in August last year. A report submitted by the CBI while seeking sanction for prosecution said that Sridhar conducted an “improper” inquiry into the activities of Mohammed Mansoor Khan and IMA. He did not collect relevant documents and without assessing the business activities and the modus operandi adopted by the IMA, he came to the conclusion that the IMA and its entities received investments from partners of LLPs and the same were not coming under the KPID Act. The report further stated that Sridhar did not conduct any inquiry against Mohammed Mansoor Khan and IMA despite receiving detailed explanation of various queries from the RBI. He did not even examine the officials concerned of the RBI or the authority concerned. The CBI report mentions that Ramesh demanded and accepted “illegal gratification” from Mohammed Mansoor Khan for not taking action against IMA on various complaints. Further, no action was taken by him against IMA on various complaints, and closed the complaints without examining the petitioners. The CBI report states that Gowrishankar had demanded and accepted illegal gratification on various occasions from Mohammed Mansoor Khan for not taking action against IMA on various complaints, closing the complaints without examining the petitioners. The State government, in January this year, accorded sanction for prosecution of the then head of the CID economic offences wing Hemanth Nimbalkar, and the then deputy Commissioner of Police (East division) Ajay Hilori for receiving benefits in return for favourable reports in the IMA case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-permits-prosecution-of-three-more-police-officers/article32605345.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||50 kg of marijuana seized, 2 held||Two persons were arrested by the Konanakunte police and seized 50 kg of marijuana worth Rs. 25 lakh. One of the accused Suresh M., 30, was caught red-handed while waiting for his clients to sell the contraband. Based on a tip-off, a team of police rushed to the spot and arrested the accused. They seized one kilo of marijuana along with a mobile phone and Rs. 500. Suresh told the police that he was buying marijuana from Bantu Thatharam, 41, from Andhra Pradesh who was residing in a rented house in J.P. Nagar 8th phase. Based on his information, the police raided the house and arrested Bantu. They seized 50 kg of marijuana stored in the house. Inquiries revealed that Bantu had been staying in Bengaluru for several months and selling marijuana sourced from his contacts in Andhra Pradesh. The police are trying to find the source and how he had smuggled the contraband into the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/50-kg-of-marijuana-seized-2-held/article32605346.ece
15 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Selfie mishap: marine police search for missing child||The fate of a two-and-a-half-year-old child who was washed out to sea by a strong wave at Alappuzha beach remained unknown as an intense search to trace the boy turned futile on Monday. The boy identified as Adhikrishna went missing in the sea after his mother attempted to take a selfie with the child and two other children on the beach on Sunday afternoon. The police said that the search for the missing child was being carried out with the help of the Marine Enforcement wing, fishermen and divers. According to the police, the mother identified as Anitha, her two children, and her brother’s son hailing from Palakkad reached their relative’s house in Alappuzha a few days ago after attending a wedding ceremony. On Sunday afternoon, Anitha and the three children were taken to the beach by their relative Binu. After the police denied them permission to go to the beach in view of the rough sea, they came to the beach near the ESI Hospital, evading security personnel. Anitha and the children who were trying to take a selfie on the beach got hit by strong waves and swept out to sea. Binu, seeing this rushed to the spot but could only save the woman and two children, aged six and seven. Case registered The Alappuzha South police said that a missing case had been registered in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/selfie-mishap-marine-police-search-for-missing-child/article32605906.ece
15 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||107 fresh cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 107 COVID-19 cases and 198 recoveries on Monday. The fresh cases include 104 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, one person each who had come from Oman and Telangana and a Health worker. Of the 104 locally transmitted cases, 22 were reported from Arattuppuzha, 15 from Kavalam and 11 from Alappuzha. Rest of the contact cases were from Thrikkunnappuzha (7), Thanneermukkom (6), Chennithala (6), Vayalar (4), Thamarakulam (3), two cases each from Mararikulam North, Mannancherry, Muthukulam, Pathiyoor and Perumbalam and one case each from Ambalappuzha, Cherthala South, Chettikkad, Chettikulangara, Chunakara, Devikulangara, Kayamkulam, Krishnapuram, Kanjikuzhy, Karthikappally, Mulakuzha, Nooranad, Nedumudi, Punnapra South, Pallippad, Palamel, Panavally, Thycattusserry, Thuravoor and Veeyapuram. The active cases in the district stands at 2,059.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/107-fresh-cases-in-alappuzha/article32605907.ece
15 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Woman ends life||A 21-year-old woman committed suicide allegedly after her boyfriend backtracked on his promise to marry her. The deceased was identified as Archana, of Arattuppuzha. According to the Thrikkunnappuzha police, she died on Friday after her boyfriend’s marriage was fixed with another girl. The police have launched a probe into the death based on a complaint filed by the parents of the deceased. The women’s family alleged that the boy had sought dowry and later withdrew from the marriage. Before dying, Archana, a final-year B.Sc nursing student, informed her boyfriend about the decisionthrough WhatsApp. “After seeing the message, he contacted his friend. The friend arrived at the house of Archana, where she was found unconscious after eating a poisonous fruit. Although the woman was rushed to a hospital, her life could not be saved,” said the police. (Suicide prevention helpline number: DISHA- 0471-2552056, 1056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-ends-life/article32605908.ece
15 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Minister distributes title deeds at Thodupuzha||Revenue Minister E.Chandrasekharan has said that the government was trying to realise the dreams of those at the grassroots through the distribution of title deeds. Inaugurating a ‘pattyamela’ at Thodupuzha on Monday, the Minister said that over 28,000 title deeds had already been distributed in the district. As many as 20,000 more people will also get the title deeds. Those living in the district since 1977 are being given the title deeds. He said that those who were not included in the joint verification of the Forest and Revenue Departments would also be given title deeds. The condition-free title deeds would help in availing bank loans. He said that 2,000 title deeds in Vazhathoppe grama panchayat will be distributed in October. The District Collector was entrusted with increasing the number of surveyors to speed up works related to title deed distribution. As many as 1,064 title deeds were ready for distribution on Monday. The Minister gave away 20 title deeds at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-distributes-title-deeds-at-thodupuzha/article32605909.ece
15 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Fake info: Jayarajan’s wife plans legal action||Sports and Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan’s wife P.K. Indira plans to take legal action against those propagating fake information about her, in connection with the opening of a locker managed by her at the Kannur branch of Kerala Bank allegedly in violation of the COVID-19 protocol. The Opposition had alleged that she opened the bank locker shortly after the Central agencies launched a probe into photographs showing her son with Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, emerged in the public domain. ‘Purpose of visit’ “She was at the bank to take one sovereign gold to gift on her grandchild’s birthday. This was two days before the Central agency launched the probe,” a source close to the Minister’s family said. ‘Charge baseless’ The allegation that she violated the COVID-19 protocol was baseless. She was not in quarantine when she visited the bank. Ms. Indira, who retired as a senior manager from the same branch, reportedly went to the bank on September 10 while she was under quarantine after submitting for samples for COVID-19 tests. Ms. Indira was later hospitalised after the samples returned positive. Three persons, including a gold appraiser, an employee who handles fixed deposits and the manager who went with Indira to open the locker, are also now in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fake-info-jayarajans-wife-plans-legal-action/article32605853.ece
15 September 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Six new cases registered against Kamaruddin in two days||Six more cases were registered in two days against Manjeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin in a jewellery investment fraud case. On Monday, the Payyannur police registered cases against the MLA based on complaints by three persons. According to the police, one complainant said Fashion Gold Jewellery, of which the MLA is the chairman, had cheated her of 18 sovereigns of gold and money. Another allegedly lost Rs. 2 lakh, while the third complainant said he was defrauded of Rs. 5.40 lakh and 894.54 gram of gold which he had invested in the company. CB to take over The State Crime Branch will take over 12 cases pertaining to the financial fraud from the district Crime Branch. There are 21 more cases against the MLA in the district. Meanwhile, CPI(M) Kannur district secretary M.V. Jayarajan said people’s representatives and investors would organise a satyagraha on September 16 at Payyanur and Thalassery against the ‘financial fraud’ committed by the MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-new-cases-registered-against-kamaruddin-in-two-days/article32605830.ece
15 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Stalemate over twin flyovers continues||The stalemate over completing pending work on Vyttila and Kundannoor flyovers on the congested Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass is continuing, with blacktopping of the two structures not progressing as was expected. The filling and blacktopping of the approach road to the Vyttila flyover from the Palarivattom side is another long-pending work. The delay on the part of the Public Works Department (NH wing) in executing the work has given rise to the fear that the deadline to commission the flyover might have to be extended yet again, despite mounting traffic snarls at the two junctions. The original deadline to commission the structure at Vyttila expired in May 2019. The Kundannoor flyover’s original deadline was March 2020. Official sources said rainy weather hampered the application of mastic asphalt coating on both the structures. The work is labour-intensive and the compound has to be heated at 200 degree Celsius. It will explode if rainwater falls on the molten material. The filling and tar coating of Vyttila flyover’s approach road will be completed in another fortnight. Efforts were under way to complete all work on the structures by October 31, they said. Alappuzha bypass Interestingly, mastic asphalt coating is under way atop bridges on the Alappuzha Bypass, although the bypass has not been opened to traffic. Aimed at executing the work despite rainy weather, the contractor has constructed a semi-permanent roofing structure fitted with wheels. This enables it to be easily moved across the bridge. It is not a foolproof method to do mastic asphalt works, since rainwater could seep in through the bridge’s gradient. The compound has to be boiled, transported and laid safely, failing which it might affect the durability of the blacktopping work. Not withstanding this, the contracting firms of the two structures have been directed to probe the feasibility of readying such a structure. This might affect the durability of the blacktopping work. The mastic asphalt layer that is pending for the twin flyovers in Kochi will need minimum 20 days. It will be topped with a layer of bituminous macadam. Once filled, the approach to the flyover has to be topped with granular sub-base (GSB), over which wet mix macadam (WMM) and dense bituminous macadam (DBM) have to be laid. Bituminous macadam topping will follow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stalemate-over-twin-flyovers-continues/article32605839.ece
15 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||255 new infections in Ernakulam||A total of 255 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. Of them, 11 arrived from outside the State and 244 acquired the infection through local transmission. The West Kochi area continues to report several fresh cases of the infection, with 26 people from Mattancherry and eight residents of Fort Kochi testing positive. Other new cases of the infection were reported from areas including North Paravur, Muvattupuzha, Rayamangalam, Edathala, Alangad, Kothamangalam, Thrikkakara, Thripunithura, Thammanam, Thevara and Keezhmad. As many as 125 people recovered and tested negative for the disease, while 3,265 people are being treated for it in the district. Of the positive patients, 1,188 people remain in isolation at home. A total of 21,245 people are in quarantine. As many as 1,086 samples were sent for testing from government facilities while 856 samples were collected at private labs and hospitals. Healthcare workers Four healthcare workers at private hospitals in the district tested positive on Monday, besides a worker from a private hospital in Kozhikode. Since most healthcare workers who had tested positive so far had not been working at first-line treatment centres or COVID hospitals, they could have acquired the infection from interactions outside the hospital, said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. Adequate context-specific personal protective equipment and training to avoid infection were being provided to healthcare personnel, he said. A doctor at the Karuvelipady taluk hospital, where six staff members had tested positive earlier and recovered, also said that it was likely that healthcare workers in such situations could have contracted the infection from outside the hospital premises and not from patients. In one instance, a staff member who was positive had had meals with colleagues, carrying the infection to others, she said. A doctor in-charge of infection control at a private hospital said that if personal protective equipment was adequately provided, procedures generating aerosols were minimised, and patients triaged as necessary, the risk to healthcare workers could be minimised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/255-new-infections-in-ernakulam/article32605837.ece
15 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Potholed roads give motorists a tough time||Severely potholed roads in the city are giving a nightmarish experience to motorists, with the Kochi Corporation, Public Works Department (PWD), and Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) not taking proactive steps to repair them. Parts of the Kundannoor-Pettah NH corridor are in a shoddy state, although the PWD (NH Wing) claimed that it had been repairing the stretch through patch work and paving of concrete blocks. Similar is the case with arterial roads. Motorists are often caught unawares by potholes dotting Banerjee Road and Park Avenue Road. Officials of the PWD (Roads Wing) blamed CSML for the state of affairs. While acknowledging that several roads are in a bad state, CSML sources attributed the delay in carrying out repair work to the ongoing drainage work. This occurred because there was shortage of labourers due to COVID curbs. Road restoration work will pick pace once drainage work reaches a satisfactory level, they added. With the departments concerned not restoring roads, traffic police personnel had mobilised men and materials and repaired several roads, including Kundannoor Junction, a couple of months ago. Meanwhile, the works standing committee chairman of the Kochi Corporation attributed the poor condition of roads to the ongoing strike by contractors, seeking clearing of dues. “I spoke to the Mayor, and she assured that a portion of dues would be settled this week. Repair work will resume after that,” he said. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) too is under fire for the shoddy condition of service roads on the Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass. Officials attributed waterlogging due to absence of drains as the reason. “We wrote many times to our headquarters, seeking funds. A reply is awaited.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/potholed-roads-give-motorists-a-tough-time/article32605842.ece
15 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy Chief arrives in Kochi||Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh is visiting the Southern Naval Command (SNC) in Kochi between September 14 and 18. He arrived at the naval air station Garuda by an Indian Air Force aircraft on Monday evening and was received by Vice Admiral Anil Kumar Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the SNC. The Navy Chief is slated to review the progress in the construction of the maiden indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC), which is scheduled to begin basin trials at Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) in a few weeks’ time. The Admiral will also review the progress of training, operational, infrastructural and indigenisation developments that have taken place since his last visit to Kochi in August last year. The SNC trains all officers and sailors of the Navy, Coast Guard as well as personnel from friendly foreign countries. Admiral Karambir Singh will also review the environmental initiatives undertaken by the SNC, namely rejuvenation of the Venduruthy channel and commissioning of a plastic waste handling facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-chief-arrives-in-kochi/article32605847.ece
15 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||NIA seeks custody of Swapna, others||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has sought the police custody of Swapna Suresh and other accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case for verification of digital evidence extracted from the gadgets seized from them. The agency submitted before the special judge that it could extract around 2TB each of data from the digital devices seized from Swapna, Sandeep Nair, and three others in the case. Initial scrutiny of the data was completed on September 11. The data were extracted by forwarding the devices to the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC). CDAC had also obtained the mirror image of the devices, the agency submitted. 30 arrested The police custody of the accused was required for confronting them with the incriminating content found in the digital devices and other relevant facts, it submitted. The agency has so far arrested 30 persons in the case. In its report, the NIA repeated its suspicion that the accused used the proceeds of the crime for funding terrorist activities. The role of the accused in the offence is required to be identified through custodial interrogation, the agency submitted. Meanwhile, Geo Paul, the lawyer representing Sawpna, said she was in the custody of various investigating agencies for over two months. She was initially arrested on July 7. ‘Serious ailments’ The accused was hospitalised at the Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, following heart ailments, he said. The defence team would approach the court to ensure the safety of the accused in police custody as she had complained of serious physical ailments, Mr. Paul said. The special judge posted the case for Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nia-seeks-custody-of-swapna-others/article32605852.ece
15 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Milma to target the health conscious||The Kerala State Milk Marketing Federation (Milma) has drawn up plans to double the production of its ‘Good Health’ brand milk drink from about 5,000 to 10,000 litres a day considering the good response in the market. “Enquiries are even coming in from outside the State,” said Milma chairman P.A. Balan on Monday. He said the regional cooperative in Kozhikode too had launched products catering to the demand of health conscious consumers. The Malabar Region Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union had seen good response to its two products Golden Milk and Golden Milk Mix . With spice infusions Dairy manager V.S. Murugan said the Good Health brand of milk drink had infusions of pepper, turmeric, cinnamon, and tulasi . The product was launched from the Punnapra Central Product Dairy in Alappuzha. “The Central Dairy now plans to launch a product for diabetics. There is now a plan to use the same infusions in butter milk so that those with sugar problems too can take advantage of the product,” Mr. Murugan said. In the meanwhile, the Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers Union has launched a sugar-free ice-cream keeping in mind the need for healthy eating in the time of COVID-19. Regional chairman John Theruvath said it was expected to elicit good response in the market. Milk production in the three regional cooperatives had been quite steady though there was a slowdown in demand because of the continuing restrictions imposed by the pandemic. The Kozhikode region had seen an excess production while the Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram regions had been able to source milk from the north to meet their demand. Mr. Balan said the milk cooperative’s operations had been strictly guided by the pandemic protocol. Farmers had been instructed to operate in tandem with the guidelines as part of the steps to contain the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-to-target-the-health-conscious/article32605875.ece
15 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Champakkara overbridge to be opened in October||The innovatively-designed Champakkara overbridge is getting ready for commissioning in the first week of October, despite rainy weather. The pair of two-lane bridges were built using bowstring technology. One two-lane bridge was opened to traffic in 2019. The bridges’ construction was the last work executed by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on the Vyttila-Pettah metro-rail corridor. Concreting done “We hope to complete pending work on the structure in another 20 days. Concreting work got over by Sunday. Bituminous macadam will be laid over the bridge when the rain takes a break for a day or two. Work on the approach roads on either side is ready,” said official sources. One of DMRC’s last projects in the metro corridor will be the construction of a commercial space at the metro station near Ernakulam Junction railway station. It would get over by November, they added. It was a good experience building the 25.20-km metro rail, especially the balanced cantilever portion of the viaduct over rail lines at Ernakulam Junction railway station, said a senior official associated with the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/champakkara-overbridge-to-be-opened-in-october/article32605845.ece
15 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Parties firm up strategy against Twenty20 in Kizhakkambalam||Smarting from the heavy defeat inflicted by Twenty20, the apolitical corporate-backed charity outfit, that swept into power in Kizhakkambalam panchayat in the last local body polls, mainstream political parties are pulling out all the stops to reverse the fortune in the forthcoming elections. The Congress, having ceded power five years ago, has fired the first salvo, accusing Twenty20 of rigging electoral rolls, which the latter has swatted aside as the desperation of an already defeated rival. Notwithstanding its confidence of winning at least 12 out of the 19 wards in the panchayat even if the United Democratic Front (UDF) were to go it alone, the local Congress leadership remains open to potential tie-ups, even with fierce rival CPI(M). “We are open to joining hands with any democratic force other than communal outfits like the BJP and the SDPI,” said Elias Karipra, president of the Kizhakkambalam Assembly constituency of the Congress. However, the CPI(M) seems far from receptive to that feeler from the rival camp, as it remains intent on fielding Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidates in all 19 wards. “We have already completed 75% of our organisational work ahead of the elections, and all that remains is the announcement of candidates, which will have to wait till the classification of general and reserved seats. Public opinion has swung against Twenty20, which is controlled by a corporate dangling its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds for its vested interests,” said Jins P. Mustafa, CPI(M) local committee secretary, Kizhakkambalam. Both the parties cited elections to two cooperative service banks at Malayidamthuruth and Kizhakkambalam, retained by the CPI(M) and the Congress respectively, when people voted despite boycott calls by Twenty20 as emblematic of the outfit’s fading influence. Twenty20, however, remains confident of a clean sweep in Kizhakkambalam in the coming election while expanding its footprint to at least four neighbouring panchayats. “There will be covert understanding among all political parties and even friendly contests as it happened last time, as our elimination is their common agenda,” said Sabu M. Jacob, businessman and chief mentor of Twenty20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parties-firm-up-strategy-against-twenty20-in-kizhakkambalam/article32605849.ece
15 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||State can achieve total sanitation in three years, says Minister||Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen said on Monday that Kerala could achieve total sanitation in three years. The State has the technological capability to achieve the goal. What was needed was the total participation and involvement of people as well as the local administrative bodies, he said, inaugurating an online seminar on decentralised waste disposal. The Minister said the experience derived from the People’s Plan would come in handy in decentralised waste management. The online seminar was organised under the aegis of the Palakkad-based Integrated Rural Technology Centre. The Minister said people should be equipped to treat biodegradable waste at the source itself. Local bodies should make efforts to provide equipment to households to achieve treatment of waste at source, he added. Non-biodegradable waste should be sorted and turned into a revenue stream. The Haritha Karma Sena in the State would be able to help in the process, he said. Joy Elamon, director of the Thrissur-based Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA), presided over the seminar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-can-achieve-total-sanitation-in-three-years-says-minister/article32605848.ece
15 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bench recuses itself from hearing NIA appeal||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court comprising Justice A. Hariprasad and Justice M.R. Anitha on Monday recused itself from hearing an appeal filed by National Investigation Agency (NIA) against the bail granted by the NIA Special Court to Alan Shuhaib and Thaha Fazal, accused in the Pantheerankavu Maoist case. When it came up for hearing, Justice Anitha said she was recusing herself from hearing the appeal. The appeal will come up before a new Bench on Wednesday. In its appeal, the NIA pointed out that the material collected from the accused had revealed that they were not silent ideologists, but part of a team proposing to resort to violent and anti-national activities. The seized documents had revealed their active involvement in terrorist activities. ‘UAPA undermined’ The trial court had also overlooked the fact that granting of bail would undermine the very objective of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The bail granted to the accused was totally improper and perverse and required a more objective appreciation of facts and application of law, the NIA added. The appeal further said that a large number of materials recovered from them had reflected the ideology of the CPI (Maoist). It was clear that the accused had been associated with the organisation, the NIA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bench-recuses-itself-from-hearing-nia-appeal/article32605868.ece
15 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Popular Finance case to be handed over to CBI||The State government on Monday informed the Kerala High Court that it had decided to hand over the investigation of the case relating to the cheating of investors by Popular Finance, a finance company, to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The submission was made by senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy when petitions by some of the investors seeking a CBI probe came up for hearing. The court asked the prosecutor why separate FIRs were not registered despite receiving many complaints. The senior public prosecutor further submitted it was a complex investigation spread over many places. Besides, the company had around 238 branches and had set up various shell companies. Therefore, a special team had been constituted and the investigation was progressing on the right track. Allegations of the investigation being lethargic had no basis. Over 3,000 complaints received from depositors were under process. Interrogation The offences under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,1992, Companies Act, 1956, the Income Tax Act 1961 could be invoked only after the completion of custodial interrogation of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/popular-finance-case-to-be-handed-over-to-cbi/article32605870.ece
15 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||No option but to lease airport to AEL: Centre||The Centre has no option but to proceed with the grant of lease/ concession on the right of operation, management and development of the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd., the highest bidder, as the bid by the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC), did not fall within parameters of the Right of First Refusal, according to an affidavit filed in the High Court. In an affidavit, the Centre said allowing the KSIDC to match the bid amount of the highest bidder after the completion of the bidding process would have amounted to violation of the whole exercise. The Centre said that it had approved the grant of lease/concession subject to the security clearance from the National Security Agency.  In airport’s interest In fact, the decision taken by the Centre was in the interest of the airport. The affidavit was filed in the High Court in response to a writ petition filed by the State government challenging the order of the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-option-but-to-lease-airport-to-ael-centre/article32605530.ece
15 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Responsible Tourism project at Valanthakad||Responsible Tourism (RT) initiatives at Valanthakad will usher in comprehensive development of the island, M. Swaraj, MLA, has said. He was speaking after inaugurating RT initiatives worth Rs. 99 lakh at the locale on Monday. Work is under way on a walkway and bridge, and they will be value-additions to tourism promotion in the region. The scenic island has a total of 50 families. RT Mission State coordinator K. Rupesh Kumar gave the keynote address. A floating tourist facilitation centre and boat jetty too will form part of the project. The Ernakulam DTPC will complete the work in a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/responsible-tourism-project-at-valanthakad/article32605843.ece
15 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Plea against byelections dismissed||The Kerala High Court on Monday dismissed a petition seeking a directive to the Election Commission not to go ahead with the byelections to the Chavara and Kuttanad Assembly constituencies. The petition was filed by Varghese Perayil, president of the Voters Association of Kerala. The petitioner sought the plea as the candidates elected would hardly have four months to officiate as MLAs. When the petition was taken up for hearing, the Election Commission informed the court that no directive could be issued to a constitutional authority not to perform its duties. Besides, the election schedule had not been fixed by the commission or any notification issued in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-against-byelections-dismissed/article32605869.ece
15 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||142 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 142 new cases of COVID-19 and 165 recoveries on Monday. Among the patients are 130 contact cases, one NRI and five others who had travelled from Tamil Nadu and Srinagar. Six health workers, all of them employees of government facilities, also contracted the virus through contact. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 56-year-old Kottarakara resident, a 60-year-old Sasthamcotta resident and a 65-year-old Kareepra resident are due to COVID-19. While the Kottarakara resident died on August 5, the others had passed away on August 23 and September 6 respectively. Under observation The district currently has 20,120 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 1,46,461. While 811 people completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 28,341 primary and 6,250 secondary contacts of the positive cases. 0Currently 15 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (CFTCs) are functioning in Kollam and the total number of active cases on Sunday is 2, 326.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/142-new-cases-in-kollam/article32605915.ece
15 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||122 test positive in Kottayam district||A total of 122 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. One person had arrived from outside the State, while all others have acquired the infection through local transmission. Two health workers at the Kottayam General Hospital have tested positive. Cases of the infection were reported from areas including Thrikkodithanam, Changanassery, Vazhappally, Kurichy, Vechoor, Puthuppally and Neendoor. As many as 121 people were discharged from hospitals, while 2,155 patients are being treated for the disease. About 20,415 people remain in quarantine. A total of 2,513 test results were obtained on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/122-test-positive-in-kottayam-district/article32605911.ece
15 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Teachers express concern over rush during Plus One admissions||Opposition-backed teachers’ organisations have expressed concerns over the first round of allotment to Plus One courses in higher secondary schools in the State that began on Monday. They claim that the assembling of a large number of students and their parents in schools is a violation of the COVID-19 protocol. Joshy Antony, president, Kerala Aided Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association, told The Hindu on Monday that the government directive on the allotment lacked clarity. The authorities did not take teachers’ organisations into confidence before arriving at a decision to hold the process in this manner. He pointed out that it would have been better had the allotment for admission to the Science stream was scheduled in the first two days, followed by the process for Humanities and Commerce streams. It would have helped avoid rush. The admission will go on till Saturday. “For example, one school in Kozhikode city has four batches and 120 merit seats. All the students seeking admission need to come to the school in one day, along with their parents. This means 240 people assembling in one place,” Mr. Antony said. Fees remittance and other formalities will have to be completed by evening. Functionaries of the Indian Union Muslim League-backed Kerala Higher Secondary Teachers’ Union said that unlike previous years, each student was being given 15 minutes and a specified date this year. In a subject combination, 30 students were allotted on a day. In schools with five or six subject combinations, this would lead to more than 150 students and their parents reaching the school. This would affect government schools more as the allotment to most seats are done in the first round itself. ‘Fix number of students’ C.T.P. Unnimoideen Kutty, general secretary of the union, said that in many schools Principals and teachers themselves were forced to do the clerical work as office staff were not able to come to work. The union urged the government to fix the number of students who could participate in the admission process at a time to address these concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-express-concern-over-rush-during-plus-one-admissions/article32605829.ece
15 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode district gets preference in KPCC revamp||In a bid to quell the growing resentment among Congress leaders, the party high command has given adequate representation from Kozhikode district in the reconstituted Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC). Six new secretaries — K. Balakrishna Kidavu, K. Moosa, V.M. Chandran, P. Usha Devi, Sunil Madappally, and Sathyan Kadiyangadu — have been nominated to balance group equations in the party. Indignation among a few The exclusion of senior party leaders in the reconstituted KPCC in January had caused bitter indignation among a few at having been treated unfairly in the district. This was especially when former District Congress Committee (DCC) president T. Siddique was elevated as one of the 12 vice presidents of the KPCC. Last week U. Rajeevan was appointed DCC president by Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi. However, former KPCC general secretary P.M. Suresh, who is also the Leader of the Opposition in the Kozhikode Corporation Council, has not been considered for any post. Even then, Kozhikode has better representation in the KPCC. There are three general secretaries — K. Praveen Kumar, P.M. Niyas, and N. Subramanian — now. Apart from KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, the others in the executive committee are K. Muraleedharan, MP; K.P. Unnikrishnan, P.M. Suresh Babu, K. Ramachandran, Achuthan Puthiyadathu, K.P. Babu, Milli Mohan, K. Madhavi, K.P. Rajan, K.M. Ummer, C.V. Kunhikrishnan, and C. Valsan. M.K. Raghavan, MP; DCC president, KSU State president K.M. Abhijith, former DCC presidents K.C. Abu and M. Veerankutty are ex-officio members of the executive committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-district-gets-preference-in-kpcc-revamp/article32605826.ece
15 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Self-financing colleges seek new generation courses||The self-financing colleges of the State have come out against the Department of Higher Education over its decision not to allot them new generation courses as they had requested. A recent circular of the department directed the Kerala, Mahatma Gandhi, Calicut, Kannur, and A.P.J.Abdul Kalam Technological Universities to call for applications from NAAC accredited government and aided colleges, as well as non-accredited colleges run by Scheduled Tribe Trusts, for new generation courses. The decision comes in the wake of the report submitted by a committee set up to analyse the existing courses and suggest the way forward. Thus, a list of undergraduate and postgraduate courses in new subjects has been made, of which each college could choose two. New courses The Kerala Unaided College Principals’ Council had suggested several new generation courses to the government such as artificial intelligence, data science, internet of things, robotics & mechatronics, disaster management, green technology, genetics, speech & learning, nano science, criminology, sports medicine, audiology, population studies, forensic science, atmospheric science, meteorology, energy conservation, environmental studies, behavioural science, space science, food science, Yoga & meditation, media engineering, gender studies, remote sensing, cyber laws, and palliative medicine, which they claimed, would equip the students for the future. But the unaided colleges were ignored when the time came to bid for these courses. “At least 75% of the arts and science colleges in the State are in the self-financing sector. They are ready to take up this challenge, but do not have the opportunity”, said Varughese Mathew, president of the Kerala Unaided College Principals’ Council. He said that many of the unaided colleges had adequate infrastructure and facilities to carry out the new generation courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/self-financing-colleges-seek-new-generation-courses/article32605904.ece
15 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||MYL sees bid to destroy proof||Muslim Youth League (MYL) State general secretary P.K. Firos has accused Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel of attempting to destroy evidence in the gold smuggling case. The Minister had claimed in a Facebook post on August 6 that the copies of Koran he had received through the UAE consulate were safely kept at two institutions at Edappal and Alathur. He had also stated that none of the copies were distributed, Mr. Firos said at a press meet here on Monday. ‘Officials forced’ However, when a difference in weight of 20 kg was detected in the consignment, Dr. Jaleel said that officials attached to the Kerala State Centre for Advanced Printing and Training (C-apt), a State government institution functioning under the chairmanship of the Minister, had taken 24 copies of Koran. Mr. Firos said the Minister was now forcing officials of the C-apt to state that they had taken the copies. His meeting with C-apt managing director on Monday was meant to destroy evidence of his involvement. There was something mysterious about the transfer of some C-apt officials, Mr. Firos said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/myl-sees-bid-to-destroy-proof/article32605851.ece
15 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||MSF march turns violent||Activists of the Muslim Students Federation (MSF), an affiliate of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), took out a protest march to the district collectorate here on Monday demanding the resignation of Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel who was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the gold smuggling case. Several protesters, including MSF State general secretary Latheef Thurayur and senior vice president A.P. Abddusammad, were injured in clashes with the police during the march. The police used water cannons initially and subsequently fired tear gas shells, as protesters refused to disperse. Later, the law enforcers resorted to lathi charge when the crowd turned violent and attempted to break police barricades and enter the collectorate. MSF leaders said the police had decided to deal with the agitators with an iron fist. A few sustained grave injuries in the clash. Earlier, Mr. Thurayur inaugurated the protest march.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/msf-march-turns-violent/article32605828.ece
15 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corporation to felicitate volunteers||As many as 382 people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Monday, of whom 345 got the infection through local transmission. The source of infection of 25 persons is not known. The number of local transmission cases from within the Kozhikode Corporation is 171. There are 13 health workers among the newly infected persons. As many as 123 people recovered from the infection. Honour for volunteers The Kozhikode Corporation is planning to honour all the volunteers, who have helped in the management of the COVID situation in the city, with certificates. A list of such volunteers has been collected through the Fire and Rescue Services Department. The list will be finalised at the council meeting scheduled for Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-to-felicitate-volunteers/article32605833.ece
15 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Question CM’s daughter: BJP||BJP State president K. Surendran has demanded that the investigation agencies interrogate the daughter of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the light of the emerging allegations in the LIFE Mission commission scam. Mr. Surendran said Mr. Vijayan should relinquish his post and face a probe as his family was allegedly involved in securing kickbacks in the housing project. Mr. Surendran also alleged that some Kozhikode-based religious organisations had received illegal funds from abroad. That was why the organisations were getting rattled when the involvement of the Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel in the gold smuggling case was becoming clearer, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/question-cms-daughter-bjp/article32605850.ece
15 September 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram records biggest single-day spike in fresh cases||Malappuram district witnessed the biggest spike in COVID-19 cases on Monday when 482 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus. As many as 440 of them contracted the virus through local transmission. The source of infection could not be traced in 17 cases. Five of the new cases were health workers. While 14 cases came from abroad, six came from other States. Officials said that 261 infected persons recovered in Malappuram on Monday. They said more than 10,000 infected people had recovered in the district since March. The number of active cases shot up to 3,032. However, the number of people in quarantine fell to 31,936. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, 175 people tested positive for the virus on Monday. While 120 of them contracted the disease through local contacts, 11 came from other States and nine from abroad. The source of infection could not be identified in 35 cases. District officials said that there were 94 recoveries on Monday. The number of infected persons currently under treatment in the district rose to 1,445. In Kannur Kannur district reported 232 more COVID-19 cases on Monday. Of these, 185 people were infected through contact. While three came from abroad, 14 returned from other States. Thirty are health workers. The district also reported 135 recoveries. In Wayanad Wayanad district reported 20 more COVID-19 cases on Monday. Of these, 15 are local transmission cases and five came from other States. As many as 76 people recovered from the disease. The district has so far reported 2,086 cases. Of these, 1,667 were discharged from the hospital. There are now 2,959 people under observation. In Kasaragod Kasaragod saw 56 cases on Monday. Of these, 52 are local transmission cases. The district also reported 135 recoveries. There are 5,288 people under observation.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Wayanad and Kasaragod bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malappuram-records-biggest-single-day-spike-in-fresh-cases/article32605832.ece
15 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||16 cases in Pathanamthitta||Of the 16 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday, one person had arrived from outside the State while the others have contracted the infection through local contact. Two people from Ranni, two residents of Kozhimala, a bank official from Parakode, and a native of Pezhumpara were among those who tested positive. A total of 15,145 people are in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/16-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32605912.ece
15 September 2020||S. Anil RadhakrishnanTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State to miss WB aid for RKI||Kerala will not get the second tranche of the World Bank’s development policy loan (DPL) of $250 million and the additional $100 million sought by the State for the Rebuild Kerala Initiative (RKI). Instead, the State stands a good chance to get aid from the WB-developed Program-for-Results (PforR) financing instrument for completing the ongoing flood recovery efforts and to build greater resilience to future shocks. The unique features of PforR include using a country’s own institutions and processes and linking disbursement of funds directly to the achievement of specific programme results. After results Although several States in the country have made use of the PforR since its formation in 2012, Kerala is yet to tap the financing instrument as the funds are disbursed only after achieving the results for the standalone programmes and audit. For national projects This is in the wake of the Union government’s policy decision not to make available the $2 billion DPL through tripartite agreement to the States and to use it for national projects in the health and MSME sectors. Kerala had got DPL of $250 million through a tripartite agreement with the Department of Economic Affairs, Government of India, and World Bank last year. The DPL, made available to the State for the first time, was provided by the International Development Association (IDA) and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). The aid was made available to the exchequer as budgetary support and the State had the ‘flexibility’ on disbursing the funds for achieving targets set under the RKI for the eight prioritised sectors. Fresh talks Confirming the developments, CEO, RKI, Rajesh Kumar Singh told The Hindu that the PforR funding would come in smaller tranches on a quarterly basis and fresh negotiations would be held with the World Bank. The Union government is reported to have no objections to the State seeking PforR. More responsibility  For the State, the stakeholder departments will have to shoulder more responsibility and ensure transparency as the PforR aid is based on results and it will be provided through a tripartite agreement. The World Bank aid was sought after the State witnessed severe floods and landslips during June-August 2018 affecting up to 5.4 million people, the one-sixth of the population.  A Joint Rapid Damage and Needs Assessment had estimated the recovery needs at Rs. 25,000 crore or $3.56 billion for priority sectors alone.  PforR funds are disbursed only after achieving results and audit Centre’s decision not to make available $2 billion DPL to States, instead to use it for national projects Kerala had got DPL of $250 million last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-miss-wb-aid-for-rki/article32605876.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protests take a violent turn, many injured in clashes||Demonstrations taken out by youth organisations and feeder outfits of Opposition parties seeking the resignation of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel in the gold smuggling case rocked the State for the third straight day on Monday. Several activists were injured as they clashed with the police at many places, including Thiruvananthapuram, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kodungalloor. Enhanced security The State capital remained the epicentre of the agitation. Considering the spate of demonstrations in the city, the police had enhanced security outside the Secretariat and near Dr. Jaleel’s official residence here. The agitations got under way with rallies taken out by the Kerala Congress (Jacob) and the Kerala Socialist Youth Federation, affiliated to the Communist Marxist Party faction led by C.P. John. Water cannon used Later, activists of the Muslim Students Federation (MSF) attempted to barge into the Secretariat premises, prompting the police to use water cannon to disperse them. Soon, activists of the BJP Mahila Morcha marched to the North Gate and attempted to climb the barricades erected in front of the Secretariat. Laying siege to MG Road After the police thwarted the attempts twice, the agitators laid siege to MG Road for nearly two hours. Their demonstration was bolstered after Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) workers rushed to the scene and engaged in a confrontation with the police. The ensuing clash resulted in an activist sustaining injuries. Soon, the Kerala Students Union (KSU) also marched towards the Secretariat and managed to topple the barricades erected near the office of the Accountant General, Kerala. While the activists regrouped after being sprayed water jets, they were lathicharged by the police resulting in injuries to KSU president K.M. Abhijith and a few others. The stir threatened to spiral out of control after Students Federation of India (SFI) activists accused KSU workers of destroying their flex boards in the area. However, the situation was brought under control after senior police officers led by District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay rushed to the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protests-take-a-violent-turn-many-injured-in-clashes/article32605859.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital sees cases slump to 332||Thiruvananthapuram’s COVID-19 caseload witnessed a downward trend with 332 testing positive for the infection on Monday. The slump, however, cannot be construed as an improvement of the pandemic situation in the worst-affected district in the State. Testing appeared to have fallen considerably down to 256 from 580 a day ago. Besides, 658 test reports were received on Sunday. This too fell to 395. Local transmission accounted for as many as 330 cases, i.e., over 99% of the fresh cases. Only the cases of two Tamil Nadu natives were treated as imported ones. Sixteen health workers also acquired the infection. Fifty five cases were also recorded with unknown sources of infection. These included those reported from Poonthura, Valiyasala, Mukkolakkal, Pattom, Nemom, Manacaud, Ambalathara, Balaramapuram, Anaraya, Kalliyoor, Parassala, Dhanuvachapuram, Amaravila, Nedumangad, Vembayam and Vizhinjam. Three more deaths—those of a 13-year-old girl from Poojappura, a 59-year-old Neyyattinkara native, and a 60-year-old Poozhanad native—were attributed to the disease, taking the district’s death toll to 149. As many as 415 recovered cases were also reported on the day. KWA MD tests positive S. Venkatesapathy, Managing Director, Kerala Water Authority (KWA), tested positive for COVID-19. The offices situation in the CCU building at Jala Bhavan—the KWA headquarters here—were closed for disinfection on Monday. The KWA staff who came into direct contact with Mr. Venkatesapathy after September 9 were advised to go into quarantine. The offices would reopen on Tuesday. Containment zones The district administration declared containment zones in Kadinamkulam and Puthenthope South wards in Kadinamkulam grama panchayat, Palliyara ward in Mudakkal grama panchayat, Kattackal ward in Manickal grama panchayat, Anavoor ward in Kunnathukal grama panchayat, Pedikulam ward in Pulimath grama panchayat, and Pulliyil ward in Balaramapuram grama panchayat. Limited containment The existing containment zone that was declared in Punnakamughal ward in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation was limited to VPS 204 lane in Vattavila. The containment zone that was declared in Vazhottukonam in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation has been withdrawn.  Three more deaths were attributed to the disease, taking the district’s death toll to 149||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-sees-cases-slump-to-332/article32605533.ece
15 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Renal patients at greater risk||Renal failure patients on maintenance dialysis are turning out to be one of the biggest casualties of COVID-19 epidemic in the State, with an increasing number of them succumbing to the disease or going into serious renal complications because of lack of access to timely dialysis. Nephrologists across the State say that they have been regularly losing patients on dialysis to COVID-19, especially for the past two months. “Dialysis patients, because of their immunocompromised state and other co-morbidities, constitute an extremely vulnerable group. We are trying to educate our patients about their vulnerability and the extreme care they and their family need to take to prevent them from contracting COVID-19. But the need for frequent travel to dialysis units and mingling with other patients and staff during dialysis shifts are an unavoidable risk,” P. Krishnadas, consultant nephrologist at Palakkad district hospital, said. High mortality rate Mortality rate is as high as 25% amongst dialysis patients contracting COVID-19. Kerala has a population of over 10,000 under maintenance dialysis, the highest in the country. Doctors also fear that a potential crisis could be brewing, as across the State, smaller dialysis centres are finding it increasingly difficult to operate as more patients are contracting COVID-19, passing it on to dialysis technicians and other renal patients. All maintenance dialysis patients are attached to specific dialysis centres on fixed twice/thrice-a-week dialysis schedules. Even a temporary shut down can upset the dialysis schedule and lead to severe complications for patients. The dialysis unit of the Department of Nephrology at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, had to be shut down last week after three dialysis technicians contracted COVID-19. A private hospital in Palakkad had to shut down its dialysis unit after six dialysis patients and two technical staff tested positive. Nephrology departments in hospitals are also under tremendous stress as the number of COVID-19 patients going into renal failure, necessitating dialysis, is rising steadily. Mortality rate is as high as 60% in this group. Access issues The pressure on dialysis centres could worsen in the coming weeks when COVID-19 cases surge and those on routine dialysis will have to fight with COVID-19 patients for access to dialysis. This could push up mortality eventually in both categories, nephrologists fear. “The evolving situation on the ground is very frightening, about which policy makers and administrators seem to be totally unaware. We need clear guidelines on how we can manage this special group of patients. Regular screening of dialysis patients for COVID-19 should be possible,” a senior clinician said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renal-patients-at-greater-risk/article32605867.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Unions allege conspiracy in delaying BSNL’s 4G service||A Central Executive Committee meeting of the BSNL Employees Union (BSNLEU), held online recently expressed deep anguish over the delay being caused in the launching of BSNL’s 4G service. The meeting called on the unions and associations of BSNL to compel the Central government, for the removal of the road-blocks in launching the 4G service.  Call to unite unions It also called upon the Central Headquarters of BSNLEU to take immediate steps to unite all the unions and associations for organising a campaign programme among the employees and among the general public, in the months of September and October, which should culminate in a strike action thereafter. In a press release, the BSNLEU said that the BSNL is already lagging 4 years behind the private operators, so far as 4G technology is concerned. BSNL’s revival is unimaginable without the launching of its 4G service. Domestic vendors The government has cancelled the tender floated by BSNL for procuring 4G equipment demanding that it be made favourable to domestic vendors, even though there is no domestic vendor manufacturing 4G equipment. BSNLEU said that the union strongly believed that a conspiracy had been hatched to deny 4G equipment to BSNL and thereby to sabotage its revival. In the month of April, both Airtel and Vodafone Idea have lost 47 lakh customers each, while in the same month, BSNL has added 2 lakh new customers. This clearly tells who is the real challenger to Reliance Jio, it alleged. BSNLEU alleged that the cancellation of BSNL’s 4G tender is only to clip its wings, so that the telecom PSU does not offer stiff competition to Reliance Jio. This can be construed as a part of the government’s overall strategy of aiding Reliance Jio to monopolise the telecom sector, it alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unions-allege-conspiracy-in-delaying-bsnls-4g-service/article32605527.ece
15 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,540 cases in State||New COVID-19 cases showed a slight dip in the State on Monday, registering 2,540 cases, in proportion with the number of tests done on Sunday, which was also down to 22,279 samples. The number of recoveries was 2,110. The number of patients undergoing treatment is 30,486. 15 deaths Fifteen more deaths, which occurred in the State in August and early September, were added to the State’s provisional list of COVID-19 fatalities by the Health department on Monday, taking the State’s official toll to 454. Two of these deaths had occurred as early as August 3. Three deaths each were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Palakkad, and Malappuram and one each from Kozhikode, Kasaragod, and Ernakulam. Even when the number of cases dipped, there is no let-up in community transmission, with 2,433 cases out of the 2,540 new cases — nearly 96% — being locally acquired infections, including those reported in 64 health-care workers. In 212 cases, the infection could not be traced to any known source of transmission. Malappuram reported 482 cases, Kozhikode 382, Thiruvananthapuram 332, Ernakulam 255, Kannur 232, Palakkad 175, Thrissur 161, Kollam 142, Kottayam 122, Alappuzha 107, Idukki 58, Kasaragod 56, Wayanad 20, and Pathanamthitta 16 cases. The current number of hotspots in the State is 615. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday that according to a genomic study conducted in north Kerala by CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, the virus strains currently circulating in Kerala belonged to the A2a clade, which is marked by the D614G mutation, which has been linked to possible higher infectivity potential in the virus. This means that the particular mutation can make the virus spread faster. COVID transmission is likely to go up in the State when the remaining restrictions are relaxed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2540-cases-in-state/article32605872.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Relief for Corporation as occupancy falls at FLTCs||Even as the COVID-19 caseload in the city continues to climb steadily, with minor blips once in a while, the city Corporation temporarily closed down two of its COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) as more of the asymptomatic patients are opting for home care. Less burden The institutional quarantine centres meant for quarantining those returning from other States and overseas are also having less occupancy, thus reducing some of the burden on the local body. The Corporation had initially identified 19 buildings for FLTCs, with a bed capacity of 1,925. Out of these, eight became functional. In the initial days, most of these were close to full capacity. However, with the recent change in protocols, health workers were allowed to opt for home care if they were found to be asymptomatic. Later, with more people opting for this and an increase in the number of those testing negative, this number began decreasing. As on Saturday, there were 560 asymptomatic patients across six FLTCs. The civic body had earlier temporarily closed down the FLTCs in Ponnthura and Beemapally after all of the occupants tested negative and with no new occupants. Food and facilities The running of the FLTCs and institutional quarantine centres has been an enormous financial burden on the Corporation, as it had to find enough funds for ensuring food and other facilities for those staying there. The Corporation had appointed its staff, including junior health inspectors, as charge officers in the FLTCs in three shifts of eight hours each. In addition, cleaning staff are also being deployed at a rate of one for every 10 beds. Manpower shortage With some of them testing positive in the initial days, the Corporation was staring at a manpower shortage too. “Only asymptomatic patients were taken to FLTCs. Most of them tested negative after seven days and returned home. We had to open up to eight FLTCs when the numbers peaked,” said a health official. Less than 100 occupants In the 11 institutional quarantine centres, there are only fewer than 100 occupants as on Saturday. Those returning from abroad or other States now have the option of home quarantine. Some of the institutional quarantine centres are now being occupied by the health workers of the Corporation who cannot return home after pandemic-related work in the field.  Those returning from abroad or other States now have the option of home quarantine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relief-for-corporation-as-occupancy-falls-at-fltcs/article32605528.ece
15 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sivasankar’s suspension extended||The State government has extended the suspension pending enquiry of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, by four months. The government had suspended Mr Sivasankar in July after a committee headed by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta found preliminary proof that he had violated civil service conduct rules. The main charge against Mr Sivasankar was that he had appointed Swapna Suresh as marketing liaison officer of Space Project when she was already under the employment of the UAE consulate as executive secretary to the consul general. Political liability Moreover, Mr Sivasankar's association with Swapna had become a political liability for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) named her an accused in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. The government had constituted a Suspension Review Committee, as per Rule 3 (8) of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969, to review Mr Sivasankar's case. From September 15 The suspension review committee had recommended to the competent authority to continue the suspension of Mr. Sivasankar for a further period of 120 days with effect from 15.09.2020. Consequently, the State government had accepted the recommendation of the suspension review committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sivasankars-suspension-extended/article32605531.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Weekly parcel cargo specials by Railways||A weekly parcel cargo special train will operate every Friday from Thiruvananthapuram Central to Shalimar and on Mondays from Shalimar in order to facilitate quick movement of parcel goods and essential commodities. The parcel cargo service towards Shalimar will commence on September 18, according to the Railway officials . The Railways have also revised the timings of the tri-weekly parcel cargo express special train operating in the MGR Chennai Central–Ernakulam–MGR Chennai Central due to certain operational reasons. Timings 00653 MGR Chennai Central–Ernakulam Junction parcel special Express will be on Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursdays, according to the Railways. The 00654 Ernakulam Junction-MGR Chennai Central parcel special express train will run on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, the officials say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weekly-parcel-cargo-specials-by-railways/article32605539.ece
15 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Muraleedharan lied about baggage: CPI(M)||The State secretariat of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Monday accused Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan of trying to mislead the investigation in the UAE consulate gold smuggling case to shield the culprits. The CPI(M) said Mr. Muraleedharan had dubiously insisted that the air freight in which Customs officials found 30 kg of contraband gold was not diplomatic cargo. His statement was in variance with the finding of the Customs that the consignment was imported from Dubai as diplomatic freight. Mr. Muraleedharan’s “lie” was exposed in Parliament on Monday when the Union Finance Ministry revealed that contraband gold had arrived in the country via “diplomatic baggage”. The CPI(M) said that Mr. Muraleedharan had lost the right to continue in office. The CPI(M) said a key accused in the case had told investigators that Anil Nambiar, the coordinating editor of a pro-BJP channel, had counselled her to tell Customs examiners that the suspect consignment was not diplomatic freight. Mr. Muraleedharan had struck a similar line in public. ‘Probe peters out’ The CPI(M) pointed out that the Customs probe into the racket had floundered after Mr. Nambiar was questioned. Nothing had come of the questioning. The officers who quizzed him were shunted to other duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/muraleedharan-lied-about-baggage-cpim/article32605856.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Schools will not open in October, says CM||Schools in the State will not reopen in September or October, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has indicated. The Chief Minister touched upon the issue during his customary briefing pertaining to the COVID-19 situation in the State on Monday. The Union government too had not insisted that schools should reopen now, the Chief Minister said. (The SOP issued by the Centre only states that, “partial resumption of activities in schools for students of classes 9 to 12 on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers” will be allowed from September 21.) The State government would allow auditoriums to reopen subject to conditions, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schools-will-not-open-in-october-says-cm/article32605861.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Committee for DRIP reconstituted||With the second phase of the Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (DRIP-II) set to be rolled out, the State Water Resources Department has reconstituted the technical sanction committee for the World Bank-aided initiative. The six-member, reconstituted committee chaired by the Chief Engineer (Irrigation Design and Research Board) will issue technical sanction for DRIP-II works and coordinate activities under the project. Members Committee members include the Chief Engineer (Irrigation and Administration), the Irrigation Department chief engineers in charge of projects, and mechanical works and the Chief Electrical Engineer. The technical committee was originally formed in 2012 for the Phase I works. Rehabilitation of 16 dams managed by the State Water Resources Department will be taken up in the second phase of the initiative which aims at enhancing the safety and operational performance of selected dams in the country. Two phases in 10 years At the national level, the Central Water Commission has cleared DRIP Phases II and III which will be completed in 10 years (2020-2030). Each phase lasts six years, with two years overlapping. In July, the State government had accorded in-principle approval for undertaking works worth Rs. 240 crore in Phase II.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/committee-for-drip-reconstituted/article32605529.ece
15 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Special team to crack down on fake news||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said the State government had constituted a special police team to act against those who create and propagate fake news. Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham would head it. The Chief Minister slammed a “prominent” Malayalam newspaper for resorting to malicious gossip without verifying facts. He said the newspaper had said in a front-page report that LIFE Mission had paid a bribe to the gold smuggling case accused to secure housing aid from the UAE Red Crescent. It insinuated that the son of a Minister was also a beneficiary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-team-to-crack-down-on-fake-news/article32605857.ece
15 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Guidelines for migrant workers||The government has issued guidelines for migrant workers returning to the State for work. The return migrants would be required to register on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal. The entry permit would be based on the quarantine facilities at the destination, verified by the local body and posted on the portal. The worker would have to undergo 14-day quarantine arranged by the work contractor. Those returning without a COVID test certificate would have to undergo an antigen test within five days at the expense of the contractor. Workers not attached to a labour supply contractor would have to meet the expense on their own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guidelines-for-migrant-workers/article32605865.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Suicide rate: SHRC seeks report||A complaint pertaining to the high number of suicides among teenagers in the State has prompted the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) to direct the Social Justice Department to examine the effectiveness of the State government’s suicide prevention initiatives. The directive came on a complaint filed by human rights activist Ragam Rahim stating that 140 teenagers committed suicide during the period from January to June this year. Commission chairman Antony Dominic has issued a direction to the Director, Social Justice, to examine and submit a report on the effectiveness of the suicide prevention initiatives rolled out by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suicide-rate-shrc-seeks-report/article32605873.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Title deed distribution in capital||Title deeds will be distributed to 500 more landless people in the district. Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan will inaugurate the distribution, via videoconference, at 2.30 a.m. on September 15. Cooperation Minister Kadakampally Surendran will preside. Title deeds have been issued to 1,504 people in the district after the LDF government came to power, the government said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/title-deed-distribution-in-capital/article32605910.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Beach road Phase I works||The Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan will kick off the Phase I reconstruction works of Shanghumughom beach road damaged by sea erosion on Tuesday. In the Rs. 4.29-crore Phase I, the Public Works Department is constructing a diaphragm wall using new technology along the 260-metre-long damaged stretch to prevent further damage to the road. Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran said Rs. 5.39 crore had been sanctioned for reconstruction under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beach-road-phase-i-works/article32605537.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI stages protest for ‘protection of India’||A national-level protest organised by the CPI on Monday calling for the ‘protection of India for livelihood, equality and justice’ received overwhelming response, party State secretary Kanam Rajendran said. In Kerala, 1.5 lakh people attended the protest across more than 10,000 centres, he said. Pannian Ravindran, Central Control Commission chairperson of the CPI, inaugurated the protest organised by the CPI State council office branch at the Government Model School junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-stages-protest-for-protection-of-india/article32605860.ece
15 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Revised exam schedule||The revised schedule of the exam for the certificate course in Library Science has been published. The exam had earlier been postponed in the light of the COVID-19 outbreak. The new schedule can be viewed onkeralapareekshabhavan. gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revised-exam-schedule/article32605862.ece
15 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Elected to KAU general council||MLAs G.S. Jayalal, Mathew T. Thomas, M. Vincent and K.V. Vijayadas have been unanimously elected to the general council of the Kerala Agricultural University, according to a press note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elected-to-kau-general-council/article32605863.ece
15 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Date extended||The last date for submitting online application for admission to the MTech course in government/aided and government-controlled self-financing engineering colleges has been extended up to September 19. For details, visitwww.admissions.dtekerala. gov.inorwww.dtekerala.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/date-extended/article32605864.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) plans protest against Delhi Police||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district committee will be organising protests at 20 locations in the city on Tuesday at 5 p.m. as part of the party’s Statewide protests against the Delhi Police’s attempts to frame CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and other leaders in the Delhi riot case. In a press release, district secretary Anavoor Nagappan said that the Delhi Police under the control of the Centre was trying to fabricate cases against Opposition leaders, students and intellectuals, even as they are yet to take any action against Sangh Parivar-BJP leaders who indulged in violence and hate speech during the riots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-plans-protest-against-delhi-police/article32605534.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New school building inaugurated||City Corporation Mayor K. Sreekumar on Monday laid the foundation stone for a new building for the 105-year-old Government Upper Primary School at Ambalathara. The Corporation has set aside Rs. 1.63 crore for the work in its annual plan. The three-storied building spread over 5650 square feet will have 15 classrooms, computer lab, dining hall and other facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-school-building-inaugurated/article32605535.ece
15 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Naval training centre at Akkulam||The Minister for Cooperation, Kadakampally Surendran, on Monday laid the foundation stone for the Naval Training Centre for 1 Kerala Naval Unit at Akkulam. This is the first such centre for the NCC naval unit in Kerala. The Minister for Higher Education, K. T. Jaleel, inaugurated the event. NCC Additional Director General Major General Mandeep Singh Gill was present. The centre, to be constructed at a cost of Rs. 10 crore, will have facilities to provide primary training, swimming, sailing, boat pulling, rafting, kayaking, canoeing, drill and firing. National-level training camps also will be conducted here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/naval-training-centre-at-akkulam/article32605536.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fighting spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fighting-spirit/article32605882.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making it to the next level||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-it-to-the-next-level/article32605880.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Improved facilities||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/improved-facilities/article32605878.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cleanliness campaign||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cleanliness-campaign/article32605914.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Correction||Correction: In the report titled “Senior journalist dead” that appeared in these columns on September 14, it was erroneously reported that the deceased “is survived by wife”. The deceased was a widower. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/correction/article32605834.ece
15 September 2020||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer couple stranded in field for 3 days, rescued||A farming couple of Bachupalle Thanda, in Rudravaram mandal near Allagadda in Kurnool district, who were trapped in their farm near Kondavagu near Ahobilam for three days, were rescued by the Allagadda Fire Department staff. On receiving a rescue call, the Fire Department personnel reached them with the help of lifebuoys, life jackets and ropes and brought them to safety through the Kondavagu stream, which was flowing dangerously above the normal level, according to District Fire Officer Sreenivas Reddy. Rainfall in Anantapur district has been very good during the southwest monsoon this year, and the district so far recorded an excess rainfall of 73.5% since June 1. Against a normal of 268.2 mm, the actual recorded till 8 a.m. on Monday was 464.1 mm and it is the highest deviation for any district this season in the State. Wettest month While the district received an average of 19.9 mm of rain, all 63 mandals experienced rainfall and 23 of them got more than 20 mm, and Putlur mandal recorded 56.6 mm, according to the rainfall data provided by the district administration. This quantum of rainfall is being witnessed for the first time after 2013 and going by the historical rain data, September month is the wettest for Anantapur and it will not be a surprise if the entire yearly average rainfall of 550 mm is received by the end of September. Srisailam inflows Meanwhile, Srisailam Reservoir has been receiving a good amount of water from the Jurala and Sunkesula for the past three days and the reservoir was having a storage of 214.36 tmcft at 6 p.m. on Monday and getting inflows of 2,25,082 cusecs. While Sunkesula was contributing 51,732 cusecs, the remaining out of 1,90,693 cusecs was coming from Jurala. While Andhra Pradesh was producing power and utilising 30,662 cusecs, there was no production on the Telangana side. Pothyreddypadu Head Regulator was drawing 1,500 cusecs and Malyal for HNSS - 1688 cusecs taking the total outflow from the dam to 2,58,514 cusecs with 2,23,864 getting released from the spillway by lifting seven gates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmer-couple-stranded-in-field-for-3-days-rescued/article32605944.ece
15 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, JSP demand suspension of Srikalahasti temple EO||The activists of Bharatiya Janata Party and Jana Sena Party on Monday evening staged a protest in front of the office of the Regional Joint Commissioner (Endowments) at Tirupati, demanding suspension of the Executive Officer of Srikalahasteeswara Swami Devasthanam and arrest those who installed and consecrated idols inside the temple complex without officials’ notice. The BJP State leader, Samanchi Srinivas, said that the incident of bringing the idols of Lord Siva from outside and consecrating them in temple complex without the knowledge of the temple authorities showed the poor state of affairs. Despite the presence of high security and digital surveillance, the temple authorities were yet to identify the trespassers and book cases against them. The temple was mired in controversies earlier too after allegations of occult rituals being carried out in and around the complex emerged, but action was not initiated against those involved in the issue. Instead, the officials facing the allegations still continue to be in their positions, he alleged. Mr. Srinivas said that as the Srikalahsti temple is known worldwide for its famous Rahu Ketu puja rituals with multitudes of devotees imposing faith in the temple, it is the bounden duty of the authorities to safeguard the temple’s sanctity and uphold the sentiments of the devotees. Later, there was a mild tension when the agitators insisted that they would not leave the premises of the RJC office unless a proper assurance be given to their demands. However, after the intervention of the police, the protestors left the venue peacefully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-jsp-demand-suspension-of-srikalahasti-temple-eo/article32605311.ece
15 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roja donates stretchers to SVIMS||Andhra Pradesh Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation chairperson and Nagari MLA R.K. Roja on Monday donated ten stretchers to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD)-administered Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) in Tirupati. The gesture came after a few youngsters sought her to arrange for a provision of a few stretchers at SVIMS as the existing ones had been set aside for the emergency services in view of the rise in new COVID cases. Responding to their appeal, the MLA donated the stretchers on behalf of R.K. Roja Charitable Trust, which is administered with her personal funds. Speaking on this occasion, Ms. Roja expressed happiness at being able to help the hospital, which was witnessing increasing number of patients getting admitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roja-donates-stretchers-to-svims/article32605312.ece
15 September 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector asks students to focus on core subjects||District Collector Revu Mutyala Raju turned into a teacher for a while for the JEE Advance exam aspirants. He has given tips on how to crack the examination, scheduled to be held on September 27. As the time was less for preparing for the examination, Mr. Mutyala Raju advised the students to work hard for ten days and revise the subjects during the remaining five days. The Collector directed the principals and teaching staff to pay special attention on the students. “You can get seat by scoring good marks in mathematics, physics and chemistry subjects, and focus on your interested subjects. Students of Social Welfare and Tribal Welfare Institutions should create record by securing seats in IIT and NIT,” Mr. Mutyala Raju said. Students who secure good ranks and join IIT can land in good jobs in fourth year and lead a happy life. Those who scored 84% marks in JEE Mains can easily get seat in NIT and others can also confirm seats, if work hard, he explained. “I request the students not to waste time and prepare based on the old question papers. Focus on the chapters from which more questions were given in previous examinations,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-asks-students-to-focus-on-core-subjects/article32605318.ece
15 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MPs to target TDP in Parliament||The YSRCP is bracing for an all-out attack on the Telugu Desam Party by flagging major scams -- Capital Amaravati land scam, irregularities in AP State Fibernet Limited -- during the previous TDP regime, during the monsoon session of Parliament. While the relief work during COVID, Central aid, Special Category Status (SCS) and other issues would be raised on a priority basis, the MPs are set to highlight the major scams that allegedly took place during the TDP regime. Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy during a tele conference with party members of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, asked the MPs to raise their voice seeking Central assistance for various welfare scheme and industrial policies and also to raise the issue of nepotism, manipulation, corruption and breaking the oath of secrecy by the TDP leaders who were privy to information but leaked it in their close circles. Insider trading He asked the MPs to raise issues of ‘insider trading’, how Ministers, MLAs close to the TDP leaders, reaped undue benefits, by buying land ahead of the actual announcement of the Capital region. The MPs were also asked to highlight the irregularities in the AP State Fibernet Limited (APSFL) allegedly involving former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, former IT Minister Nara Lokesh and the then technical advisor to Government, Vemuri Harikrishna Prasad, where the deviation has started from the stage of tenders itself. The order went to Terra Software owned by the family members of Harikrishna Prasad and undue favours were allegedly doled out during the period of 2014-19. Special category status Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also urged the MPs to pitch for getting Special Category Status, President’s nod for Disha Act, funds for Polavaram project, pending funds to Urban Local Bodies, sanction for 13 medical colleges and shifting of Tribal University to Saluru. The Chief Minister also asked the MPs to raise the issue of scrapping of Legislative Council . Though the bill was passed by the Assembly and sent to Centre, there was no further action on it. The issue should be taken up with Union Home Ministry, said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The issue relating to AP Land Titling Act should also be taken up as the State government would start resurvey of all lands from January 1, 2021, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mps-to-target-tdp-in-parliament/article32605933.ece
15 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||All govt. schools in State to get smart TVs||The students of government schools across the State will now have an opportunity to learn their lessons through smart television sets as the government is launching a project. As part of it, 10,000 smart TV sets would be provided to the schools at a cost of Rs. 450 crore to Rs. 500 crore. Every government school in the State will get a smart TV set to facilitate learning in digital mode, on par with their corporate counterparts. The smart TV sets would be integrated to a central portal and the students would watch the specially designed content. Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy said the project is expected to benefit more than 40 lakh children in the State. “Ensure that all students get the benefits of digital education ,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Minister for HRD A. Suresh said plans are afoot that 45,000 schools would be digitised by 2021, adding that the officials are working to meet the deadline set for the project under the Nadu-Nedu scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-govt-schools-in-state-to-get-smart-tvs/article32605934.ece
15 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||First time-tabled parcel train transports chilli to Bangladesh from Guntur||The famed Guntur Chilli, known for its unique taste the world over, has created an unexpected opportunity for the Guntur Railway Division which operated a Time-Tabled Parcel Express to Bangladesh — the first-ever international service of Indian Railways. In July, a parcel express with nine rakes filled with 4,068 tonnes of dry chilli stacked in bags left from Reddypalem station and within three days, chugged into Benapole Railway Station in Bangladesh. This comes as a major achievement at a time when passenger operations were completely shut down in the wake of the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25. Guntur division, with a vast commercial operations platform, has also performed well and so far earned Rs. 148.56 crore by loading a total freight of 10.42 lakh tonnes when compared to the earnings of Rs. 58.61 crore during 2019-20, recording a growth of 153.47% in goods revenue. “This is a major achievement for Guntur Railway Division and the running of Time-Tabled Parcel Train to Bangladesh has opened up opportunities for other divisions. Now, we are looking to expand it by trying to transport other commodities. We have also set up a Business Development Unit to facilitate exports and we are in touch with traders in tobacco, cotton and other commercial crop traders,” Divisional Railway Manager, Guntur, R. Mohana Raja told The Hindu on Saturday. Usually, time-tabled parcel trains run with a minimum of 40 rakes, but after Guntur division secured the consent of Railway Board, it ran a parcel van to Bangladesh with nine rakes. Now, divisions in Nagpur, Nanded in Maharashtra have started exporting onion, turmeric to international destinations. The Railways have also come up with an online portal freight operating system — fois.indianrail.gov.in — for companies/firms to book freight online. Charges vary per tonne and per km charges are as low as Rs. 1.30. Following the successful initiative, the Railways is looking for opportunities to work with leading companies in the region. The Guntur division has begun shipping of rice from FCI godowns at Nagireddypalem to West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-time-tabled-parcel-train-transports-chilli-to-bangladesh-from-guntur/article32605942.ece
15 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood alert issued in Guntur dist.||The district administration has issued a flood alert as the inflows into Pulichintala project touched 2.30 lakh cusecs on Monday evening. The flood surge continues at 2.63 lakh cusecs, while the water level stands at 174 feet. The dam is filled to its capacity of 45.77 tmcft. District Collector I. Samuel Anand Kumar said that a high alert has been sounded and people in low lying areas downstream of Pulichintala reservoir would be evacuated. Helplines The district administration has also announced helplines. District Emergency Centre- 0863 – 2324014, Guntur revenue division- 0863 – 2240679, Tenali revenue division 08644 – 22380 ad Gurazala 77028 53860, 81061 42574.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flood-alert-issued-in-guntur-dist/article32605313.ece
15 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rivers in danger from mining in catchment areas, says activist||Environmental activist E.A.S. Sarma on Monday said the extensive mining of mineral resources along the catchment areas of the rivers in Andhra Pradesh and the neighbouring States has posed a major threat to the rivers. Mr. Sarma, a retired Union Secretary, spoke on the need for conservation of the rivers from many threats during a webinar organised by the Jana Sena Party (JSP) as a part of its nationwide campaign on rivers and language, titled ‘Mana Nudi Mana Nadi’. “The Mahanadi system is under threat as at least 41 new locations have been thrown open for coal mining in its catchment area in Odisha. In Visakhapatnam district, the Kalyana Lova reservoir’s catchment area is being mined for granite. Such activities are ruining the catchment areas of various rivers flowing in Andhra Pradesh and surrounding States,” said Mr. Sarma. Concerted efforts “The civic society and political parties need to raise their voice against the mining activities, particularly in the catchment areas of small rivers. A combined effort led by political parties could save the rivers from drying,” he added. Dismayed at the scale of exploitation of groundwater in urban bodies, he said, “In Andhra Pradesh, there is a tremendous pressure on the groundwater table due to urbanisation. However, there is no specific law that controls the exploitation of groundwater, which is the need of the hour.” Mr. Sarma lauded the Jana Sena Party’s initiative to create awareness on rivers and their protection. Bolisetti Satyanarayana and other environmentalists spoke on rivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rivers-in-danger-from-mining-in-catchment-areas-says-activist/article32605945.ece
15 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vaalu kaluva’ develops breach at Rajupalem||The bank of ‘Vaalu kaluva’ downstream of Yeleru reservoir has developed a breach at Rajupalem village in Kirlampudi mandal of East Godavari district late Sunday night inundating paddy fields in the hundreds of acres in the three mandals of Gollaprolu, Peddapuram, and Pithapuram. Yeleru Irrigation Division Executive Engineer D.V. Ram Gopal told The Hindu: “The Vaalu Kaluva has developed a breach duo to huge inflows of flood water from the Yeleru river into the Yeleru Reservoir at Yeleswaram, where the discharge of flood water is 13,000 by Monday evening." “The breach can be plugged only after the flood water recedes below 6,000 cusecs at the Yeleru Reservoir. We have arranged sand bags and other necessary material to plug the breach by Tuesday. The breach was due to delay in the proposed modernisation of the Vaalu Kaluva, for which land has also been acquired but the work is yet to be grounded,” said Mr. Ram Gopal. Irrigation and revenue officials have estimated that the paddy fields in above 150 acres have already been inundated in Gollaprolu, Peddapuram and Pithapuram mandals due to the breach of the canal bank. “Our team of officials and the agriculture department staff are enumerating the fields inundated due to the breach," said East Godavari District Revenue Officer Ch. Sattibabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaalu-kaluva-develops-breach-at-rajupalem/article32605948.ece
15 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Orvakal airport will begin operations soon, says Minister||The Orvakal airport will be fully operationalised within the next two months and all officials must work with dedication to complete the pending works by the October-end, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy has said. Reviewing the progress of the works at the project site, 18 km from here, Mr. Rajendranath on Monday asked the Andhra Pradesh Airports Development Corporation Limited (APADCL) to complete the works of the passenger terminal building, air traffic control tower, watch tower, water facility, and the administrative block at the earliest. After inspecting the runway, the Minister said Orvakal airport is a node with a land bank of 8,000 acres in the Hyderabad-Bangalore Industrial Corridor project. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is keen on bringing the airport to operation at the earliest. For the airport, 971 acres of land has been acquired and another 37 acres is pending,” he said and wanted that the process be sped up. Water stagnation Meanwhile, the villagers in the surrounding areas complained about the water stagnation in their farmlands due to building of the boundary wall of the airport. In response, the Minister said, “The issue must be addressed by studying all the solution possible at the local level by Panchayat Raj, irrigation and airport officials.” The Minister suggested that a report must be prepared immediately by taking 10-year rainfall data of the region and land contour into consideration to address the problem. Other pending works includes creating an airport security unit, for which, Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kagineelli promised to spare 66 personnel. All the panchayat in the 20 km radius of the airport have been advised not to allow skyscrapers and tall towers. The Indian Oil Corporation has been told to speed up the work on the fuelling unit, and the BSNL for setting up a communication network. Panyam MLA Katasani Rambhupal Reddy, Collector G. Veerapandian, Joint Collector Ravi Pttanshetty, and Airport Director Kailash Mandal accompanied the Minister during the inspection of the project site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/orvakal-airport-will-begin-operations-soon-says-minister/article32605932.ece
15 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI probe sought into fire at Nellore temple||Calls are growing louder for an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the fire that occurred at the Sri Prasanna Venkateswara Swamy temple at Konda Bitragunta in Nellore district in February this year. The temple chariot was gutted in the blaze. The demand comes in the wake of the State Government handing over the case of the Antarvedi temple fire to the CBI. “No proper inquiry was conducted into the fire that gutted the chariot of the 850-year-old temple ahead of the Brahotsavams, thus affecting the religious sentiments of millions of devotees,” lamented temple committee former member N.S.N. Mohan. “The State Government should consider handing over the investigation into this incident of arson to the CBI as it is a serious crime. The case was not treated with the same level of seriousness with which the State Government dealt with the Antarvedi incident,” Mr. Mohan alleged. The incident was blamed on the activities of a mentally-challenged person and the case closed. Justice should prevail in this case too, Mr. Mohan said in a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, a copy of which was released to the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-probe-sought-into-fire-at-nellore-temple/article32605308.ece
15 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases see a downward trend in Nellore, Prakasam||The intensity of coronavirus showed signs of subsiding in Nellore and Prakasam districts as the number of fresh cases came down by more than half in the last 24 hours. The death toll, which had been in the double digit for over a fortnight, also came down to single digit during the period as eight persons-five in Prakasam and three in Nellore district-succumbed to the disease, taking the toll to 379 and 394 respectively. The number of recoveries was 1,300 more than the fresh admissions into hospitals in the last 24 hours, as 444 persons contracted the infection in Prakasam and 456 in Nellore district, both of which are very less in comparison to the last week’s figures that hovered around 1,000 every day. In an encouraging sign, 2,206 persons, 1,071 in Prakasam and 1,135 in Nellore district, were discharged from the hospitals in the two districts during the period. With this, the number of active cases came down to 13,747 in Nellore district and 6,448 in Prakasam district. With the disease spreading thick and fast in rural areas, Prakasam district administration decided to start COVID-19 hospitals attached to the public health centres(PHCs) and Community Health Centres(CHCs) in the district, for which government and private buildings were identified across the district with a view to set up at least 100-bed facilities in each of the 12 Assembly constituencies. Medical kits for patients District Collector P. Bhaskar asked the health officials to distribute medical kits worth Rs. 3 lakh to all those taking treatment from home for the disease. Visiting those taking treatment from home at Indukurpeta, Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakaradhar Babu noted with satisfaction the downward trend in the registration of fresh cases as also deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cases-see-a-downward-trend-in-nellore-prakasam/article32605315.ece
15 September 2020||Ramesh Susarla,ANDHRA PRADESH||CUAP to introduce 10 new programmes||The Central University of Andhra Pradesh (CUAP) will launch 10 new programmes keeping in view the requirements in the job market. In all, 6,031 applicants had given the university as their choice for 222 seats on offer in the Central Universities Common Entrance Test to be conducted on September 18, 19 and 20. The admission process has to be completed by October-end and the classes are scheduled to begin in the second week of November. The university began classes from September 3 on the campus and has given option to students to either attend in person or online, Prof. Kori said. In all 33 students are attending the classes following COVID19 protocols and the university has provided different hostels for girls and boys providing food in their rooms. Vice-Chancellor S.A. Kori said courses like Big Data Analytics, Forensic Science and other emerging subjects would be introduced. “Allowing credits transfer and industrial linkage for all courses will be the focus,” Prof. Kori said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cuap-to-introduce-10-new-programmes/article32605930.ece
15 September 2020||T. Appala NaiduKAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Antarvedi temple closed for a week||The Endowments Department has closed the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district for devotees for one week from Monday, in the wake of spread of COVID-19 on the temple premises. According to sources, one of the main reasons for the closure is to enable the investigation agencies to speed up the ongoing probe into the burning of chariot. On Sunday, 12 police personnel deputed at the temple tested positive for COVID-19. In a press release on Monday, temple Executive Officer Yerramsetti Bhadraji said the temple would remain closed till September 20, restricting darshan for devotees. However, the regular rituals would be performed. The decision had been taken as there was possibility of further spread of COVID-19 among the staff that had been drawn from different departments and posted at the temple since September 6. Key police officials are required to assist the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI )team that will probe the burning of chariot . “The be will be affected if the key officials are infected with the virus. The curbs on the darshan will also prevent outsiders from visiting the temple,” said an endowment official. It is learnt that only those associated with the be into the chariot burning incident are being allowed inside the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/antarvedi-temple-closed-for-a-week/article32605236.ece
15 September 2020||TANUKU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Three dead, low-lying areas inundated||Three people died in rain related incident on Monday even as the low-lying areas in Krishna and West Godavari districts were inundated as canals and rivulets were overflowing owing to the heavy rain. Three persons died when a car in which they were travelling plunged into a canal in Tanuku in West Godavari district on Monday after the vehicle skidded off the road that turned slippery due to heavy rain. The deceased have been identified as Naga Subashini (33), an employee of the DRDA; Srinivas (32), a staff of Transport Department; and Jeevan Shekar (40), a senior assistant of Tanuku municipality office. The victims, all natives of Bhimavaram, were proceeding towards Tanuku when the mishap occurred. The Tanuku police have registered a case. Road link snapped Meanwhile, heavy rain has been lashing many mandals in West Godavari and Krishna districts for the last two days, inundating the low- lying areas. The Kolleru lake was overflowing, snapping the road link between Eluru and Kaikalur. People living in the lake bed villages were in fear as the water level was raising. Mogalturu, Tanuku, Poduru and Palakoderu received around 98.8 mm of rain while 85 mm precipitation was recorded in Kalla, Chintalapudi, Narsapuram and Nidadavolu mandals in West Godavari district. Alert issued in Krishna Krishna district Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, during a video conference on Monday, issued alert and asked the officials to be ready for any emergency with the heavy rain forecast for the next three days. The Sub-Collectors, Revenue Divisional Officers (RDOs), Tahsildars and officials of disaster management, police, fire, municipal, panchayat raj, AP-Transco, health, agriculture and other departments were instructed to remain alert as the water discharge from the Prakasam Barrage was increasing by the day. Mr. Imtiaz asked the officials to launch measures to prevent human and property loss due to rain. Machilipatnam, Gudivada, Kalidindi and other mandals received good rainfall, the officials said. Meanwhile, irrigation officials released about 2.25 lakh cusecs of water from the Prakasam Barrage by 6 p.m. on Monday. People living in the low-lying areas were alerted about the rising inflows into the Krishna river and the heavy rain forecast in the catchment areas. Canals overflowing Many canals and rivulets were overflowing as there was continuous downpour in the upstream areas of the Krishna river in Telangana. Road link to some villages has been cut off and rain water stagnated in the fields. Machilipatnam bus station has been under a sheet of water since Sunday, the locals said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-dead-low-lying-areas-inundated/article32605241.ece
15 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati rly. station bags environmental certification||The Environmental Management System of Tirupati Railway Station has bagged the ISO 14001:2015 certification for, among others, optimising the power consumption and its services to enhance the greenery. The station got the recognition in provision of services such as enquiry, tickets, accommodation, amenities (snacks, meals and tea), transportation of passengers, maintenance of cleanliness on the premises and provision of connectivity to detraining passengers to the nearest temples including Tirumala. The certificate presented by SCR’s Senior Divisional Engineer (Guntakal) on Sunday was received by Station Director S. Nagaramana Sarma, Station Manager Chinnapa Reddy. The authorities claimed that consumption of water and electricity came down drastically with the installation of LED bulbs, solar energy production and water recycling. Tree plantation drive on the premises also helped maintain greenery, while acceptance of soft copy of railway tickets on mobile phone added to the green drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-rly-station-bags-environmental-certification/article32605309.ece
15 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State records a decline in new infections for five days in a row||The State reported 7,956 new COVID infections and 60 deaths in the past 24 hours as of Monday morning. The tally has gone up to 5,75,079 and the toll is close to 5,000-mark with 4,972 deaths. There has been a continuous dip in the number of new infections in the past five days and decrease in positivity rate in the past two weeks. In the past day, 61,529 samples were tested and the positivity rate was 12.93%. The daily positivity rate was less than 15% in the past 10 days. The overall positivity rate was at 12.34%. With 9,764 new recoveries, the rate went up to 82.93% and so far 4,76,903 patients have recovered from the infection. Currently, 93,204 patients are being treated. East Godavari has once again reported the highest single-day tally of 1,412 infections and four deaths. West Godavari too reported more than a thousand cases at 1,091 and four deaths. They are followed by Nellore (756 cases and 3 deaths), Chittoor (748 and 9), Guntur (666 and 2), Srikakulam (517 and 4), Visakhapatnam (490 and 5), Anantapur (483 and 7), Vizianagaram (481 and 4), Prakasam (444 and 5), Kurnool (341 and 5), Kadapa (326 and 4) and Krishna (201 and 4). Chittoor’s tally crossed 50,000-mark and it became the fourth district to have seen more than it. District tallies The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (78,220), Kurnool (51,966), West Godavari (51,565), Chittoor (50,146), Anantapur (49,789), Guntur (46,004), Visakhapatnam (44,338), Nellore (44,130), Prakasam (36,886), Kadapa (36,491), Srikakulam(32,747), Vizianagaram (28,427), and Krishna (21,475). Recovery rate in Kurnool and Anantapur was more than 90% and that of Vizianagaram and Prakasam was around 65%. Recovery rate in the remaining districts was between 80% and 89%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-records-a-decline-in-new-infections-for-five-days-in-a-row/article32605938.ece
15 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on energy efficiency in housing under ‘Navaratnalu’||Energy Efficiency Services Ltd (EESL) is showing interest in installing energy efficient appliances in 30 lakh houses being built under 'Navaratnalu-Pedalandariki Illu’ programme. Company chairman Rajeev Sarma and vice -chairman Saurabh Kumar had discussions in this regard with Principal Secretary (housing) Ajay Jain recently. The Indo-Swiss Building Energy Efficiency Project (BEEP), a joint organisation of Switzerland and Indian governments, has already come forward to provide Energy Efficient and Thermally Comfortable (EETC) technology to Andhra Pradesh (AP), according to an official release. During the deliberations, Mr. Sharma said AP has been in the forefront in implementation of the Energy Conservation Building Code for Residential Buildings (ECBC-R). Mr. Ajay Jain said the houses were being so designed to reduce the energy consumption and provide thermal comfort in view of the relatively high temperatures that prevail in the State. He presented a comprehensive report on ‘Navaratnalu - Pedalandariki Illu’ programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-energy-efficiency-in-housing-under-navaratnalu/article32605943.ece
15 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Godavari boat tragedy refuses to fade away||It has been a year. Seventy-seven tourists from four States including Andhra Pradesh on board a boat busy enjoying the scenic beauty of the Godavari River had no clue what was in store for them. The private tourist boat, Royal Vasista Punnami, capsized in the Godavari that was in spate near Kachluru in Devipatnam mandal of East Godavari district on September 15. Even as 26 of those on board survived—some were wearing safety gears and others rescued by the residents of Kachuluru— 51 people met watery grave. “A year has passed but the tragedy etched deep on memory refuses to fade away. The boat capsize had not only snuffed out lives of the tourists, but also shattered their family members who were waiting for their return back home in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu,” recalls then Rampachodavaram Additional SP Vakul Jindal, who monitored the search operations and was a part of the team that probed into the tragedy. Heart-wrenching scenes A 2016 batch IPS officer from Punjab, Mr. Jindal took charge as the ASP just 45 days before the tragedy in Rampachodavaram. “It took 38 days for the mangled parts of the vessel to be retrieved from the river. We searched for bodies for about two months. Every time, we fished out a body from the water, the family members of those missing would wait on the Godavari bank, holding their breath. They would to rush to the boat to confirm whether the body was of their dear ones. I break into tears, whenever I remember those heart-wrenching scenes,” says Mr. Jindal, who is working as Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) ASP in Krishna district now. Boat operations remained suspended as the river was in spate then. But, the Boat Owners’ Association resumed operations on their own from September 14. When the Devipatnam SI stopped the Royal Vasista Punnami, the sarang (driver) showed him a letter purportedly issued by the boating officer. “Police insisted that all passengers wore life jackets and let off the vessel ,” recalls Mr. Jindal. Search operations The police reached the sport at the earliest. “The narrow road in the forest was not clear and our vehicle got struck twice. It was one and a half hours journey to reach the spot from Devipatnam. Around 600 people participated in search operations. We continued search in swirling waters amid heavy rain,” he says. On the first day of the operation, eight bodies were retrieved and the number went up to 30 in four days. “Neither was there a proper road nor the cellphone signals at the spot. The depth of the river where the boat capsized was estimated to be 200 feet. Thanks to the tribal people, who saved many lives,” says the ASP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-year-on-godavari-boat-tragedy-refuses-to-fade-away/article32605823.ece
15 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP should quit if he can’t set his house in order: HC||The High Court on Monday remarked that the Director-General of Police (DGP) should step down if he cannot set his house in order, as failure to do so would jeopardise the rule of law. The matter was posted to Tuesday. A Division Bench comprising Justices Rakesh Kumar and J. Uma Devi made the comment during a hearing on a habeas corpus petition filed by Sunkara Narayana Swamy of Amalapuram in East Godavari against the alleged illegal detention of his uncle, Pottipothu Venkataraju, by the police, in which the DGP is the second respondent. Mr. Swamy alleged that his uncle was illegally taken into custody and tortured by Amalapuram Urban circle inspector Sk. Bajilal for his alleged role in an elopement case involving their relatives. The Judges wondered whether police were following basic procedures and if they were acting under pressure from vested interests. They added that such instances would not be taken lightly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dgp-should-quit-if-he-cant-set-his-house-in-order-hc/article32605928.ece
15 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miscreants loot doctor’s house in broad daylight||In a day-light robbery, miscreants burgled the house of an Ayurvedic doctor in Moghalrajpuram area on Monday, and escaped with valuables, after tying up the family members. The robbery, which happened around 3.30 p.m, created panic in the locality. According to the police, four masked persons, who wore gloves, entered the house of Dr. Muralidhar, and tied up his wife and son with ropes, after gagging them. They searched the almirahs in the two-storeyed building and took away cash and jewellery, all worth about Rs. 30 lakh. On receiving information, Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, Deputy Commissioner of Police V. Harshavardhan Raju and other officers visited the spot. Clues team and dog squad were pressed into service. Police are verifying the CCTV footages in the vicinity as the gang might have conduced ‘recce’ before striking at the house. “The thieves looted the house at knife-point. We are verifying the similar offences that occurred at other places,” a police officer said. The Machavaram police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/miscreants-loot-doctors-house-in-broad-daylight/article32605949.ece
15 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 390 new cases, lowest in the last 45 days||The district recorded the lowest of 390 COVID-19 positive cases on Monday in the last 45 days. From a high of 1,227 cases on August 2, around 950 cases were reported per day in the last month. The last lowest was on July 28, when 282 cases were recorded. “On July 29, we recorded 841 cases and since then we have been seeing a spike,” said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. With this, the total number of cases has gone up to 44,950, ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. The number of active cases in the district also stands at 5,309. On the Monday, 506 persons who were being treated at COVID hospitals, COVID Care Centres and at home, were declared free from the coronavirus. With the discharges on Monday, the total number has gone up to 39,309. The deaths due to COVID-19 have also gone up to 332 with five more deaths being reported on Monday. As on Monday, the total number of very active clusters are 80, active clusters 86, dormant 552 and denotified 192. The district has been seeing a drop in daily cases in this month, and health officials are hoping that the trend would continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-390-new-cases-lowest-in-the-last-45-days/article32605966.ece
15 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Braving risk, they move COVID patients to care||Though the ambulances in the health sector draw flak very often, they have been playing a crucial role ever since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. No doubt that there is a shortage of ambulances in the fleet, but the drivers and paramedic staff, who have been on duty since day one of the outbreak of the pandemic, have a different story to say. “Initially, we have not been given the PPE suits, masks, gloves and other precautionary gear, but now we are supplied them,” says Raju, a driver in the 108 ambulance fleet. “Wearing a PPE suit, mask and face shield in sweltering heat, itself is a torture, but we have never complained and are doing our best during emergency,” he says. According to Srinivas, another ambulance driver, many of the drivers and paramedic staff accompanying them have been infected and have fallen sick. But all of them have resumed duty after recovering. “It is natural that we are the first to be exposed to any COVID-19 positive patient and it is obvious that we are at risk. But knowing that we never flinched from our duty,” he says. Appreciating the role of the police, especially the ones who are on traffic control duty, he says: “Now a days, the policemen on duty at various junctions, give clearance to us on preference basis, even if there is a red signal, as they know about the situation.” Many citizens vent their ire at the ambulance drivers, but they should know that the ratio of ambulances to the inflow of patients is abnormally low. And moreover, they should understand that our movement is dependent on the hospital management and availability of beds, says Mr. Raju. To tackle the issue, the district administration has been working to improve the fleet of ambulances. One vehicle at each ward As of now one ambulance is positioned at each ward in the GVMC limits. The administration is following the old system of 72 wards and there is an ambulance at each ward across the city. Of the new ambulances that district received, a majority of them have been sent to the rural areas, says District Collector V. Vinay Chand. The District Collector has informed The Hindu that another fleet of 53 old ambulances is getting ready. “Some have been repaired and are already operational and the remaining will be joining shortly.” According to the Collector, the old fleet of 104 and 108, which have been lying idle due to minor repairs, are also getting ready to join the fleet. “We have sanctioned about Rs. 25 lakh from the district funds to get them repaired and they will soon be ready to enhance the fleet strength.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/braving-risk-they-move-covid-patients-to-care/article32605947.ece
15 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP failed to fulfil promises: CPI||The Modi government, which came to power at the Centre, on the promise of ending scams and corruption which were rampant during the Congress rule, is itself caught in corruption, CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy has alleged. Addressing the gathering at a protest organised by the party at the Gandhi statue, near GVMC, on Monday, Mr. Murthy recalled that the BJP government had claimed to bring down the spiralling prices of essential commodities within 30 days of assuming power, bring back the Rs. 90 lakh crore black money, stashed away in banks abroad, increase the income of farmers and create two crore jobs. None of these promises have been realised, so far. Instead, the price of petrol, which was Rs. 70 a litre, when the crude oil price was $140 a barrel, has now gone up to Rs. 85 a litre, despite a drop in the international crude oil price to $40 a barrel. Diesel hike The price of diesel has increased to Rs. 88 a litre as never before, resulting in a cascading effect on the prices of essential commodities. He alleged that the implementation of GST has made the States go to the Centre with a begging bowl. GST dues The States, which had lost their revenue, should be compensated by the Centre till 2022. But, showing COVID-19 pandemic as an excuse, the Centre said the revenue collections were only Rs. 1.35 lakh crore as against the target of Rs. 3 lakh crore due to the pandemic. Describing it as an ‘Act of God’, the Centre explained its inability to compensate the States. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the Centre could help the States to secure additional loans. He said that the States, which were already in a financial crisis, would plunge into a debt trap. The CPI leader alleged that the Union government was bent on destroying banks through mergers and privatisation apart from devising policies to help corporate groups, which were defaulting bank loans. Bad debts to the tune of Rs. 6.27 lakh crore were written off, he alleged. CPI City secretary M. Pydiraju, city executive members A. Vimala, Chandrasekhar, Lakshmana Rao and Devudamma were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-failed-to-fulfil-promises-cpi/article32605954.ece
15 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to release wage arrears||Midday Meal Scheme Workers Union (CITU) has appealed to District Collector to release the wage arrears of the workers without any further delay. In a memorandum to the Collector on Monday, union district president G. Mangasri said that schools were closed due to COVID-19 since March and the workers have been supplying rice, eggs and ‘chakki’ to the students at their homes to ensure nutrition to them, on the directions of the government. The workers were incurring travelling expenses but were not being reimbursed. Apart from that, their wages have not been paid for the past six months. It was causing hardship to their families during the pandemic, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-release-wage-arrears/article32605955.ece
15 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to build off-highway tyre plant in Vizag||The Yokohama Rubber Company Limited has announced its plan to build a new off-highway tyre plant at the Atchutapuram Industrial Park, Visakhapatnam, with a planned investment of US $165 million. The plant will have a daily production capacity of 55 million tons (rubber weight). The construction will start in the third quarter of 2020 and the new plant is scheduled to come on line in the first quarter of 2023. The objective of the company is to expand production capacity of ATG (Alliance Tire Group), a Yokohama Rubber Group company, engaged in the manufacture and sale of off-highway tyres such as those used in agriculture and other equipment. ATG already has two plants in India, the Dahej plant in Gujarat and the Tirunelveli plant in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-build-off-highway-tyre-plant-in-vizag/article32605953.ece
15 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Army man goes missing in Sariya waterfalls||A 24-year-old from Majjivalasa village of Bheemunipatnam mandal reportedly gone missing at Sariya waterfalls in Anantagiri mandal, from Sunday evening. The person has been identified as Ramesh, employed in the Indian Army. He along with a few of his friends had gone to the waterfalls and he has gone missing, after he ventured into it for a swim. According to the police, the water flow was very strong due to the recent rains, and locals tried to dissuade him from entering the waters. Search operation is still on and he is presumed drowned. This was the second such incident at the Sariya waterfalls in the last one month. On August 17, a 20-year-old engineering student S. Meenank had drowned, when he had ventured into the waters According to the police, during this part of the year, it is very risky to go into the waterfalls. In the earlier case also, locals had tried to stop the student from getting into the waters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/army-man-goes-missing-in-sariya-waterfalls/article32605960.ece
15 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar today||A webinar on “Civil Engineering and Construction Challenges in Present Scenario” is being organised by National Institute of Disaster Management, New Delhi, in association with Department of Civil Engineering, Andhra University College of Engineering, on September 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-today/article32605957.ece
15 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HRF condemns the arrest of Umar Khalid in Delhi||The Human Rights Forum (HRF) on Monday condemned the arrest of activist and former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid late on Sunday night by the Delhi Police Special Cell. He has been charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for his alleged involvement in the violence and rioting in North East Delhi during February this year. The HRF alleged that the charges against Umar Khalid was fabricated. V.S. Krishna of HRF said that over last several months, the Delhi police have been relentlessly targeting and incarcerating anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) activists, most of them young, under bogus charges. While organisations and individuals working for communal harmony are being vilified and booked in false cases, the real instigators and conspirators of the brutal violence this February continue to roam scot-free, he said. HRF demands that Umar Khalid and all anti-CAA activists arrested by the Delhi police be set free immediately and the farcical charges against them be dropped, said Mr. Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hrf-condemns-the-arrest-of-umar-khalid-in-delhi/article32605959.ece
15 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held on charge of bid to burgle temple||The city police on Monday arrested one person and apprehended two juveniles for allegedly attempting to steal valuables from the Sai Baba temple of Sri Sri Veera Brahmendra Swamy Temples Complex at MVP Colony area in the city. DCP (Zone-I) Aishwarya Rastogi said that Ch. Tarun (19), a resident of Arilova area in the city, along with two juveniles of Arilova area, gained entry into the temple complex in the early hours on September 13. The trio attempted to commit a theft by breaking the lock of the iron grill. Hearing the sounds, watchman D. Ramu raised an alarm and tried to alert others. Tarun and his associates fled from the spot by abandoning their bike. Based on a complaint from P. Prakash, secretary of the temple complex, the police nabbed the trio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-on-charge-of-bid-to-burgle-temple/article32605963.ece
15 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||EC for Sravan Shipping suspended||The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) has issued a show-cause notice to Sravan Shipping Services Private Limited for cancellation/ revocation of environment clearance and also suspended the EC till the final decision is taken on the notice. This was disclosed in a communiqué from the District Collector, here on Monday. Sravan Shipping is the stevedores for ammonium nitrate (AN) imported through Visakhapatnam Port and also has a storage facility at Mindi in Visakhapatnam to store the material. Earlier, based on initiatives taken by the District Collector and APPCB, the Commissioner of Police issued a show cause notice to the facility for violation of ammonium nitrate rules and also addressed a letter to Chief Controller of Explosives, Nagpur, on September 10 for further action. Following the explosion on August 4 this year at an ammonium nitrate storage facility in Beirut, Lebanon, in which about 190 people were reported dead and over 6,500 were injured, the AN facility in Visakhapatnam had come under the scanner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministry-suspends-ec-for-sravan-shipping/article32605340.ece
15 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Modi birthday: BJP to organise service activities||MLC P.V.N. Madhav and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju said that service activities will be organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for a week from Monday to mark the birthday celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 17. Social distancing The programmes would be conducted observing social distancing norms. Awareness programmes on Swachh Bharat and plastics would be organised, they told a media conference here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/modi-birthday-bjp-to-organise-service-activities/article32605958.ece
15 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hindi Day observed||Hindi Day was observed at Visakhapatnam Port Trust on Monday. This programme was observed by following the COVID-19 protection rules. K. Rama Mohan Rao, Chairman, VPT, said that as part of Hindi Day, essay writing in Hindi and slogans in Hindi and other competitions were conducted. He also gave away prizes to the winners of the competitions. Hindi Day was also observed at the RINL, the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. P||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hindi-day-observed/article32605962.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sorting under the sun||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sorting-under-the-sun/article32605951.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sobering reality||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sobering-reality/article32605320.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu Veerraju inaugurates ‘Seva Saptaham’||BJP State president Somu Veerraju inaugurated “Seva Saptaham” here in connection with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday celebrations on September 17. He said Mr. Modi had been a role model in politics . Mr. Veerraju and others distributed fruits, sanitisers and masks at the old government hospital. Party leaders Ravela Kishore Babu, S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, Pathuri Nagabhushanam and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/somu-veerraju-inaugurates-seva-saptaham/article32605929.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tenders invited||District Medical & Health Officer K. Vijayalakshmi has said that tenders have been called for supply of sanitary napkins for girls of residential schools in the district. The napkins are meant for girls, studying between 8th class and Intermediate. The tender forms can collected from the DM&HO’s office, located opposite the Bullayya College, till September 16. More details can be had from the DM&HO’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tenders-invited/article32605952.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two expelled from BJP||BJP workers L.B. Santosh Kumar and Chukka Ganesh have been expelled from the primary membership of the party as a criminal case has been registered against them, according to statement issued by BJP Parliamentary district president Medapati Raveendra on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-expelled-from-bjp/article32605956.ece
15 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Peddavagu project getting copious inflows||The Peddavagu medium irrigation project at Gummadivalli in Aswaraopeta mandal received copious inflows from the catchment areas of the Peddavagu rivulet due to heavy rains in the upstream areas of the reservoir on Monday. Surplus water from the reservoir was released downstream by opening a crest gate of the dam on Monday evening. According to sources, vehicular traffic between Vadderangapuram and Gummadivalli in the mandal was disrupted for sometime in the early hours of the day after a low-lying point on the thoroughfare came under a thick sheet of water. The medium irrigation project, the ayacut of which is spread in 2,360 acres in the State and the rest 13,640 acres in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, reached its capacity. Full storage capacity Meanwhile, the water level in the Kinnerasani dam near Palvancha town inched closer to its full storage capacity owing to heavy rains in the catchment areas of Kinnerasani river on Sunday, sources added. Charla, Gundala and various other Agency mandals in the district recorded moderate to heavy rainfall in the last 24 hours, ending at 8 a.m. on Monday. Heavy rains lashed many parts of Khammam district with Sattupalli and Penuballi mandals recording a high rainfall of 84 mm and 62.2 mm, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/peddavagu-project-getting-copious-inflows/article32605820.ece
15 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘IICT is now working on a new antiviral drug for COVID-19’||CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) has been one of the first indigenous labs to gear up to combat COVID-19 by scouring existing antivirals to treat the infection and has been successful in providing the vital Active Pharma Ingredient (API) to Indian companies for making affordable drugs. The institute is working on a few more APIs to tackle the novel coronavirus and other diseases. In this interview, IICT Director S. Chandrashekar explains what goes into drug discovery and other related issues. Why is it difficult to come out with a precise drug for a virus like COVID-19 despite having the advantage of modern technology and benefits of advanced research facilities? Precise drug discovery for any disease including cancer, metabolic and infectious diseases and others, always need 8-12 years with at least US$1-2 billion investment. For bacterial and viral infections, the challenges are mutations and resistance. Hence, we will need better planning while taking up discovery projects in this area. Other than Favipiravir and Remidesvir, what other antivirals are our labs and those abroad working on to combat COVID-19? There are several small molecules, both repurposing and new chemical entities or NCEs, which are being pursued globally. One of the frontrunners is the molecule discovered in Emory University in the United States called ‘Eidd’ or the Emory Institute of Drug Discovery, which the multinational, Merck, is pursuing to take it forward. What has been the progress of other anti-coronavirus technologies which IICT has been working on? We are continuing to work on corona mitigation projects. We have already delivered the process to Favipiravir and Remdesivir drugs; the three layer mask for non-hospital common purposes. We are also working on corticosteroids which have become very essential in coronavirus management for moderate and severe patients. How has the IICT helped in agriculture operations this year like honey traps? We are delivering the traps to a few districts in Telangana as part of the Haritha programme of CSIR. We are willing to work with the State governments to provide as many traps and lures as they require assuring of the best quality in very short time. Our engineering colleagues are also working with vegetable and fruit markets to see how best the waste could be recycled for organic manure, power generation, cooking gas and so on in association with the Agriculture department.  For bacterial and viral infections, the challenges are mutations and resistance. Hence, we will need better planning while taking up discovery projects in this area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iict-is-now-working-on-a-new-antiviral-drug-for-covid-19/article32605782.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Assembly passes TS-bPASS for quicker building permissions||The State government has decided to put in place an effective mechanism to enable instant permission and registration of buildings avoiding hassles to land owners or property developers. The decision comes in view of the plight of the common man, wishing to build a house for himself, being harassed by the time consuming process at present. The existing system has put too much discretion in the hands of municipal town planning authorities in view of which Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao advocated 100% transparency in according building approval in a time-bound manner minimising the need for personal interaction with town planning authorities. The Legislative Assembly on Monday passed the Telangana State Building Permission Approval and Self Certification System (TS-bPASS). Piloting the Bill, Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao said no permission would be required for houses being constructed in area below 75 sq.yds and instant permission would be accorded to buildings being constructed in areas between 75 sq.yds and 600 sq.yds through TS-bPASS subject to a few conditions. Land owners/developers need to submit applications for permissions online and it was the responsibility of the concerned officials to give approval within 21 days. “If no order is issued on the building application within the time prescribed, then the approval will be deemed to have been issued,” he said. The official concerned would be liable for disciplinary action if there was delay on his part in arriving at a decision within the specified time. At the same time, permission issued under the deemed clause could be revoked by the Commissioner within 21 days from the date of approval if it was found that the approval had been obtained by misrepresentation of facts or false statements, and/or against building rules, regulations and master plan land use provisions. The owner/developer should submit an application online along with the self-certification attested by licensed technical personnel declaring that the development in the layout was as per norms. The developer should also register all the roads and open spaces in the layout in favour of the municipality. Responding to the concerns expressed by members, KTR said several safeguards, safety clauses, have been incorporated in the legislation to avoid misuse. The owner/developer along with the application form should submit an undertaking that in case of violations, the commissioner or the agency authorised by him/her should take up demolition without issuance of any notice. “The commissioner or the agency authorised by him should take up the demolition of unlawfully executed work and recover the cost incurred for doing so from the owner,” he said. A State level TS-bPASS committee consisting of Municipal Administration secretary as chairman and the Municipal Administration director as member-convenor with heads of departments of relevant departments as members would be constituted. In respect of GHMC, there would be task forces headed by the Zonal Commissioners for each zone to monitor the construction activities while similar committees headed by district collectors would be constituted in districts. “Three years of study of the system has revealed that 95.15 % people, particularly the poor and middle class, are taking up constructions in less than 600 sq.yds and hence, the legislation to provide them hassle-free approvals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/assembly-passes-ts-bpass-for-quicker-building-permissions/article32605805.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over a lakh LRS applications filed||The Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) announced by the State government has received more than a lakh applications as on September 14, from across the State. The applications are increasing by several thousands every day, as evidenced from the official data. The number which stood at 82,584 on Sunday, rose to 1,08,505 on Monday, garnering a total advance amount of Rs. 11 crore. Of the total, 36,740 applications were received from panchayats, while municipalities received 45,449 applications, and corporations, including GHMC, a total of 26,316 applications. The LRS was announced on September 1, with the cut off date of August 26 by when the plot in question should have been registered. The deadline for submission of application is October 15. As per the government orders, the basic regularisation charges varies between Rs. 200 per square metre and Rs. 750 per square metre, based on the size of the plot. Further, if the market value of land is below Rs. 3,000 per square yard, only 25% of the basic regularisation charges will be levied as LRS fee. The fee will be 50% of the charges if market value hovers between Rs. 3,001and Rs. 5,000, and 75% if it is between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 10,000. Above 10,000, the fee will be 100% of the basic regularisation charges. For slums, an equal rate or Rs. 5 per square metre has been decided irrespective of the land value and plot area. Officials attribute the unusual response to the scheme to the fear among public that their plots would not fetch any buyers. As per the recent memo issued by the Stamps & Registrations Department, registration of plots will not be allowed in unapproved layouts. Even for obtaining building permissions in the plots, LRS clearance is mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-a-lakh-lrs-applications-filed/article32605800.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID no damper for Dak warriors||Without fanfare or wide publicity, a team of over 4,500 staffers of Hyderabad region of India Post turned saviours for thousands of people affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown that threw normal life out of gear for months. As the wave of pandemic struck the country and began to show its impact in Telangana too, post offices across the State began to play a distinct role as a disaster management agency. All the 519 sub postmasters and 4,156 branch postmasters in Hyderabad region covering 26 districts of the State rose to the occasion. 188 staffers affected Undeterred by the fact that 188 employees contracted coronavirus in the line of duty, the postal staff risked their lives coming in contact with lakhs of rural people. With financial institutions and banking services paralysed, India Post in the rural areas became the single stop hub for paying the beneficiaries the much needed pensions and other benefits. The rural population owex a lot to the postal employees for they helped in payment of cash under the various direct benefit transfer schemes. A staggering Rs. 3,479 crore was disbursed to the 67.02 lakh beneficiaries of Aasara social security pension and NREGS, food security card holders and payments through the India Post Payments Bank from May till August-end.  P.V.S. Reddy, Postmaster General, Hyderabad region, told The Hindu that it was not an easy task for the postal staff to handle the situation. “Payment of Aasara pensions, NREGS payments and other benefits was a big challenge. Our postmaster had to ensure that Aadhaar-based biometric authentication had to be done for each beneficiary before payment was made. This meant that each staff had to interact with 350 beneficiaries every month,” he said. According to him, this was no mean task. “We provided sanitisers, gloves and face shield to the staff. We worked overtime. Our day began at 6.30 a.m. and went well past evening hours. We had to pay the pensions in a week’s time and this became a challenge,” Mr. Reddy pointed out. The spirit of a few postal employees, who tested positive for COVID and recovered, did not diminish. Take the case of 59-year-old C. Venkateswarlu, sub-postmaster at Matwada of Warangal postal division, who tested positive in May. “On doctor’s advice, I remained in home isolation, took all precautions and recovered. I have rejoined duty and see to it that the customers, who flock the post offices, wear mask, use sanitisers at the post offices and maintain social distancing,” he observed. Thirty-four-year old M. Chaitanya, branch postmaster under Pantini SO of Warangal Postal division, got admitted for COVID-19 treatment and rejoined duty in August after full recovery. After resuming duty, he saw to it that a sum of Rs. 8.50 lakh was disbursed in the form of pensions and NREGS payments for the month of August alone. Another Dak warrior S. Satish, postal assistant in Peddapally head post office, says there is no need to lose confidence if ones contract COVID. “Take proper precautions and you can keep the virus away,” he said, adding that he was ready to donate plasma to help others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-no-damper-for-dak-warriors/article32605337.ece
15 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Testing, cases see Sunday dip||COVID-19 testing dipped this Sunday too, leading to detection of fewer cases. While around 60,000 samples are put to test on a daily basis on weekdays, it drops by 50% to 60% on Sundays. The test numbers began to drop on weekends starting from July 26. Last Sunday (September 13), only 34,427 samples were checked for the presence of coronavirus and 1,417 were found to be positive. The death toll reached 974 with 13 more COVID patients succumbing to the contagious disease. Of the 34,427 people who underwent tests, results of 825 are awaited. The new 1,417 cases include 264 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 133 from Rangareddy, 108 from Karimnagar, 107 from Sangareddy and 75 from Siddipet. At present, there are 30,532 active cases while 1,27,007 have recovered. The recovery rate is 80.1%. In the 42 State government hospitals, 3,563 oxygen beds and 545 ICU beds were vacant on Sunday. In case of the 203 private hospitals across Telangana, 2,811 oxygen beds and 1,186 ICU beds were available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/testing-cases-see-sunday-dip/article32605778.ece
15 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Post-COVID care facility to aid recovery||The road to recovery is proving to be a long one for COVID-19 patients. As doctors try to understand the long term debilitating after-effects of viral attack, a facility to take care of such patients has opened in the city. “Patients testing negative after a bout of infection are having breathing issues which need continuous monitoring. Hospital care is too expensive and unnecessary for such patients. After interacting with people who have tested negative but are having various other complaints, I thought of setting up this unit,” says Mujtaba Askari, who has started the post COVID-19 rehab centre on non-profit basis near Shivarampally. Recently, Home Minister Amit Shah was rushed to All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, and was discharged from the same hospital after testing negative. Breathing problem, weakness, fatigue and general listlessness are some of the symptoms being noticed. “We are monitoring people every two or four hours for oxygen saturation level, spirometry and other vital parameters besides physical examination. Many patients are being treated with steroids and their sugar levels are being monitored,” says Sadaf, a duty doctor at the facility. “It is like home care with the benefit of doctors and nurses in attendance. We can take immediate action,” adds Dr. Sadaf. Free care Nutritious diet, physiotherapy and counselling are part of the package. “We have come across certain cases where older people have been abandoned by their children after testing positive for COVID-19. We are offering free care to such people so that their families can accept them back after a few days,” informs Mr. Askari of Helping Hand Foundation, a local NGO. One major advantage over hospitals is that the patients at the facility have the freedom to decide when they want to go back home.  It is like home care with the benefit of doctors and nurses in attendance. Sadaf, Duty doctor at the facility||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/post-covid-care-facility-to-aid-recovery/article32605788.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No-touch elevator at Hyderabad airport||GMR-led Hyderabad International Airport has executed a pilot project of turning an elevator at the departures level from traditional push-button controls to safer, touch-less alternative for passenger safety. The touch-less elevator control system is based on infrared technology with developers using an array of infrared sensors to detect the spatial position of the user’s fingers as they pass through the sensing plane. Elevator users have to wave their hands closer to the sensor to call the elevator at any floor they are standing. Once inside the elevator, they can point their finger towards a floor number as a command for a designated floor. The sensor can detect interaction from a distance of 0.1-10 cm from the button surface to enable users to make their selection with absolutely no physical contact, informed an official spokesperson on Monday. Soon, all elevators across the airport terminal building will be tuned for this automation. The airport has already gone for fully e-boarding exercise, zero-contact and fully sanitised services like self-check in kiosks, tech-enabled entry gates, self-baggage drop, virtual information desk for passengers, UV enabled disinfection of Automatic Tray Retrieval Systems (ATRS) etc. The airport has also restored close to 93% of its domestic destinations, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-touch-elevator-at-hyderabad-airport/article32605785.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC stays probe into Karvy affairs||Telangana High Court on Monday passed interim orders staying the ongoing probe into the affairs of Karvy Stock Broking Limited (KSBL) by the Union government’s Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO). A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed this direction after hearing an appeal filed by KSBL challenging a single judge order which upheld the probe by the SFIO. The bench issued notices to Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Ministry’s Director General and Regional Director in Hyderabad and the Registrar of Companies-Telangana. The bench instructed Assistant Solicitor General N. Rajeshwar Rao to present to the court the documents, letters and reports based on which the SFIO undertook a probe into affairs of KSBL. SFIO launched investigation into the allegations that KSBL raised loans by pledging assets of its clients and diverted the funds thus secured into realty sector. KSBL moved the HC questioning the action of SFIO’s probe. A single judge declined to pass any order stalling the probe, following which the company filed an appeal before the bench headed by the CJ. Senior counsel S. Niranjan Reddy representing KSBL contended that due procedure was not followed before undertaking the probe. Under the Companies Act, SFIO should have served notice to KSBL under section 206 (4) of the Act, he said. The matter would be heard again on September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-stays-probe-into-karvy-affairs/article32605792.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State managing its finances within limits: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has asserted that the State was well within the limits in managing its finances in spite of the setback suffered due to the outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) since the past few months. The Minister said the State could register double digit economic growth, even while the country’s economic growth slipped to negative, as it has put in place prudent fiscal policies that are focused more on capital expenditure. “The enthusiastic response received to the bonds issued by the Telangana government is an indication of the prudent financial management system,” he said. The Minister was replying to concerns expressed by Congress member Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka on the borrowings by the State during the discussion on the Bill amending the Telangana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. The legislation allowed additional fiscal deficit of 2 % over and above the prescribed 3 % during the current fiscal and enhance the quantum of guarantees it could provide to State owned corporations from 90 % to 200 %. Mr. Vikramarka said the State’s debt burden had risen to Rs. 2.38 lakh crore in the past six years and it was spending Rs. 23,841 crore on debt servicing every year. The passage of the Bill would result in steep escalation of debt burden and it would be difficult to manage such large debts in the coming days. “Debt servicing burden which is Rs. 23,841 crore at present is likely to go beyond Rs. 50,000 crore going by the indiscriminate borrowings by the government,” he said. Mr. Harish Rao, however, countered Mr. Vikramarka and charged him with trying to mislead people with his calculations. The State’s net borrowings was at Rs. 1,54,557 crore after the State repaid Rs. 34,296 crore last fiscal. “Telangana is ranked 28th in the country in terms of debt-GDP ratio indicating the fiscal health of the State,” he said. Explaining about the reasons for amending the FRBM Act, he said the Centre had allowed additional borrowing of Rs. 1,435 crore during the previous fiscal following the shortfall in the devolution of share of Central taxes as a one-time special dispensation. The Central government had allowed additional borrowing up to 2 % of the GSDP over the above the normal limit of 3 % subject to carrying amendments to the State FRBM Act. To avail the allowed additional borrowing of Rs. 1,435 crore, it had become necessary to amend the Telangana FRBM Act suitably. “The State however is not willing to accept the conditionalities imposed by the Centre even if it has impact on the State’s borrowings,” he asserted. Mr. Vikramarka and three other Congress members D. Sridhar Babu, K. Rajgopal Reddy and Danasari Anasuya staged a walk out in protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-managing-its-finances-within-limits-harish/article32605807.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New vice chancellors of State universities soon: Minister||Education Minister P. Sabita Indra Reddy has announced that the process for appointment of vice-chancellors to different universities in the State has been initiated and it will be completed soon. Search committees had been constituted to identify suitable candidates and modalities related to recruitment of other vacancies in the universities will also be released soon. The appointment of vice chancellors and recruitment to other posts were delayed because of the legal issues and the committee constituted by the government had resolved a majority of these issues, she said. The Minister was responding to queries by the Opposition during the passage of the Telangana State Private Universities (Establishment and Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2018 in the Legislative Assembly on Monday. The Bill was introduced after the government had permitted five private universities — Mahindra University, Woxsen University, Malla Reddy University, S.R. University and Anurag University — in the State. She said the sponsoring bodies of these universities complied with the conditions of letter of intent and the expert committee constituted to examine them also submitted its recommendations. Congress member D. Sridhar Babu said the government should work for strengthening the government-run universities by filling the vacant posts of vice-chancellors and other senior faculty before giving permissions to the private varsities.  High fees He expressed concern that poor would not be in a position to access education in the private universities owing to their fee structure. There was need for the government to consider fee reimbursement for such students, he said expressing concern that the government was yet to fill posts of vice chancellors in several universities and bureaucrats had been appointed as persons in-charge for the posts. The Minister, however, said permission to private universities was necessitated after steep rise in the number of aspirants for higher and research-oriented education and the government had constituted committees to examine all issues relating to the applications submitted. The government received 16 applications of which, nine qualified after meeting the requirements. Of these, eight had come forward for setting up universities and three proposals were still under consideration. She said the government’s representative would be there in the governing councils of these private universities to oversee the courses and fee structure. These universities should obtain accreditation of NAAC and other bodies while 25 % quota to Telangana youth in the admissions was mandatory. “No relaxations have been given to these universities,” she asserted.  Rule of reservation Replying to queries, she said rule of reservation for older students would continue in the brownfield universities, institutions that were functioning in the past and upgraded as universities, while the decision on implementing the rule of reservation in the greenfield universities, the newly developed ones, was left to the managements concerned. The Legislative Assembly also passed the Telangana Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) Act, Telangana Disaster and Public Health Emergency (Special Provisions) Act, Telangana Goods and Services Tax (second amendment) Act, Telangana Court Fees and Suits Valuation (Amendment) Act and Telangana Civil Courts (Amendment) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-vice-chancellors-of-state-universities-soon-minister/article32605809.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Happiness’ kits for vulnerable children||Akshaya Patra has launched a ‘Happiness Kit’ to support children from vulnerable communities and their families. The kit comprises food items that provide essential nutrients for daily consumption leading to the health, growth, and development of a child. Pulses, spices, peanuts, jaggery, biscuits and other food items in the kit are to supplement and enhance the nutritional intake of children and their families, above and beyond the set allocation of grains by Central & State governments and HRD Ministry. The kit also includes a soap, a toothbrush, toothpaste, and sanitary pads to promote hygiene in children. To exercise their cognitive abilities, activity-based learning workbooks are also included in respective regional languages. The pilot project has targeted as many as 1,200 school children in Bangalore, and another 38,666 children in Guwahati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/happiness-kits-for-vulnerable-children/article32605783.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Steps to ensure benefits handed over on day of retirement: CM||The State government has resolved to evolve a mechanism that will pave the way for releasing benefits to employees attaining the age of superannuation on the day of retirement itself. The issue will be discussed in the next meeting of the State Council of Ministers and a decision would soon be taken in this regard. “The government, as a policy, is committed to help the employees retiring after putting in long years of service,” Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said. The Chief Minister said it had been his desire to ensure that retirement benefits of the employees were finalized taking into consideration scale of pay, promotions and other aspects ahead of retirement so that they could be released on the day of retirement itself. “The heads of departments should make arrangements to felicitate the retiring employees and ensure that they are dropped at their respective homes after that,” he said. Mr. Rao made this statement during the discussion in the Legislative Assembly when the issue of compassionate appointments in Singareni Collieries Company Limited came up in the Question Hour on Monday. He responded positively to the suggestion that posts to people being appointed on the compassionate grounds be based on the qualifications of the kin of the employees declared medically unfit. “The issue will be definitely considered, but it will depend on the vacancies arising from time to time,” he said. On the deduction of Income Tax for the SCCL employees, he said he had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the issue seeking exemption to the staff from the payment of IT, but no action had been initiated so far. “We will continue our fight and raise the issue in Parliament too,” he averred. Members from the coal belt area expressed concern that the medical board of SCCL had not met since the incidence of novel coronavirus and dependents of workers declared medically unfit were not being given employment on compassionate grounds. The members also lamented that the employees retiring from service were not being given benefits due to them on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/steps-to-ensure-benefits-handed-over-on-day-of-retirement-cm/article32605803.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rail Nilayam shut for two days for sanitisation||South Central Railway (SCR) has decided to shut the Rail Nilayam headquarters for two days (Monday and Tuesday) to take up intensive sanitisation after at least 50 employees tested positive for COVID-19 during a mass RT-PCR testing drive last week. All office blocks, staircases, toilets, lifts, concourses, etc., are being sanitised thoroughly and all the employees have been asked to disclose their test results so that proper medical treatment can be given to them. Employees who have tested positive have been directed to be in touch with the railway doctors during the quarantine period. Those having COVID-19 symptoms have been asked not delay testing, taking medical treatment and following the quarantine rules. Employees yet to get tested have been advised to do so in the next few days at the Hyderabad Bhavan on Tuesday and at the Central Hospital on Thursday and Friday, senior officials said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rail-nilayam-shut-for-two-days-for-sanitisation/article32605786.ece
15 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Swiggy delivery executives on strike from today||About 3,000 delivery executives of food-delivery app Swiggy are set to go on an indefinite strike from Tuesday. “Our old incentive of Rs. 35 has been trimmed to Rs. 15. The surge fee we used to get during summer and during rainy season also has been done away with,” said Shaik Salauddin of Indian Federation of App-Based Transport Workers. Swiggy could not be reached for a comment, though the company released a statement through a PR firm that the delivery executives get Rs. 45 per order and better performing executives get Rs. 75 per order.  The workers said they are planning protests at multiple locations, will not deliver food and would picket restaurants. The workers also cited discrepancies in calculation of waiting time at restaurants and distance covered as a reason for the strike. “I used to make up to Rs. 40,000 per month before lockdown. Now I am making upto Rs. 25,000 as the incentive amount has been reduced to Rs. 15. I used to make that much money in fewer hours but now even after 12 hours I am unable to match my earlier earnings,” said one delivery executive unwilling to go on record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/swiggy-delivery-executives-on-strike-from-today/article32605798.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Being pushed further into debt trap’||The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) has observed that by amending the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act to increase the borrowing limit as allowed by the Centre, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government would push the State further into the debt trap. Speaking to media persons in the Gun Park, a martyrs memorial, in front of the Assembly buildings here on Monday, due to closure of the media point on the premises of the Assembly by the State government in the name of preventing COVID-19 spread, CLP Leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka said the TRS government had already pushed the State into debt trap by borrowing about Rs. 3.6 lakh crore during the last six years and the FRBM increase would allow it to borrow Rs. 55,000 crore more. Speaking along with party legislators — D. Sridhar Babu, T. Jayaprakash (Jagga) Reddy, D. Anasuya (Seethakka) and T. Jeevan Reddy — Mr. Vikramarka said the increase in the FRBM limit would allow the State government to borrow Rs. 55,256 crore more loans. Besides, the government had also got the borrowing capacity of its various corporations doubled. Since the State government would stand guarantee for such loans, they would be indirect borrowings of the government. Explaining the impact of borrowings on people in the State, the CLP Leader said in 2019-20 the government had spent Rs. 23,840 crore for debt servicing, for repayment of loans along with interest, with the total borrowings standing around Rs. 3 lakh crore and Rs. 50,000 crore per annum would be required for debt servicing when they would reach Rs. 6 lakh crore. Taking the revenue earnings at about Rs. 1.1 lakh crore per annum into account, keeping aside Rs. 50,000 crore for debt servicing and Rs. 40,000 crore salaries to government employees the Government would have nothing at its disposal for welfare and development schemes. Any new work would require new borrowings, he felt and added that such a scenario would have no money for implementing flagship schemes such as Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima, social security pensions, maintenance of irrigation projects, fee reimbursement and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/being-pushed-further-into-debt-trap/article32605802.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More rain forecast in Telangana for 3 days||The Met Department has forecast increase in the intensity of rainfall across the State over the next days under the influence of a well marked low pressure area now lying over west-central Bay of Bengal and adjoining north Andhra Pradesh coast with associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 5.8 km above mean sea level. It is expected to move west-north westwards during the next three days. Average rainfall According to the weathermen, the average rainfall recorded in Telangana during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Monday was 23.4 mm against the normal of 3.6 mm. The chief amounts of rain recorded was at Valigonda (145.1 mm), Govindaraopet (118.5 mm), Tadvai (106.8 mm), Kethepalle (101 mm), Mutharam (96.8 mm), Kataram (94.9 mm), Dharmasagar (92.1 mm) and Saligouraram (90.7 mm). Besides, Kasipet (88.9 mm), Mahadevpur (87.8 mm), Kamalapur (83.7 mm), Sathupalle (82.7 mm), Dharmapuri (78.5 mm), Khilla Warangal (77.8 mm), Husnabad (75.5 mm), Kollapur (74.6 mm), Khazipet (71.3 mm), Mangapet (70 mm), Suryapet (68.2 mm) and Nakrekal (66.1 mm). In GHMC area, Kukatpally received maximum rainfall of 27 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-rain-forecast-in-telangana-for-3-days/article32605819.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SignalX raises $750,000 from US venture capital firm||Artificial Intelligence-powered governance risk management and compliance start-up SignalX, based out of Hyderabad, has raised $750,000 from US VC firm 3Lines Venture Capital. With this funding, “we will be strengthening our core platform and opening up our SaaS application further to enable compliance and risk professionals to leverage AI in running comprehensive analysis and risk assessments,” CEO and founder Govind Balachandran said. According to him, SignalX platform is being used by professionals in performing valuations, mergers and acquisitions, insolvency and forensics to serve their customers in India and the US. “Our due diligence AI is purpose-built to help risk professionals across industries execute a broad range of analyses starting from ‘know your business (KYB)’ to meeting enhanced due diligence compliance requirements,” he said. Rajiv Roy, Venture Partner at 3Lines, will be joining the Board of Directors at SignalX. “Our investment focus on customer funded growth and AI-powered innovation strongly aligns with the business operations strategy of SignalX”, Mr.Roy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/signalx-raises-750000-from-us-venture-capital-firm/article32605780.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Teenage chess prodigy sets a unique record||Eleven-year-old N. Sri Likhitha Annapurna set a unique record of arranging the chess board with a blindfold on in just 40 seconds. With this rare feat, the city girl, who is a Class 8 student of Bhashyam School in Vanasthalipuram, has entered the International Wonder Book of Records. The certificate was issued by Indian chief co-ordinator B. Nagendra Goud and south India co-ordinator G. Swarna Sri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teenage-chess-prodigy-sets-a-unique-record/article32605790.ece
15 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Traffic curbs in IT Corridor for a week||With the construction of six-lane two-way flyover from Tolichowki to Malkam Cheruvu on old Mumbai Highway under progress, the Cyberabad Police announced traffic diversions in the IT Corridor. The construction work is permitted for seven days (from Tuesday to September 22) from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. Traffic coming from Tolichowki towards Gachibowli will be diverted from Old Raidurgam Police Station (Dargah) left turn towards OU Colony, Jammichettu Junction, Devagonaya Handlooms, Marrichettu Junction, Lanco Hills, DPS Road and Khajaguda junction towards Gachibowli. Vehicle commuters from Gachibowli, going towards Tolichowki, will be diverted from new HRDCL Road (beside LIDCAP), Road No. 45 right turn Film Nagar Road, JRC Convention Whisper Valley junction towards Tolichowki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-curbs-in-it-corridor-for-a-week/article32605795.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OTS deadline extended||Unable to evoke much response for the One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme for payment of property tax dues in GHMC and other urban local bodies, the government has extended deadline for the same up to October 31. As per the scheme, the property tax assessees will get 90% waiver on the penal interest amount if they opt to settle the pending bills at once. In GHMC alone, the pending amounts are close to Rs. 1500 crore, owing to various disputes and other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ots-deadline-extended/article32605799.ece
15 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||For Briefly with PIC||Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan on Monday inaugurated a new conference room with video-conferencing facility on Telangana High Court premises. The new facility can be used for meetings with Advocate General, Additional Advocate General and Government Pleaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-briefly-with-pic/article32605794.ece
15 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘Withdraw ordinances detrimental to ryots’||Upping the ante against the Centre’s reported move to table bills on the three agriculture-related ordinances in the ongoing monsoon session of the Parliament, activists of All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha (AIKMS) and the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) staged a demonstration here on Monday demanding the withdrawal of the three ordinances. Terming the ordinances as ‘detrimental’ to the interests of farmers across the country, the demonstrators organised a dharna near the Collectorate here. The joint demonstration was organised in response to the call given by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a pan-India coalition of a host of farmers’ organisations, to stage nation-wide protests against the ordinances under the banner”Save Agriculture - Protect Farmers.” Speakers at the dharna flayed the Centre charging it with bringing the ordinances during the coronavirus lockdown period in the name of “reforms” to promote contract farming in a big way across the country to benefit big corporates at the expense of farmers. They alleged that the three ordinances would trigger ripple effects on the public distribution system, food security and other long term negative consequences apart from deepening the crisis in the farm sector. AIKMS leader G Venkateshwara Rao, AIKS leader M Ramesh and a host of other activists of the constituent organisations of the AIKSCC took part in the protest. Later, a joint team of the AIKMS and the AIKS district leaders submitted a representation to the district authorities .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/withdraw-ordinances-detrimental-to-ryots/article32605821.ece
15 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nagarjunasagar continues discharge||Having opened its gates for the third time this season, the brimming Nagarjunasagar project continued to discharge excess flood into downstream on Monday. Starting with Friday, 14 gates were incrementally lifted to a height of 10 feet to release close to 2.5 lakh cusecs. In the following days, four of its crest gates were operated. On Monday, the reservoir was almost at its full capacity with 311.14 tmc as against 312 tmc water storage and 589.70 feet for the full reservoir level of 590 feet. By evening its 10 gates were lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nagarjunasagar-continues-discharge/article32605814.ece
15 September 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Life disrupted in Suryapet||Residents of Suryapet woke up to the stench of overflowing sewage and scenes of inundated colony roads, after sudden and heavy rains lashed the town in the wee hours of Monday. The town and Suryapet mandal received maximum rainfall of 86 mm, followed by Chivvemla (49 mm) and Jajireddygudem (47 mm) mandals, till 8.30 a.m. A few wards and colonies in the town, such as the Srinivasa Colony, Indira Colony and Manasa Nagar were inundated. Local legislator and Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy held an audio conference with the municipal and revenue officials, and soon a helpline and a rescue and relief centre were set up. In Atmakur (S), at around 3 a.m., a family that was en route to Suryapet in their transport vehicle for purchase of sheep had a close shave. The vehicle near Naseempet village road lost control with the heavy overflow from the local tank. It got washed away and stopped after hitting a pole and its occupants escaped safely. Several village tanks across the district overflowed, breaching minor culverts and submerging low-level bridges. And road transport from villages to the outside remained affected. In Nalgonda district, Shaligowraram received 82.88 mm rainfall, followed by Kethepalle and Nakrekal mandals. Nakrekal legislator Ch. Lingaiah was seen wading through the muddy waters to interact with residents in Suraram village of Ramannapet mandal, where rainwater entered several houses. Roads and houses at Shaligowraram village, close to the irrigation project, were also inundated. As per the State Development Planning Society’s 24-hour forecast on Monday, Suryapet and Nalgonda would continue to receive moderate to heavy rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/life-disrupted-in-suryapet/article32605813.ece
15 September 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||‘Friends’ arrested for duping woman||Suryapet town police arrested three persons, who were part of a plan to impersonate SHE team police, and extracted money from a recently counselled victim, on Monday. DSP S. Mohan Kumar produced the three youths — Praveen, Vijay and his friend Kavya — before the media and said they were booked for impersonation and extortion. He said the two men were not outsiders, but friends of the victim. On August 11, a woman from Wanaparthy had approached the town’s SHE team police with a complaint that a man from Rayinigudem had an affair with her, but later denied marriage. They held talks with the two sides and paid a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh to the aggrieved woman. The trio told the victim that the SHE team police demanded Rs. 2 lakh for having settled the case. Vijay’s brother Suman posed as a constable. Following a complaint they were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/friends-arrested-for-duping-woman/article32605811.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Umar Khalid’s arrest a brazen attempt to suppress dissent’||Several activists, academics, and others on social media have come out in support of former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid, who has been arrested by the Special Cell of Delhi Police in connection with the riots that broke out in north-east Delhi in February this year. Members of the civil rights society condemned Mr. Khalid’s arrest and said that the probe being carried out by the police is not about the communal violence. “With deep anguish we have no doubt in saying that this probe is not about the violence in February, but about the peaceful and democratic protests across the country against the unconstitutional Citizenship (Amendment) Act,” read a statement signed by 36 people, including Delhi University professor Apoorvanand and JNU professor Jayati Ghosh — who have been named in a supplementary chargesheet filed by the police in relation to a riot case. “The repeated attempts by the Delhi police to implicate him [Mr. Khalid] in a number of fictitious cases of conspiracy for the Delhi violence are part of a brazen attempt to try to suppress his voice of dissent,” it added.  ’Cong. supported UAPA’ Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) social media head Ankit Lal said the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act was also supported by Congress. “What is being done to@UmarKhalidJNUby BJP will happen to each of us if we don’t raise our voice to protect democracy. Never forget that the UAPA, under which Umar has been arrested, was also supported by Congress in Rajya Sabha. BJP and Congress are two sides of the same coin [sic],” he tweeted. Former IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan tweeted: “Mr. Khalid is a brilliant, brave and a strong guy. A tall leader of India of tomorrow. His arrest by some yes-men of@delhipolicewho can’t stand up to either the intellect or the spine of Umar are only doing a disservice to themselves [sic].” Swara Bhaskar tweeted a picture of Umar with “#FreeUmarKhalid #ScrapUAPA”.  Indian Youth Congress leader Srivatsa Y.B. said the arrest was motivated. “Kapil Mishra screamed ‘Goli Maaro’ in his hate speech which had a big role to play in the riots. Forget arrest or UAPA, there was not even a FIR against him. What has Umar Khalid done? BJP govt is purposefully hounding him. Will judiciary uphold liberty [sic]?” he tweeted. The JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) said the Delhi police have falsely implicated Mr. Khalid in the riots after 11 hours of interrogation. It added that Mr. Khalid had been questioned by the police before and had written an open letter to the Delhi Police Commissioner regarding intimidation of one of his acquaintances in the name of questioning. ‘Criminalising protest’ “The JNUSU condemns the continuing witch-hunt and targeting of activists. We reiterate that all these actions are a means to criminalise democratic protests against the CAA, the National Register of Citizens, and the National Population Register, which are divisive, discriminatory and the communal agenda of the BJP-RSS, implemented by the Union government,” read a statement by the students, adding that the Delhi Police reports to the Union Home Ministry and “not only has a tactical understanding with the real perpetrators of the riots but has ensured that activists are incarcerated and maligned to shift attention away from the real culprits”. “Dubious statements of confession, which are inadmissible in a court of law, are leaked to the media as admissions of guilt to create a media frenzy and further perpetuate the witch-hunt against dissenting voices,” the JNUSU stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/umar-khalids-arrest-a-brazen-attempt-to-suppress-dissent/article32605759.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||30% recovered COVID-19 patients have no antibodies: govt. survey||Seventy-nine of 257 people who had COVID-19, recovered, and later tested for antibodies against the virus, did not have the antibodies, according to a report of the second serological survey done in August by the Delhi government. Experts, however, said that there was no need to “panic”, as the neutralising antibodies (IgG) tend to vanish after three months, but in most cases the memory cells will remember the virus and trigger an immune response if the person who recovered from COVID-19 is again attacked by the virus. “The people who had COVID-19 and recovered and did not show antibodies during the survey might have contracted the disease four or five months back at the initial stage of infection. Now their antibodies (IgG) might have disappeared. We will have to study their individual cases deeper to understand it better,” an official source said. Under the survey, blood samples of about 15,000 random people were collected from August 1-7 and tested for antibodies (IgG) against the virus. The report was prepared by Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC), which provided technical support for the survey. Biological mechanism “IgG falls and it is a normal biological mechanism. But if the virus attacks the body again, then the memory cells will kick in and they will trigger IgG, which will give immunity in most people, with some exception and people with immunodeficiency [inability to produce an adequate immune response],” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, epidemiologist and former principal of Christian Medical College, Vellore. “The virus may revisit you and be transiently present in your throat, but it will be almost never able to produce a disease,” he added. K. Srinath Reddy, epidemiologist, and president of Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), Delhi, also had a similar opinion. Memory cells “In most cases, the antibodies (IgG) decline by three months, but memory B cells and memory T cells store the memory of the virus. They activate the immune mechanism when there is a re-infection. So, antibodies vanishing doesn’t mean that you are totally vulnerable to the virus,” Dr. Reddy said. He said that even for a person who had COVID-19 and has memory cells, still the virus can invade the body and reach nose or throat. “During this time, the person will test positive for COVID-19, if he takes a nasal swab test. But in most cases, people will have memory cells to fall back upon to mount an immune response to prevent infection from turning into a disease,” Dr. Reddy said. The report showed that among people with income less than Rs. 5,000, 31.7% people of the people surveyed had antibodies, while in people with income above Rs. 5,000, only 26.8% people had antibodies. Similarly, among people with BPL (below poverty line) cards, 35.4% people surveyed tested positive for antibodies, while among people who were above poverty line and did not have BPL card, only 29.4% of people surveyed tested positive. Also, a higher percentage of antibodies was seen in people living in a containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/30-recovered-covid-19-patients-have-no-antibodies-govt-survey/article32605502.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||Ex-IPS officers ask Delhi Police chief to ensure free, fair probe||Up to nine retired IPS officers have written to Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava decrying “flawed investigation” into the riots that erupted in north-east Delhi in February, and called for a free and fair probe. Endorsing a letter recently written by retired IPS officer Julio Ribeiro, members of the Constitutional Conduct Group — a retired government servants’ group — wrote: “It was a sad day in the history of Indian Police that investigations and challans submitted in the court by the Delhi Police are being widely believed to be partisan and politically motivated [sic].” They argued that a “majoritarian attitude” in police leadership led to a “travesty of justice for the victims of violence and their family members, who belong to minority communities”, and added that it allowed the real culprits of violence “belonging to majority community to likely go scot free”. The retired officers also hit out against Delhi police for implicating anyone who spoke out against or joined anti-CAA protests. “They were simply exercising their fundamental rights to freedom of speech and peaceful protests as guaranteed by the Constitution,” they wrote, adding that such type of investigations would make people “lose faith in democracy, justice, fairness and the Constitution” and could lead to the “breakdown of law of and order”. The retired officers included K. Saleem Ali, former Special Director, CBI; Mohinderpa Aulakh, former DGP (Jails), Punjab; A.S. Dulat, former OSD on Kashmir, PMO’s office; Aloke B. Lal, DG (Prosecution), Uttarakhand; Amitabh Mathur, former director, Aviation Research Centre; Avinash Mohananey, former DGP, Sikkim; PGJ Nampoothiri, former DGP, Gujarat; and A.K. Samanta, former DG (Intelligence) West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ex-ips-officers-ask-delhi-police-chief-to-ensure-free-fair-probe/article32605762.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Producer, filmmaker quizzed||The Delhi Police Special Cell questioned film producer Rahul Roy and filmmaker Saba Dewan for over eight hours on Monday in connection with the north-east riots. They were called in a day after former Jawaharlal Nehru University student leader Umar Khalid was arrested under UAPA for his alleged role in the riots. The police said the duo was questioned after their names surfaced during the probe in a riots case. They were asked about their presence at anti-CAA protests, said an officer.  “They were called for questioning at 1 p.m. and were allowed to go at 8 p.m. If required they will be again asked to join investigation,” said another officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/producer-filmmaker-quizzed/article32605766.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Khalid always cooperated whenever police called him’||He always cooperated with the police whenever they called him in for questioning and returned to Delhi on short notice before his arrest on Sunday, Umar Khalid’s friend Banojyotsana Lahiri told The Hindu . Ms. Lahiri, a former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student who now works as a researcher, said Mr. Khalid was in Rajasthan on September 11 when he received separate summons from Delhi Police’s Crime Branch and Special Cell. “Crime Branch wanted him to come that day itself but he told them that he was in Rajasthan and needs a day or two to return. They then asked him to contact them when he returns. Special Cell on the other hand continued to send summons and did not respond to his request to allow him to join two days later,” she recalled. Ms. Lahiri said that Mr. Khalid received two summons from Special Cell and one from Crime Branch on Friday and Saturday. “On Saturday, he finally decided to return and appear for questioning,” she said. Around noon on Sunday, Mr. Khalid went in for questioning at the Special Cell office. “Around 11 p.m., his family was informed that he has been formally arrested,” she added. Speaking about the last few months, Ms. Lahiri said that Umar learned that he had been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act through media reports in March. “For the next four months till July, he did not get any calls. In August, he got the first call saying that they [the police] wanted to question him. He was in Kolkata at the time and he got stuck there because of the lockdown,” she said, adding that despite travel restrictions, he returned to Delhi on a single-day notice and cooperated in the first round of enquiry. Next, he was called in by Crime Branch and again by Special Cell on August 31. “The larger point here is that the police did not call him at all for four months and whenever they did, he cooperated with the enquiry,” she said. Reacting to the arrest, Ms. Lahiri said that the way the investigation is being conducted is “bizarre”. “No one can anticipate anything. One can only speculate,” she said. When asked how Mr. Khalid’s parents reacted to the arrest, Ms. Lahiri said that “they are now getting used to this”. In June, after his name appeared in a chargesheet as being part of a larger conspiracy in riots, Mr. Khalid had said there was not an iota of truth in the police’s claim. On September 1, he had written to Delhi Commissioner of Police S.N. Shrivastava stating he was being falsely implicated.  The way the probe is being conducted is bizarre. No one can anticipate anything Banojyotsana Lahiri||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/khalid-always-cooperated-whenever-police-called-him/article32605757.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||House passes resolution against removing slums amid pandemic||The Delhi Assembly during its one-day special session on Monday passed a resolution that there should be no eviction of slums in the midst of a pandemic and that there should be prior rehabilitation before any eviction. “In the midst of a raging pandemic, there should be no eviction whatsoever, as such displacement will only exacerbate the prevailing situation and put at risk the lives, health, safety and security of the lakhs of inhabitants of the JJ clusters in peril. Prior rehabilitation must precede any attempts at eviction of these residents or demolition of their houses. This is the minimum guarantee held out by our Constitution, especially Article 21,” the proposal read. The Assembly session was held with special seating arrangement, following strict COVID-19 measures. Four AAP MLAs were tested positive as part of the testing before the session. “AAP MLA Parmila Tokas had tested negative in antigen testing, but her RT-PCR result came out to be positive when she was at the Assembly around 3 p.m. and she was immediately isolated,” an official said. Five police officers and two Delhi government officials also tested positive. CM’s assurance Addressing the Assembly during the discussion of the proposal on slums, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, said, “I assure all the 48,000 slum dwellers that your homes will not be demolished. We will ensure pucca houses to all 48,000 slum dwellers before they are moved” He assured that either the Central government will give slum dwellers a permanent house or else the Delhi government will do it. “ AAP MLA Raghav Chadha attacked the BJP and said that the Supreme Court was hearing a case only on the cleanliness of Delhi, but the BJP’s Railway Ministry filed an affidavit and demanded the removal of slums. He said that last week, the Delhi government-run Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) wrote to the Railways, in which it has been asked to not demolish any slum without providing alternative accommodation. Handling situation During the session, when the AAP came under attack from the BJP of the management of COVID-19 situation in the city, Mr. Kejriwal said that Delhi has conducted the highest tests in the world with 3,057 tests conducted per day per million population. “Highest tests in the world is being done in Delhi and 11% of the population has been tested,” he said. He also thanked the Central government for its help. When BJP pointed out that Satyendar Jain had gone to a private hospital for treatment when he had COVID-19, Mr. Jain replied that he was initially admitted at a Delhi government hospital and he was shifted to a private hospital as he was advised by the doctors to undergo plasma therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/house-passes-resolution-against-removing-slums-amid-pandemic/article32605505.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT asks CPCB to come up with SOP for eateries on highways||Following a plea alleging illegal dumping and burning of waste by restaurants on GT Road, Murthal, the National Green Tribunal has directed the Central Pollution Control Board to finalise a standard operating procedure (SOP) for eateries along highways, within two months. Referring to the existing policies regarding the same, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “While the policy acknowledges serious environmental issues in the operation of restaurants and other such establishments on the roadside, particularly the generation and handling of waste and extraction of groundwater, the remedial action by way of the policy does not meet the mandate of the law.” ‘Polluter pays’ Stating that existing environmental norms cannot be diluted or relaxed by any authority, the Bench said, “The compensation regime has to be as per “polluter pays” principle which requires the compensation to be adequate to cover the cost of restoration of the environment and has to be deterrent.” The Bench further took note of previous judgments and said, “Let the CPCB finalise an appropriate SOP integrating its guidelines already prepared and incorporating such of the provisions in the policy as are found appropriate so that the SOP prepared by CPCB will cover the entire field.” “If no change is required in the guidelines already prepared by the CPCB, then it may continue,” the Bench added. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Abhay Dahiya seeking directions against illegal dumping and burning of garbage. The plea had also contended that untreated waste water was being discharged by eateries along the highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ngt-asks-cpcb-to-come-up-with-sop-for-eateries-on-highways/article32605760.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘AAP govt. shedding crocodile tears for slums facing demolition’||The Delhi Congress on Monday said that it was shocking that the AAP government has not listed the issue of the JJ clusters facing demolition, in its agenda, for the one-day session of the Delhi Legislative Assembly on Monday. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that this clearly shows that the Arvind Kejriwal-led government was “merely shedding crocodile tears for the JJ clusters without meaning to help them”. ‘Lip service’ “If the Kejriwal government was serious about stopping the demolition of the JJ clusters along railway tracks, it would have put this item on top of the agenda of the Session. However, the Delhi government has neither put the JJ cluster issue nor the surge in COVID-19 cases in the agenda for discussion, which means that they are merely doing lip service on both these matters without showing any seriousness,” Mr. Kumar said in a statement. The Delhi Congress also pledged its support to senior Congress leader and former MLA Mateen Ahmed whose name has been added by Delhi Police in its supplementary chargesheet to probe his role in the north-east Delhi riots. Mr. Kumar said that Mr. Ahmed has unquestionable secular credentials, and no one would believe that he played any role in the riots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-govt-shedding-crocodile-tears-for-slums-facing-demolition/article32605508.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Floor markers placed in 800 coaches||Besides pasting stickers on alternate seats in metro coaches, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has also started to place floor markers to further strengthen the signs for social distancing inside the trains. The DMRC on Monday said the floor markers, intended to ensure social distancing among commuters who are not seated, were placed in 800 coaches. “With a week, floor markers will be placed in the remaining 1,400 metro coaches,” it said. Peak hours The DMRC also advised commuters traveling on the network to stagger their journeys to ensure social distancing. “Delhi Metro’s peak hours are from 8 a.m. to 12 noon and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. To facilitate passengers, a headway of 2 minutes and 45 seconds to 6 minutes will be maintained from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Please stagger your journeys so that adequate social distancing can be maintained in the metro,” the DMRC said. The nearly 400-km-long Delhi Metro network became fully operational on September 12day. Ridership on the network was recorded at 2.49 lakh till 7.30 p.m. The yellow line (Samaypur Badli - HUDA City Centre) saw the highest footfall at 76,266 followed by the Blue line (Dwarka Sector 21 - Noida Electronic City/Vaishali) with a ridership of 75,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/floor-markers-placed-in-800-coaches/article32605752.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||Police tighten security for PM’s week-long birthday celebration||Delhi Police has ordered its security units and district officers to ensure adequate arrangements for the duration of Seva Saptah — a week-long celebration kicked off by the Bharatiya Janta Party to mark the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi —, an officer said on Monday. The celebration, which began on September 14, will culminate on September 20. In a written communication passed to each unit and district of Delhi Police, it has been stated that the BJP will organise “Seva Saptah” (Service Week) to mark the PM’s birthday on September 17. Theme of programme The theme of the programme is ‘seventy’. In this regard, a circular has been sent by Central Office of BJP to States, mentioning therein the list of programmes and social initiatives to be held. All MPs, MLAs of BJP other elected representatives, party office-bearers and workers will participate in all these programmes strictly adhering to COVID-19 protocols. The list of programmes includes plantation drive, blood donation, cleanliness drive and many other activities. The order copy signed by Additional Commissioner of Police (Special Branch) reads that adequate arrangements by the local police, including women police, traffic police, security and PCR are suggested to tackle any emergent situation. The lockdown is extended till September 30 by the Centre and Delhi government that prohibits any social and political gathering. The copy also stated that NDMA and DDMA instructions to be kept in mind while handling the situation. A senior officer said instruction regarding it has been communicated to police officer concerned and they have been instructed to ensure no violation of social distancing protocols during the celebration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-tighten-security-for-pms-week-long-birthday-celebration/article32605764.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||As testing drops, no. of fresh COVID-19 cases falls below 4,000 in the Capital||After reporting more than 4,000 daily new cases for five days in a row, the Capital on Monday witnessed only 3,229 cases as the number of tests fell by about 23%, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The total number of cases stood at 2,21,533. Though the past five days had seen an average daily tests of 58,000, only 44,884 tests were done in the past 24 hours. The drop in tests have been happening on bulletins on Mondays, as it reflects Sunday’s data. Also, 26 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,770. Of the total cases, 1,88,122 people have recovered and there are 28,641 active cases. “After having a mild fever, corona test was done today and the report has come positive. I have isolated myself. Right now there is no fever or any other problem, I am completely fine. With all your blessings, I will soon be healthy and return to work,” Mr. Sisodia said in a tweet. Out of the total 14,409 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 54.2% were vacant, as per government data on Monday. But 62.2% of the ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 71.6% of the ICU beds without ventilators are full. The number of containment zones in the city was 1,279. The positivity rate has come up slightly to 7.1 % from 7.4% on Sunday. Delhi has done 1,14,964 tests per million of the population, which is one of the highest in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/as-testing-drops-no-of-fresh-covid-19-cases-falls-below-4000-in-the-capital/article32605504.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two stabbed to death after fight in west Delhi||Two persons were killed following a fight in west Delhi’s Khyala in the small hours of Monday, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said the deceased have been identified as Rohit and Ashish. They both held criminal records. The police said they received two PCR calls around 1 a.m. regarding quarrel in Ragubir Nagar JJ Colony. On reaching the spot, they were told that Rohithad an argument with a man named Naveen. Next, Naveen thrashed Rohit and left the spot. Rohit then in a drunken state started looking for Naveen. A while later, Ashish — who Rohit knew because they lived in the same area — came to the spot with his friends Abhinav and Sahil. “When Ashish saw Rohit, he asked him his whereabouts following which the duo got into a fight. Next, Ashish and his friends left the spot,” Mr. Purohit said. However, they returned a few minutes later and confronted Rohit, who was carrying a knife. The police said Rohit stabbed Ashish and Sahil. The officer saidSahil then stabbed Rohit. At the time, Rohit’s mother Meena reached the spot and called the police. All three injured were rushed to hospital where Ashish and Rohit succumbed to injuries; Sahil sustained minor injuries. Mr. Purohit said a case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC has been registered. Teams are looking for Abhinav to ascertain the sequence of events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-stabbed-to-death-after-fight-in-west-delhi/article32605765.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CPI(ML) leader on hunger strike in Wazirpur slum||The CPI(ML) on Monday started a 48-hour hunger strike in Wazirpur slum as a warning against the order of demolition of jhuggies near railway tracks. Ravi Rai, State secretary of CPIML, Delhi, along with Shakuntala Devi, Sita Devi, Rameshwari Devi, Rinku and Sita, all residents of Wazirpur slum, have started the strike and said that the four-week moratorium on slum demolition that the Supreme Court ordered on Monday is only an eyewash and demanded a complete revocation of the order. “The pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have destroyed livelihood of the poor and workers of Delhi. The misery of the slum dwellers and migrant workers have been witnessed by the entire country. And in this situation, the order to demolish jhuggies is utterly inhuman,” the party said. Ms. Shakuntala said, “We have been staying here for 28 years now. We work in the city. The government should tell us where we will stay if our house is demolished.” Ms. Sita, who is staying in the jhuggie for last 22 years, said: “We have not been given a pucca house till now by the government and now they are trying to demolish our jhuggie. Will they give us house in next four weeks that they have not done in the last 22 years?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cpiml-leader-on-hunger-strike-in-wazirpur-slum/article32605510.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||#MeToo: ‘Targeted to halt allegations against Akbar’||Journalist Priya Ramani told a Delhi court on Monday that she was targeted selectively through a criminal defamation complaint by former Union Minister M.J. Akbar to halt the avalanche of allegations of sexual misconduct” against him in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018. Ms. Ramani made the submission before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vishal Pahuja through her lawyer during the final hearing in the complaint filed by Mr. Akbar against her. Ms. Ramani in 2018 accused Mr. Akbar of sexual misconduct around 20 years ago when he was a journalist. Mr. Akbar resigned as Union Minister on October 17, 2018. Senior advocate Rebecca John, appearing for Ms. Ramani, told the court on Monday that over 14 women accused Akbar of sexual harassment during the #MeToo movement but he has filed complaint only against Ms. Ramani. “Priya Ramani was targeted selectively... Either everyone’s articles and tweets are defamatory or none is. Or are the other allegations accepted,” she said, adding that Mr. Akbar’s was aware of the existence of other allegations on the date of the filing of complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/metoo-targeted-to-halt-allegations-against-akbar/article32605754.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||BJP stages demonstration with residents of slums||The Opposition BJP, along with residents of slum clusters near railway tracks which are scheduled to be cleared, staged a demonstration against the Delhi government here on Monday. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, along with BJP MLAs and slum dwellers demonstrated at the Chandgi Ram Akhada near the Assembly demanding that vacant flats available with the government be allotted to them. “The AAP government has demolished thousands of slums in the last six years, but not shifted a single slum dweller in a permanent house,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. “Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal did not allow the public welfare schemes of the Central government to be implemented in Delhi because he thought that if these schemes were implemented, then the Prime Minister would get all the credit,” he also alleged. Mr. Bidhuri alleged that the Kejriwal government was deliberately “ignoring” the possibility of shifting families living in 48,000 slums along the railway tracks to over 50,000 vacant houses. As soon as the work of removing slums starts, Mr. Bidhuri said, BJP workers will “respectfully shift” them along with their belongings to these vacant houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-stages-demonstration-with-residents-of-slums/article32605511.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Delhi govt. failed to deal with pandemic’||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, during the one-day Special Session of the Assembly on Monday accused the Delhi government of failing to deal with COVID-19 pandemic. When the Ministers of this government created an “atmosphere of fear” about the pandemic in Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah took to the front and provided relief to the people, Mr. Bidhuri said during the short-term discussion. He said that AAP MLAs, who were praising the Delhi Model today, should not forget the Supreme Court’s remarks regarding Delhi hospitals to the effect that the condition of patients in these was worse than that of animals. While Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has said that by the end of July, the number of patients would rise to 5.5 lakh, Health Minister Satyendra Jain said that the pandemic would last for two years. It was only under Mr. Shah, Mr. Bidhuri said, that a decisive battle was fought against the virus in Delhi. The LoP also asked if the House should not praise the Prime Minister and the Home Minister for “doing so much” for the people of Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-failed-to-deal-with-pandemic/article32605507.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||Rai to conduct meeting today to discuss pollution||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai will hold a crucial meeting with senior officials on Tuesday to discuss ways to deal with extreme levels of pollution in the city in winters, said officials. They said the Minister will review progress of the annual plantation exercise. The issue of stubble burning in neighbouring states will also be taken up during the meeting. The Delhi government has set a target of planting 31 lakh saplings during the year 2020-21. Around 19 lakh saplings have already been planted in the city by various agencies since March this year, according to government data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rai-to-conduct-meeting-today-to-discuss-pollution/article32605755.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||DUTA calls for 3-day strike||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) has called for a three-day strike starting Wednesday to protest the non-release of funds to 12 colleges under the government. The union has been demanding the release of funds to these colleges for several months now. It has also demanded that the university and government resolve issues among them so that the employees and institutions are spared. While grants have been released to six colleges recently, employees at the rest of these colleges have allegedly not been paid salaries for nearly five months. As part of the strike, teachers will boycott online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/duta-calls-for-3-day-strike/article32605763.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||AAP alleges corruption in procurement of equipment||AAP on Monday attacked the BJP over the law and order situation and also alleged corruption in procurement of equipment to fight COVID-19 in U.P. AAP MP Sanjay Singh said that in U.P., a businessman was killed who has complained to the CM that the SP and DM of the district had been taking money from him and his life was in danger. Mr. Singh said the businessman was killed as he did not give money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-alleges-corruption-in-procurement-of-equipment/article32605506.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||Kasturba Hospital nurses begin protest over salary||Nurses at the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Kasturba Hospital, starting Monday, will hold two-hour demonstration daily, in protest against the non-release of salaries for the past three months. Healthcare workers at hospitals run by the Corporation have been repeatedly protesting against delays in the release of their salaries. Last week, in a notice to the North body Commissioner, the nurses’ union said that it would be undertaking daily agitation for two hours to demand the release of their salaries. Despite not being paid salaries, “in the interest of patients, we have worked silently and with complete devotion till date”, they wrote. They said that financial obligations and difficulties had become intolerable. During the agitation, they said they would ensure that emergency services continued running smoothly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kasturba-hospital-nurses-begin-protest-over-salary/article32605509.ece
15 September 2020||Bhopal,||Sportspersons scrambling to get back on track in Madhya Pradesh||Even after a five-month break, when Jyoti Vishwakarma returned to the equestrian academy here, Stella recognised her. Donning riding boots and clutching a helmet, the 13-year-old stepped inside the stable and called her: the mare, much heavier than before, neighed excitedly. “I am surprised Stella remembers me,” said Ms. Vishwakarma, who bagged three national medals in 2018. Both the rider and the horse have gained weight, but Stella refuses to jump higher or gallop longer like before owing to months of inactivity. “We will regain the rhythm in a few weeks,” she said. Top-performing sportspersons across Madhya Pradesh, having forgone nearly a season of activity to the COVID-19 pandemic, scramble to make up for lost practice sessions, restore fitness and recall techniques and grapple with the persisting pressure to get back in form. “Sessions for 94 international players and national medal winners across six no-contact disciplines have started in Bhopal. Besides, 20 players in Jabalpur and 12 in Shivpuri have also started practising,” said Vikas Kharadkar, Assistant Director, Directorate of Sports and Youth Welfare (DSYW). Keeping busy Online training and counselling sessions coupled with interaction with coaches kept players abreast of their disciplines during the lockdown, said Pavan Jain, Director, DSYW. “Now we have decided to focus on probable medal winners,” he said. Before stepping onto the field, each player took the RT-PCR — one player tested positive for COVID-19 — and a fitness test. At the equestrian academy, assistant coaches conditioned livestock when riders stayed home, said coach Bhagirath, a former Army officer. “Players constantly asked me when we would reopen. When you don’t get something, you realise its real value.” Riders have their sight set on a junior championship in Jaipur in October. Beginning afresh Anxiety usually gripped riders around the evening, the usual practice time, said Umar Ali, 16. Whereas Faraz Khan, 29, felt the reopening gave way to a conflict between riders and horses. “The animals are irritable now as they can’t bear the same stress as before, and have lost flexibility,” he said. Mr. Khan read more about the dressage discipline back home, and returned only to realise Harley Cain, his horse, had to be taught skills from the scratch. “The lockdown has eroded the muscle memories of the animals,” he said. Having set the junior world record in the 50 metre rifle three positions in 2019, Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar, 19, secured an Olympic quota for India, and was prepared for the 2020 summer event, now postponed. “My position, posture and strength have taken a hit. If earlier I could take 100 shots in one go, now it’s 20,” he said. “But I will be fine in a few days,” he chuckled. After four months of no weapons training, he started dry practising at home in June. A 25-metre pistol shooter, Chinki Yadav had also secured an Olympic quota. She remains unfazed by the prospect of another Indian player outperforming her during trials and landing an Olympic berth. “I don’t even let that thought cross my mind.” Weight issues However, staying home for such a long stretch after seven years into sailing provided a unique opportunity to Harshita Tomar, 18, who won bronze at the 2018 Asian Games in Laser 4.7 open event. She went from 47kg to 54kg — sailors’ weight being crucial to pull the sail against the wind, and stood the fittest among players tested recently across the disciplines. “I studied muscle-gaining techniques during the lockdown and the science behind it. Gaining weight while staying fit was a challenge. The long break let me stand back, rethink my techniques,” said Ms. Tomar. The sailors rue the passing of the monsoon, which offers climate favourable to practice and similar to European conditions, without practice sessions. The nagging thought his competitors might be practising regularly while he stayed home doing nothing haunted Rammilan Yadav, 18, a Laser Standard player. “After I returned, I noticed I had slowed and my agility had been hit,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sportspersons-scrambling-to-get-back-on-track-in-madhya-pradesh/article32605769.ece
15 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Bed shortage forces Odisha govt. to change strategy||With dedicated COVID-19 hospitals in Bhubaneswar fast running out of beds, the Odisha government has moved to discharge patients after 10 days from the date of sample collection. The move is intended at ending overstaying in these hospitals. A high-level meeting, chaired by State’s Development Commissioner, resolved that as per the discharge protocol, a patient stood clinically discharged after 10 days from the date of sample collection provided he had no symptoms for the last three days. The proceedings of the meeting said, “Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation will prepare the list of such patients on ninth day district wise and post in the collectors WhatsApp group. The concerned collector will take step to pick those cured cases on the 10th day from the respective COVID Hospitals of Bhubaneswar by sending vehicles for pick up.” In case of default, such cured patients would be transferred from the hospitals to COVID-19 care homes in the city. SOP not followed As per information presented at the meeting, the COVID-19 hospitals in Bhubaneswar were being used by all other districts as referral hospitals. It was observed that the other districts were not following the standard operating procedure. It was decided that the facilities available in the districts would be exhausted first before deciding to shift patients to Bhubaneswar. All districts would check with the city COVID-19 hospitals about the availability of the requisite facility needed before sending a patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bed-shortage-forces-odisha-govt-to-change-strategy/article32605747.ece
15 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab never endorsed ordinances: CM||Rejecting the Centre’s claim that Punjab was taken on board before promulgation of the farm ordinances, presented in Parliament on Monday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh urged the Prime Minister not to go ahead with their legislation.  Memo to Governor The Chief Minister added that he will lead an 11-member delegation of his party on September 16 to submit a memorandum to the State Governor against the ordinances. Asserting that his government had been consistently opposing the so-called reforms brought in by the ordinances, Captain Amarinder said, in a statement, that at no point did Punjab endorse any such move, contrary to what was being projected by the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-never-endorsed-ordinances-cm/article32605748.ece
15 September 2020||CHANDIGARH/GHAZIABAD,||Farmers protest against agri ordinances||Members of several farmer outfits in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh staged demonstrations on Monday to protest against the Centre’s agriculture-related ordinances and to demand their immediate withdrawal. Hundreds of farmers marching from Haryana and western U.P. towards the national capital to participate in a protest called by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) at Jantar Mantar were stopped at the State borders. In Punjab, farmers held demonstration in Amritsar, Moga, Barnala, Patiala and Phagwara by holding sit-ins under the banner of the All India Kissan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella body of over 250 farmers and farmworkers' organisations.  Demand withdrawal Farmers were seen shouting slogans and demanding immediate withdrawal of all the three ordinances. Rattan Mann, president of the Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), said farmers on their way to participate in the demonstration at Jantar Mantar were stopped by the Delhi police. “We were stopped at Kundli border. We want the government to understand that these ordinances in the present shape are not going to benefit the farming community. A legislation must be brought securing Minimum Support Price (MSP) of all crops, including fruits and vegetables,” said Mr. Mann. “Farmers all over India are opposing these ordinances. The government is trying to present these ordinances as a big step towards agricultural reforms in the form of ‘One Nation, One Market’, but actually these ordinances will result in ‘company rule’ in the agricultural sector. Some of the State governments are also demanding withdrawal of these three ordinances, believing it to be a violation of the federal structure of the country,” he said. Stopped at Ghazipur Farmers from western U.P., mainly Meerut, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Ghaziabad, and Gautam Buddh Nagar, marching towards Jantar Mantar were stopped at the Delhi-U.P. border in Ghaziapur. Describing the ordinances “anti-farmer”, Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of BKU, said: “Crops purchased at less than MSP must be included in the category of punishable crime.” After holding a sit-in protest for four hours, which led to a jam at the border, the police allowed senior members to submit a memorandum at Krishi Bhawan. The memorandum, addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said farmers were living in fear that these ordinances would make them captive of corporates. Terming the ordinances a “violation of the federal structure”, senior BKU leader Dharmendra Malik said government mandis provided a ‘check and balance’ to the role of private players in the process of buying and selling of crops. Similar protests were also held in Meerut and Aligarh. In Meerut, agitated farmers tried to push tractor trolleys inside the collectorate. Despite heavy police presence, farmers broke the cordon and entered the collectorate. Members of the youth wing of the Samajwadi Party were also part of the protest. Yogendra Singh, a farmer, said they were already reeling under non-payment of cane dues and rise in electricity rates. “These ordinances will break our back,” he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-protest-against-agri-ordinances/article32605746.ece
15 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||Transparent body covers for virus victims||In his first visit to Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Hospital after taking charge, Meerut District Magistrate K. Balaji told health officials to procure transparent body covers immediately to pack bodies of persons who succumb to COVID-19. Notably, it was at LLRM hospital that the bodies of two virus victims got interchanged earlier this month. The inquiry committee formed after the incident held a class IV employee for the blunder. “The medical superintendent and 10 contract workers were removed,” said Raj Kumar, Chief Medical Officer, Meerut. Dr. Sudhir Rathi, Incharge, Corona Ward, said the idea came from the health officials who were mulling over a way to prevent such an incident in future. “The class IV employee goofed up by interchanging the ID chit that carries the details of the deceased. As the body cover was opaque, nobody could catch the mistake,” Dr. Rathi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/transparent-body-covers-for-virus-victims/article32605750.ece
15 September 2020||Guwahati,||Assam students’ unions float new political party||Two students’ unions in Assam have formed a regional political party, 35 years after a similar experiment to avowedly insulate the State from “illegal migrants.” The All-Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chhatra Parishad (AJYCP) floated the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) on Monday. The development has assumed significance ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections with at least two other regional parties having been formed, and another by peasant rights activist Akhil Gogoi’s organisation in the offing. A 16-member committee the AASU and AJYCP had formed almost a month ago had suggested the formation of AJP as a political alternative to the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress. The announcement was made by Krishnagopal Bhattacharya and Basanta Deka, two former professors and conveners of the panel. The duo said AJP would refrain from communal politics and campaign with the slogan, “Ghorey, ghorey aami,” meaning “We are in every household.” AJYCP general secretary Palash Changmai said the people of Assam had encouraged them to form the party because of the failure of the BJP and the Congress to protect the interests of the State and its indigenous peoples. “The State government surrendered before the Centre on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). We had to step in because the people want a political entity that will not cave in to Delhi’s demands at the cost of Assam’s future,” said AASU president Dipanka Kumar Nath.  Key agenda AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi said the implementation of the Assam Accord would be the AJP’s key agenda. Representatives of the AASU, AJYCP and other organisations that spearheaded the bloody Assam Agitation (1989-85) to expel “illegal migrants” had signed an accord in August 1985. This accord prescribed midnight of March 24, 1971, as the cut-off date for detecting, detaining and deporting migrants, a euphemism for Bangladeshi nationals. In October 1985, the leaders of the agitation formed the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) that swept the Assembly polls that year and formed a government headed by Prafulla Kumar Mahanta, who went on to become Chief Minister for a second time in 1996.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-students-unions-float-new-political-party/article32605749.ece
15 September 2020||Lucknow,||Slain U.P. man’s family seeks arrest of accused||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday came under Opposition criticism after a businessman from Mahoba who was shot last week, days after he had accused an IPS officer of threatening to kill him, succumbed to his injuries at a Kanpur hospital. The family of the deceased, Indrakant Tripathi, who was into the explosives business, demanded that the accused in the case, including IPS officer Mani Lal Patidar, who was recently suspended from the post of Mahoba Superintendent of Police for corruption and extortion, be arrested on charges of murder. Indrakant’s brother, Ravikant Tripathi, demanded the immediate arrest of the accused. “They will tamper with evidence and mess with witnesses,” he said. Mr. Ravikant feared that he could also be murdered. Last week, Mr. Patidar was booked on charges of allegedly conspiring to murder Indrakant. A case under attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy and various charges was lodged against Mr. Patidar, then Station House Officer Devendra Shukla, two local businessmen and unidentified police personnel. It is not yet clear if the charges would be upgraded to murder. Letter to CM Indrakant, involved in the explosives trade in the mining district, was found shot in the neck in his car last week. Days earlier, on September 5, in a letter to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and through a social media video, Indrakant had alleged that Mr. Patidar was threatening to kill him after he refused to pay him Rs. 6 lakh per month as extortion sum. ADG Prayagraj, Prem Prakash, said no arrests had been made and hinted that such a step would be taken after collection of evidence. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav demanded the arrest of the accused in the case. Calling it a “murder by the state,” Mr. Yadav asked the government to refrain from covering up the case through mere suspensions. “Why such leniency towards the accused SP,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/slain-up-mans-family-seeks-arrest-of-accused/article32605744.ece
15 September 2020||Mumbai,||Oxygen shortage: Maharashtra moves to ensure steady supply||A day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray admitted to shortage of oxygen for COVID-19 patients, the State government on Monday directed all district officials to register expected demand with the departments concerned to ensure uninterrupted supply. Around 11% of COVID-19 patients require oxygen supply, which comes to around 500 metric tonnes (MT). “At present, the State is producing 1,000 MT oxygen. Despite that there are complaints of shortage. We have set up a special control room where the district administration official concerned will register the demand as per which supply will be ensured,” said Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Minister Dr. Rajendra Shingne. The State has 17,753 jumbo oxygen cylinders, 1,547 b-type cylinders, 230 dura cylinders, and 14 liquid cryogenic oxygen tanks with work in progress at 16 places. The Health Department has directed all headquarters of revenue divisions to maintain reserves of 50 dura and 200 jumbo cylinders. “Directions have been given to analyse average necessity of oxygen beds for COVID-19 patients. In addition, district civil surgeons have been asked to compile data on the per day need of oxygen in private and government hospitals in their districts,” said Health Minister Rajesh Tope. All public hospitals with a capacity of 100 or more beds have been directed to set up cryogenic oxygen tanks using funds from the District Planning and Development Council. Oxygen tankers have now been given emergency vehicle status with siren facility. The State government has given directions to not stop the transport of these tankers, even during the day. He added that a committee has been set up under every district collector to monitor oxygen supply, which will have officials from FDA, industries, transport and public health departments. The FDA has appointed a nodal officer at every district for the purpose. Similar committees have been formed at the divisional commissionerate and State level too. Apart from the control room initiated by the FDA at the State level, those formed under disaster management rules at the district level to monitor monsoon will also double up for oxygen supply till December 31, 2020. The FDA control room number is 022-26592364 and toll free number is 1800222365.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/oxygen-shortage-maharashtra-moves-to-ensure-steady-supply/article32605513.ece
15 September 2020||Mumbai,||Bombay HC gives relief to man imprisoned for 19 years||The Bombay High Court on Monday quashed an order passed by the Superintendent of Kolhapur Central Jail, rejecting an application for emergency parole citing the COVID-19 pandemic by a convict who has served 19 years in jail. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik, hearing a criminal petition filed by Sachin Khambe, through advocate M.N. Gawankar, while quashing the order dated June 22, granted Khambe liberty to file a fresh application and directed the jail authorities to settle the matter within a week. Khambe’s application had been rejected on the ground that the last time he was released on parole, he surrendered 52 days late. His petition to the high court relied on a government notification dated May 8, 2020, directing “the Jail Authority to see that the prisoners, who are behind bars, are released on emergency parole in view of the situation created by pandemic of COVID-19 virus. In the notification, there is condition that the prisoner, who is otherwise eligible to get furlough or parole leave, can get the benefit of this notification, provided that in the past he was released from jail on furlough or parole leave on two occasions and on all occasions, he had surrendered on time. The high court recorded that Khambe had completed 19 years of actual imprisonment at the jail and has not been released either on parole or furlough leave in the last five years. The court said, “He was released on parole on the previous occasion and he surrendered late by 52 days. For this default, he was punished by the jail authority and his remission to the extent of 208 days came to be forfeited. There is no dispute that he surrendered on his own. Considering that he has already suffered the consequence of overstay, it would be unjust to deprive him the benefit of the notification dated 8th May 2020.” A special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court had convicted Khambe under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code for killing one Ziyauddin Nizamul Haque. He was, however, acquitted of MCOCA charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bombay-hc-gives-relief-to-man-imprisoned-for-19-years/article32605516.ece
15 September 2020||Mumbai,||Why deny insurance to private doctors?: Raj||As complaints by families of private doctors, who lost their lives while treating COVID-19 patients, being denied Rs. 50 lakh insurance cover rise, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Monday questioned the sensitivity of the State government led by Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. “The reason being given for denial is that the doctor was in private service. How can State deny the insurance cover at a time when the Central government has extended the benefits? Isn’t it insensitivity? How can the government, which is reminding doctors of their responsibility, forget its own?” he asked in a letter to the Chief Minister. The MNS chief said that applications from doctors and other professionals from health sectors should be immediately acted upon. “I request you to personally look into the matter and order the officials concerned to act irrespective of whether the doctor is from government or private sector,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/why-deny-insurance-to-private-doctors-raj/article32605514.ece
15 September 2020||Mumbai/Shimla,||Kangana Ranaut calls PoK analogy bang on||Actor Kangana Ranaut on Monday left Mumbai for her home State, Himachal Pradesh, saying she has been terrorised with “constant attacks and abuses” and declaring that her analogy comparing the city with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) was “bang on”. Ms. Ranaut took a flight to Chandigarh and then travelled by road to reach Manali. In Shimla, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said the actor will continue to get the security provided by the State government. Mr. Thakur welcomed her return and accused Maharashtra’s Maha Vikas Aghadi government of harassing her. “With a heavy heart leaving Mumbai, the way I was terrorised all these days constant attacks and abuses hurled at me attempts to break my house after my work place, alert security with lethal weapons around me, must say my analogy about POK was bang on,” she wrote on Twitter. The actor said the protectors had declared themselves to be “destroyers” and were working towards dismantling democracy. “But they are wrong to think I’m weak. By threatening and abusing a woman, they are ruining their own image,” she added. ‘Shift from Mumbai’ Maharashtra Transport Minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab said on Monday that Ms. Ranaut should shift from Mumbai if she thinks the city is like PoK and is “bad” to her. Mr. Parab’s comments came hours after the actor left Mumbai. “If Mumbai is this bad, then she should live where she finds it right. We had said this earlier too and we continue to hold this view,” Mr. Parab told reporters. The minister said the Sena had no “personal issues” with Ms. Ranaut. “At the same time, the party cannot just listen if someone criticises or says bad things about the city. Kangana Ranaut is not only the Sena’s issue, but also of those who love Mumbai and Maharashtra. She has to decide what she wants to do. Maharashtra will decide what it has to do. She should shift from here, if she thinks Mumbai is like PoK,” Mr. Parab said. On Ms. Ranaut meeting Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Sunday and raising concerns over the partial demolition of her Pali Hill office by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) last week, Mr. Parab questioned why the Governor met only the actor. “If the Governor meets her after the BMC took legal action, then he should also meet all those, including the poor, whose illegal structures in Mumbai are demolished by the BMC,” the minister said.  He asked why an Opposition party was “pained” after her office was razed. “That means the one who was parroting on its behalf suffered and the opponents are pained,” Mr. Parab said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kangana-ranaut-calls-pok-analogy-bang-on/article32605521.ece
15 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Pune man arrested for cheating people affected by Cyclone Nisarga of Rs. 18 lakh||The Alibaug police have arrested a man who swindled Rs. 18 lakh on the pretext of helping the tehsildar of Alibaug rehabilitate people affected by Cyclone Nisarga, which hit Raigad district on June 3 this year. Sajjad Sayed, who holds a PhD in psychology from a college in London, claimed to run an NGO called All India Rehabilitation Forum. “Mr. Sayed was one of the social workers who came forward to help us rehabilitate people,” said Alibaug telsildar Sachin Shejal, who filed the complaint against Mr. Sayed on September 11. Mr. Shejal said Mr. Sayed won his trust by distributing masks, gloves, sanitisers and sodium hydrochloride powder at the tehsildar office to help combat COVID-19. He then offered to help rehabilitate Vetalwadi, an Adivasi hamlet in Khanav, and Mr. Shejal introduced him to its residents and the former sarpanch of Khanav gram panchayat. Mr. Sayed, who hails from Pune, then set up a free medical clinic at Khanav and appointed a doctor and a nurse using forged documents. He also distributed free gas stoves to villagers, and free bags and stationery items to children at an ashram in Sagaon. He went on to set up more clinics at Alibaug, Vayshet and Kurdus and offered to set up a COVID-19 war room at Mr. Shejal’s office. Mr. Shejal said, “He started using his photo with me and other government officials to procure items. Medicines worth Rs. 16 lakh was purchased from Ramchandra Mhatre, a pharmaceutical dealer, and furniture worth Rs. 2 lakh from Heerchandra Bhojpi Purohit.” He added, “I learnt that he had not been paying salaries to the doctors and nurses running the clinics. I grew suspicious and ran a search online. I found that no such NGO existed and Mr. Sayed had a record of cheating government officers. I reported him to the Alibaug police and they nabbed him.” Mr. Sayed has been booked for cheating, forgery and cheating by personation  under provisions of the Indian Penal Code. He has been remanded in police custody till Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pune-man-arrested-for-cheating-people-affected-by-cyclone-nisarga-of-rs-18-lakh/article32605515.ece
15 September 2020||Surat,||Thai woman held for killing friend, stealing valuables from flat in Surat||A woman from Thailand was arrested on Monday for allegedly killing her friend, a compatriot whose charred body was found earlier this month in a flat in Surat, a police official said. The accused, who was facing financial problems, killed the 27-year-old woman with the intention of stealing her money and valuables, Surat Police Commissioner Ajay Tomar told reporters. The two women from Thailand lived in separate apartments in Magadalla locality in Surat. On September 6, the victim’s charred body was found in her flat, with its door locked from outside. The police initially registered a case of accidental death. After an investigation, the police found evidence that the woman was killed and registered a murder case, the official said. The accused was caught on a CCTV camera sneaking out of the victim’s house on the night of the incident. “We already had suspicions that the victim was murdered, but we needed strong evidence. So her friends were interrogated. We also noticed that the victim’s mobile phone and gold chain were missing. We checked the CCTV footage around the house on the night of the incident and found suspicious movement of the accused,” he said. During questioning, the accused initially tried to mislead the police. Mr. Tomar said, “She was caught on camera leaving the victim’s house with her face covered. She confessed to returning to the victim’s house within an hour of the incident, but said she did so to bring beer cans from there.” During further probe into the case, an autorickshaw driver told the police that the accused gave him a plastic bag and asked him to throw it as it contained garbage. He, however, accidentally carried the bag to his home and when his wife opened it, she found a blanket and pillow in it. She also found two mobile phones inside the pillow which belonged to the victim. The police recovered keys of the victim’s flat from the accused’s house, where the gold chain of the deceased was also found in a rice container, Mr. Tomar said. “During questioning, the accused confessed she was in a bad financial state since the past few months, and had borrowed money from many people to send it back home in Thailand,” the official said. She learnt that the victim was going to send money home and so she went to the latter’s house on the night of the incident to ask for some cash, he said. “She made the victim smoke an intoxicating substance in a hookah. When the victim fainted, the accused took her gold jewellery and mobile phones. She then set her ablaze and locked the house,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/thai-woman-held-for-killing-friend-stealing-valuables-from-flat-in-surat/article32605517.ece
15 September 2020||Tokyo,||Yoshihide Suga set to become Japan PM||Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga is set to become the country’s next Prime Minister after the ruling party on Monday elected him successor to outgoing leader Shinzo Abe. Mr. Suga easily won the vote, taking 377 of the 534 valid votes cast by Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) lawmakers and regional representatives, significantly ahead of his two rivals. Given his party’s legislative majority, he is expected to handily win a parliamentary vote on Wednesday and become Prime Minister, succeeding Mr. Abe, who is resigning for health reasons. Unlike many in the conservative LDP, Mr. Suga is not a political blue blood. He is the son of a strawberry farmer in rural Akita, in northern Japan. He moved to Tokyo after high school and worked odd jobs to put himself through night college, before being elected to his first office in 1987, as a municipal assembly member in Yokohama outside Tokyo. Experts say Mr. Suga is driven by pragmatism and he is seen by lawmakers along the political spectrum within the LDP as a neutral figure. The 71-year-old repeated his pledge to continue Mr. Abe’s policies as he accepted the party’s nomination as leader. “In order to overcome the crisis and give the Japanese people a sense of relief, we need to succeed in what Prime Minister Abe has been implementing,” he added. “This is my mission.” Even before he formally announced his run, the 71-year-old Suga had won the support of key factions within the ruling party, with his candidacy viewed as promising stability. The LDP chose to poll only its lawmakers in parliament and three representatives from each of the country’s 47 regions, eschewing a broader ballot including rank-and-file members that officials said would have taken too long to organise. Mr. Suga beat off the competition of former Defence Minister Shigeru Ishiba and LDP policy chief Fumio Kishida. ‘A shining Japan’ Mr. Abe, who smashed records as Japan’s longest-serving Prime Minister with more than eight years in power, declined to endorse any one candidate. But he pledged to “fully support” Mr. Suga after his win, saying he had watched him “working hard and quietly for the nation and people” in his role as Chief Cabinet Secretary. “Let’s build a shining Japan by overcoming the coronavirus crisis, with new LDP chief Suga at the helm,” he added. Mr. Abe made the shock announcement he would step down with a year left in his mandate in late August, saying a recurrence of the ulcerative colitis he has long battled made it impossible for him to stay on. The next PM will face a raft of complicated challenges. The country was already in recession before the coronavirus pandemic, and many of the gains of the signature Abenomics economic policy are now in danger. Mr. Suga has said kickstarting the economy will be a top priority, along with containing the virus — essential if the postponed Tokyo 2020 Olympics are to open as planned in July 2021. There are also diplomatic challenges on the agenda, including protecting the U.S. alliance and navigating ties with China as global opinion hardens against Beijing after the coronavirus and unrest in Hong Kong. “Simply following the path Washington is pursuing and raising tensions with China is not in Japan’s interest,” said Makoto Iokibe, a professor of political and diplomatic history at the University of Hyogo. One key unknown is whether Suga will decide to call a snap general election to consolidate his position and avoid being seen as a caretaker facing a new vote in a year — when Mr. Abe’s mandate would have ended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/yoshihide-suga-set-to-become-japan-pm/article32605223.ece
15 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka revisiting draft 20th Amendment||The  Sri Lankan  government is revisiting the draft 20th Amendment to the Constitution, gazetted earlier this month, in the light of “public concerns”, according to government sources. Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa on Saturday appointed a nine-member committee chaired by G.L. Peiris, a Cabinet Minister and a former professor of law, to study the proposed Amendment. The newly drafted 20th Amendment envisages enhancing Presidential powers, along with immunity, while significantly reducing the Prime Minister’s role and powers. According to a source familiar with discussions within the government, the committee has been tasked with reviewing the draft Amendment, “in the light of public concerns”. “Depending on the findings of this committee, the government may gazette a revised draft of the proposed amendment,” the source, who did not wish to be named, told The Hindu on Monday. It follows the ruling Rajapaksa brothers’ election pledge to repeal the preceding 19th Amendment — introduced by the former government in 2015 — that imposed curbs on presidential powers, while empowering Parliament and independent commissions. Both President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa promised to get rid of the amendment they blame for the power struggle between President Maithripala Sirsena and PM Ranil Wickremesinghe in the former government that led to serious lapses, including in intelligence sharing ahead of the Easter Sunday blasts. However, the proposed Bill has drawn criticism from the political opposition and civil society organisations, who have raised concern over the President wielding unbridled power, with few checks in the legislature or the judiciary.  Criticism and concern While opposition parties are mulling going to court on the proposed amendment, the Bar Association of Sri Lanka (BASL) has appointed a special committee to study the 20th Amendment to the Constitution. The Amendment also found mention in the statement made by Michelle Bachelet, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights at the ongoing Human Rights Council in Geneva on Monday. Referring to Sri Lanka in her global human rights update, High Commissioner Bachelet said: “I am troubled that the new government is swiftly reneging on its commitments to the Human Rights Council since it withdrew its support for resolution 30/1. Among other developments, the proposed 20th Amendment to the Constitution may negatively impact on the independence of key institutions, including the National Human Rights Commission.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-revisiting-draft-20th-amendment/article32605213.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s next for Palestine after UAE, Bahrain deals with Israel?||It took more than three decades for the first Arab country to recognise Israel. Egypt signed a peace treaty with its Jewish neighbour in 1979, a year after the Camp David summit between President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin. Jordan, the second Arab country that established peace with Israel, took 15 more years to do so. There was a gap of 26 years between Jordan’s peace treaty and that of the UAE with Israel. And then, it took less than 30 days for the fourth agreement — between Bahrain and Israel that was announced on Friday by U.S. President Donald Trump. Arab Peace Initiative The new-found readiness of Arab countries to have peace with Israel, under the mediation of the Trump administration, appears to be transforming one of the oldest conflicts in modern West Asia. There are speculations that more Arab countries, from Morocco to Sudan and Oman, might follow the footsteps of the UAE and Bahrain. These deals, which have formalised years of back-room contacts between the Gulf kingdoms and Israel, suggest that the pan-Arab-Israel conflict is turning the page. Where does it leave the Palestinians? Till the UAE-Israel deal was announced on August 13, the official Arab position on the question of Palestine was rooted in the Arab Peace Initiative, proposed by Saudi Arabia in 2002, and endorsed by the Arab League in the same year. The proposal calls for normalising relations between the Arab world and Israel, in exchange for full Israeli withdrawal from the territories it captured in the 1967 war, including the West Bank, Gaza and the Golan Heights, a “just settlement” of the Palestinian refugee issue and the establishment of an independent Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital. “Since 2002, both the UAE and Bahrain have supported the Arab Peace Initiative. However, the recent agreements made by Bahrain and the UAE break with this consensus. The Abraham Accords [Israel-UAE deal] require Israel only to ‘temporarily halt’ its formal annexation of the West Bank [settlements]. The agreement between Bahrain and Israel dispenses with the pretence altogether, making no mention of Palestinian land,” said Elham Fakhro, senior Gulf analyst at the Brussels-based International Crisis Group (ICG). This has angered the Palestinians, who have “strongly rejected” the agreements. “The Palestinian leadership considers this step to blow up the Arab Peace Initiative and the decisions of the Arab and Islamic summits, and international legitimacy, as an aggression against the Palestinian people, and as neglecting Palestinian rights and sacred things, especially Jerusalem and the independent Palestinian state on the borders of June 4, 1967,” the Palestinian leadership said in a statement issued after the UAE deal was announced. The Palestinians have further called for “an immediate emergency session” of the Arab League and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation “to reject this declaration”. The Palestinians Liberation Organization (PLO) has rejected the Bahrain-Israel deal as well. “If you really wish to ‘advance the cause of peace, dignity, & economic opportunity for the Palestinian people’ how about ending Israel’s ruthless occupation and its theft of our land and resources? Coercing and cajoling Arabs to normalise with Israel will not bring you peace or dignity,” tweeted Hanan Ashrawi, a member of the PLO Executive Committee, after the Bahrain agreement was announced. ‘Bleak future’ The Palestinians got nothing in return from these agreements, said A.K. Pasha, a professor of West Asian Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. “[Former Egyptian President Anwar] Sadat wanted an autonomous West Bank and Gaza and removal of the settlements [in 1978-79], but he could get only a freeze on the settlements for three months. The same scenario is now being repeated. The Israelis say they have postponed the annexation. After the U.S. election, whether Trump wins or not, [Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin] Nentanyahu will go ahead with his annexation plan,” he told The Hindu , adding that the future of the Palestinians “looks quite bleak”. Agrees Ms. Fakhro of the ICG. “By normalising relations outside this framework of ‘land for peace’, the two states have broken with a decades-old Arab consensus on the Palestinian issue, and effectively endorsed Israel's military occupation over the Palestinians. This leaves the Palestinians more isolated than ever, and further weakens the already-dim prospect of a two-state solution,” Ms. Fakhro told The Hindu . “For the Palestinians, solidarity will need to be recast in broader terms, knowing full well that many Arab states — but not their unrepresented populations — have all but abandoned the Palestinian cause.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/whats-next-for-palestine-after-uae-bahrain-deals-with-israel/article32605219.ece
15 September 2020||Doha,||Afghan govt. presses Taliban for truce||The Afghan government on Monday pressed its calls for a truce with the Taliban, reiterating its desire for a long-term ceasefire at historic talks in Qatar. The two sides are in the early stages of meetings in Doha as they try to hammer out a deal that would bring 19 years of bloodshed in Afghanistan to a close. The Afghan government and its allies, including the U.S., called for the warring sides to lay down their arms at Saturday’s opening ceremony. But the Taliban, who fought a years-long guerrilla campaign against American and Afghan forces after they were toppled in a 2001 U.S.-led invasion, did not mention a truce as they came to the negotiating table. The head of the peace process for the Afghan government, Abdullah Abdullah, suggested, however, that the Taliban could offer a ceasefire in exchange for the release of more of their prisoners. Afghan presidential spokesman Sediq Seddiqi tweeted on Monday that the presence of government negotiators at the talks “is aimed at achieving a ceasefire, ending the violence and ensuring lasting peace and stability in the country.” The U.S. struck an agreement with the Taliban in February that will see it withdraw troops from Afghanistan. The deal, which paved the way for the Doha negotiations, did not commit the insurgents to any reduction of violence, only requiring that it be “an item on the agenda” in negotiations. But Crisis Group analyst Andrew Watkins told AFP “the Afghan government needs a ceasefire because without current levels of U.S. support, it would very likely continue to lose ground to the Taliban”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-govt-presses-taliban-for-truce/article32605209.ece
15 September 2020||BEIJING,||U.S. Ambassador to China to step down next month||The U.S. Ambassador to China will step down early next month, ending a three-year tenure marked by a trade war and increasingly bitter relations between the world’s two largest economies. Terry Branstad, appointed by President Donald Trump in 2017, confirmed his decision in a phone call with Mr. Trump last week, the U.S. Embassy said in a statement. It did not give a reason for his departure. “I am proudest of our work in getting the phase one trade deal and delivering tangible results for our communities back home,” he was quoted as saying at an embassy staff meeting on Monday. Word of his departure leaked out earlier in the day when Secretary of State Mike Pompeo thanked Mr. Branstad on Twitter for his service. “Ambassador Branstad has contributed to rebalancing U.S.-China relations so that it is results-oriented, reciprocal, and fair,” Mr. Pompeo wrote in a tweet.  Mr. Branstad became embroiled in a recent controversy when China’s official People’s Daily newspaper rejected an opinion column that he had written. Mr. Pompeo tweeted last week that China’s Communist Party refused to run Mr. Branstad’s op-ed while the Chinese Ambassador to the U.S. “is free to publish in any U.S. media outlet.” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian responded that Mr. Branstad’s article was “full of loopholes, seriously inconsistent with facts and wantonly attacks and smears China.” The U.S. Embassy had contacted the People’s Daily on August 26 about the piece, asking that it be printed in full without any edits before September 4, the People’s Daily said. Mr. Branstad, 73,was Republican Governor of Iowa for 22 years over two spans. Soon after arriving in Beijing in June 2017, Mr. Branstad welcomed American beef back to the Chinese market after a 14-year ban, saying “I know it is a key priority of the President to reduce the trade deficit, and this is one of the ways we can do it.” But trade relations quickly soured, as the U.S. imposed tariffs on Chinese products and China retaliated in kind. Other disputes followed over technology, human rights and the response to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-ambassador-to-china-to-step-down-next-month/article32605221.ece
15 September 2020||Novosibirsk,||Navalny’s allies claim symbolic win in polls||Russia’s political opposition on Monday claimed a symbolic victory in regional elections while the ruling party said exit polls showed it was headed for a win in a vote observers said was marred by fraud. The elections were overshadowed by the alleged poisoning of opposition leader Alexei Navalny in the Siberian city of Tomsk ahead of the vote. Germany said on Monday that lab tests in France and Sweden confirmed the Kremlin critic was attacked with a Novichok nerve agent. He is regaining mobility and able to leave his bed, the Berlin hospital treating him said. Russians in dozens of the country’s 85 regions voted over several days for governors and lawmakers in regional and city legislatures as well as in several by-elections for national MPs. The polls came a year ahead of parliamentary elections and were seen as a test for President Vladimir Putin as the ruling United Russia party faces sinking popularity and public anger over economic woes. In an effort to fight Mr. Putin’s electoral machine, Mr. Navalny urged voters back candidates against the ruling party. The 44-year-old lawyer and Kremlin critic had been in Siberia to promote a “smart voting” campaign when he was poisoned last month. Two allies of the opposition leader won local Parliament seats in the Siberian city of Tomsk, where Mr. Navalny fell ill, according to early poll results. United Russia suffered heavy losses in the city of some 5,00,000, winning just 24.46% of the overall vote compared to 52.27% in 2015. Ksenia Fadeyeva, the 28-year-old head of Navalny’s Tomsk office who won a city council seat, put her success down to the opposition leader’s voting strategy, saying “we really campaigned under the Navalny brand”. United Russia lost 11 seats and their majority on the city council securing 22 places out of 50, with Navalny-backed candidates picking up five spots. United Russia chairman Dmitry Medvedev said that exit polls showed it was heading for victory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/navalnys-allies-claim-symbolic-win-in-polls/article32605215.ece
15 September 2020||Paris,||Scientists find ‘life harbouring’ gas on Venus||The atmosphere of Venus contains traces of phosphine gas — which on Earth is associated with living organisms — scientists said on Monday, in fresh insight into conditions on our nearest planetary neighbour. Conditions on Venus are often described as hellish with daytime temperatures hot enough to melt lead and an atmosphere comprised almost entirely of carbon dioxide. A team of experts used telescopes in Hawaii and Chile’s Atacama Desert to observe Venus’ upper cloud deck, around 60 km from the surface. They detected traces of phosphine, a flammable gas that on Earth occurs from the breakdown of organic matter. Writing in Nature Astronomy , the team stressed that the presence of phosphine alone did not prove the presence of life on Venus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/scientists-find-life-harbouring-gas-on-venus/article32605217.ece
15 September 2020||Ramallah,||Palestinians to mourn ‘black day’||The signing of normalisation accords between Israel and two Gulf states in Washington will amount to another “black day” for the Arab world, the Palestinian Premier said on Monday. Both the Palestinian Authority (PA) based in the West Bank and Islamist movement Hamas which rules Gaza have condemned the U.S.-brokered accords as a “stab in the back” of their people. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the top diplomats of the UAE and Bahrain are to sign the deals on Tuesday. “Tomorrow, we will witness a black day in the history of the Arab world, of defeat for Arab League institutions, which are not united but divided,” Mohammed Shtayyeh said at the weekly meeting of his PA Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/palestinians-to-mourn-black-day/article32605216.ece
15 September 2020||COPENHAGEN,||A big chunk of Greenland's ice cap has broken off||A massive chunk of ice has broken off from the Arctic's largest ice shelf because of warmer temperatures in Greenland. The 113-sq.-km block broke off the Nioghalvfjerdsfjorden glacier in Northeast Greenland.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-big-chunk-of-greenlands-ice-cap-has-broken-off/article32605208.ece
15 September 2020||JERUSALEM,||Israeli gets 3 life sentences for deadly 2015 arson attack||An Israeli court on Monday handed down three life sentences to a Jewish extremist, Amiram Ben-Uliel, convicted in a 2015 arson attack that killed a Palestinian toddler and his parents.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-gets-3-life-sentences-for-deadly-2015-arson-attack/article32605211.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s great silence is the loudest sound||Ghosts of the Spanish flu (1918-1920), the four great recessions of 1958, 1966, 1973, 1980, and the Sino-Indian conflict (1962) have come together as one torment to plague India. And no one really knows how to handle this multi-headed sprite. In fact no one really knows quite what it really is. No reasoned explanation We have no one in public office telling us what-is-what, convincingly, authoritatively on the epidemic. We know that India has, as virologist T. Jacob John tells us, ‘surpassed Brazil and the United States to earn the sad distinction of having the fastest-growing novel coronavirus caseload in the world.’ And that India has broken world records in the daily new case totals. But there is so much we need to know about the details, and to know about them authoritatively from official, government sources.  Is community transmission happening? If it is, then is the nation to expect testings, beds and ventilators to match the need or are we going to be asked to self-diagnose, treat and deal with the virus from our homes? Is the virus now migrating from the smitten cities to our villages? If yes, does rural India know what is going to descend on it? Are India’s villages prepared, even remotely prepared, in terms of health centres, equipment to meet the challenge? What is the thinking — there has to be one — behind un-locking at the height of the rising curve of infections? There has to be a reasoned explanation. More searching questions Likewise, we do not know, authoritatively, the scale of the impact of our crippling contraction on salaried jobs and non-salaried livelihoods. We do not know what farmers and agricultural labour are going to do with what has been harvested if the country’s purchasing power has dwindled, and its exports have been hit. Will we see the cruel irony of our godowns being full and stomachs empty? Our cities and towns are getting our milk supplies alright, but do we know if the dairy provider is getting paid fairly? There is no financial mastermind in government to educate us, credibly, about this. But way more important, while there are many commentators, there is no social philosopher of pre-eminence among us, the people of India, to connect the dots of this medico-economic-ecological crisis and help us look behind it to see its global causes. There is no one to tell us with the voice of thunder as the late Anil Agarwal would have, that it is the loot of both natural and human resources for the rank profit of monopolies that has wrought and is deepening this pandemic. The crisis has hit everyone, the government included, from the blue. And everyone, the government more than anyone else, is learning and un-learning lessons by the day. But the knowledge deficit around is hollowing us out. Very curiously, there are numerous theories on when the vaccine will come. I have heard “six to twelve months”. The latest is “five years to cover 1.3 billion”. The new CE — Corona Era — has become the era of guesses.  Eppo varuvaro ! (When, o when, will the saviour, if ever, appear!) , the opening phrase of Gopalakrishna Bharati’s Tamil song, captures this feeling of being un-guided. But it does no credit to either human intelligence or to human self-respect to wait, prayerfully, for the materialisation of such a saviour. In the grip of an epidemic, a recession, a muting of questioning voices, and a possible war-like situation, what is it that needs to be done by us, regular folk? Pillars of the state To know is to be able to control. We must unceasingly demand that we be enabled to know the facts of the situation. China is criticised for having kept the truth of the virus and its fallout concealed. We do not have to invite the same charge. Of the three pillars of the state, knowledge-sharing has to be the executive’s duty, privilege. We need to know all that needs to be understood about the epidemic, the economic contraction and the situation on our borders with China. This is ineluctable. Is the nation ready, or has it been prepared for the cost of a not-to-be-ruled-out virus plus war challenge? The agreement reached on September 11 between our External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi is a heartening step and may well have brought the countries back from the brink. But should the Moscow consensus fail to last, ballistics could well boom across the border. War and viruses make a deathly cocktail. World War I, we may remind ourselves, coincided with the 1918-1920 pandemic. Infected Indian troops returning from the front carried the flu deep into towns and villages in India killing 14 million to 17 million Indians. We need to know, and the Executive needs to tell us, details of the likely cost in terms of public health, public finance of such a war. The situation on the India-China border needs today not the dangerous diversions of jingoism but pragmatic, diplomatic engagement with the country being taken into confidence about it. In Parliament And this where the second pillar — the legislature comes in. In a salutary half-step forward, our Parliament is currently meeting, physically, for a fortnight. This amounts to half the duration of the normal session. Still, given our virus concerns, this move is gratifying. But sessions of the House are one thing; the spirit of the House another. The doing away, in our Parliament, of Question Hour, an MP’s greatest chance to elicit information, is a matter of great regret. But other, worse fates can befall Parliament. There was no legislature worth the name during the British Raj. And yet such of it as there was — the Imperial Legislative Council in Delhi — did grave disservice to vox populi . The Anarchical and Revolutionary Crimes Act of 1919, popularly known as the Rowlatt Act passed by that Council on March 18, 1919, was ostensibly to subserve the war effort, but in effect curbed individual liberties, notably those relating to freedom of assembly and speech. The national emergency 1975-1977, we will recall, got the approval of the Parliament of the day. The greatest vigilance and prudence is required of Parliament today. Rowlatt-like ideas can occur at a time when the country is facing an unprecedented epidemic, a worse-than-ever economic contraction and the growlings of war. Hush over institutions This is where the third pillar, the judiciary, comes in. Vital matters before it such as Article 370 of the Constitution, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the habeas corpus petitions in the Jammu & Kashmir High Court give it the chance to show its autonomous mind, its independence and, in short, to speak up. Few words are needed to say what needs to be heard, like Justice D.Y. Chandrachud’s when he said, memorably, “Dissent is a safety-valve of democracy”. A viral stillness hovers eerily over the institutions of state. It threatens to smother their breath and, by so doing, ours as well. With the Fourth Estate leading we, the people of India, need to become our freedom’s life-support. Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator, diplomat and governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indias-great-silence-is-the-loudest-sound/article32605195.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Bharatiyar, the charioteer of wisdom||Subramania Bharati’s status (1882–1921) as the pre-eminent cultural figure of modern Tamil Nadu rests primarily on his poetry. Unfortunately, the focus on his poetry has translated into the virtual neglect of his prose writings. As a working journalist, Bharati necessarily employed prose to communicate, and his writings in Swadesamitran and India made an important contribution to Tamil political vocabulary. He wrote stories, commentaries, and was also the pioneer of column writing in Tamil. Active participation in the day-to-day politics of the nationalist movement notwithstanding, Bharati never lost sight of the future, the dream of how a free India should look like. Aspects of this dream form part of his fantasy story, Gnanaratham (The Chariot of Wisdom ), written when he was still in his late 20s. Sometime in mid-1908, Bharati began to serialise Gnanaratham in his political weekly, India . But within months, Gnanaratham was stopped in its tracks as its author went into exile to French-ruled Pondicherry to escape the British police. In February the next year, Gnanaratham was resumed but was suspended after two further instalments, with Bharati promising his readers that it would soon appear in full as a book. But when Gnanaratham did come out in January 1910, it was called ‘part one’. Gnanaratham was never completed and ended up as one of Bharati’s several unfinished writing projects. Entering different worlds The first person narrator of Gnanaratham, undoubtedly Bharati himself, is a journalist wracked with material, everyday worries – a running theme that adds humour while also giving a contemporary dimension to an ostensible fantasy. The story begins in a tenement home on Veeraraghava Mudali Street of Chennai’s Triplicane. As the sea breeze wafts in, he desires to take a horse-drawn chariot towards Adyar River. Realising that he cannot afford such a pleasure, he chooses to ride the chariot of knowledge, a vehicle that can take him anywhere. The narrator first bids the chariot to go to Upashanti Lokam, the land of no worries. A distressing aspect of an enslaved nation is that worries rob the people of all healthy traits, and they walk around with lustreless eyes, creased foreheads, and sallow skin. Therefore, he is rather eager to enter the world of no worries. But at the gates, he is stopped: for only those who leave behind their mind can enter it. The narrator refuses as this would amount to negating the material world. As a result he finds himself thrown back into his modest home. Next he proceeds to Gandharva Lokam, the world of happiness. The narrator delves into this world with relish, brushing aside arguments against enjoying worldly pleasures on flimsy moral and philosophical grounds prescribed by false books. A subjugated people have few avenues to enjoy pleasure, and the narrator makes a strong case for hedonism. The narrator then runs into a most beautiful damsel, Parvathakumari, who takes him on a tour of Gandharva Lokam where the carnival of Manmathan, the god of love, is in progress. She demonstrates that anyone can take wings if one so desires. Overwhelmed by sensual pleasures, the narrator rejects puritanical Victorian morals, and instead invokes the Keatsian notion of beauty as truth. Celebrating the unadorned and unclad human form he remarks that hunger, famine, and slavery had reduced the Indian people to ugliness. The paintings and the statuary in Gandharva Lokam remind him of exhibits in the Calcutta museum that Bharati probably visited at the time of the Congress session in December 1906. Such references give Gnanaratham its contemporary appeal. However, he soon tires of the pleasures, and bids farewell to Parvathakumari with a deep kiss. The forever restless human nature cannot but seek pastures other than pleasure.  Gnanaratham then moves to the Satya Lokam, the land of truth. It is not a happy place. In stark contrast to the Gandharva Lokam, it is far too demanding. As the narrator struggles, a disembodied voice reminds him that the quest for truth is no sport but a challenging exercise, and directs him to Dharma Lokam that may better prepare him for the task. Entering Dharma Lokam The narrative is now intercut with Bharati’s travails in the real world. His wife harries him with demands to buy provisions and pay the rent. Physical ailments torment members of the family, and the ruckus created by the neighbours impedes even peaceful sleep. After this comic interlude, Gnanaratham then proceeds to Dharma Lokam. Even as he explores this world, he meets Dharmaraja who bears a striking resemblance to Lokmanya Tilak. Dharma Lokam presents an idealised form of Varnashrama Dharma where people are differentiated in terms of their qualities and abilities and not by birth; but it’s a world that privileges the Brahmin and the Kshatriya. However, in a radical interjection, Gnanaratham remarks that, while the social order all over the world is in keeping with a divine mandate, it is in India that it has become corrupt and has collapsed. The tour of Dharma Lokam too doesn’t last. As he seeks the sweet embrace of Parvathakumari, the narrator’s dream ends. The text ends as he wakes up from a fainting spell in his Triplicane house.  Gnanaratham is a rich text meant to be read in various ways. It is informed by the early nationalist view of India’s fallen state, colonised by a rapacious foreign nation. The time of its writing was the peak of the Swadeshi movement even as it was facing the brunt of brutal state repression. Many of Bharati’s friends were in prison, and Bharati himself was in exile. But the text is peppered with humour and brims with hope. Though the objective is a politically free nation, Bharati is able to transcend a narrow nationalist vision. Despite being steeped in an idea of a glorious ancient Indian civilisation, he demonstrates a self-critical attitude towards his own tradition. Bharati is in awe of the achievements of Western civilisation. He celebrates Jesus Christ as a prophet of love. Commenting on Greek art, he exalts the sculptors for discovering a concept of consummate beauty, going so far as to designate them as seers. Bharati endorses the Western quest for material happiness but is critical only of its turn to war and violence due to what he calls its innatetamo  guna. The sharpest barbs are reserved for his own culture and his own people. A redeeming feature of Gnanaratham is that for all its author’s ideological conviction it has a liberating humour that points to his own infirmities and self-doubts. The call for the rejuvenation of a fallen nation is ultimately to stand shoulder to shoulder with other nations and peoples. A.R. Venkatachalapathy is the author of ‘Who Owns That Song?: The Battle for Subramania Bharati’s Copyright’. The death centenary of Subramania Bharati begins this month||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bharatiyar-the-charioteer-of-wisdom/article32605206.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Urban employment as the focal point||The contraction of the economy raises concern on the employment situation as the shrinking sectors are those that create the maximum new jobs. While the ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan’ launched in June (aimed to provide livelihood opportunities in rural India) could be an immediate relief, the Rs. 50,000-crore employment scheme cannot be a substitute for decent urban jobs. Given the structure of the economy and demographic profile, it is important to focus on reducing the vulnerabilities of urban informal jobs in the long run. Economy and employment Recent data on the contraction of the economy raises concern on the employment situation in India. The shrinking sectors that have been affected the most — construction (–50%), trade, hotels and other services (–47%), manufacturing (–39%), and mining (–23%) — are those that create the maximum new jobs in the economy. In a scenario where each of these sectors is contracting so sharply, it would lead to either a growing number of people losing jobs or failing to get one, or even both. That is, there is a possibility of a decline in employment and a subsequent rise in unemployment. This sharp contraction has to be seen in the light of India having witnessed a wave of massive ‘reverse migration’ during the early phase of the lockdown, with millions of workers returning to their home States due to a loss of livelihoods. It is doubtful as to when and whether they would return to their places of work, and it would not be unreasonable to assume that a majority of workers might not go back in the near future. The abrupt announcement of the lockdown exposed the severe vulnerabilities of urban low-end informal jobs as the share of vulnerable employment is higher in India than that of the world or the South Asia region. Vulnerable employment is characterised by inadequate earnings, low productivity and difficult conditions of work that undermine the basic rights of workers. They are more likely to be informally employed and lack effective representation by trade unions. According to the International Labour Organization, of the 535 million labour force in India in 2019, some 398.6 million will have poor quality jobs. The poor quality of jobs and high informality are key for the high level of “working poors” or those living on incomes of less than Rs. 198 in a day. Thus, despite higher economic growth in recent years, working poverty in India also remains high. Given the contraction and lack of demand in the economy, it is quite plausible that there would be a significant dip in urban employment generation. Thus, there are two challenges policy interventions in securing the livelihoods of workers in urban areas have to address: first, to generate more jobs and second, to reduce vulnerabilities by providing decent wages and some form of job security. Situation in India The high and persistent incidence of vulnerable employment are a reflection of the nature of the structural transformation process, whereby capital and labour transfer from low to higher value-added sectors. India presents a curious case in this regard as capital and labour are moving from low value-added activities in a sector to another sector, but not to higher value-added activities. This leads to a situation where a large proportion of the jobs being created is of poor quality (and is expected to remain so). The service sector-led growth in recent years has intensified this as there is coexistence of strong job creation in some Information and Communication Technology (ICT)-intensive services, along with a significant portion of the jobs being created in ‘traditional low value-added services, where informality and vulnerable forms of employment are dominant. The outcome of such a process is the high incidence of informality which continues to undermine the prospects of reducing working poverty’. The pandemic and associated policy responses have exposed the vulnerability of these urban jobs. Steps to take The present crisis calls for a multi-pronged strategy to tackle the issue of urban jobs. First, given the scale of urbanisation, the focus on urban employment generation programmes should be in coordination with local governments; this is key to ‘solving other problems faced by cities. As these problems are daunting, actors at the local level need to have more resources at their disposal. Resource mobilisation could be enabled by the formation of local alliances, involving elected representatives, trade unions, entrepreneurs and community groups’. Second, a major local initiative would be to design and implement employment-intensive investment policies. These policies should embrace the initiatives of both private entrepreneurs as well as by the government. Private investments need to be facilitated by conducive contractual relations between labour and capital. Enterprise formation needs to be an integral part of the strategy, with converging interests for workers and entrepreneurs on issues related to technology and productivity enhancement. Small and micro enterprises, the fulcrum of industrialisation, need extra support to balance the interests between labour and capital as neither have collective bargaining powers. The third element, would be to prioritise urban infrastructure as it accounts for a large share of total investments in the local economy. Invest in infrastructure However, much of these investments rarely benefit ‘poor urban dwellers as housing, roads, sewerage and water systems are inadequate for their needs. A labour-intensive approach to building municipal infrastructure can be a cost-effective alternative to capital intensive-approach as wage rates are low. Infrastructure investments would spur employment, generate earnings and contribute to small enterprise formation. Construction of low-cost housing is another activity that can be carried out using labour-intensive methods, while yielding substantial collateral benefits for urban dwellers’, as an ILO document establishes. The fourth element could be an immediate launch of an urban employment scheme oriented toward building large-scale medical, health and sanitation infrastructure in cities and towns across India. Other immediate employment generation can be to expand networks of essential services as a part of welfare interventions of State and local governments. The capacity of our rural economy to absorb workers who returned from cities is low and the viability of agriculture to provide these workers with a decent living is questionable. In fact, many of these workers might have left their traditional work in the farm sector because income from agriculture would be insufficient for their survival. Only NREGA is not enough Further, under the current circumstances it is not valid to assume that the Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) or its substitutes can absorb a significant proportion of these workers. It is important that MGNREGA be expanded by both increasing the budgetary allocations and the guaranteed minimum number of days of work. At the same time, it is very idealistic to conclude that the entirety of the workforce, which has returned to the respective home States, will be accommodated by an expanded MGNREGA or by a close substitute. These workers might have chosen not to take up MGNREGA jobs in the first place and instead opted to migrate and work in other States for higher wages. MGNREGA and rural jobs schemes have to be strengthened and their capacity increased, but only a portion of the workforce might be accommodated in it. There will still be a large number of workers who need to be provided with alternative sources of employment, and generating decent urban jobs looks to be the only way out. M. Suresh Babu is Professor and Sai Chandan Kottu is pursuing development studies, respectively, at the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT Madras. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/urban-employment-as-the-focal-point/article32605198.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||An old ideology for new times||The outcry in the Congress related to the management of affairs in the party seems to be worsening with each passing day. Yet, for the Congress, a leadership crisis is nothing new. The party has experienced such crises on multiple occasions. During the Tripuri Session in 1939, there was a contest between Subhas Chandra Bose and Pattabhi Sitharamayya for the post of president of the party. Sitharamayya was M.K. Gandhi’s choice, whereas Bose represented the new-age thinking of Jawaharlal Nehru and others. The Bose-Nehru camp eventually emerged victorious. However, that was the Congress of the past, where politics and ideology had a say in determining the course of events. Rise and fall In contemporary times, especially since its historic split in 1969, the Congress crafted its politics around certain ideological commitments. It sought to represent secularism in the country. It was always keen to emphasise its belief in socialism, democratic values and national sovereignty. It affirmed that it was anti-imperialistic. Under the Congress, India became an accepted voice among the newly liberated countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, with a prestigious role to play in the Non-Aligned Movement. That was the time when India championed the cause of South-South dialogue with an intention to resist the early signals of imperialist globalisation. The erosion of the party’s eminence began with the declaration of Emergency. A parallel leadership emerged and controlled the party and the government. The high-handedness of those leaders led to the end of Congress monopoly at the Centre in 1977. The party managed to resuscitate somewhat within a comparatively short span of time. At the same time, a kitchen cabinet consisting of power seekers and ‘godmen’ found voice in the party. Soon, the secular party started hobnobbing with the power brokers of various religious groups at the cost of weakening its own, and the nation’s, secular foundation. The Shah Bano case and the opening of the gates of the disputed structure in Ayodhya in 1986 were formative events. The Congress allowed an aggressive right-wing Hindutva to gain significance. The demolition of the Babri Masjid was a turning point in the history of secular India. The role played by the then Prime Minister, who was also Congress president, is well known. The Congress lost the confidence of the masses, especially the minorities. A tilt towards soft Hindutva also began to influence its politics. Certain powerful elements even went to the extent of half-heartedly embracing Nathuram Godse’s ideology. They failed to understand that secularism is the unifying philosophy of this great nation of vast diversities. When Hindutva forces unleashed an ideological tirade against Nehru, the Congress remained a spectator, not knowing that their blow was aimed at the heart of its ideology. From the 1990s, the Congress was oriented to neo-liberalism. There was no trickle-down effect. The erstwhile party of ‘Garibi Hatao’ isolated the masses. Dalits and Adivasis lost trust in the Congress. The party’s electoral losses did not take place overnight. A legacy not to be ignored From the mid-1960s, the Congress experienced failure in various States and at the Centre. For a political party to overcome setbacks, it must look deep into the causes of such setbacks. That never happened in the Congress. The crisis in the Congress is not only organisational, but also ideological, political and economic. It is high time for the Congress to rediscover Gandhi and Nehru. It is regrettable that this legacy has not found mention in the current debate. Even those who oppose the Congress due to its political and economic policies do not wish its peril. The reason is simple. Notwithstanding its wrongdoings and failures, the Congress is the only party with a pan-India presence which offers the promise of secularism. All other secular forces, including the Left, are limited to their pockets of influence. The response of the masses to multiple issues such as citizenship, abrogation of Article 370, labour codes, the National Education Policy, etc. are indicative of contemporary politics. People have taken to the streets braving the government’s repressive measures. The political opposition to an anti-secular, pro-rich government has to be built based on this energy. This is the challenge before the secular, democratic, Left forces. Unfortunately, in the ongoing power struggle in the Congress, these intentions have not come to the fore. The debate revolves only around the question of a leader. Not one person has uttered a word about the Nehruvian dream of a free India. In the midst of these squabbles, Congresspersons must remember Nehru’s ‘Tryst With Destiny’ speech in 1947 and ask themselves: from this midnight of organisational crisis where will we go? To a dawn of hope or to a dark of ruin? Binoy Viswam is an MP (Rajya Sabha) and Secretary of the CPI National Council. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-old-ideology-for-new-times/article32605203.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||For a different yardstick||The World Bank has paused the publication of its ‘Doing Business’ report because of statistical irregularities. This provides us with an opportunity to examine this flawed survey. The index estimates the cost to business from regulations across areas including dealing with construction permits and paying taxes. But the rankings encourage countries to compete even on cutting vital regulations on health and environment. Indeed, erratic procedures and delays hamper business in India and simplifying procedures brings economic benefits. But rash deregulation prompts a race to the bottom that the world can ill-afford during a climate and health crises. The World Bank’s independent evaluation group (2008) and an external independent panel (2013) together flagged 15 shortcomings in the index, many of which are still relevant. Curious scores Among the weaknesses are the lack of transparency and objectivity in scoring. For instance, questions have been raised on Russia’s leap in ranking from 120 out of 190 countries in 2012 to 62 in 2015. As a de jure criterion, the survey excludes the informal sector. Curiously, low scores for China and India were associated with high growth in FDI. The biggest drawback is that the index sidesteps societal costs of deregulating pollution, worker safety, and health risks. China and India improved their scores sharply in 2019 and 2020, though the world’s first and third largest emitters increased carbon effluents significantly. Another 2020 Index ranked China 120, and India 168, out of 180 countries on the environment. Slack business safeguards produce tragic results. The 2013 collapse of the Rana Plaza garment factory in Bangladesh, the second deadliest industrial accident after the gas leak in Union Carbide, Bhopal, resulted from slipshod factory regulation. Brazil, India, and the U.S. have slashed environmental standards. These standards have further weakened during COVID-19. The reversal of effluent benchmarks for power plants and automobiles and the boost to fossil fuels in the U.S. has been breathtaking. Yet this has not hurt its Doing Business survey ranking (six in 2020). India’s Parliament is considering an Environment Impact Assessment, the draft of which is filled with dilutions of the environmental law. Several indicators of the Doing Business survey presume that less regulation is better, but ignore the impact on health, ecology, worker protection and right to information. The 2008 global financial crisis resulted from too little banking supervision. Climate change is driven by lax emission control in China, the U.S., etc. The Centre and the States in India must take into consideration workers’ well-being while considering changes to labour laws, especially during the pandemic. Global lessons warn India of the pitfalls of diluting the 2005 Right to Information Act. The survey assumes that lower tax rates are best, which overlooks each country’s fiscal requirements. For example, Maldives and Qatar scored high on paying taxes, but are not role models for India as most of their revenue relies on unique assets. The survey supports lighter rules and taxation to encourage shifts from informal to formal sectors. But formalisation per se may not create jobs and cutting obstacles to starting a business will not necessarily expand the formal economy when facing severe capital shortage and a low-skilled workforce. The survey neglects indicators of infrastructure, entrepreneurship, and competition. It is true that overloading with too many variables makes a survey unwieldy. But when a yardstick does not consider pollution abatement or labour standards, an overhaul is in order. Putting the Doing Business project on hold gives the World Bank a chance to blend liberalisation of unhelpful barriers with fortification of needed regulations. A revamped indicator should reward, not penalise, investments in workers’ skills, health and safety, low polluting activities and climate resilience. Vinod Thomas is Distinguished Fellow, Asian Institute of Management, Manila; and former Senior Vice President, Independent Evaluation, World Bank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-a-different-yardstick/article32605201.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The cost of peace||Six months after they were first due to be held, intra-Afghan talks bringing the Taliban face-to-face with representatives of the Ashraf Ghani government and Afghan civil society finally got underway in Doha on Saturday. The talks, which were a key outcome of the U.S.-Taliban and U.S.-Afghanistan agreements signed in February this year, have been delayed for many reasons. To begin with, the Taliban set pre-conditions including the release of all its prisoners, while not accepting the basic requirement of a ceasefire. There were also delays over the composition of the Afghan negotiating team led by chief negotiator Masoom Stanekzai, and differences over appointments between the former rivals, President Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah, who was appointed as the head of the High Council for National Reconciliation. There were even concerns over whether the all-male Taliban team would deal with the negotiating team, which includes four women. However, the biggest obstacle was the release of more than 5,000 Taliban prisoners and about 1,000 Afghan soldiers and others held by Taliban militia, as stipulated in the agreements with the U.S. Last month, President Ghani said that he would release all but about 400 who were wanted for “serious crimes”, which led to the Taliban threatening to call off talks, but resolved after a Loya Jirga of representatives approved the release. One final batch of prisoner releases was held up briefly over objections from France and Australia, whose soldiers had been killed by them. The silver lining for India, which otherwise views the reconciliation process with some foreboding, is that the release of all Taliban prisoners has also meant the safe return of three Indian hostages, held since 2018 by the Taliban. The hard part begins now. While preliminary rounds held since Saturday have dealt with the structure and logistics, the first task for the negotiators is to declare a permanent ceasefire, and stop violence in Afghanistan that has claimed another 1,300 civilian lives in the first half of 2020. More difficult challenges will emerge as they grapple with the Taliban on how to shape Afghanistan’s future, and whether they can retain the constitution and political processes while bringing the insurgents into the mainstream. With the Ghani government giving the green signal for the talks in Doha, India has modified its stand, and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar attended the inaugural ceremony in Doha via videoconferencing; it was the first ever address by an Indian official at a gathering that includes the Taliban (that India still maintains is a terror group). While stating that peace in Afghanistan as a result of an “Afghan-led, Afghan owned” process is a desirable outcome, he made it clear that India hopes it will not come at the cost of gains made by Afghanistan in the post-Taliban era, including democracy, institutions of governance, and the rights of minorities and women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-cost-of-peace/article32605190.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||More at the top||The 2020 US Open, which concluded at New York on Sunday, may not have had its usual star dust, but that should not deflect from the excellence of Dominic Thiem and Naomi Osaka, who won their first and third Grand Slam singles titles, respectively. Injuries and travel concerns owing to the COVID-19 pandemic forced Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal into not making the trip across the Atlantic. World No.1 Novak Djokovic, chasing Federer’s all-time record of 20 Grand Slams, took the bait, only to be disqualified in the fourth round for accidentally striking a line judge with the ball. Among women, six of the top eight were missing. But in extraordinary times, strength of the competition must not be the only barometer. The travel, the isolation, lack of fan engagement and the persistent threat of a virus meant that players had to mine every bit of their mental energy. It is a testament to Thiem’s and Osaka’s supreme abilities that they did not wither, and managed to even summon their best tennis and fight back from the brink against the young Alexander Zverev and seasoned Victoria Azarenka, both players of top-notch skill and indomitable will. Thiem is a first-time men’s Major winner, six long years after Marin Čilić (2014 US Open), while Osaka has joined Venus Williams, Serena Williams, Kim Clijsters and Angelique Kerber as the only active women to have won at least three singles Majors. Statistics aside, the tournament provided the first glimpse of how men’s tennis could shape up in the absence of Federer, Djokovic and Nadal. The Thiem-led mid-card, which also includes Zverev, Daniil Medvedev and Stefanos Tsitsipas, made good on its promise and provided three of the four semifinalists. That the 27-year-old Austrian broke through first was no surprise, for he had already reached three Major finals and consistently beaten the big stars. The most recent was in Melbourne early this year, where he came within a set of defeating Djokovic in the final after having already felled the then World No.1, Nadal, in the quarterfinal. While Thiem appears to be the future, Osaka, nearly five years younger, is very much the woman of the moment. The Japanese is the most decorated Asian singles player and her use of the platform of being the most marketable sportswoman on the planet to highlight instances of racial injustice has captured the world’s imagination. Serena, who failed yet again in her quest to capture a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam, will remain the top draw as long as she plays. But Osaka has carved out her own identity. The immediate future of tennis may lie in a sequestered world of bio-secure bubbles, but barriers are no doubt being taken down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/more-at-the-top/article32605191.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Nationalists and Non-Cooperation (From an editorial)||There is naturally a good deal of rejoicing in anti-Nationalist and anti-Indian quarters over the manner in which the Nationalists have been “hoist with their own petard”. One local contemporary chortles into incoherence while another rejoices that a sectional movement has at last been justified of its existence. A good deal of misapprehension also appears to exist among the general public as to the position of those people who while thinking Non-Co-operation is desirable cannot see eye to eye with Mr. Gandhi as to the efficacy of his programme. They are accused of taking shelter under a quibble and their inconsistency is held up to scorn in that they are now doing the very thing which they once reproved the Moderates for. Unfortunately the present political atmosphere is not best suited for calm judgments and misapprehension and hysterical accusations appear to be the order of the day. We shall therefore endeavour to elucidate our attitude and shall always be glad to be corrected if in any wise that attitude appears to be inconsistent or disloyal to the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/nationalists-and-non-cooperation-from-an-editorial/article32605199.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||State Autonomy Demand (From an Editorial)||Maybe that the cry of more autonomy for the States voiced at the two-day conference sponsored by the D.M.K. at Madras is neither thought up as a diversion to cover the party’s deficiencies nor a veiled resurrection of the separatist demand. But that the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister took special pains to dispel both suspicions may in fact be a recognition of the existence of such apprehensions in many minds. The statement of another leading member and ex-Minister of the D.M.K. that, during his three and a half years’ experience as State Minister, he had found the causes that led to the separatist demand (in Tamil Nadu) were still in existence or were even accentuated certainly cuts the ground from under the Chief Minister’s feet. The D.M.K. apart, the emergence of ruling parties other than the Congress in many States after the 1967 elections has no doubt complicated Centre-State relations and invested complaints of neglect and demands for more powers with a new vociferousness. Such pulls and pushes would themselves seem to underline the importance of a well-equipped Centre to contain them and preserve the hard won unity and strength of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/state-autonomy-demand-from-an-editorial/article32605200.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. looks to spend Rs. 2.35 lakh cr. more||The Centre has sought Parliament approval for a gross additional expenditure of Rs. 2.35 lakh crore, including Rs. 20,000 crore for recapitalisation of public sector banks, for 2020-21. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tabled the first batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants for this financial year in the Lok Sabha on Monday.  Out of the Rs. 2.35 lakh crore gross additional expenditure, the proposals involving net cash outgo add up to almost Rs. 1.67 lakh crore. The rest of the money will come either through savings or reallocation of funds allocated to other ministries. The supplementary demand for grants is needed for government expenditure over and above the amount for which Parliamentary approval was already obtained during the Budget session. The emergency situation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic means that this year’s supplementary demand includes additional allocations to pay for relief measures announced as part of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana in March, and the Aatmanirbhar Bharat stimulus package in May. The biggest chunk goes towards the State governments, including Rs. 44,340 crore in post-devolution revenue deficit grants, and Rs. 2,262 crore as grants-in-aid for the State Disaster Response Funds, in accordance with the interim recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission MGNREGA gets more The other large allocation is for the Rs. 40,000 crore additional funding promised to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. The additional funds, which take the scheme’s budget for the year up to Rs. 1 lakh crore, were announced as a highlight of the Aatmanirbhar package. The Department of Financial Services has included a sum of Rs. 20,000 crore “for meeting expenditure towards recapitalisation of public sector banks through issue of government securities”. The Centre had not allocated any funds for bank recapitalisation in this year’s Budget, but the economic impact of the lockdown led the RBI to announce in July that infusing money into banks had become necessary. The allocation will not involve cash outgo, as the money is being raised through bonds. The Health Ministry included demands worth Rs. 6,852 crore for containment of the pandemic, plus additional grants for procurement of materials and machinery, equipping government hospitals, and research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-looks-to-spend-rs-235-lakh-cr-more/article32605175.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘HCL-T July-Sept. revenue may be higher than expected’||HCL Technologies on Monday said it expected the revenue for the July-September 2020 period to grow in excess of 3.5% quarter-on-quarter, “meaningfully better” than the top end of the earlier forecast for the quarter. In a communique to the exchanges, the company said, “We expect revenue and the operating margin for the current quarter to be meaningfully better than the top end of the guidance we had provided in July 2020.” Stating that it had seen strong execution during the quarter to date, the firm said revenue growth for the current quarter was expected to exceed 3.5% quarter-on-quarter in constant currency, enabled by momentum across all service lines, verticals and geographies. In July, at the announcement of financial results for the April-June 2020 quarter, the company had forecast revenues to rise quarter-on-quarter by an average of 1.5-2.5% in constant currency for the remaining three quarters. In response to Monday’s announcement, the company’s shares rose 10.% to Rs. 793.70 per share on the BSE. “The EBIT% for the current quarter is expected to be between 20.5% and 21%,” the company said, adding that good booking momentum continued this quarter. “The pipeline continues to look healthy across service lines, verticals and geographies,” HCL said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hcl-t-july-sept-revenue-may-be-higher-than-expected/article32605177.ece
15 September 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Awareness of immunity driving chicken prices up’||Chicken prices at the farm gate across India have returned to pre-COVID-19 levels of Rs. 85-90 a kg, as consumption of poultry has risen again as an immunity booster to counter the virus , according to major poultry firms. Following rumours in February linking poultry with COVID-19, chicken prices had crashed to Rs. 5-10 a kg, forcing poultry farmers to release the birds into the open as they could not afford their maintenance. “March and April were the [worst],” said S. Vignesh, ED, Suguna Foods, a large poultry player in the south with a market share of over 16%. “Production was severely impacted as maize producers could not supply feed due to the lockdown and demand was [affected] following rumours,” he added. “So, prices had crashed to Rs. 5-10 a kg from Rs. 85-90 in December,” he said. “Farm gate prices have bounced back to pre-COVID-19 levels and demand has returned to 70% of the pre-pandemic time. “Chicken is now consumed at least twice a week because people have started taking it as source of protein and an immunity builder.” Confirming the trend, Prasanna Pedgaonkar, deputy GM, Venky’s, a leading player from western India, said, “Prices have returned to Rs. 85-90 a kg. Production and consumption have moved up from very low levels due to awareness on immunity. Once the celebrations market and hotels open up, we forecast demand to surpass even pre-Covid levels”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/awareness-of-immunity-driving-chicken-prices-up/article32605179.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Neemuchwala joins U.S. VC firm Dallas Venture||Wipro’s former CEO and MD Abidali Neemuchwala joined Dallas Venture Partners (DVP) as a venture partner. DVP said, it would invest in early-stage and growth-stage companies that focus on cloud infrastructure, AI/ML, mobile, IoT and emerging technologies. The VC firm has the mandate to invest between $300-$500 million in India over a period of 10 years to create an enterprise value of $7-10 billion. Individual ticket size will be in the range of $2 million to $10 million. Growth journey India, the world’s second-largest start-up ecosystem, has become a natural attraction for international investors who want to be a part of the country’s growth journey, said Mr. Neemuchwala Quoting a report, he said, more than 55,000 start-ups were launched in India in the last five and half years alone, out of which over 3,200 start-ups raised $63 billion in funding. “The digital boom and technological disruption, especially in the current times has led to an increased interest among investors, particularly in the tech domain,’’ he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/neemuchwala-joins-us-vc-firm-dallas-venture/article32605172.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||GST compensation due to States is Rs. 1.51 lakh cr.||The GST collection during April-August declined on account of the COVID-19 induced lockdown, and the compensation due to States stands at over Rs. 1.51 lakh crore, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said on Monday. The provisional GST compensation due to States and Union Territories (UTs) for 2020-21 was highest for Maharashtra at Rs. 22,485 crore, followed by Karnataka (Rs. 13,763 crore), Uttar Pradesh (Rs. 11,742 crore), Gujarat (Rs. 11,563 crore) and Tamil Nadu (Rs. 11,269 crore). The total provisional GST compensation due to 31 States and UTs for 2020-21 put together stands at Rs. 1,51,365 crore, as per data shared in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha. In the current fiscal year, States are staring at a staggering Rs. 2.35 lakh crore Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue shortfall. The Centre late last month gave two options to States to borrow either Rs. 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or Rs. 2.35 lakh crore from the market. It had also proposed extending the compensation cess levied on luxury, demerit and sin goods beyond 2022 to repay the borrowing. In reply to a separate question, Mr. Thakur said the total net GST target for the Centre has been pegged at Rs. 6,90,500 crore for 2020-21 in the Union Budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-compensation-due-to-states-is-rs-151-lakh-cr/article32605182.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Regulatory set-up for OTT players not required now’||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on Monday said the time was not opportune to recommend a comprehensive regulatory framework for various aspects of OTT services such as WhatsApp, Skype and Hike. In its recommendation on ‘Regulatory Framework for OTT Communication Services’, the regulator said that market forces may be allowed to respond without prescribing any regulatory intervention. “However, developments shall be monitored and intervention as felt necessary shall be done at appropriate time,” the regulator said. “This matter is under examination of various international jurisdictions and no satisfactory solution has emerged as yet. As such, the authority is of the view that no regulatory interventions are required at the moment,” the telecom regulator said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/regulatory-set-up-for-ott-players-not-required-now/article32605181.ece
15 September 2020||mumbai,||‘Sell enemy assets worth Rs. 1 lakh crore’||India should look at selling enemy properties valued at over Rs. 1 lakh crore to take care of the current expenditure which will drive growth, Nilesh Shah, a part-time member of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister, said on Monday. Both India and Pakistan had brought in legislations to take over enemy properties following the 1965 war. While Pakistan was able to liquidate the assets in 1971, India is 49 years behind, Mr. Shah said. “You need to monetise government assets so that we have money available for spending,” he said.  “Liquidate these properties and raise Rs. 1 lakh crore or so to fund your expenditure,” he said while replying to a query on ways to push up economic growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sell-enemy-assets-worth-rs-1-lakh-crore/article32605183.ece
15 September 2020||Chennai,||Ashok Leyland ‘BADA DOST’||Commercial vehicles manufacturer Ashok Leyland Ltd. (ALL) has rolled out ‘Bada Dost’, a light truck, in two versions. “It is the first company-made LCV product to be rolled out on a brand new platform developed in-house. Code named ‘Phoenix’, the project was conceived and developed within 24 months,” said COO Nitin Seth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ashok-leyland-bada-dost/article32605185.ece
15 September 2020||New Delhi,||Infosys to acquire GuideVision for up to 30 mn euros||Infosys said it would acquire the Czech Republic-based GuideVision for up to €30 million. The acquisition is being carried out by Infy Consulting Company Ltd., a step-down subsidiary of Infosys Ltd., as per a filing. The cost of acquisition could go up to €30 million, including earn-out and bonuses. The acquisition is expected to close in the third quarter of FY21.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-to-acquire-guidevision-for-up-to-30-mn-euros/article32605186.ece
15 September 2020||MUMBAI,||HDFC Bank’s Aditya Puri bags Euromoney award||Aditya Puri, MD, HDFC Bank, has been conferred with the Lifetime Achievement Award by Euromoney Awards of Excellence 2020. The publication has recognised Mr. Puri for his skills in building ‘a world-class Indian bank at a time when there were no similar institutions in existence’. The award comes just ahead of his retirement next month, HDFC Bank said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-banks-aditya-puri-bags-euromoney-award/article32605187.ece
15 September 2020||New York,||Thiem scripts incredible comeback to win title||Dominic Thiem produced a historic comeback to beat Alexander Zverev in a nervy five-setter and win the US Open on Sunday for his first Grand Slam title. The second-seeded Austrian outlasted the fifth seed 2-6, 4-6, 6-4, 6-3, 7-6(6) in a four-hour two-minute thriller. Several firsts It marked the first time in the Open era that a US Open finalist recovered from losing the opening two sets to win the title. It was also the first time the final was settled by a tie-break. “I wish we could have two winners today. I think we both deserved it,” said Thiem. The title is the 27-year-old’s maiden Grand Slam trophy after three previous defeats in summit clashes. Zverev, 23, smashed four aces and 16 winners in the first set as he displayed an impressive serve-and-volley game to take a 1-0 lead in just 30 minutes. The German was helped by some sloppy serving from Thiem, who hit three double-faults as he was broken twice, in games three and seven. In set two, Zverev wasted three set-points while 5-1 up but held on to take a 2-0 lead on his fifth set-point. The tide was beginning to turn, though, as Zverev's play became increasingly cagey as his suspect second serve got slower and his forehand, another weakness, became more defensive. After Thiem took set four, Zverev found himself serving for the championship at 5-3 in the fifth set. But he could not hold and soon Thiem was 6-5 ahead. He took a medical time-out before it was his turn to serve for the championship. However, like Zverev moments earlier, Thiem failed to clinch the match and it went to a tie-break. Thiem found himself 5-3 up after two double-faults by Zverev but the Austrian, by now exhausted and limping, blew two championship points. He won the title and the winner's cheque of $3 million on his third after Zverev hit a backhand wide. Zverev smashed 15 aces to Thiem’s eight. But the German also hit 15 double-faults, with Thiem hitting eight. Zverev hit more winners (52 to 43), but also had more unforced errors (65 to 55).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thiem-scripts-incredible-comeback-to-win-title/article32605328.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Robin ready to take wing with Royals||Robin Uthappa’s IPL career began when the IPL began. He has been part of every season and is one of the most successful batsmen in cricket’s most glamorous league. He has amassed 4411 runs (strike rate 130.5, average 28.83). Only seven men have scored more in the IPL history. After stints with Mumbai Indians, Royals Challengers Bangalore, Pune Warriors and most recently Kolkata Knight Riders, the 34-year-old has joined Rajasthan Royals. He spoke to The Hindu from Dubai. Excerpts:  Playing for Rajasthan Royals: Absolutely thrilled. It has always been a franchise that embodies fighting spirit and one that doesn't give up regardless of the game situation.  The team’s strengths: A good, balanced side with a mix of experienced players, both Indian and foreign. Varun Aaron, Jaydev Unadkat and I have all been around for a while now, we have top foreigners such as Steve Smith, Jos Buttler and Ben Stokes, who have all been successful on the biggest stage. Add to that some wonderfully talented youngsters and I think we have pretty much covered all our bases.  IPL’s challenges in the UAE: The heat will certainly be a big challenge.  His IPL journey: It has been a fantastic experience. The dynamics of the tournament have changed over the years and so have I. My game has evolved through different phases in these 12 years. As a batsman, I have always wanted to be positive in my approach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/robin-ready-to-take-wing-with-royals/article32605576.ece
15 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Stage set for Padikkal to shine||A lot is expected from Devdutt Padikkal in the upcoming IPL. The stylish opening batsman warmed the benches for RCB in the previous edition, but after a terrific domestic season for Karnataka, the stage is set for Padikkal to shine bright. The RCB team management recognises his potential, with head coach Simon Katich stating recently that Padikkal has done enough to merit an IPL debut. Padikkal — the highest run-scorer in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy and Vijay Hazare 50-over tournament — is hopeful that he can carry his good form into the IPL. “It was a great season. I took it one match at a time, and I finished as the highest run-scorer in two tournaments. Hopefully I can take this good form into the IPL as well,” Padikkal told The Hindu on Monday. With explosive Australian Aaron Finch and the consistent Parthiv Patel also in contention for the opening slots, it remains to be seen how the franchise utilises the services of Padikkal. Padikkal is doing his very best to stay sharp and prepared. “The conditions in Dubai are different from what we are used to in India. But we’ve spent good time here to get prepared. We can adjust quickly,” Padikkal said.  We’ve spent good time in Dubai to get prepared. We can adjust quickly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stage-set-for-padikkal-to-shine/article32605323.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Balanced KKR out to end five-year drought||In the absence of Eden Gardens’ vociferous support, two-time Indian Premier League (IPL) winner Kolkata Knight Riders will seek inspiration during its 2020 campaign from Trinbago Knight Riders’ recent Caribbean triumph. The franchise will hope that its TKR men, Sunil Narine and Ali Khan, become harbingers of good luck in KKR colours. Following its spectacular inconsistency last season, KKR has taken some prudent steps to iron out its deficiencies. After forming a younger and fitter squad, it is now keen to implement its plans well. KKR’s effort to build a team culture, including taking care of its players through the off-season, is expected to result in more cohesiveness. Combined wisdom In search of its third crown, KKR may benefit from the combined wisdom of head coach Brendon McCullum, captain Dinesh Karthik and England skipper Eoin Morgan. McCullum’s aggressive approach, Karthik’s wealth of experience and Morgan’s composure may open up newer possibilities. Shubman Gill, being groomed as a future leader, is expected to form an explosive combination with Narine at the top. The KKR think-tank may consider the option of sending West Indian all-rounder Andre Russell up the order to make the most of his game-changing ability. Karthik and Morgan are likely to hold the key in the middle-order while a talented bunch of batters, including Nitish Rana, Tom Banton, Rahul Tripathi, Rinku Singh and Siddhesh Lad, will contribute as and when required. Pace battery The Aussie-Kiwi pair of Pat Cummins, the costliest buy at Rs. 15.5 crore, and Lockie Ferguson will lead the pace battery, also consisting of promising Indians Kamlesh Nagarkoti, Shivam Mavi, Prasidh Krishna and Sandeep Warrier. One cannot underestimate Russell and American Ali Khan, who replaced Harry Gurney, in the pace department. Among spinners, the experienced duo of Kuldeep Yadav and Narine will shoulder most of the responsibility on the overused UAE pitches. Two Tamil Nadu boys — ‘mystery spinner’ Varun Chakravarthy and left-arm spinner M. Siddharth, who may be a dark horse — will be eager to prove their worth. With a balanced squad, KKR will look to end its five-year title drought.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/balanced-kkr-out-to-end-five-year-drought/article32605325.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Big guns aplenty, but others must chip in||Sunrisers Hyderabad, winner of the 2016 edition, owes its reputation in the IPL to the phenomenal consistency of the top three — the flamboyant David Warner, now back as captain, the explosive Jonny Bairstow and the ever-dependable Kane Williamson. If these big guns go blazing, half the battle is won — be it chasing or setting targets. But, the big question remains — will the middle-order raise the bar in the upcoming edition? Moreover, it is not certain that all members of the top three will feature in all the games because of the restriction on the number of foreign players (no more than four in the playing eleven). This means that a lot depends on the experienced Indian stars such as Manish Pandey and Vijay Shankar. It will be equally interesting to see how the young Indian talent — Virat Singh, Priyam Garg and the hard-hitting Abdul Samad, among others — fare in conditions which are going to be different because of the pandemic. Surprise elements Aussie all-rounder Mitchell Marsh and West Indies’ Fabian Allen could well be the surprise elements for SRH this time around. In bowling, SRH has a range of pace options to choose from: the experienced trio of Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Sandeep Sharma and left-armer Khaleel Ahmed bring different skills to the table; Siddharth Kaul, T. Natarajan and Basil Thampi are capable of chipping in for the team. In the spin department, Afghanistan leggie Rashid Khan continues to be a potent weapon although it will be interesting to see how the brains-trust utilises the services of his compatriot and off-spinning all-rounder Mohammad Nabi. SRH, which finished fourth in the last edition, will know that an improved performance, especially from the middle-order, will put the side in the mix during the tournament’s business end. Near-perfect balance The challenge for new head coach Trevor Bayliss (who replaced Tom Moody), his deputy Brad Haddin, mentor V.V.S. Laxman and bowling coach Muttiah Muralitharan is to extract the best out of a squad that appears to have near-perfect balance in all departments.  Warner, Williamson, Bairstow and Rashid can change games on their own The challenge for the think-tank is to extract the best out of the players||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/big-guns-aplenty-but-others-must-chip-in/article32605329.ece
15 September 2020||Manchester,||England fights back to level series||England beat Australia by 24 runs in the second ODI at Old Trafford on Sunday. Australia, cruising to a victory target of 232, was dismissed for 207 as England levelled the three-match series 1-1. The tourists were in command at 144 for two, but lost four wickets for three runs — including captain Aaron Finch for 73 — to be 147 for six, the new-ball duo of Chris Woakes (three for 32) and Man-of-the-Match Jofra Archer (three for 34) returning to do the damage.      The scores: England 231/9 in 50 overs (Morgan 42; Zampa 3/36) bt Australia 207 in 48.4 overs (Finch 73, Labuschagne 48, Carey 36; Woakes 3-32; Archer 3-34). England won by 24 runs; series level 1-1.   Third match: Sept. 16 (Wednesday), 5.30 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-fights-back-to-level-series/article32605321.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||One-leader strategy a mistake: Wiggins||With Egan Bernal’s defence of his Tour de France title in tatters following Sunday’s horror show in Stage 15, 2012 winner Bradley Wiggins termed Team Ineos’ decision to omit 2018 champion Geraint Thomas and bet everything on Bernal a blunder. The Colombian lost more than seven minutes to fall out of the top-10 in general classification. “Geraint, as he is now, would have been in the top-10,” Wiggins said. “It was a mistake that he didn't go to the Tour. Generally, they [Ineos] get it right, but went for a one-leader strategy… whose decision it was, we don’t know as yet.”  (Live on Eurosport and Eurosport HD)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/one-leader-strategy-a-mistake-wiggins/article32605327.ece
15 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ramkumar extremely happy for Thiem||Ramkumar Ramanathan had defeated Dominic Thiem in Antalya in June 2017. The Austrian, World No. 8 then, was fresh from playing the semifinals in Roland Garros. Thiem went on to make the pre-quarterfinals of Wimbledon after losing to Ramkumar on grass in Turkey. When Thiem won the US Open in New York on Sunday, the 25-year-old Ramkumar was thrilled. “I was extremely happy for Thiem. Congratulations to Thiem’s team on an amazing job,” said Ramkumar. Getting ready to fly to Paris for the Roland Garros qualifying event, after over five months at home in Chennai, Ramkumar appreciated the exemplary effort by the 27-year-old Thiem. “He is full of grit. He really deserved the title. He is a wonderful human being,” gushed Ramkumar. Thiem was ready when tennis on the professional circuit resumed, said Ramkumar. “I heard that Thiem had played 43 exhibition matches before the Tour resumed. Even though they were exhibition matches, I feel it gave him the edge, as match play is vital.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-extremely-happy-for-thiem/article32605326.ece
15 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||ISL: HFC signs up Lalawmpuia, Sweden||Hyderabad FC (HFC) signed up two young talent — Lalawmpuia (20) and Sweden Fernandes (20) — on long-term deals on Monday. The duo, who were part of another Indian Super League (ISL) side FC Goa during the last three years, have each penned a three-year deal till the end of the 2022-23 season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/isl-hfc-signs-up-lalawmpuia-sweden/article32605771.ece
15 September 2020||ROME,||Auger-Aliassime bows out||Rafael Nadal returns to competition after a six-month break while Novak Djokovic is looking to make up for his US Open disqualification as the Rome Masters got underway on Monday. “Obviously, it’s not the same thing. There is no public, we are in a bubble, we cannot enjoy the city,” said Nadal, who will play his first competitive match since his win in Acapulco at the end of February. In the opening round, Canada’s Felix Auger-Aliassime lost to Serbian Filip Krajinovic.  Important results (first round): Men: Filip Krajinovic bt Felix Auger-Aliassime 6-4, 7-5; Grigor Dimitrov bt Gianluca Mager 7-5, 6-1.   Women: Amanda Anisimova bt Donna Vekic 7-6(4), 7-6(6); Elena Rybakina bt Ekaterina Alexandrova 6-0, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/auger-aliassime-bows-out/article32605373.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The primordial preceptor||While imparting knowledge of scriptures, all great teachers reiterate that they only restate the teachings of their former teachers. Acharyas are born time and again to clarify the eternal truth, remove the ignorance in people and instil faith in the traditional wisdom of the sastras, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. This is the uniqueness of the guru sishya parampara by which sacred knowledge is preserved and presented to posterity. The teaching is a renewal, a rediscovery and a restoration of knowledge long forgotten, says Krishna to Arjuna when He imparts the tradition of jnana yoga to him. He says that He had already proclaimed it to Vivaswan in an earlier era and that Vivaswan had told it to Manu who then had passed it on to Ikshvaku. This sacred knowledge had been current among the royal sages of yore, but was subsequently lost to the world through the lapse of time. Krishna, the primordial acharya, tells Arjuna that He will impart all the dharmas without hiding anything. Arjuna is the sincere and ideal disciple, who is worthy to imbibe the teaching. When teaching Bhakti yoga to Arjuna, Krishna says that this knowledge is not only sacred but is also secret. It is most profound and is capable of granting release from evil influences. It is gained as direct experience and by knowing this, there is nothing further to be known. It is owing to these reasons that Krishna states at the end of His teaching that it should not be told to one who is not austere in life or who has no devotion and is a non-believer. In Krishna avatar He reveals His Paratva whenever necessary. He takes the role of the Jagadguru to personally instruct the path to salvation to all mankind. Above all, His Saulabhya is such that He is easily accessible to those who are devoted to Him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-primordial-preceptor/article32605278.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 05:51 IST,||Sudoku - September 15, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-15-2020/article32605974.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Copy-paste? Think twice||Truth has perhaps been the most obvious casualty of the Internet age, as copy-paste culture has permeated the creative process. And nowhere has this been more visible than in mass media. With the lockdown adding to the woes of an already economically stressed sector, the print industry has become victim of fly-by-night operators who duplicate copyrighted material, often within seconds of its publication online. After the lockdown, copyright and trademark violations have increased in the virtual world, says N. Karthikeyan, cyber law advocate at the Madras High Court. “These days anyone with a mobile phone can start a YouTube channel. With no legitimate source for content, creators are stealing copyright-protected material,” he says in a phone interview. He also cites the growing incidence of fake domains being created during the lockdown. These domains, which have names similar to the original versions, can divert the traffic from the real brands. Criminals use search engine optimisation (SEO) techniques to ensure that the spurious sites get a higher Google ranking. “We are filing these cases separately under the Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy (UDRP) at the Domain Name Dispute Centre, against the offender and the domain registrants,” says Karthikeyan. Know your IP rights Ignorance of the law can no longer be an excuse for content creators, says Tarun Khurana, co-founding partner and patent attorney of Khurana & Khurana (K&K) and of its Patent Research and IP Asset Management Firm, IIPRD, headquartered in Delhi. “Copyright is not just with respect to your written content, but also to numerous other form-factors such as using images, lyrics, soundtracks, videos, or parts of it, without legal permission or authority,” says Khurana in an email interview. “The law of copyright protects your work and gives you legal recourse to prevent people from copying it and/or distributing copies without your permission. Social media platforms like Instagram, Facebook, Pinterest and Twitter lay down, in their terms and conditions, that when anyone creates an account on these platforms, they give away a licence for the handlers to use any content shared, royalty-free throughout the globe. Most users do not see these terms but content creators have to be aware to understand their IP rights. All content must be in accordance with the relevant sections of the Information Technology Act.” Plagiarism and follow-throughs “There are different kinds of plagiarism happening right now,” says R. Prabhakar, vice-president, Legal, General Administration, The Hindu , in Chennai. “One is the complete lifting of our trademark and its contents, and selling the product as if it is from our parent company. These plagiarists are trying to capitalise on the public response to our original product for their own gain. Then there are those who copy our content without our trademark, in different platforms and channels, and pass it off as their own.” Plagiarism has become so pervasive that even big name entities have been tempted. “I was surprised to see a photograph from my Instagram page used for an unrelated topic,” says Nirrali D. Sanghvi, a hotel industry employee in Chennai who chronicles her experiences through her ‘The Gujju Nomad’ Instagram account. “I was shocked to see the photo of a mug that I had taken, being used in a major daily, without my permission,” says Nirrali. With the usual gate-keeping procedures of old media now consigned to (pre-digital) memory, publishing has become an instantaneous process. The increased amount and variety of information available online has however been accompanied by a loss of attribution. “Trying to figure out who is ultimately responsible for lifting content is a challenge,” says Prabhakar. “The registered owners of the website say they aren’t responsible for the content. Or they will ask for paperwork which takes a lot of time for both sides to sort out. Many people often claim that they are only the ‘intermediary’ in the equation, and point us to others who supplied the material. When you look closely, these digital companies are based abroad in countries like Russia or China,” he says. The lockdown has hastened the use of the e-paper format among print media companies in the absence of physical printing. It has also made the unofficial ‘borrowing’ of material more common. In May this year, the Delhi High Court directed owners of the Dubai-based messaging app, Telegram, to disclose the identity of users who were running channels on its platform to illegally share the e-paper version of the Dainik Jagran newspaper on a daily basis. “If you are going to court, you have to figure out if it is a single person or the so-called intermediary who is the culprit. Many companies will try to seek the protection of the Intellectual Property Rights Act, saying that they have no control over the content. But then, they are supposed to have due diligence over what they are doing, just like any other company. These concepts have to be developed in the IT field,” says Prabhakar. Borderless crime Cyber crime has always been borderless, says N.S. Nappinai, advocate at the Supreme Court of India and founder of the non-profit organisation Cyber Saathi. A specialist in IPR since 1991 and cyber laws since 1995, Nappinai says that data theft and cybercrime in general have been evolving in nature and impact. Despite the slow pace of the law, there are legal provisions to deal with cyber crime. “Many times, remedies in law are missed even by professionals merely because they may not have the headings ‘ransomware’, ‘revenge porn’ or ‘cyber extortion’, but there are legal remedies,” says Nappinai over phone from Mumbai. “Headings are not relevant to interpret law. It is what is contained in the provisions that matter. If you are going to spread a wrong message, then you are also emboldening the criminal.” In 2019, the Delhi High Court introduced the ‘dynamic injunction’ that allows rights holders to engage the Joint Registrar of the Delhi High Court (an administrative position), to extend an injunction order already granted against a website, against a similar ‘mirror/redirect/alphanumeric websites et cetera.’ While this may speed up redressal, it also has some caveats. “Copyright often has been used as a tool by people who want to censor speech. So even if they don’t see a copyright violation, they may still approach the court. More often than not, companies are willing to take down the content because they also have some liability on the website owner in case the infringement is upheld by the court,” says Anubha Sinha, senior programme manager and trained lawyer, at the non-profit Centre for Internet and Society, in Delhi. System reboot required Nappinai feels that overhauling the system, including the laws and judicial process, will make law enforcement stronger. “The simplest and most immediate change you can bring is to the intermediary guidelines, which set down inter alia that you cannot post content which violates copyright or any other proprietary right of intellectual property. But the remedy available now is that a takedown can happen only through a court or government order. Where does that leave the victim?” she asks, adding that long-winded legal proceedings are now mandated to take down offensive content. “If we are inviting Make in India programmes, we also have to strengthen our enforcement against intellectual property rights violations, not just posture with more laws. I hope that India will lead the effort to bring international cooperation to combat cyber crime and international enforcement mechanisms,” Nappinai says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/copy-paste-think-twice/article32605491.ece
15 September 2020||September 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Flick, tap and repeat||Since the days of Nokia N-Gage, a handful of gadget makers have tried to crack the code to designing a true, mean gaming mobile phone. Most wound up short; the few ‘success stories’ barely influenced R&D patterns in mobile technology due to the niche market this product caters to. Under its sub-brand Republic of Gamers (ROG), ASUS is, perhaps, the only notable manufacturer at present to focus its energies on exploiting this niche market. With the ASUS ROG Phone 3, the company seeks to push the benchmarks that it set with the phone’s previous iterations. How well does it fare? Raising the bar ROG Phone 3 is a beast. Performance lag is an alien concept in a device that is powered by the latest Qualcomm Snapdragon 865 Plus chipset. The phone also supports 5G technology although that makes little difference in the Indian market. While flagship models of other brands continue to explore curved edge displays, ROG Phone 3 sticks to a classic design sans even the punch hole for the front shooter. The 6.59-inch HDR AMOLED display is crisp, and offers superlative contrast that helps you discover the natural hues of a colour with the naked eye. True to its purpose, the phone also comes equipped with front-facing speakers that provides loud and clear audio, a necessary component to the immersive gaming experience. The phone’s partially transparent back panel is attractive. Turning on the ‘X mode’ optimises the phone’s GPU and processing capacity to work at maximum (ROG Phone 3 supports games with 144Hz). It also turns on the LED strobe lights on the back panel — a novelty feature with little practical value. There is a mild heating issue, but the phone handles it well owing to a graphite film placed closer to the display panel and a copper vapour chamber. This is part of its GameCool 3 heat dissipating system, helping reduce short or long term damages to the chipset due to overheating. For the hardcore mobile gamer, the phone offers side-mounted Type C ports to help charge the device without having to take a break. More nuanced features such as the Air Trigger 3 (a motion sensor trigger) requires you to connect with the nerd in you, a problem point for the average smartphone user. Beyond recess? And that is the area where the ROG Phone 3 is likely to split opinions: jargon and cool gaming features aside, does it hold the potential to be the flagship model an average smartphone user would love to flaunt? For a purpose-built device, the ROG Phone 3’s cameras produce above-average output. There is no noticeable drop in detail in the different camera modes, although, in the interest of fairness, a lot of the other flagship models that retails at this price point (which are not its competitors due to the ROG Phone’s positioning) are far better in its point-and-shoot capabilities. What the phone noticeably lacks is a 3.5 millimetre jack for headphones, but ASUS makes up for the loss by supplying a Type C-3.5mm adapter cable with the box contents. Perhaps, the biggest selling point that might sway the average customer towards the ROG Phone 3 is its monstrous 6,000mAh battery, that comfortably lasts 10 to 12 hours of intense gaming. For mild to moderate use and some light gaming, the ROG Phone 3’s battery is likely to last a day and a half. ASUS’s Hypercharge technology ensures the device does not heat up while charging. Still, the price point might be a deterrent considering rivals like OnePlus and Oppo offer cost-effective solutions that more than manage to indulge the casual gamer. The mobile gaming market is burgeoning at an exponential rate, more so since lockdown. While it is commendable that ASUS is developing more gaming gear, there is still no guarantee that the growth in mobile gaming could drive the demand up for purpose-built smartphones in as far as the Indian market is concerned. The reason, perhaps, lies in the answer to the question: why, despite its singularity, the N-Gage is not the device one thinks of at the mention of Nokia?  Specifications Processor:3.1GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 865 Plus with 7nm, 64-bit Octa-core GPU:Qualcomm Adreno 650 User Interface (UI):Android 10 with ROG UI Display:6.59”, 144Hz/1ms 10-bit HDR AMOLED with front 2.5D Corning Gorilla 6 Glass Dimensions & wieght:171mm x 78mm x 9.85mm; 240 grams Storage:8GB/128GB or 12GB/256GB Rear camera:(triple camera) 64MP Sony IMX686 sensor, 13MP ultra wide and 5MP macro (with 8K and 4K HDR video recording) Front camera:24MP (with 1080p video recording) Speaker:Dual front-facing speakers with GameFX and Dirac HD sound Microphone:Qua mic with ASUS noise reduction technology Battery: 6,000mAh, supports fast charging with output up to 30W||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/flick-tap-and-repeat/article32605490.ece
