15 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Cong. crisis deepens after CLP sacks Pilot from Cabinet, PCC||The political crisis in Rajasthan took a dramatic turn on Tuesday with the Congress sacking rebel leader Sachin Pilot both as the Deputy Chief Minister as well as Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president. The party also accused him of colluding with the Opposition BJP in its conspiracy to topple the State government. Two Ministers in the rebel camp were also dropped from the State Cabinet. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, who was camping in Jaipur as a central observer, announced the decision after a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) passed a resolution to remove Mr. Pilot and others from their positions. Mr. Pilot and the MLAs supporting him did not attend the CLP. 2 Ministers removed The Cabinet members removed were Tourism Minister Vishvendra Singh and Food and Civil Supplies Minister Ramesh Meena. Mr. Surjewala announced the appointment of Minister of State for Education Govind Singh Dotasra as the new PCC president, replacing Mr. Pilot. Mr. Surjewala said the Congress had taken the decision with a “heavy heart”, as its edifice was built around its policies and principles, which were far more important than the individuals. “Mr. Pilot and some of his associates were swayed by the BJP’s plot and had joined it to topple the government, which was unacceptable,” he said. The 42-year-old Mr. Pilot, credited with leading the party's successful campaign in the 2018 Assembly election, has been miffed over a notice issued to him by the Special Operations Group of the Rajasthan police for recording his statement in a case filed in connection with the alleged attempts to topple the government. Soon after the CLP meeting got over, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot drove to Raj Bhavan to inform Governor Kalraj Mishra of the decision and make a formal request to drop the Ministers from the Cabinet. He also handed over a list of MLAs supporting him and apprised the Governor of the impending Cabinet reshuffle. Mr. Gehlot told reporters after meeting the Governor that while the BJP was trying to destabilise his government, Mr. Pilot was playing into the hands of the Opposition party. “The BJP wanted to repeat in Rajasthan what it did in Madhya Pradesh, but its intentions will not fructify here,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-crisis-deepens-after-clp-sacks-pilot-from-cabinet-pcc/article32085416.ece
15 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||At 608, State registers its highest single-day spike||A massive surge in local transmission of COVID-19 in the coastal hamlets in the capital district of Thiruvananthapuram has resulted in the State recording its worst single-day spike yet and the cumulative case burden just falling short of the 9,000-mark. Kerala reported 608 new cases on Tuesday taking the cumulative burden of the State to 8,930. If imported cases of infection accounted for 198 of the new cases, those cases reported from the community following local transmission accounted for more than double the number at 409. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan confirmed that in 26 of these “contact cases” an epidemiological link was yet to be established. He said the public had to come to terms with the reality that the pandemic situation was set to escalate further. The State and the people had to prepare themselves for a long haul as far as COVID-19 was concerned and that the pandemic was not expected to ease before the end of the year. Those who acquired the virus through local transmission included eight health-care workers, one Border Security Force jawan, two Indo- Tibetan Border Police personnel and two Central Industrial Security Force men. Death toll 34 The death of a 47-year-old man in Alappuzha has taken the death toll of the State to 34. With 181 recoveries reported on Tuesday, the number of active cases in the State now is 4,454. Till date, 4,438 patients out of the total 8,930 have recovered so far. Thiruvananthapuram district accounted for 201 of the 608 cases reported on Tuesday, of which 158 were cases of local transmission, including 19 cases wherein the source of infection remains unknown. The district also has the highest case burden in the State with 794 active cases. As had been pointed out by many public health experts, the Poonthura cluster in Thiruvananthapuram has turned out to be just the tip of an iceberg and at least 200 plus km of the State’s coastal belt has emerged as one single disease transmission hub, demanding intensive containment and surveillance strategies to prevent COVID-19 spreading to cities. The State administration has put more coastal villages on the containment zone list, including Anchuthengu and Parassala. Close watch The coastal hamlet of Chellanam in Ernakulam and its nearby villages are under the close watch of the district administration. Apart from enhancing testing in the region, a rapid action team has also been deployed in the locality. Testing has been intensified in the coastal villages in Alappuzha also where 15 out of the 34 cases reported on Tuesday are local transmission cases. Clusters have formed at Malappuram and Thooneri grama panchayat in Kozhikode district, where 53 persons are believed to have contracted the disease from two individuals. The number of hotspots in the State now is 227 Mr. Vijayan claimed that the local transmission of COVID-19 was intensifying because of the laxity on the part of the people in maintaining all safety precautions and health protocols. The Chief Minister appealed for intensive vigil so that the local transmission can be minimised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-608-state-sees-highest-single-day-spike/article32085753.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre limits duration of online school sessions||Schools can hold live online classes for a maximum of 1.5 hours per day for Classes 1-8, and three hours per day for Classes 9-12, according to the Pragyata guidelines for digital education, released by the Ministry of Human Resource Development on Tuesday. For kindergarten, nursery and preschool, the guidelines don’t recommend any screen time for children; they only recommend that teachers spend a maximum of 30 minutes per day to interact with parents and guide them. These guidelines, prepared by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), are only advisory in nature, and State governments have been asked to build on them and formulate their own rules, based on local needs. Over 25 crore students have been out of school since mid-March. The Pragyata guidelines acknowledge that these students live in households which fall into different categories: those having computers or smartphones with 4G, those with smartphones but limited or no internet access, those with TV with cable or DTH, those with a radio set or a basic phone with FM radio, and those with no communication devices at all.  Noting that members from different categories may be present in the same class, the guidelines advise schools to survey students before making decisions on the mode of teaching. “The goal is NOT to try and recreate face-to-face classrooms over the internet,” it said. “Schools should not assume that teaching-learning through synchronous communication is the only requirement or even desirable in order to support effective digital learning.” Synchronous or real-time communication could be the Zoom classes that many private schools have begun, or other video or audio conferencing, allowing instant feedback. “Children exposed to digital technologies or gadgets for a longer time are prone to severe health issues,” the guidelines said. “Hence sitting with digital gadgets for longer hours or their excess use can be avoided by designing age appropriate schedules of digital education,” it added. Keeping the overall development of students in mind, it recommended that “online synchronous learning may be undertaken for not more than two sessions of 30-45 minutes each on the days the States/UTs decide to have online classes” for Classes 1-8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-limits-duration-of-online-school-sessions/article32085405.ece
15 July 2020||KOCHI,||Brahmapuram fiasco: PCB told to recover compensation or face action||The Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in New Delhi has said that the Chairman and Member Secretary of the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) will be held liable if they fail to initiate prosecution and recover compensation from those responsible for the unscientific handling of waste at the dumping site of the Kochi Corporation at Brahmapuram. The Bench, comprising Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel (Chairperson), Justice S.P. Wangdi (judicial member), and Satyawan Singh Garbyal (expert member), said in its order that the progress (remediation) appeared to be very slow and was disregardful of the statutory and constitutional obligation of providing a clean environment. “It is the responsibility of the KSPCB to initiate prosecution and recover compensation for such failures, failing which the Chairman and the Member Secretary of the KSPCB may be liable for their failure,” it said. The tribunal’s order came in the case related to the non-compliance with Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 (SWM Rules, 2016) at the now defunct Brahmapuram solid waste processing plant on the outskirts of Kochi city resulting in environment pollution and impacting public health. The Principal Bench had taken into consideration the report filed by A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai, chairman of the State Level Monitoring Committee on solid waste management, on the sorry state of affairs at Brahmapuram. On the government decision to cancel the e-tender for biomining of legacy waste at Brahmapuram, the tribunal asked why there should be a bar on a single tender considering the critical situation. Other options The decision to float fresh tenders was taken as only one agency had met the minimum eligibility criteria when an e-tender was floated on March 20. The Bench suggested that other available options be considered for compliance with Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. “Even in the case of waste-to-energy plant, it is stated that the retender has been called for similar reason which will be a cause for further delay in the process of environment remediation, which may be appropriately reconsidered,” it said. The tribunal expressed doubts on whether the leachate generated at the dumping yard could be treated in an ordinary septage treatment plant as it contained heavy metals. This observation was made in reply to the board’s report that the construction of a new leachate collection tank of one-lakh-litre collection capacity was nearing completion. The leachate will be diverted and collected in the new tank and it is to be treated at the septage treatment plant till the proposed leachate treatment plant turns operational, according to the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/brahmapuram-fiasco-pcb-told-to-recover-compensation-or-face-action/article32085754.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Move to map COVID-19 after-effects||Even as the fight against the pandemic continues, data is now being collected from across India on the medical complications that recovered patients are suffering from, including COVID-19-induced diabetes, impaired lung, heart, liver and brain functions along with acute fatigue and dyspnea, after doctors and hospitals indicated this trend. The Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) is collecting data from leading Central government hospitals, including Safdarjung, Ram Manohar Lohia and AIIMS, and across India. Care strategy The Health Ministry said the data would help them come out with guidelines on further care and treatment of those who had recovered. The Ministry pointed out that 86% of the COVID-19 cases in the country were reported from 10 States, with Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu accounting for 50%; the overall recovery rate had climbed from 47.6% (May 31) to 63.02% currently. Leading physicians from across the country have indicated that they are seeing some worrying medical complications among the recovered patients. Cardiologist Dr. Balbir Singh stated that patients were taking a “long time to fully recover and they often complain of feeling lethargic, completely drained out, mentally depressed with the inability to concentrate. In those who developed pneumonia, lung function improves within some months of recovery but some may not normalise due to the fibrosis.’’ Dr. Ambuj Roy from the Department of Cardiology of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, said that there were possibilities of long-term lung function deterioration and vascular diseases. Diabetologist Dr. V. Mohan observed that there were indications of COVID-induced diabetes among recovered patients. There was a move to collect the data on this globally to understand the effect of this relatively new and evolving virus. The stress on the body associated with this virus could lead to long and short term complications. Dr. Yash Gulati, orthopaedic surgeon at IndraprasthaApollo Hospitals, Delhi, said: “the fact of the matter was that nobody knew for sure the exact after effects of the disease but in the medical community, we are aware the damage is caused by thrombosis in the small vessels that ultimately damages lung tissues and other organs, including the heart, and can lead to fatal pulmonary embolism’’. Vaccine development At a press conference, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Dr. Balram Bhargava said that two indigenous vaccine candidates had undergone successful toxicity studies in rats, mice and rabbits and the data had been shared with the Drug Controller General of India. “They have now got clearance to start human trials early this month. These candidates have got their sites ready with clinical study on approximately a 1,000 human volunteers now having been initiated. Also 60% of the vaccines supplied in the world are of Indian origin, India is perceived and is an important player in the vaccine supply. Any vaccine produced or developed in any part of the world will have to be scaled up by India or by China,’’ he said. Acknowledging that Russia was among the front runner in vaccine development and that it had reported success so far in its early phases, Dr. Bhargava noted that countries, including China, the U.S. and the U.K., have all fast-tracked their vaccine development process. The Union government, meanwhile, said it had instructed the States to follow the WHO guidelines on testing. D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/move-to-map-covid-19-after-effects/article32085401.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State sees 43 COVID-19 deaths in a day||The State witnessed 43 COVID-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, and for the third day in a row, the number of COVID positive cases reported in a day was close to the 2,000-mark,as of Tuesday morning. With 1,916 fresh cases, the tally has gone up to 33,019 and the death toll crossed the 400-mark and climbed to 408, according to the bulletin by the Health Department. Also, the number of local cases crossed the 30,000-mark and reached 30,163, which is 91% of all the cases. There are 2,856 imported cases (9%) and 2,424 of them are of people from other States and 432 are of foreign returnees.  Death rate is 1.24% The 43 new deaths occurred in nine districts and Anantapur alone reported 10 deaths. It is followed by West Godavari with nine deaths. Chittoor, East Godavari and Kadapa reported five deaths each, while Kurnool and Prakasam districts reported three deaths each. Visakhapatnam reported two and Vizianagaram reported one death. The death rate has slightly increased to 1.24% and Krishna district 3.17% death rate remains on the top among districts. In the last three days, the State witnessed 99 deaths. New cases Eleven districts reported more than 100 new cases and Chittoor has reported 238 cases, the highest of all districts. It is followed by Srikakulam (215), West Godavari (199), Anantapur (185), Kurnool (169), Nellore (165), East Godavari (160), Guntur (146), Vizianagaram (130), Krishna (129), Kadapa (112), Prakasam (32) and Visakhapatnam (28). There are only eight new imported cases which are of people from other States. Recovery rate The recovery rate of the patients is at 52.90% with a total of 17,467 recoveries including 1,003 recoveries in the past 24 hours. There are 15,144 active patients undergoing treatment. The overall positivity rate has increased to 2.76%. As many as 22,670 samples were tested in the past day and so far 11.95 lakh samples were tested. The district tallies of local cases are as follows: Kurnool (3,823), Anantapur (3,651), Guntur (3,356), East Godavari (3,115), Chittor (3,074), Krishna (2,744), West Godavari (2,026), Kadapa (1,982), Visakhapatnam (1,489), Nellore (1,419), Srikakulam (1,414), Prakasam (1,238) and Vizianagaram (832).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-sees-43-covid-19-deaths-in-a-day/article32085407.ece
15 July 2020||KOCHI,||55 held in protest against LPG terminal||Fifty-five persons, including 33 women, from the vicinity of the LPG jetty and storage facilities being built by the Indian Oil Corporation on Puthuvype island were arrested around 1.30 p.m. by the police on Tuesday after they staged a protest in front of the LPG facility, demanding that all work on the project should be stopped. Those arrested were shifted to the police camp at UC College, near Aluva. Around 100 persons had marched to the project site after 10 a.m. but a large posse of police personnel used iron barricades to prevent them from reaching the the work site close to the Ambalakkadavu beach. The upcoming LPG handling and storage facilities have been at the centre of a long-drawn protest by the people of the island who have alleged that the facilities posed a big threat to their lives and property. Work on the IOC facility was stopped in February 2017 following the protest by people under the aegis of Puthuvype LPG Terminal Virudha Janakiya Samara Samiti. However, the work resumed after nearly two years. B. Jayaghosh of the samiti said on Tuesday that the work site was full of activity in violation of the anti-COVID-19 protocol. The large group of workers, including those from other States, posed a health threat in the background of the spread of the pandemic, he said, and wanted the authorities to intervene and stop these activities. “We have been forced to protest against these activities,” he said. Mr. Jayaghosh also alleged that the project did not have environmental clearance as of now because the permission granted to the facility lapsed on July 4, 2020. K.S. Murali of the samiti said that the police had prevented the protesters from reaching near the work site. He said that the protest would continue on Wednesday. The cooking gas facilities are being built in two parts. One comprises the LPG receiving jetty at the multi-user liquid terminal. There is also a storage facility, which is what is being objected to by the people. The project involves an investment of Rs. 715 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/55-held-in-protest-against-lpg-terminal/article32085748.ece
15 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Rangers guide three tigers out of Kaziranga||The tiger can feel helpless too. Wildlife officials and rescue workers at the flooded Kaziranga National Park (KNP) had to provide a “safe passage” for three tigers in less than two days, guiding them to the relative safety of the hills beyond a highway along the southern edge of the park. “Two tigers swam out to Baghmari village on the outskirts of the western range of the KNP. One was directed towards Karbi Anglong and reached safely, the other disturbed by dogs in the village rested beside the highway before it was also guided to the forest in the hills,” said P. Sivakumar, the park’s director. Animals use nine major and several minor corridors between the KNP and the hills of Karbi Anglong to escape floods during the monsoon and return when the waters subside. About 95% of the park has been flooded this year, with 173 of the 223 anti-poaching camps inundated. So far, 51 animals have been killed and 102 rescued during two waves of flood since May 22. A majority of the animals either drowned or were hit by vehicles while crossing the highway. The rescued animals include a rhino and a tiger. “Like most animals, the tiger too is able to find its way to the hills. But some lose their sense of direction when there are barriers in the corridors,” Mr. Sivakumar said. Many houses, resorts, roadside eateries and other structures have come up over the years on the corridors that are beyond the KNP but within the eco-sensitive zone that is yet to be specified. Among the newest such structures is a resort being built on the Kanchanjuri animal corridor allegedly by an MLA of the ruling alliance in Assam. Apart from keeping the dogs at bay, KNP officials and rescue workers of the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC) had to prevent agitated and overenthusiastic people from disturbing the exhausted and disoriented tigers escaping the floods. On Monday, an operation to guide a sub-adult male tiger to safety took 11 hours. It came out of the park and took shelter in a goatshed at Kandolimari village. “The tiger was disturbed by human activities. We waited patiently to let it rest and regain its strength while making the villagers understand they need to give the striped cat some space,” said Sanshul Ali, a rehabilitation veterinarian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rangers-guide-three-tigers-out-of-kaziranga/article32085403.ece
15 July 2020||MUMBAI,||State reports 6,741 new cases, 213 deaths||Maharashtra reported 6,741 more COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, pushing the total to 2,67,665, even as fresh cases in Mumbai city, that accounts for over a third of total infections, moderated to 954 — only the second time this month that it has reported less than 1,000 cases in a day. With 213 more deaths reported on Tuesday, the toll rose to 10,695, rendering a case fatality rate of 4%. Of these, 145 deaths were from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), with 70 from Mumbai, taking the city’s pandemic toll to 5,405. Within the MMR, which reported 2,893 new cases, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded the second highest after Mumbai city, overtaking Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). KDMC reported 405 cases to take its tally to 15,510, while the TMC’s tally, with 304 new cases, rose to 15,414. Mumbai recorded 954 cases, taking its tally to 95,100 with cases in the MMR rising to 1,79,760. The last time Mumbai reported less than a 1,000 cases this month was 785 on July 7. While the MMR, large parts of which are currently under lockdown, showed some moderation in fresh cases, the Pune, Nashik and Nagpur divisions reported a significant surge. With 4,500 patients discharged, the total number of recoveries is 1,49,007, a recovery rate of 55.67%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-6741-new-cases-213-deaths/article32085873.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||All SSC students declared passed||The government on Tuesday issued orders, permitting the Director of Government Examinations to declare all the students who registered for the SSC (10th class) public examinations in March, and issued hall tickets, passed, without awarding any grade points as a one-time measure. The government had to give up its initial plan to conduct the SSC exams in view of a sharp spike in COVID-19 cases and serious concerns raised by both parents and officials of the allied departments involved in making the arrangements. Keeping in view the larger interests of the students, the government finally dropped the plan to conduct the exam and decided to declare all students passed. The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE), which had notified for establishment of new private unaided junior colleges in 323 viable mandals and four municipalities in the State, has added a few more in the list. A statement said at present, there was a viability for 371 mandals and 100 municipal bodies, in addition to the earlier notification. The last date for submission of online applications with geo-tagging is August 17. The application will be available on the BIE websitehttps://bie.ap.gov.infrom July 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-ssc-students-declared-passed/article32085412.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China hold fourth round of consultations||India and China held the fourth round of Corps Commanders talks at Chushul on Tuesday to work out details on the second phase of disengagement on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The talks were still on at the time of going to print. This round of talks come about a month after the violent clash at Galwan on June 15, which left 20 Indian soldiers dead. The talks began around 11 a.m. on Tuesday, a defence source said, adding they would cover the entire eastern Ladakh. The focus of the talks is to work out details of further disengagement from the standoff areas and withdraw the massive deployment by China of troops, tanks, artillery and air defences along the LAC, including at the strategically important Depsang Plains. Like in the previous rounds, the Indian delegation was led by Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps and the Chinese side by Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region. The earlier talks were held on June 6, 22 and 30. While the first two rounds were held on the Chinese side at Moldo, the third round was held on the Indian side at Chushul. During the talks, India has consistently maintained restoration of status quo ante of April and complete withdrawal of deployment by China along the LAC. Last week, Indian and Chinese troops completed the first phase of disengagement from standoff areas in Galwan valley, Hot Springs and Gogra and also partial disengagement from Pangong Tso, where Chinese troops moved back from the base of Finger 4 to Finger 5. However, Chinese troops are still present on the ridge line of Finger 4. At each place, Indian troops also moved back couple of kilometres following pull back by the Chinese troops as per consensus reached, creating a temporary buffer zone with only a small group of soldiers left to verify the disengagement. Another defence source said restoration of status quo at Pangong Tso is going to be tough and could take more rounds of talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-hold-fourth-round-of-consultations/article32085419.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parliament project: seven firms bid to pre-qualify||Seven construction companies, including an Uttar Pradesh government undertaking, have submitted bids for pre-qualification for the contract to build a new Parliament building, according to the Central Public Works Department’s records. The pre-qualification bids were opened on Tuesday, after the 3 p.m. deadline. According to the CPWD’s online tender portal, the bids received were from ITD Cementation India Limited, Larsen and Toubro Ltd., NCC Ltd., PSP Projects Ltd., Shapoorji Pallonji and Co Ltd., Tata Projects Ltd. and Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Ltd. Between them, the bidders have constructed Metro rail projects, ports, stadia, industrial complexes among others in the past. The CPWD had called for pre-qualification of firms instead of inviting financial and technical bids, as is the norm, due to security concerns, a spokesperson for Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry had said recently. A Ministry official had said that drawings for the new building, that is to be developed adjacent to the existing Parliament, would only be shared with those that pre-qualify. A part of the government’s proposed redevelopment of the Central Vista, the construction of the new Parliament is expected to take 21 months and cost an estimated Rs. 889 crore, acco-rding to the CPWD’s notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parliament-project-seven-firms-bid-to-pre-qualify/article32085629.ece
15 July 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 deaths in North 24 Parganas surpass Kolkata||North 24 Parganas, which has emerged as a COVID-19 hotspot in West Bengal, on Tuesday recorded more fatalities than Kolkata. The district recorded eight deaths while Kolkata recorded seven, as per the bulletin shared by the State’s Health Department. This is the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic that a district has recorded more causalities than Kolkata. The State reported 24 deaths in 24 hours, taking its death toll to 980. A total of 1,390 new cases were also recorded, taking the total case tally to 32,838. The number of active cases has touched 11,927 and the recovery rate remains 60.69%. In another development, State Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said the current broad-based approach to containment zones in the State will remain in place till July 19. The notification said, “rigours of containment zones be particularly enforced in and around the city of Kolkata, and inter-alia in towns of Jalpaiguri, Malda, Coochbehar, Raiganj and Siliguri where comprehensive lockdown will be affected from 15th July 2020”. Meanwhile, the Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed a post-mortem examination of the 18-year-old student who died of COVID-19 on July 9. His family members have alleged that he was denied treatment at a number of State-run hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-deaths-in-north-24-parganas-surpass-kolkata/article32085812.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Awaiting tourists||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/awaiting-tourists/article32085513.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||50,000 beds||Anticipating a massive surge in COVID-19 cases in the coming weeks, the government on Tuesday issued an order deputing IAS officials to every district to assist all District Collectors in setting up and operationalising more first-line treatment centres and readying 50,000 beds across the State within the next 10 days.P 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/50000-beds/article32085823.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Pilot likely to spell out plans today||Rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot is expected to spell out his future plans on Wednesday, a source close to him told The Hindu. Apart from a cryptic tweet thanking his supporters and a change in his Twitter bio, calling himself as MLA from Tonk and a former Union Minister, Mr. Pilot didn’t drop any hints.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pilot-likely-to-spell-out-plans-today/article32085413.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||ICMR chief raises doubts over drugs||There is yet no evidence from trials that itolizumab and tocilizumab reduce death in severely ill COVID-19 patients, said ICMR Director-General Dr. Balram Bhargava said, adding that more trials were necessary.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/icmr-chief-raises-doubts-over-drugs/article32085417.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Raje silent; BJP watching situation||Former Rajasthan Chief Minister and BJP leader Vasundhara Raje has been silent on the goings-on in the State. Sources in the BJP say Ms. Raje’s silence and her considerable hold on MLAs is one of the reasons why the party has been proceeding rather gingerly with regard to “toppling the Gehlot government”. Other BJP leaders from the State have commented, though in measured tones.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/raje-silent-bjp-watching-situation/article32085418.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,||II PU students shine with 61.8 pass percentage||Karnataka on Tuesday recorded the highest ever pass percentage in the second pre-university (PU) examination, at 61.8. Of the total 6.75 lakh students who took the examination this year, the results of which were announced on Tuesday, 4.17 lakh cleared it. Last year, the pass percentage was 61.73. The neighbouringcoastal districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada shared the top spot as both of them clocked 90.71% passes. Vijayapura, with 54.22%, stood at the last spot in the district-wise ranking. Maintaining the trend, girls, with a pass percentage of 68.73, outperformed boys (54.77%). However, in a shift from last year’s trend, this year, students in urban areas, with 62.6% passes, fared better than their rural counterparts (58.99%). The maximum number of students to clear the exam were in the Science stream (76.2%), followed by Commerce (65.52%). The Arts stream recorded the lowest pass percentage (41.27). Barring the English paper, all others were held in March. Owing to the prevailing pandemic, the English exam was postponed and held on June 18. The topper in the Commerce stream is Aravind Srivatsa from Vidyamandir Independent PU College at Malleswaram, Bengaluru, who secured 598 out of 600. In the Science stream, the top spot has been shared by Abhijna Rao from Vidyodaya PU College in Udupi and Prerana M.N. from Vidyamandir Independent PU College, Bengaluru, who secured 596 out of 600. Karegouda Dasannagouda from Indu Independent PU College, Kottur, secured 594 marks and topped the Arts stream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ii-pu-students-shine-with-618-pass-percentage/article32085455.ece
15 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana may impose curfew in four districts||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said the State government was considering to impose curfew in four districts sharing border with Delhi and seal them to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-may-impose-curfew-in-four-districts/article32085628.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi sees less than 2K cases for 4 days in a row||The national capital recorded less than 2,000 fresh COVID-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day on Tuesday, with 1,606 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours. Of the total 1,15,346 cases, 93,236 have recovered and 18,664 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-sees-less-than-2k-cases-for-4-days-in-a-row/article32085626.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Online exams for DU students from August 10||Delhi University will hold online open book exams for final-year students from August 10-31, the High Court was told on Monday. The university had earlier decided to hold the exams from August 17, but has now decided to advance the date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/online-exams-for-du-students-from-august-10/article32085627.ece
15 July 2020||Mumbai,||West Bengal didn’t handle migrants issue properly: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said the migrants’ issue was not handled properly in West Bengal amid the COVID-19 pandemic, and the government even refused to permit labourers from other parts of the country to return to their homes at one point. The statement came after the Centre of Indian Trade Unionsraised concerns over the plight of migrant workers stranded in Maharashtra and claimed that several labourers from West Bengal wanted to go back.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-didnt-handle-migrants-issue-properly-bombay-hc/article32085811.ece
15 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||9 more dead, 32.94 lakh affected by Assam floods||Nine people drowned in Assam on Saturday, taking the floods-related death tally to 59. The flood situation continued to worsen, affecting 32.94 lakh people across 28 of the State’s 33 districts. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said nine people died across five districts during the last 24 hours. “So far, 59 people have lost their lives,” an ASDMA spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9-more-dead-3294-lakh-affected-by-assam-floods/article32085813.ece
15 July 2020||Belagavi,||MLA in quarantine||BJP MLA from Belagavi North Anil Benake is in home quarantine on the suspicion that he may have contracted coronavirus. While doctors said that he had tested positive, he said that he was yet to get the test results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mla-in-quarantine/article32085666.ece
15 July 2020||Jalna,||Tope warns of action against hospitals overcharging patients||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope has said strict action would be taken against private hospitals charging exorbitant fees from COVID-19 patients and for other treatments. Mr. Tope was talking to reporters after a meeting with private doctors in the State’s Jalna district on Monday. Asked about complaints that some private hospitals in Jalna were taking advance and hefty sums from COVID-19 patients, the minister said, “We will not tolerate it.” The State has included COVID-19 treatment under its flagship health scheme.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tope-warns-of-action-against-hospitals-overcharging-patients/article32085870.ece
15 July 2020||Mumbai,||sanjay||The Maharashtra Congress on Tuesday suspended former spokesperson Sanjay Jha from the party “with immediate effect for anti-party activities and breach of discipline”. State Congress president Balasaheb Thorat signed the suspension order of Mr. Jha, who was removed from the party’s media panel last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sanjay/article32085872.ece
15 July 2020||Madurai,||No restrictions on sale of paracetamol, says govt.||The State government on Tuesday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that it had not issued any order restricting the over-the-counter sale of paracetamol tablets in pharmacies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-restrictions-on-sale-of-paracetamol-says-govt/article32085505.ece
15 July 2020||Chennai,||CM launches televised lessons for students||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday launched televised lessons for Class 10 students through Kalvi TV. The lessons will be broadcast on the State-run channel for two-and-a-half hours every day, from Monday to Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-launches-televised-lessons-for-students/article32085506.ece
15 July 2020||Chennai,||4,526 new COVID-19 cases registered in T.N.||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday reported 4,526 fresh cases of COVID-19. Fourteen districts, excluding Chennai, reported more than 100 infections each. The number of new cases continued to fall in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4526-new-covid-19-cases-in-tamil-nadu/article32085509.ece
15 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||With 608 cases, Kerala experiences a big surge||A massive surge in local transmission of COVID-19 in coastal Thiruvananthapuram resulted in Kerala recording its highest single day spike yet of 608 cases on Tuesday. The State’s cumulative case burden fell just short of the 9,000 mark. Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, said the public had to come to terms with the reality that the COVID-19 situation was set to escalate. The State had to prepare itself for the long haul and the epidemic was not expected to ease before year end. Kerala’s 608 new cases raised cumulative cases to 8,930. Imported cases were 198, while those reported from the community from local transmission accounted for more than double the number, at 409. Mr.Vijayan said that in 26 “contact cases”, an epidemiological link was yet to be established. Those who acquired COVID-19 through local transmission included eight health care workers, one BSF jawan, two ITBP personnel and two CISF men. A 47-year-old man died at Alapuzha taking Kerala’s COVID death toll to 34. With 151 recoveries on Tuesday, active cases were 4,454.  Andhra Pradesh witnessed 43 deaths in 24 hours, and for the third day in a row, cases were close to the 2,000-mark. With 1,916 fresh cases, the tally went up to 33,019 and the death toll to 408, a Health Department bulletin said. Local cases touched 30,163, representing 91% of all cases. There were 2,856 imported cases and 2,424 of them were people from other States and 432 foreign returnees.  Eleven districts reported more than 100 new cases. Karnataka on Tuesday saw 87 deaths, the highest on a single day so far. With this, the toll touched 842. With 2,496 new cases, the total for positive cases touched 44,077. Bengaluru Urban recorded 1,267 cases and 56 deaths. After seeing a decline in the number of tests in the past two days, as many as 23,674 tests were conducted on Tuesday. 4,526 new cases in T.N. Fourteen districts, excluding Chennai, reported over 100 cases of COVID-19 each on Tuesday. While new infections continued to fall in Chennai, the rest of the State accounted for nearly 76% of 4,526 fresh cases. Tamil Nadu’s overall tally stood at 1,47,321 of which 47,912 persons were under treatment. The number of persons discharged after treatment rose to 97,310, with 4,743 more being discharged. Another 67 persons, including a 13-year-old girl, died, taking the toll to 2,099. Chennai’s case dip continued for the sixth day, with 1,078 fresh cases reported. Among those discharged 1,858 were from city hospitals. With this, a total of 62,552 persons were discharged in the city, while 15,814 were under treatment.           (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/with-608-cases-kerala-experiences-a-big-surge/article32085360.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Pilot likely to spell out future plans today||Rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot is expected to spell out his future plans on Wednesday, a source close to Mr. Pilot told The Hindu as political circles seemed focused on what lies ahead for him and his supporters. Apart from a cryptic tweet thanking his supporters and a change in his Twitter bio, calling himself as MLA from the Tonk constituency and a former Union Minister, Mr. Pilot didn’t drop any hints. But some of his party colleagues are still hoping to salvage the situation. ‘Dedicated worker’ “Sachin Pilot is not just a colleague but my friend. No one can take away the fact that all these years he has worked with dedication for the party. Sincerely we hope the situation can still be salvaged. Sad it has come to this,” tweeted former Congress MP Jitin Prasada. Congress leaders said they would wait for the next move by the Pilot camp and insisted that the party has neither suspended nor expelled him. So what are the possible options for Mr. Pilot? Like his friend Jyotiraditya Scindia, Mr. Pilot can join the BJP and work towards dislodging the Ashok Gehlot by forcing a floor test. Though the Pilot camp at the moment claims the support of 20 to 22 MLAs, they are confident that more would join in during a floor test. Legal battles With the Speaker being a Congress leader, the rebel MLAs could get entangled in disqualification and lengthy legal battles. The other option is to follow the Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh model and persuade more MLAs to resign and bring down the Congress numbers below the BJP and its allies who have 76 MLAs. In the BJP, however, Mr. Pilot not only faces the risk of getting overshadowed by leaders like Vasundhara Raje and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat but may not be made Chief Minister, the main reason for the feud, immediately. He could, however, be made a Minister in the Union Cabinet. The 42-year-old Congress leader could float a regional party as he has the experience of working with grassroots workers as the PCC chief. But Rajasthan has largely been a two-party State with even parties like the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) failing to emerge as a force despite a substantial Dalit population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pilot-likely-to-spell-out-future-plans-today/article32085373.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR caution on itolizumab, tocilizumab||There is yet no evidence from trials that itolizumab and tocilizumab, two drugs, one of which has been developed by Bengaluru-based Biocon Biologics, reduce death in severely ill COVID-19 patients, Director-General of the ICMR Balram Bhargava said at a Health Ministry press briefing on Tuesday. Both drugs are lab-cloned antibodies, and work at thwarting or reducing a rush of chemicals called pro-inflammatory cytokines that are released by the immune system to counter the coronavirus attack on lung cells. Cytokines prime the immune system to send special cells to neutralise virus particles. However a ‘cytokine storm’ that is manifested usually as an Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) ends up causing inflammation and aggravating lung damage and harm to other organs and is said to be responsible for killing a large fraction of the 3%-5% of COVID-19 patients that die. Tocilizumab has a history of use in immune-system-disorder diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, and itolizumab in acute psoriasis. The ICMR last month approved the use of tocilizumab on patients who need to be externally oxygenated and those who need ventilators but are not benefiting from steroids. On Monday, Biocon said at a press conference that results from a phase-2 study meant to check a drug’s efficacy showed that the novel biologic, itolizumab, “significantly reduced mortality” in moderate to severe ARDS patients hospitalised with COVID-19, in India. On Tuesday, Dr. Bhargava said: “There are two drugs which have been thought to be preventing the cytokine storm. One is tocilizumab and the other is itolizumab, which are being thought that they can prevent the cytokine storm. Having said that, they have not yet demonstrated mortality reduction by any trial and therefore, trials are wanting, and are happening in different parts of the world, to look at whether there is mortality reduction with these two drugs”. In response to a question from The Hindu on whether the jury on itolizumab’s efficacy was still out, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw of Biocon replied via a tweet that “...Pivotal data did show mortality reduction but there was a need for larger Phase 4 trials to support this”. The drug regulator allowed the medicine — that cost Rs. 8,000 a vial — to be allowed for Restricted Use Emergency Authorisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/icmr-caution-on-itolizumab-tocilizumab/article32085390.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||EU, India to meet on resuming FTA negotiations||Seven years after talks on a free trade agreement were suspended, India and the European Union (EU) are set to agree on a “high-level dialogue on trade and investment” to restart negotiations. The announcement is expected at a virtual EU-India Summit, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, who will engage with President of the European Council Charles Michel and President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen. During this summit, India and the EU are expected to conclude several agreements including a roadmap for cooperation, an agreement on research sharing for civil nuclear cooperation and launch a maritime security dialogue as well as negotiations between Europol and the CBI. According to officials, tackling COVID-19 and its impact on the economy and the global order will be high on the agenda. In particular, medical developments on vaccines and treatment will be discussed along with the withdrawal of the U.S. from multilateral organisations (like the World Health Organisation), and concerns over an ‘assertive’ China. European Union officials said they had been fully briefed by New Delhi and Beijing about the situation at the Line of Actual control, as they were deeply concerned by the deadly clashes at the Galwan Valley last month, and they were “pleased” that both sides have since agreed to military de-escalation. The trade and investment dialogue, to be conducted between Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and EU Trade Commissioner Phil Hogan, is expected to give a boost to negotiations on the Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA) as the EU-India FTA is known. “The leaders have expressed their ambition to move towards a comprehensive free trade agreement and an investment protection agreement and we will announce a new dialogue which will give a political impetus to such efforts,” said EU officials based in Brussels. An EU official, who specialises in trade issues, admitted that there was “no timeline” for the BTIA talks yet and that negotiators are still “quite far apart” due to what Europe perceives as India’s “protectionist stance”. “We have witnessed a trend in India that goes towards the protectionist side. The Make in India programme was accelerated by the COVID-19 crisis and recent pronouncements that India wants to go “self reliant”, didn’t help the situation,” the official said, referring to Mr. Modi’s launch of “Atmanirbhar India”. The official said trade with India formed under 3% of the EU’s global trade, which is “far below” what was expected of the relationship. Conversely, the EU is India’s largest trading partner and investor, and accounts for 11% of India’s global trade. The official also said the EU has reservations about the model “Bilateral Investment Treaty” (BIT) that New Delhi has proposed, especially on dispute mechanisms in Indian courts. Speaking about the importance of multilateralism and cooperation on global forums, the officials said the EU had welcomed India’s election to the UN Security Council next year, and that India’s role would be important in reconciling the UNSC “paralysed by vetoes and infighting”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eu-india-to-meet-on-resuming-fta-negotiations/article32085393.ece
15 July 2020||JAIPUR,||No immediate threat to Congress govt. in Rajasthan||After the political turmoil created by Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot’s rebellion resulting in his removal from the Cabinet on Tuesday, there is no immediate threat to the stability of the Congress government led by veteran leader Ashok Gehlot. The Opposition BJP is far behind the ruling Congress in its strength in the Assembly. In the 200-member Assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs, while the BJP has 72. After losing the support of Mr. Pilot’s camp, the Congress will still enjoy the backing of smaller parties and 13 Independents, though the party has distanced itself from three Independent legislators. AICC general secretary in charge of the State Avinash Pande has claimed that the Gehlot camp had the support of 109 MLAs. The Congress needs the support of 101 lawmakers for a simple majority. Mr. Gehlot, who met Govenor Kalraj Mishra after a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party here on Tuesday, handed over a list of 104 MLAs, claiming a majority in the Assembly. According to Congress sources, as many as 102 MLAs were present at the CLP meeting. One of the MLAs, Bhanwarlal Meghwal, holding the Social Justice and Empowerment portfolio, did not attend the meeting because of his ill-health. Mr. Pilot had claimed that over 30 Congress and some Independent MLAs had pledged support to him. However, only 18 MLAs skipped the CLP meetings held here on Monday and Tuesday. Interestingly, two-thirds of the Congress MLAs — 72 out of the 107 — will have to leave the party to escape the anti-defection law. Political observers here feel that such a probability would be highly unlikely in the near future. Sikar-based political analyst Ashfaq Kayamkhani said Mr. Pilot may not be able to cobble together the number of legislators required to topple the State government. The option of joining the BJP is open for him, but a number of factors will influence his move in this regard. The difference between the combined strength of Congress and that of the Opposition precludes any Madhya Pradesh-like situation here.  Bharatiya Tribal Party president Maheshbhai Vasava has issued a whip asking his party’s two MLAs, who have been supporting the Congress, to remain neutral. The two CPI(M) MLAs and the lone Rashtriya Lok Dal MLA have been supporting the Congress government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-immediate-threat-to-congress-govt-in-rajasthan/article32085366.ece
15 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Rifles recovered from Dubey’s home||The Uttar Pradesh police on Tuesday said they had recovered two weapons — an AK-47 and an INSAS rifle — that were allegedly snatched from a police team in Bikru village of Kanpur during the raid on gangster Vikas Dubey’s house on July 2-3. Additional Director-General of Police, Law and Order, Prashant Kumar said in Kanpur that the “looted” weapons were found after the arrest of accused Sashikant Pandey, who had a bounty of Rs. 50,000 on him. The AK-47 rifle was found in the house of Dubey, while the INSAS was recovered from Sashikant’s residence, he said. Seventeen cartridges of AK-47 and 20 of the INSAS rifle were also recovered, he added. The exact spots where the weapons were hidden were not revealed by the police. The administration had partially demolished the house of Dubey after the killing of eight policemen and stationed the Provincial Armed Constabulary at the site. Sashikant, who lived adjacent to Dubey’s house, was arrested from an intersection in Chaubeypur around 2.30 a.m. after a tip-off, said Mr. Kumar. During questioning, Mr. Kumar claimed Sashikant spoke of his involvement in the incident. With Sashikant’s arrest, 11 are still absconding. Six accused, including Dubey, were shot dead. Last week in Bikru village, Sashikant’s family told The Hindu that on the night of the incident, he came home after work from a detergent factory where he is employed but fled with his father, Prem Kumar Pandey, after the firing started. His wife, Manu Pandey, claimed that he had no role in the violence. Prem Kumar Pandey was shot dead a few hours after the Bikru shootout, in which eight policemen were killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rifles-recovered-from-dubeys-home/article32085387.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Union Minister Shekhawat hints at Pilot’s entry into BJP||Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday gave several indications that rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot may be joining the BJP after he was sacked from the posts of Rajasthan Congress president and Deputy Chief Minister. Speaking to the media, Mr Shekhawat said “Any leader with a mass base who wishes to join the BJP should be welcomed.” Senior party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Om Mathur had already left for Jaipur amid the unfolding drama after a second meeting of the Congress Legislature Party. ‘Creating distractions’ Mr. Shekhawat refuted allegations that the BJP had done anything to fuel infighting in the Congress in the State. “There is a trend in Bollywood that is now being seen in Congress — when the producer, director, actors, technicians find that their film is going to flop they try to float propaganda to distract from this failure. The Ashok Gehlot government has done the same,” he said. He said the events of the past few days and the last one-and-a-half years of infighting in the State government had affected the development and welfare of the State. He also declared that the Gehlot government was in a minority and that it was going to distribute patronage in the form of Ministries and positions to safeguard itself to the detriment of the people of the State. “When a husband and wife fight, it is easy to blame the priest,” he said on accusations that the BJP may have undermined the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/union-minister-shekhawat-hints-at-pilots-entry-into-bjp/article32085370.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Is there special facility to conduct COVID-19 test for public servants on duty during lockdown, asks HC||Expressing concern over the health of a large number of public servants who will be on duty during the lockdown, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday asked the State government whether any special facility was in place for them in case they had to be tested for COVID-19. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Alok Aradhe posed this question while pointing out that there could be chances of these public servants turning primary contacts on coming in touch with suspected COVID-19 patients while discharging their duties. The Bench, which was hearing PIL petitions on shortcomings in COVID-19 health facilities, said that public servants working in various government departments, police, civic agencies, and courts in areas during lockdown require such a special facility for their health care during this period. Is SMS valid for admission? Also, the Bench asked the government to clarify whether a person who tests positive for COVID-19 can get admission in private hospital based on the SMS intimation received based on the lab test output notified on the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) portal. 1912 helpline of Bescom As the 24x7 helpline for electricity supply in Bescom is also being used as a helpline for lodging complaints about denial of treatment or bed, the Bench asked how this helpline was useful as it was claimed by advocates for the petitioners that this electricity helpline will have to cater to 20,000 to 35,000 electricity-related complaints during monsoon. To an earlier query by the court, the government said that lab test reports in certain cases may be delayed as a few labs were shutting on discovery of COVID-19 cases in the labs. On a web portal set up to give real-time bed availability information in Bengaluru, the bench said that this should be in both Kannada and English as the information on the portal currently is only in English.  Government’s answers to court’s queries  A person can voluntarily get himself tested at a private COVID-19 testing centre apart from being referred to by fever clinics.  Time limits for test results range from 12 to 48 hours depending on priority category of patients. Once a person gives a swab test, they are instructed to self-quarantine until results arrive. If a person shows symptoms even before a test is conducted or results are received, they are sent to a hospital awaiting result. Once COVID-19 is declared in the ICMR portal, patients get an SMS notice and health authorities will visit them between four and 24 hours after the result. Health officials determine the nature of quarantine or hospitalisation required for patients. People can contact 1912 in Bengaluru to complain if denied treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/is-there-special-facility-to-conduct-covid-19-test-for-public-servants-on-duty-during-lockdown-asks-hc/article32085457.ece
15 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Labour code may hit construction workers||The Central government’s proposed move to repeal 15 existing laws on social security, including the Building and Other Construction Workers Act of 1996, and replace them with a single Labour Code on Social Security and Welfare has led to much concern among construction workers. Kerala was the first State to set up a welfare board for construction workers in 1989, a sort of model for the Central Act in 1996. The system has wide reach in the State with 20 lakh construction workers as members and regular disbursal of various benefits. Across the country, around 3.5 crore workers are registered under State-level boards. The funds for running the welfare board are raised from 1% building cess levied during construction of buildings. The benefits provided include pension, accident insurance of Rs. 4 lakh, medical aid, scholarship for children and around 15 other benefits. In Kerala, the board runs an old-age home for ‘retired’ construction workers in Thiruvananthapuram. During COVID-19, Rs. 1,000 was released to all 20 lakh registered members, in addition to a monthly pension of Rs. 1,300 to 3.5 lakh members. “Once the board stops to have an independent existence and is merged with other welfare funds, the workers stand to lose as it is one of the better managed when compared to other funds. The Centre will also get complete control over the funds and steps such as investment of these funds in the stock market could happen. The welfare fund is one of the biggest sources of support for existing and retired workers. We should only strengthen it, not weaken it,” said V. Sasikumar, secretary, Construction Workers Federation of India. On Monday, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) organised nationwide protests with five workers in each centre against the move. Elamaram Kareem, a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour, said: “This is part of the BJP government’s plans to repeal all existing labour laws and merge them into four separate codes. One of the codes has already been passed in Parliament without referring to the labour standing committee. The remaining three are in front of the standing committee. Due to the pandemic, the discussions have been held up. Now, under the Centre’s pressure, the meeting has been fixed on July 17, but many of us will be unable to make it to Delhi. The Speaker has also denied permission for an online meeting.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/labour-code-may-hit-construction-workers/article32085756.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hydel generation starts at Jurala project as inflows rise||As the inflows into Jurala from the upstream reservoir Narayanpur in Karnataka kept rising, the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TS-Genco) has taken up hydro-electric generation at its 6×39 MW power plant at Priyadarshini Jurala project by switching on two units around noon on Tuesday. Commencement of early flood from the upstream of Krishna river has enabled hydel generation almost two weeks in advance at Jurala, compared to last year. In 2019, power generation could begin only on July 30. However, 2019-20 has been one of the best years for hydro power generation in Telangana as over 640 million units of power was generated at Jurala and Lower Jurala hydel stations alone. Total hydel generation during 2019-20 was over 4,509 million units out of TS-Genco’s total own generation of thermal, hydel and solar power generation of 25,536 million units. “With the commencement of hydel generation at Jurala, we hope to at least repeat last year’s feat as the meteorological department has forecast good monsoon this year too. Hydro power generated so far, mostly at Nagarjunasagar and Srisailam this year (2020-21), has been 52.5 million units till July 13,” a senior official of TS-Genco explained. Hydel generation at Jurala was taken up once the inflows reached 14,000 cusecs and by switching on two units. About 13,400 cusecs of water was let into the river course and one more hydel unit was switched on as the inflows increased to 22,000 cusecs in the afternoon and the discharge into the river course from power generation went up to 15,400 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hydel-generation-starts-at-jurala/article32085723.ece
15 July 2020||KOCHI,||Joining hands to build home for schoolgirl||Malavika has never seen better days. From the times when she had to remain starving in a leaky plastic tent alongside her ailing mother, jobless father and little younger brother, her family now remains safely ensconced in a solid house, thanks to the large-heartedness of people around her. “I am very happy to have a new home,” was all Malavika could say. Last year, The Hindu had reported about the plight of the 12-year-old from Kuttampuzha panchayat in Kothamangalam along the eastern suburbs of Kochi after she burst into tears in a school bus out of hunger. Her friends and teachers from St. Stephen’s Girls Higher Secondary School, Keerampara, were shocked to see the condition of her home when they dropped in shortly after the incident. Her father, Subramanyam, was just rendered jobless in that year’s floods while her polio-affected mother could hardly supplement the family income. “We formed a WhatsApp group for building the family a home and the report of The Hindu helped us to mobilise over Rs. 2 lakh, including from Malayali expatriates, while it also brought her father a job,” said Bintumol Kurian, a teacher at Malavika’s school. Students and the school PTA chipped in while the panchayat and a local group called Swaraj also joined hands to eventually mobilise Rs. 6.75 lakh. With a compassionate local resident donating three cents of land to the family, the construction of the house was launched last December and it was handed over last Sunday. “The plot was on an elevated region and with no direct road access and bringing the building materials to the site was a tough task,” said Martin Simon, the school Principal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/joining-hands-to-build-home-for-schoolgirl/article32085343.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Abide by Army mandate on social media platforms: HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday refused to grant interim relief to a senior Army officer who challenged the Indian Army’s recent directive banning the usage of social networking platforms, including Facebook and Instagram, in all ranks, saying the issue has the potential of concerning the safety and security of the country. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Asha Menon declined to entertain the plea of Lieutenant Colonel P.K. Choudhary, who is currently serving in Jammu and Kashmir, to retain the account in deactivated form. Losing contacts Lt. Col. Choudhary, during the brief hearing, argued that all the Facebook data related to his account, including contacts and friends list once deleted would be “irretrievably lost”. The Bench, however, said Lt. Col. Choudhary could always create a new social media account later. It said the officer had to abide by the mandate of the organisation. In the petition, Lt. Col. Choudhary said the policy issued on June 6, 2020, which banned the usage of 89 applications and websites violated various fundamental rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/abide-by-army-mandate-on-social-media-platforms-hc/article32085374.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India dropped for not involving actively in rail project, says Iran||Iran dropped India from the Chabahar rail project because of “absence of active Indian engagement,” Iranian sources said on Tuesday, confirming The Hindu ’s report. Iran remains open to all, including India, for collaboration and investment but Tehran expects future projects should be safeguarded from third party unilateral sanctions. “It was expected that in addition to the investment in Chabahar Port, India could also play a more crucial role in funding and constructing this strategic transit route from Chabahar to Zahedan and from Zahedan to Sarakhs at the border with Turkmenistan, which in the absence of an active Indian engagement and partnership, currently is under construction by Iranian funding and engineering capacities,” said Iranian sources.    The Hindu reported on Tuesday that Iran had gone ahead with the important transit project on its own citing delays from the Indian side in funding. The delay has also indicated at possible impact of U.S. sanctions on India’s projects with Iran. Though India secured exemption for the Chabahar port from U.S. sanctions, bilateral ties with Iran took a hit in February after the riots in Delhi drew condemnation from Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif. India had firmed up the railway plans in May 2016 during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Tehran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-dropped-for-not-involving-actively-in-rail-project-says-iran/article32085398.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Medical test not needed for trans ID certificate: draft rules||After facing flak from the transgender community, the Union government has done away with the requirement of a medical examination for trans persons applying for a certificate of identity in its latest draft rules framed under the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019. The draft of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Rules, 2020, published in the gazette on Monday, stated that a District Magistrate would issue a transgender identity certificate and card based on an affidavit by the applicant, “but without any medical examination”. An earlier draft of the rules, for which the Ministry had invited public comments till May 18, mandated a report from a psychologist along with the affidavit for the application. The trans rights movement had opposed this, as it was seen as going against a trans person’s right to self-identification. Social Justice Ministry Secretary R. Subrahmanyam said the latest draft, which is open for comments for 30 days from July 13, had addressed the community’s issues regarding identity and included welfare measures for trans persons. An online application system was being prepared and may be ready by September, he said. Trans persons would be required to fill out a form and submit an affidavit saying they perceive themselves to be “a transgender person whose gender does not match with the gender assigned at birth”. In case of change of gender, the application for new identification certificate would require a certificate from the medical superintendent or chief medical officer of the medical institution where the applicant underwent the intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/medical-test-not-needed-for-trans-id-certificate-draft-rules/article32085399.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,||OPDs in two pvt. Bengaluru hospitals shut||The tussle between private hospitals and the State government further intensified on Tuesday with officials from the Health Department closing down the Out-Patient Department (OPD) of two private hospitals for 48 hours for not sharing 50% of their COVID-19 beds with the government. The two hospitals — Vikram and Apollo, Jayanagar Unit — were issued a notice on Monday and had been asked to share half of their beds with the government within 24 hours failing which their OPD will be shut down. On Tuesday, Bengaluru Urban District Health Officer (DHO) G.A. Srinivas went to the hospitals and closed down the OPD. “We have posted our health officials and police at the hospitals to make sure they do not violate rules further,” the DHO said. He said criminal cases have been booked against the hospitals under the Epidemic Diseases Act, National Disaster Management Act and KPME Act. Spokespersons from both the hospitals said they were working on handing over the beds. With all beds being occupied now, they will be handed over as and when patients get discharged, the hospitals said. This “ugly turn of events” has irked the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association that feels that the government wants to cover up its failure by blaming the private hospitals. While the government has been insisting that half of the COVID-19 beds in private hospitals should be reserved for government referred patients, private hospitals argue that these beds are occupied by COVID-19 patients only. “They may have come directly to hospitals but they are also residents of Karnataka. How can the government be so rigid and fix their quota asking 50% of beds for government referred patients,” said a private hospital representative. PHANA president R. Ravindra said the association was deeply hurt by the government’s behaviour. “We are ready to let them take over all the hospitals and allot beds for patients through the central allotment system. We will soon convene our core committee meeting and write to the government that such a confrontation will create problems,” he said. Meanwhile, the government issued a circular on Tuesday directing hospitals to admit patients having breathing distress on priority without insisting for a COVID-19 test report or BBMP letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opds-in-two-pvt-bengaluru-hospitals-shut/article32085458.ece
15 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sivasankar summoned in gold smuggling case||The Customs investigation into the smuggling of gold via the diplomatic channel of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) Consulate here has appeared to pivot towards potential “persons of interest” whose association with the accused in the case has come in the spotlight. Senior bureaucrat M. Sivasankar, who had to step down as Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan after the scandal broke, seems to top the list. The investigators have summoned him for questioning in connection with the case that has economic and national security implications. International ties The investigation that has a bearing on international relations comes awkwardly close to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) with the Customs enforcers inspecting Mr. Sivasankar’s apartment, verifying his mobile phone calls and trying to fathom whether the official’s connection with second accused Swapna Suresh was felonious. Mr. Sivasankar reportedly appeared for questioning at the Customs House here on Tuesday. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is working in tandem with the Customs and seems intent on unearthing well-entrenched gold smuggling networks, their financiers and also beneficiaries, which agency officials have told the court could include antinational outfits. Meanwhile, Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel said Swapna had spoken to him on May 27 at the instance of the UAE Consul General to donate food kits to the needy. The consulate had continued to engage Swapna for liaison work on a “request basis” even after she left the mission to work for an IT Department subsidiary. He said government officials and Ministers had recurrently interacted with Swapna in her capacity as executive secretary to the UAE consul. Meanwhile, a Chief Secretary-level inquiry is on to find out how Swapna could get a post in an IT Department subsidiary. The police are investigating Swapna on the charge of having faked academic credentials to land the job. They have also moved the Press Council of India against fake and salacious media reports that attempt to portray the department in poor light. UDF protest The United Democratic Front (UDF) held rallies across the State on Tuesday in an attempt to spotlight the government’s alleged nexus with “economic offenders and anti-national forces.” Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who inaugurated the State-wide protests at Neyyattinkara, described the CMO as a hive of corrupt enablers and morally dubious characters. Congress workers broke physical- distancing rules and grappled with the police in Kottayam and Palakkad districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sivasankar-summoned-in-gold-smuggling-case/article32085349.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amid rebellion, Raje’s silence rings out loud||Amid the unfolding, cacophonous political crisis in Rajasthan, the silence of former Chief Minister and BJP leader Vasundhara Raje has rung out loud and become a major factor in the BJP’s cautious, wait and watch attitude towards Sachin Pilot’s rebellion against the Congress. Ms. Raje is reportedly in Dholpur, her traditional stronghold, and has not — not even via a single tweet — commented on the goings-on in the State where she has twice been Chief Minister. Other BJP leaders from the State — Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, former Union Minister P.P. Choudhary and Rajya Sabha MP Om Mathur — have commented, though in measured tones. Not so Ms. Raje. Regional satrap Sources in the BJP say Ms. Raje’s silence, and her considerable hold on BJP MLAs in the State unit is also one of the reasons why the party has been proceeding rather gingerly with regard to toppling the Gehlot government. “The high command wants to induct Sachin Pilot into the BJP, he would be a great catch. But this is a State unit where Vasundhara Raje is a dominant figure and also has the guts to stand up to Delhi. In such a situation, it was felt that proceeding with caution was wise,” said a source. 2018 stand-off Ms. Raje very famously held her ground in 2018, over the question of choosing a State unit chief. While then party president Amit Shah wanted to appoint Mr. Shekhawat, Ms. Raje held firm on preventing a choice from Delhi to prevail. After a 71-day stalemate, Madan Lal Saini, a lightweight, was appointed. Ms. Raje’s silence on events in Rajasthan proves that it is mostly being perceived as a Delhi-led adventure, and being watched as such. While it isn’t clear what Mr. Pilot — currently sacked as the Deputy Chief Minister and Pradesh Congress Committee president — is likely to do, his entry into the BJP will, be as cataclysmic for the BJP as his exit was for the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-rebellion-rajes-silence-rings-out-loud/article32085362.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||CJI indicates panel probe in Dubey case||Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde on Tuesday indicated the setting up a commission to examine the Uttar Pradesh police’s encounter killing of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey and his alleged associates involved in the midnight ambush and murder of eight police officers at Bikru village in Kanpur on July 3. The CJI suggested that the court could set up a commission on the lines of the one it set up chaired by former apex court judge, Justice V.S. Sirpurkar, to look into the Hyderabad police encounter of four men accused of the gang-rape and murder of a veterinarian on December 6 last year. ‘Extremely reluctant’ However, Chief Justice Bobde initially made it a point to say the court was “extremely reluctant” to intervene when a group of writ petitions seeking an independent probe by a Central agency into the circumstances of the deaths of Dubey and his henchmen came up for hearing before the Bench. “In matters like this, we are extremely reluctant... However we are considering the setting up of a commission like how we did in the Hyderabad case,” he said. The petitions that sought an independent investigation into the Hyderabad encounter were filed shortly after Chief Justice Bobde voiced his apprehensions during a speech at a public forum against the tendency to seek “instant justice” and “revenge”. “Justice can never be instant and should not take the form of revenge,” he said while inaugurating a new building of the Rajasthan High Court in Jodhpur. During the virtual court hearing on Tuesday, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta sought time to collate the facts about the deaths of Dubey and his men. Next hearing on July 20 The court asked Mr. Mehta to file a status report on Thursday and scheduled the next hearing on July 20. The official version so far of the death of Dubey is that the police team escorting him to Kanpur met with an accident and he grabbed the gun of one of the police officers. He was shot dead while trying to escape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-indicates-panel-probe-in-dubey-case/article32085379.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Conduct COVID tests on patients coming to Gandhi Hospital: HC||Expressing dismay over the DME’s explanation the Telangana High Court bench asked the government, “why are non-pregnant women and other patients are not being subjected to COVID tests at Gandhi Hospital despite availability of the facilities”. The DME’s contentions were “high-handed and unsympathetic”, the bench said. When the hearing began, Public Health Director in-charge G. Srinivas informed the bench that 1,500 rapid antigen test kits were made available at Gandhi Hospital. An order was placed for one lakh more kits, he said. Referring to reports that people coming to Gandhi Hospital with COVID symptoms were being turned away by the staff, the High Court bench asked the DME why the testing kits were not being used. With the DME maintaining that those kits were meant for pregnant women coming to the hospital, the bench remarked that it could not imagine such an arrogant stand from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/conduct-covid-tests-on-patients-coming-to-gandhi-hospital-hc/article32085693.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre limits duration of online school sessions||“Hence sitting with digital gadgets for longer hours or their excess use can be avoided by designing age appropriate schedules of digital education,” it added. Keeping the overall development of students in mind, it recommended that “online synchronous learning may be undertaken for not more than two sessions of 30-45 minutes each on the days the States/UTs decide to have online classes” for Classes 1-8. For Classes 9-12, the recommendation was for not more than four sessions per day. A 10-15 minute break needs to be provided between sessions, it added. Apart from such live classes, it offered a number of recommendations for “asynchronous learning” with tools to allow students to download lessons or listen to radio and TV programmes, communicate through Whatsapp and SMS, study on their own and undertake creative projects. Sharing devices While States and schools develop timetables, they must keep in mind that multiple children in one family may need to access the same devices, to survey the digital infrastructure available with teachers as well as students, to assess the levels of possible parental involvement, and to remember that teachers may also be parents needing to supervise their own children’s learning as well, said the guidelines. They must also make arrangements to reach students who do not have access to any digital infrastructure at home, or who have special needs, to ensure that no child is left behind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-limits-duration-of-online-school-sessions/article32085338.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,||‘A.P. can do preliminary work on water project’||The Andhra Pradesh government can proceed with the initial work for the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project but cannot commence physical work till the National Green Tribunal decides on an application against the implementation of the scheme, the southern bench of the NGT has ruled. The Bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta on Monday modified an interim order passed in May that prevented the Andhra Pradesh government from proceeding with the project. The relief came after counsel for the State submitted that no work on ground has started for implementing the project and they are only in the stage of preparing the project report and calling for tenders. The counsel said the State was unable to proceed with the preliminary work of preparing the project report and calling for tenders due to the stay orders issued in May. Only after the project report is finalised, will they be able to consider as to whether prior Environment Clearance is required or not, the counsel said. The State also gave an undertaking that it will not launch the work on the ground without further orders from the Tribunal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-can-do-preliminary-work-on-water-project/article32085339.ece
15 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||COVID-19: Kerala to ready 50,000 beds in 10 days||Anticipating a massive surge in COVID-19 cases in the coming weeks, the government on Tuesday issued an order deputing IAS officials to every district to assist all District Collectors in setting up and operationalising more COVID first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs) and reverse quarantine facilities in districts. CFLTCs with a minimum of 100 beds per panchayat and 50 beds per urban wards should be identified and readied for operation to contain the spread. The order says that as soon as a containment zone is notified, a 100-bed facility should be kept ready to admit patients in that area itself. Similarly, reverse quarantine facilities should also be established at the local level. The order directs that in all districts 50,000 beds be readied in CFLTCs within the next 10 days . The District Collectors have been asked to mobilise through sponsorship beds, bedsheets, and other infrastructural essentials that CFLTCs may need. Experience Kerala will bank on its experience and strengths derived from the People’s Plan Campaign and plan for the decentralised management of COVID-19, as the epidemic is set to scale the peak in the State in the next few months. With COVID-19 cases flaring, the government has asked all local self-government institutions (LSGIs) and people’s representatives to strengthen containment, prevention, and preparedness activities at the grassroots. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said as local regional power centres, LSGIs should take on the responsibility of leading containment activities from the front and that ward members and local councillors play the lead role in engaging people’s cooperation in all activities. They should monitor the situation in their areas on a daily basis and coordinate all necessary preparedness measures and containment activities with the help of all local human resource, including those in primary health centres, Kudumbashree, and anganwadis. Continuous interventions are required to reduce disease transmission. The focus has to be on managing reverse quarantine activities and protecting the vulnerable and marginalised sections. Mr. Vijayan advised LSGI leaders to utilise local resources creatively, draw on their experience of leading the People’s Plan Campaign, and create local/ regional containment and care models that can be replicated across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-kerala-to-ready-50000-beds-in-10-days/article32085347.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Move to map COVID-19 after-effects||Diabetologist Dr. V. Mohan observed that there were indications of COVID-induced diabetes among recovered patients. There was a move to collect the data on this globally to understand the effect of this relatively new and evolving virus. The stress on the body associated with this virus could lead to long and short term complications. Damage to lungs Dr. Yash Gulati, orthopaedic surgeon at IndraprasthaApollo Hospitals, Delhi, said: “The fact of the matter was that nobody knew for sure the exact after effects of the disease but in the medical community, we are aware the damage is caused by thrombosis in the small vessels that ultimately damages lung tissues and other organs, including the heart, and can lead to fatal pulmonary embolism.” At a press conference, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Dr. Balram Bhargava said that two indigenous vaccine candidates had undergone successful toxicity studies in rats, mice and rabbits and the data had been shared with the Drug Controller General of India. “They have now got clearance to start human trials early this month. These candidates have got their sites ready with clinical study on approximately a 1,000 human volunteers now having been initiated. Also 60% of the vaccines supplied in the world are of Indian origin, India is perceived and is an important player in the vaccine supply. Any vaccine produced or developed in any part of the world will have to be scaled up by India or by China,’’ he said. The Union government, meanwhile, said it had instructed the States to follow the WHO guidelines on testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/move-to-map-covid-19-after-effects/article32085356.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China hold fourth round of consultations||Last week, Indian and Chinese troops completed the first phase of disengagement from standoff areas in Galwan valley, Hot Springs and Gogra and also partial disengagement from Pangong Tso, where Chinese troops moved back from the base of Finger 4 to Finger 5. However, Chinese troops are still present on the ridge line of Finger 4. At each place, Indian troops also moved back couple of kilometres following pull back by the Chinese troops as per consensus reached, creating a temporary buffer zone with only a small group of soldiers left to verify the disengagement. Another defence source said restoration of status quo at Pangong Tso is going to be tough and could take more rounds of talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-hold-fourth-round-of-consultations/article32085357.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||CLP sacks Pilot from Cabinet, PCC||He also handed over a list of MLAs supporting him and apprised the Governor of the impending Cabinet reshuffle. Mr. Gehlot told reporters after meeting the Governor that while the BJP was trying to destabilise his government, Mr. Pilot was playing into the hands of the Opposition party. “The BJP wanted to repeat in Rajasthan what it did in Madhya Pradesh, but its intentions will not fructify here,” he said. Mr. Gehlot said Mr. Pilot and other Ministers as well as MLAs were given ample opportunities, but they chose not to attend the CLP meetings on Monday and Tuesday. Mr. Pilot reacted immediately through a post in Hindi on twitter, saying “ Satya ko pareshan kiya ja sakta hai, parajit nahin  (The truth can be harrassed, not defeated).” In another tweet, he thanked all those who had come out in his support and changed his profile to delete the reference to his position as Deputy CM and PCC chief. Earlier, Ministers Mr. Vishvendra Singh and Mr. Ramesh Meena and former Assembly Speaker Deependra Singh Shekhawat released a statement affirming that Mr. Pilot's “public humiliation” was unacceptable to them. “We are seeking to restore our self-respect and are not clamouring for any posts and positions contrary to false reports in the media,” they said. The signed statement said the leaders were taking a stand to protect their dignity when Mr. Pilot was threatened with the SOG’s notice. Mr. Gehlot presided over a meeting of the State Cabinet and the Council of Ministers at his official residence here late on Tuesday evening. After the sacking of the three Ministers, 12 senior Ministers, including the CM, remain in the Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clp-sacks-pilot-from-cabinet-pcc/article32085355.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Priyanka, Puri spar over her stay in govt. bungalow||Media reports stating that the Union government had agreed to a request made by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to allow her an extension of stay in the Lodhi Road bungalow sparked a sharp Twitter exchange between her and Urban Development Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday. Tagging a news report, Ms. Vadra took to Twitter to call it “fake news”, and clarified that she would be vacating the bungalow by August 1. Mr. Puri promptly countered her by stating that a “powerful” Congress MP did make such a request. “This is FAKE NEWS. I have not made any such request to the government. As per the eviction letter handed to me on the 1st of July, I will be vacating the government accommodation at 35 Lodhi Estate by the 1st of August,” tweeted Ms. Vadra. The news report said that “Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a statesman like move had agreed to her request and allowed her to stay in the bungalow for some more time”. “Facts speak for themselves! A powerful Congress leader with much clout in the Party called me on 4 July 2020 at 12:05 pm to request that 35, Lodhi Estate be allotted to another INC MP so that Priyanka Vadra can stay on. Let’s not sensationalise everything please,” Mr. Puri tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-puri-spar-over-her-stay-in-govt-bungalow/article32085368.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Lok Sabha official tests positive for COVID-19||Three days after a meeting of the Public Accounts Committee held on the Parliament premises and chaired by Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, an Additional Secretary from the Lok Sabha Secretariat tested positive for COVID-19. The meeting was attended by 15 MPs. Non-BJP parties have been demanding holding committee meetings via videoconference since the Budget session ended on March 23. Officials said the meeting was held adhering to social distancing norms. However, the Lok Sabha Secretariat has asked all the members who attended to go into self-quarantine and to get tested in case of any symptoms. Apart from Mr. Chowdhury, BJD MP B. Mahtab, JD(U) MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh and DMK MP T.R. Baalu, all the other members were from the BJP, including senior leader Bhupendra Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lok-sabha-official-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32085381.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Hospitals must not turn away COVID-19 patients’||The Supreme Court asked the Centre on Tuesday to meet with stakeholders on July 16 and prepare directions to be issued to the States under the Disaster Management Act of 2005 to ensure that no COVID-19 patient in need of treatment is turned away from a hospital merely because he cannot afford medical care. “We completely agree that treatment costs should not act as a deterrent against access to medical care, particularly in the present times,” a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde said. The Bench asked the Centre, represented by Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, to place the proposed directions before the court in a week for consideration and approval. The Bench was hearing a writ petition filed by advocate Sachin Jain, who complained that private hospitals were charging exorbitant rates, ranging from Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh, from COVID-19 patients. Mr. Jain said while the poor had the cover of the government’s Ayushman Bharat scheme and could get COVID-19 treatment at subsidised rates, others of a “certain economic status” and not eligible for the scheme were fleeced by private hospitals. Senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for healthcare providers, said private hospitals were already creaking under the burden of the pandemic influx as far as infrastructure and staff salaries were concerned. They voted against free treatment, saying they just could not afford it in this crisis. The court accepted Mr. Salve’s argument that a “one-shot formula” to regulate medical costs in all States was not practical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hospitals-must-not-turn-away-covid-19-patients/article32085382.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Azhwar praises Nayanmar||Nayanmars, who were devotees of Siva, sang only in praise of Siva. Azhvars, who were devotees of Vishnu, sang only in praise of Vishnu. But there is an instance of an Azhvar praising a Nayanmar! How did this come about? Who was this Azhvar and why did he do something so unusual? V.S. Karunakarachariar answered these questions in a discourse. A spider and an elephant were both devotees of Lord Siva. While the spider spun a web over a linga, the elephant would bring water from the Cauvery and bathe the linga with it. It would also destroy the web. This happened every day. When the spider discovered that it was the elephant which ripped up its web, it stung the elephant, which died. The spider was crushed by the fall of the elephant. The place came to be called Thiruvanaikkaval, thus honouring the elephant (anai). The spider was blessed to be born as king Kochenganaan. His birth was deliberately delayed by his mother for astrological reasons. The queen Kamalavathi exclaimed, “kochenkannano!” when she saw the baby, for the baby had red eyes (chenkann). Kochenganaan became his name. As predicted, he was victorious in all battles, until he lost one battle. Upon the advice of Neelakanta Rg Vedi, the sage who had advised Kochenganaan’s delayed birth, Kochenganaan worshipped Vishnu at Thirunaraiyur. The sage was none other than Siva. Kochenganaan received a divine sword from Vishnu and was victorious in battle again. In gratitude, he built a temple for Vishnu at Thirunaraiyur. Kochenganaan is one of the 63 Nayanmars, and he built many temples for Siva. Since he built the Thirunaraiyur Vishnu temple, Thirumangai Azhvar praises him, through nine verses, and in one verse, he records the gifting of the divine sword (deiva vaaL).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/azhwar-praises-nayanmar/article32085375.ece
15 July 2020||Chennai,||TN seeks release of 30 tmc ft of water this month||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday impressed upon Karnataka and the Central government to ensure that the State’s share in Cauvery water – around 30 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) - be provided during the remaining period of the month. It made the demand during a meeting of the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee (CWRC) conducted through video-conferencing. In June, the State realised around 6 tmc ft against 9.19 tmc ft, a shortfall of three tmc ft. In July, it got about 3 tmc ft. For the entire month, the State’s due is 31.24 tmc ft. Totally, the State should receive approximately 30 tmc ft in the second half of July along with June’s shortfall, say official sources in the Public Works Department (PWD). At present, reservoirs in Karnataka have a storage of around 50%. However, their inflow has been modest, ranging from 6,100 cubic feet per second (cusecs) in Krishnaraja Sagar to 2,800 cusecs in Harangi. At the same time, the storage of the Mettur dam is around 37 tmc ft. While it is getting a meagre 160 cusecs, the outflow has been of the order of 13,000 cusecs. At this rate of inflow and outflow, the dam’s storage can last about 25 days, after giving allowance for drinking water supply requirements and dead storage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tn-seeks-release-of-30-tmc-ft-of-water-this-month/article32085568.ece
15 July 2020||Bhopal,||SIT set up to probe Bhopal sex racket||The Bhopal police on Tuesday set up a special investigation team to inquire into cases related to a newspaper owner allegedly raping minor girls repeatedly and running a sex racket. The SIT would be led by Bhopal South SP Sai Krishna Thota and include an Additional SP, a City SP, a Deputy SP and six police station in-charges, said Mr. Thota. Earlier on Tuesday, the district administration raz-ed six illegally built apartments belonging to the accused, Pyare Miyan, 68, who runs a vernacular daily,Dainik Afkar. While he was yet to be traced by the police, which registered a case against him on Sunday, another minor girl accused him of rape on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sit-set-up-to-probe-bhopal-sex-racket/article32085632.ece
15 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Boozing bet claims a life||A boozing bet led to the death of a mason in Nirmal district of Telangana on Monday, as the 31-year-old attempted to consume a full bottle of whiskey in 20 minutes. The victim, Sheikh Khaja Rasool from Chantal Chanda village in Laxman Chanda mandal consumed more than three quarters of a whisky bottle laced with cool drink, as part of a bet. The ‘unique betting’ took place at Ananthapet in Mamda mandal. On Monday afternoon, five masons were consuming alcohol near a belt shop. A few minutes later, Khaja and his 22-year-old nephew Sheikh Nagoor Basha joined the group. Basha told other masons that his uncle would easily gulp down 13 quarter bottles of whiskey in no time and one could bet on it. Rathaiah (38), who was among the five masons, did not believe Basha and he challenged that he would give Rs. 20,000 if Rasool consumed at least a full bottle of liquor. “Rathaiah purchased two half bottles of whisky with cool drinks and gave it to Rasool, who soon began to consume it. After finishing more than three quarters, Rasool felt uneasy, and puked,” Mamda Sub-Inspector K. Vinay told The Hindu . As Rasool’s health condition was serious, the other masons called 108 ambulance, in which he died while being taken to a government hospital in the district, the officer said. All of them were from Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh and had migrated to Nirmal about 20 years ago. They were in Ananthapet for construction of two houses. When police learnt the incident, they rushed to the hospital, and after a preliminary investigation,a case under Section 304 -II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was booked against Basha and Rathaiah, for provoking and offering the liquor to the victim. Belt shop owner was booked under the Excise Act for illegally selling liquor. Police said Rasool consumed liquor on an empty stomach and died of excessive drinking. The body was sent for autopsy and the duo were arrested by the police. They also recorded the statements of all the people present on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boozing-bet-claims-a-life/article32085708.ece
15 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Rape accused former Bishop tests positive||Former Jalandhar Bishop Franco Mulakkal, accused of raping a nun in Kerala, has tested positive for COVID-19, a Health Department official said on Tuesday. A Kottayam court in Kerala had cancelled Mulakkal’s bail on Monday citing his failure to appear for the trial. It issued a non-bailable warrant against him. Mulakkal’s report, confirming him to be positive for COVID-19, came on Monday evening, said COVID-19 nodal officer for Jalandhar, T.P. Singh. In her complaint to the police in June 2018, the nun had alleged that the Bishop subjected her to sexual abuse between 2014 and 2016. The case was registered by the Kottayam district police in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rape-accused-former-bishop-tests-positive/article32085337.ece
15 July 2020||Mumbai,||Sanjay Jha suspended||Maharashtra Congress has suspended former spokesperson Sanjay Jha from the party “with immediate effect for anti-party activities and breach of discipline”. Mr. Jha was vocal on Twitter in his support for Mr. Pilot. State Congress president Balasaheb Thorat signed the suspension order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sanjay-jha-suspended/article32085364.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Best, brightest, says Tharoor||Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor said Sachin Pilot is one of the best and brightest who should have joined efforts to make the Congress stronger. He was among a few leaders who commen- ted. Former Minister Salman Khurshid tweeted, “We have challenges ahead that make personal ambitions and expectations insignificant.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/best-brightest-says-tharoor/article32085371.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP delegation meets President||A BJP delegation, led by its national general secretary Kailash Vijaywargiya, on Tuesday called on President Ramnath Kovind and Union Home Minister Amit Shah asking for a CBI inquiry into the death of Hemtabad MLA Debendra Nath Ray and demanding the dismissal of the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal. The delegation included BJP MP Raju Bista and Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Das Gupta among others. They told Mr. Kovind that Ray was murdered and that it was in a long line of political murders in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-delegation-meets-president/article32085383.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC for maternity benefits||The Supreme Court sought a response from the government on a plea by an NGO to pay lactating mothers and pregnant women a maternity benefit of Rs. 6,000 each, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench led by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde on Tuesday directed the Centre to submit a status report on the disbursement of the maternity benefit under the National Food Security Act. The NGO, People’s Union of Civil Liberties, sought a judicial direction to the States and Union Territories for disbursal of the amounts with effect from July 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-for-maternity-benefits/article32085391.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||CBSE Class 10 results to be out today||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will declare the Class 10 board exam results on July 15, it announced on Tuesday. The board had on Monday announced the results for Class 12 examinations. Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank also took to Twitter to share the update. “My dear children, parents and teachers, the results of Class 10 CBSE examinations will be announced tomorrow. I wish all the students best of luck,” he said. The board will announce the results evaluated through an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-class-10-results-to-be-out-today/article32085394.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parliament project: 7 firms bid to qualify||Seven construction companies, including a Uttar Pradesh government undertaking, have submitted bids for pre-qualification for the contract to build a new Parliament building, according to the Central Public Works Department’s records. The pre-qualification bids were opened on Tuesday, after the 3 p.m. deadline. According to the CPWD’s online tender portal, the bids received were from ITD Cementation India Limited, Larsen and Toubro Ltd., NCC Ltd., PSP Projects Ltd., Shapoorji Pallonji and Co Ltd., Tata Projects Ltd. and Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliament-project-7-firms-bid-to-qualify/article32085395.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||More Spike missiles to be ordered||The Army is set to place a repeat order for Spike-LR (long range) Anti-Tank Guided Missiles from Israel as part of emergency procurement, a defence source said on Tuesday. The decision comes days after the Army’s decision to place a repeat order for 72,400 Sig Sauer assault rifles from the U.S. The emergency procurements come in the backdrop of continuing tensions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. The Spike order will be a repeat order for 12 launchers and around 250 missiles under emergency procurement, the source stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-spike-missiles-to-be-ordered/article32085396.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Pregnant woman denied admission||On Monday night, a 23-year-old epileptic pregnant woman was denied admission to at least six hospitals even as she was in an advanced stage of labour and needed immediate medical attention. Her family who took her around in an autorickshaw managed to get an ambulance only after midnight. She was finally admitted around 4 a.m. on Tuesday in St. John’s Medical College Hospital. The family of another patient, who was taken to a private hospital in Hebbal, was handed over an estimated bill of Rs. 9 lakh for 10 days that had to be paid at the time of admission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pregnant-woman-denied-admission/article32085461.ece
15 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||NSCN(IM) seeks clarity on ceasefire||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland has warned of “ugly aftermaths” if the Centre fails to clarify on the “validity and extent” of its ceasefire agreement signed in 1997. The outfit issued the warning in response to an alleged statement by a commander of the Assam Rifles “justifying” the killing of six of its members by the security forces last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nscnim-seeks-clarity-on-ceasefire/article32085631.ece
15 July 2020||Mumbai,||63 moons seeks speedy inquiry against Chidambaram||63 moons technologies limited has approached the Bombay High Court seeking a direction to the CBI to expedite its inquiry into a complaint filed by the company against former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram and two others alleging abuse of official powers. The Jignesh Shah-promoted company, earlier known as Financial Technologies Ltd, in its petition filed on July 4 questioned ‘delayed’ action by the CBI against him and bureaucrats K.P. Krishnan and Ramesh Abhishek.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/63-moons-seeks-speedy-inquiry-against-chidambaram/article32085817.ece
15 July 2020||Agartala,||Weeklong total lockdown in border areas of Tripura||The Tripura government on Tuesday announced that it will enforce a weeklong ‘total lockdown’ in areas along the border with Bangladesh. Chief Secretary Manoj Kumar, who is also chairman of the State Executive Committee on COVID-19, said the measure will be enforced from 7 a.m. on July 17. “There is some spread of COVID-19 in border areas which has posed a major threat to public health, hygiene and safety,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/weeklong-total-lockdown-in-border-areas-of-tripura/article32085630.ece
15 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Sabarimala temple to be opened today||The Sabarimala Ayyappa temple will be opened on Wednesday afternoon for the five-day monthly rituals in the Malayalam month of Karkidakom that begins on Thursday. However, pilgrims will not be permitted to Sabarimala in view of the rise in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sabarimala-temple-to-be-opened-today/article32085346.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Tablighi Jamaat: Court allows foreigners from 5 countries to walk free after fines||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to 150 foreign nationals, who were chargesheeted for attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation here allegedly in violation of visa norms, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines issued in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. These foreign nationals, all from Indonesia, told to furnish a personal bond of Rs. 10,000 each. Foreign nationals from five other countries were allowed to walk free on payment of different fines after they accepted mild charges under the plea bargain process, for various violations, including visa norms while attending the same congregation. Metropolitan Magistrate allowed foreigners from Djibouti, Mali, Kenya and 17 Sri Lankans to walk free on payment of a fine of Rs. 5,000 each, said advocate Ashima Mandla. However, three Sri Lankans along with other foreigners from Nigeria and Tanzania claimed trial before the court, said the lawyer. Metropolitan Magistrate Akash allowed some Myanmar nationals to walk free on payment of a fine of Rs. 5,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tablighi-jamaat-court-allows-foreigners-from-5-countries-to-walk-free-after-fines/article32085376.ece
15 July 2020||IMPHAL,||Biren Singh warns police officer of legal action||Manipur Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren Singh on Tuesday said he would take legal action against a woman police officer for accusing him of exerting pressure on her to release an arrested drug lord. Thounaojam Brinda, a Manipur Police officer and a former Additional-Superintendent of Police, had on Monday filed an affidavit in connection with a criminal contempt case against her by the Manipur High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/biren-singh-warns-police-officer-of-legal-action/article32085377.ece
15 July 2020||Bhopal,||Bhopal police set up SIT to probe sex racket involving minor girls||The Bhopal police on Tuesday set up a special investigation team (SIT) to inquire into cases relating to a newspaper-owner allegedly raping minor girls repeatedly and running a sex racket. Earlier on Tuesday, the district administration razed six illegally built apartments belonging to the accused 68-year-old Pyare Miyan, who runs vernacular newspaper Dainik Afkar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhopal-police-set-up-sit-to-probe-sex-racket-involving-minor-girls/article32085380.ece
15 July 2020||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao admitted to Mumbai’s JJ Hospital||Poet Varavara Rao, 81, has been admitted to Mumbai JJ Hospital’s neurology department after he felt giddy, and underwent some tests. “Patient Pendayala Varavara Rao, 81yr/Male is admitted under (neurology). Case of giddiness and [he] is under evaluation and investigations. His general condition is fair and vitals are stable,” the hospital said . Mr. Rao was admitted to the State-run hospital from the Taloja Central Jail on June 13 morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varavara-rao-admitted-to-mumbais-jj-hospital/article32085385.ece
15 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to start plasma therapy at three hospitals from today||The Odisha government on Tuesday announced the start of plasma therapy at three hospitals from Wednesday. The therapy will be taken up at two private hospitals in Bhubaneswar and one in Cuttack. SCB Medical College Hospital has been identified as the nodal centre. At a State-level review meeting, it was also decided that 200 ICU beds would be added within the next seven days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-to-start-plasma-therapy-at-three-hospitals-from-today/article32085388.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||in brief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-brief/article32085460.ece
15 July 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Three streets become containment zones||Three busy commercial streets in Ariyalur have been declared as containment zones, after 20 employees of a leading textile showroom in the town tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. Manga Pillaiyar Koil (MPK) Street, which houses a number of textile and jewellery showrooms, was among those closed. All entry points to the streets were blocked with iron sheets, preventing access. Collector D. Rathna told The Hindu that all 124 employees of a textile showroom were subjected to tests after an employee tested positive for COVID 19 last Thursday. Of these, 20 employees were found to have contracted the virus. Following this, the showroom has been closed. She said that the Health, Revenue and local bodies officials have been asked to trace about 700 primary and secondary contacts of those who have tested positive. Besides quarantining them, swab samples would be lifted from the contacts. Customers, who had visited the textile showroom on MPK Koil Street over the last few days, should volunteer for COVID-19 tests as early as possible, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-streets-become-containment-zones/article32085898.ece
15 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Two repeat cases of COVID-19 recorded, says Corpn. chief||Two residents who recently recovered from COVID-19 have once again tested positive for the disease. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Tuesday confirmed that repeat infection had been reported in two persons. “Repeat cases are negligible in the city. But there have been such instances. We have identified two persons. Residents need not worry about repeat infection of COVID-19 right now. Most people have recovered from the infection. Of the 78,000 residents who tested positive for COVID-19, 60,000 have recovered. More than 250 Corporation officials have also recovered from the disease,” Mr. Prakash said. “If the number of persons testing positive for the second time was high, we would have informed the public health officials about it,” he added. A senior official of the Greater Chennai Corporation said that a study on the cause of repeat cases was yet to be carried out in the city. ‘Data to be compiled’ “We have not yet compiled data on the [amount of] time after which repeat infection of COVID-19 has occurred in the two cases. We do not have reliable information on the cause of repeat infections right now. Doctors across the world have reported that antibodies reduce after four months of [contracting] COVID-19,” the official said. In a bid to control the spread of the virus, the Greater Chennai Corporation has begun cleaning the premises of most of the 81 markets that remained closed for the past few weeks. Many such markets in areas like Chintadripet, Pudupet, George Town, Triplicane, T. Nagar, Saidapet, Tondiarpet, Royapuram and Kodambakkam have been shifted to playgrounds and other open spaces. For instance, open spaces at Royapettah YMCA have been earmarked for markets in the neighbourhood. Members of traders’ associations said they would clean the markets before getting permission to reopen them. A decision on the Koyambedu market is likely to be taken soon. Strict action Senior officials of the Corporation warned the market authorities that they would shut down and seal premises if reports of crowding or violation of norms are seen. Sixty playgrounds have become market areas so far. The temporary markets are expected to be shifted to the old premises in 10 days. Similarly, the Greater Chennai Corporation has asked banks to start sending banking correspondents to disburse pensions to senior citizens at their doorstep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-repeat-cases-of-covid-19-recorded-says-corpn-chief/article32085534.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases surge past 4,500 for the first time||Fourteen districts, excluding Chennai, reported more than 100 cases of COVID-19 each on Tuesday. While the number of new infections continued to fall in Chennai, the rest of the State accounted for nearly 76% of the 4,526 fresh COVID-19 cases. This is the first time that the number of new cases in the State has crossed 4,500. Tamil Nadu’s tally touched 1,47,324*. A total of 47,912 persons are still under treatment. The total number of persons discharged following treatment rose to 97,310, with the discharge of 4,743 more persons. Another 67 persons, including a 13-year-old girl, died in the State, taking the toll to 2,099. The dip in cases continued for the sixth consecutive day in Chennai, with the city reporting 1,078 fresh cases. Among those discharged, 1,858 were from city hospitals. With this, a total of 62,552 persons have been discharged in the city, while 15,814 are under treatment. Madurai reported 450 new cases, while Tiruvallur saw 360 cases and Virudhunagar 328. There were 264 cases in Chengalpattu and 194 in Vellore. Coimbatore and Dindigul witnessed a spike with 188 and 153 cases respectively. Cases in other districts were as follows: Kanniyakumari (122), Villupuram (120), Kancheepuram (117), Tiruchi (116), Thoothukudi (112), Sivaganga (111) and Tenkasi (102). A total of 59 returnees, including 15 from Karnataka, tested positive for the infection. Of the 67 fatalities, 18 persons died in Chennai. However, a higher number of districts reported deaths — there were four deaths each in Chengalpattu, Dindigul, Kanniyakumari, Madurai, Sivaganga, Tiruvallur and Vellore. The 13-year-old girl, with chronic kidney disease, was admitted to the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital. She died on July 13 due to acute kidney injury, acute pulmonary oedema, acute respiratory failure, Central Nervous System infection and TB meningoencephalitis.  A number of persons died on the same day of admission or a day later. This included a 53-year-old man with obesity, who was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital on July 11. He died the next day due to viral pneumonia and COVID-19. A 56-year-old man with no co-morbidities was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, Tiruchi, on July 11. He died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure, while a 66-year-old woman with diabetes and coronary artery disease died a day after admission on July 12, at the same hospital. A total of 41,357 samples were tested in the last 24 hours in the State. With this, 16,95,365 samples have been tested so far. One more private laboratory — the KHM Medical Centre, Chennai — has been approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are now 106 testing facilities in the State.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-surge-past-4500-for-the-first-time/article32085561.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. seeks release of 30 tmc ft of water this month||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday impressed upon Karnataka and the Central government to ensure that the State’s share in Cauvery water – around 30 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) - be provided during the remaining period of the month. It made the demand during a meeting of the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee (CWRC) conducted through video-conferencing. In June, the State realised around 6 tmc ft against 9.19 tmc ft, a shortfall of three tmc ft. In July, it got about 3 tmc ft. For the entire month, the State’s due is 31.24 tmc ft. Totally, the State should receive approximately 30 tmc ft in the second half of July along with June’s shortfall, say official sources in the Public Works Department (PWD). At present, reservoirs in Karnataka have a storage of around 50%. However, their inflow has been modest, ranging from 6,100 cubic feet per second (cusecs) in Krishnaraja Sagar to 2,800 cusecs in Harangi. At the same time, the storage of the Mettur dam is around 37 tmc ft. While it is getting a meagre 160 cusecs, the outflow has been of the order of 13,000 cusecs. At this rate of inflow and outflow, the dam’s storage can last about 25 days, after giving allowance for drinking water supply requirements and dead storage. What has come as a matter of relief to Tamil Nadu is the forecast by the Meteorological department that the southwest monsoon is likely to become vigorous after July 18 and the Cauvery catchment in Karnataka may get heavy rain, point out the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-seeks-release-of-30-tmc-ft-of-water-this-month/article32085893.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DBT not must for power consumers’||In a relief to the Tamil Nadu government, the Centre has assured it that implementing the direct benefit transfer (DBT) in relation to subsidy for electricity consumers is “not mandatory”. It is also up to the States to decide whether to engage private franchisees/sub-licensees. The issue of allowing the involvement of franchisees or sub-licensees has been a concern for Tamil Nadu. The Centre is also willing to let the present arrangement for the selection of chairpersons and members of the State Electricity Regulatory Commissions (SERCs) continue. These were the concessions that Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Power and New & Renewable Energy R.K. Singh had indicated during a discussion last week with State government representatives on the draft bill to amend the Electricity Act, a senior official said. The T.N. government is not keen on opposing the creation of the Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority. The State has remained opposed to the introduction of the DBT, as otherwise, the free power scheme for farmers would have to be scrapped. Domestic consumers are also getting up to 100 units of free electricity bi-monthly. The Centre had told the State government that while it was inclined to give a one-year extension of the deadline for the DBT implementation, the SERC could also provide further extensions of up to a year. The DBT has been a bone of contention as the Centre had prescribed it as one of the conditions that needed to be met for raising the borrowing limit and relaxing the normal ceiling of fiscal deficit — 3% of GSDP — by two percentage points. As for the selection process for SERCs, the State government’s stand is that there should be no change in the current system of the selection panel being headed by a former judge of the High Court concerned, with one member each from the State and Central governments. But the draft amendment bill seeks to have a common selection committee for chairpersons and members of the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity, the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission and SERCs, including a former judge of the Supreme Court, the Chief Secretaries of two States at a time (who will hold the post for one year) and two nominees of the Union government, including the Power Secretary. A Power Ministry official said what had been sent to the States was only a draft bill, and its purpose was to elicit the views of all stakeholders.  “Anomaly” As for the Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority, the official explained that under the existing scheme of things, there was a “conflict of interest”, as SERCs, meant for issuing tariff orders, were also adjudicating on contracts for purchase and sale of electricity — a role that should ideally be played by a judicial body and not a quasi-judicial one. It is to correct this “anomaly” that the formation of the Authority has been proposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dbt-not-mandatory-for-power-consumers/article32085565.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PWD plans to use drones to monitor sand quarrying||The Public Works Department (PWD) is planning to use drones to identify potential quarrying sites and also monitor sand quarrying operations across the State. The proposal has been submitted to the State government and the PWD is awaiting its nod. At present, nearly 10 river sand quarries are being operated across districts, including Villupuram, Vellore and Nagapattinam. The department plans to use the drone survey to measure the area and depth of the sand quarries. It had earlier sought the support of the Madras Institute of Technology, Anna University, for the project. According to sources, the drone survey would be done once a month and it would help in preventing illegal sand mining. Moreover, the department had installed a weighbridge in one of the sand depots in Vellore district to check overloading of lorries. The pilot project would soon be extended to other quarries as well. On an average, about 1,500 loads of river sand are made available for online sale daily. PWD officials said that one more quarry in Cuddalore district would be opened later this week. The department is awaiting environment clearance to open new quarries in places such as Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam. About 15,000 loads of M-sand are also being supplied daily. Measures are being taken to reduce the supply crunch. The department is set to begin online sale of imported sand this week. The 10th ship with Malaysian sand has arrived at the Kattupalli port. About 54,000 tonnes of imported sand would be available for sale, officials said. While welcoming the government’s efforts to record online sale of nearly 6,000 loads of river sand last week, members of the Tamil Nadu State Sand Lorry Owners’ Federation said the PWD must increase the number of loads to 10,000-15,000 per week.S. Yuvaraj, president of the Federation, said this would help every lorry to get loads twice a month and support their livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-plans-to-use-drones-to-monitor-sand-quarrying/article32085542.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches televised lessons for school students||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday launched televised lessons for Class X students through Kalvi TV . The lessons would be broadcast on the State-run channel for two-and-a-half hours every day, from Monday to Friday. Mr. Palaniswami also launched the distribution of free textbooks for students of Classes X and XII for the 2020-21 academic year. Lessons for students of other classes would also be broadcast, an official press release stated. The Chief Minister inaugurated a scheme for downloading video lessons for Class XII students through hi-tech labs set up at government and aided schools across the State. Report submitted Commissioner of School Education Siji Thomas Vaidyan, who headed a committee tasked with finding ways to tackle the challenges faced by the School Education Department due to the COVID-19 lockdown, submitted a report to the Chief Minister. Besides the Commissioner of School Education, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, School Education Secretary Dheeraj Kumar and Director of School Education S. Kannappan were present on the occasion. The Chief Minister inaugurated, through videoconference, roads that underwent improvements in various places in Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvannamalai districts at a total cost of Rs. 217 crore. Mr. Palaniswami also laid through videoconference the foundation for 20 bridges and two government offices in Kanniyakumari, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts, built at a total cost of Rs. 31.26 crore. Besides, the Chief Minister laid the foundation stone for a subway at Chromepet in Chennai at a cost of Rs. 28.99 crore. Minister for Rural Industries P. Benjamin, Highways Secretary A. Karthik and senior officials were present at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-televised-lessons-for-school-students/article32085553.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State, Nissan Motor granted time by HC to settle dispute||The Madras High Court on Tuesday granted time till August 14 for the State government and Japanese automaker Nissan Motor to file a joint compromise memo for withdrawal of a case filed by the former to restrain the latter from pursuing international arbitral proceedings with respect to alleged unpaid incentives to the tune of $770 million. Justice N. Sathish Kumar passed the order after he was told that the warring parties had reached a settlement over the financial dispute but it could not be finalised because of the COVID-19 lockdown. Directing counsel concerned to speed up the settlement proceedings, the judge said the adjournment was being granted one final time. The financial dispute relates to a manufacturing plant established by the automaker at Oragadam, on the outskirts of Chennai. Claiming that the State government had not paid incentives worth millions of dollars, the company went for arbitration. The international arbitral proceedings were kickstarted in February 2017 after serving an advance notice upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi in July 2016. Immediately, the State government rushed to the High Court to stall the proceedings since it was not a party to it, though the money claimed by the company had to be eventually paid by it. It was the contention of the State government that any dispute over non-payment of incentives could be resolved only through domestic arbitration. However, the Centre was confident of handling the issue effectively before the international arbitral tribunal and urged the High Court not to interfere. Even as the case was pending before the High Court, the government and the automaker began efforts to arrive at an out of court settlement. They also continued to obtain adjournments on the ground that talks were on, and that they would arrive at a final settlement soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-nissan-motor-granted-time-by-hc-to-settle-dispute/article32085536.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. seeks release of 30 tmc ft of Cauvery water by this month||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday impressed upon Karnataka and the Central government to ensure that the State’s share of Cauvery water — around 30 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) — be provided during the remaining period of the month. The demand was made during the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee (CWRC) meeting conducted through video-conferencing. In June, the State realised around 6 tmc ft against 9.19 tmcft, a shortfall of three tmc ft. In July, it got about 3 tmc ft. For the entire month, the State’s due is 31.24 tmc ft. In total, the State should receive approximately 30 tmc ft in the second half of July along with June’s shortfall, said official sources in the Public Works Department (PWD). At present, reservoirs in Karnataka have around 50% storage. However, their inflow has been modest, ranging from 6,100 cubic feet per second (cusecs) in Krishnaraja Sagar to 2,800 cusecs in Harangi. At the same time, the storage in Mettur dam stands at 37 tmc ft. While the dam is receiving a meagre 160 cusecs, the outflow has been of the order of 13,000 cusecs. At this rate of inflow and outflow, the dam’s storage can last about 25 days, after giving allowance for drinking water supply requirements and dead storage. What has come as a matter of relief to the State is the forecast by the India Meteorological Department that the southwest monsoon is likely to become vigorous after July 18 and that the Cauvery catchment in Karnataka may get heavy rain, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-seeks-release-of-30-tmc-ft-of-cauvery-water-by-this-month/article32085544.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kin of Corpn. staff test positive||The family members of top civic officials have tested positive for COVID-19, requiring them to go into quarantine. The officials concerned were initially asked to stay at home for 14 days. But subsequently, they were told to return to work in seven days, owing to fears that containment activities would face a setback due to their absence. One such official has been quarantined at home, as his wife had tested positive for COVID-19. Another official, who played a key role in making decisions on containment activities in the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), has also reported positive cases at home. However, he has been unable to undergo home quarantine as his absence would affect COVID-19 containment activities in the city. He reported for duty at Ripon Buildings on Tuesday, but was mostly restricted to his chamber. GCC officials said they were afraid to take part in meetings conducted in air-conditioned halls by such senior officials. But the absence of the authorities concerned would affect containment activities across the city, the officials added.  The Corporation has started testing all its employees for COVID-19. Of the 1,094 civic officials of GCC employed at Ripon Buildings, 854 attended office on Tuesday. Twenty-seven of the 36 officials in the Health Department at Ripon Buildings reported for duty. Just 12 of the 31 Council Department officials were present at work. As many as 19 of the 33 officials of the Solid Waste Management Department reported for work. Seventy-five of the 95 officials in the General Department attended office. Just 35 out of the 62 officials in the Education Department were at work on Tuesday. Sixty-six of the 81 officials of the Medical Services Department reported for work. Many have given their samples for COVID-19 testing and are awaiting the results. Officials said the number of employees at Ripon Buildings was likely to reduce due to the rise in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kin-of-corpn-staff-test-positive/article32085530.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||9,161 patients treated at Chennai’s RGGGH since March||The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) — one of the State’s largest COVID-19 facilities — has treated 9,161 COVID-19 patients till now. The hospital saw the State’s first COVID-19 patient in the first week of March. The hospital, which has 1,000 beds allocated for COVID-19 patients, is readying another 790 beds with oxygen facilities for COVID-19 patients, according to E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH. Over four months, the RGGGH has treated several COVID-19 patients with malignancies and co-morbidities. COVID-19 patients with malignancies are among high-risk groups, with high mortality. Being in an immuno-compromised condition, patients with malignancies are highly susceptible to COVID-19, he said. At RGGGH, doctors have treated 37 COVID-19 patients with malignancies of varied degrees. In fact, two of them underwent radiotherapy, he said. Uncertain prognosis He noted that prognosis for COVID-19 patients with severe co-morbidities, especially chronic kidney disease and chronic neurological diseases, was uncertain. “Till now, 42 patients with chronic neurologic diseases, who tested positive for the infection, have been treated and discharged,” he said. The hospital has also treated 153 COVID-19 patients with heart diseases and 20 with acute myocardial infarction, with successful outcomes, he added. Among those treated for COVID-19 were two persons with HIV/AIDS, and two more are still under treatment. Apart from this, critical emergency surgeries were performed on COVID-19 patients, including eight “major life-saving neurosurgical procedures”. He added that the hospital had been providing non-COVID-19 essential and life-saving services without interruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/9161-patients-treated-at-chennais-rgggh-since-march/article32085558.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel strike a tune to spread awareness on COVID-19||The COVID-19 pandemic has brought out hidden skills of police personnel in the city, and most are using their talents to create awareness about the pandemic. K. Prabakar, Deputy Commissioner, St. Thomas Mount, and R. Sasikala, a constable from Gummidipoondi, have created music albums that are now being played on public address systems and have been uploaded on social media. “I read a lot of books and give motivational speeches in colleges. I wanted to use music to create awareness about the pandemic and ask people to follow safety measures. Hence, I decided to make a music album. I wrote a portion of lyrics with lyricist Chittarasu and sang a few lines of the song along with singer Velmurugan. The music director of the album is S.R. Ram,” Mr. Prabakar said. The album is now being played on autorickshaws and at public spaces. “We are using 70 autorickshaws to play the announcement and songs at 60 important junctions in St. Thomas Mount. It is also circulated on police WhatsApp groups,” he added. Ms. Sasikala has also composed three folk songs to spread awareness about the disease. A native of Nagalingapatti village in Sivaganga district, she joined the service two years ago but retained her interest in poetry and music. “Music is the best way to make a person listen. During my free time, I penned the lyrics for the songs and showed them to my superior officers. They asked me to sing it in a recording studio and then upload it on social media,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-personnel-strike-a-tune-to-spread-awareness-on-covid-19/article32085527.ece
15 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM, Deputy CM hold one-to-one meeting||The much-awaited re-organisation of the AIADMK district units may be announced shortly, according to a cross-section of leaders in the ruling party. The expectation of the leaders was based on the one-to-one meeting between Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Tuesday, even though details of the meeting were not yet out. The two leaders, who are the co-coordinator and coordinator of the AIADMK respectively, held the discussion at the Secretariat after taking part in the Cabinet meeting. Originally, the matter was to have been finalised by a panel of five leaders last week. But, Electricity Minister and a member of the panel, P. Thangamani, had later tested positive for COVID-19. However, there was a feeling in the party that the issue over the re-organisation should be resolved as early as possible. The constitution of a 11-member high-powered committee, which is being talked about for the last three years, may also take place now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-deputy-cm-hold-one-to-one-meeting/article32085596.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special trains in State cancelled till July 31||The Southern Railway on Tuesday announced that special train services within Tamil Nadu shall remain suspended till July 31. The seven which were operated within the State were earlier cancelled till July 15 based on the direction of the State government. However, the special superfast train, being operated between New Delhi and the Dr. M.G.R. Chennai Central Station, would not be disturbed. According to a Southern Railway press release, the cancelled trains include the Tiruchi-Chengalpattu-Tiruchi, Madurai-Villupuram-Madurai, Coimbatore-Katpadi-Coimbatore, Tiruchi- Chengalpattu-Tiruchi, Arakkonam-Coimbatore-Arakkonam, Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai-Coimbatore and Tiruchi-Nagercoil-Tiruchi trains. Full refunds will be issued to those with advance reservations, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-in-state-cancelled-till-july-31/article32085603.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court desists from dismissing case on anti-CAA kolam protest||The Madras High Court on Tuesday desisted from dismissing as infructuous a case related to the anti-CAA kolam protests, which rocked the State in December. Instead, it directed the Greater Chennai city police to file its counter affidavit by August 17. Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan issued the direction on a petition filed by advocate Gayatri Khandhadai, who led the protests. She challenged prohibitory orders issued by the Commissioner of Police under Section 41 of the Madras City Police Act of 1888. When her case, filed in January, was listed for hearing on Tuesday, Additional Public Prosecutor S. Karthikeyan told the court that the order under challenge had expired and therefore, nothing survived for adjudication on the writ petitions filed by the protester. However, petitioner’s counsel M.V. Swaroop vehemently objected to the plea for dismissing the petition and said a crucial question of law had to be decided by the court. He said cases could not be booked for violating prohibitory orders unless the latter had been publicised. According to the counsel, there was absolutely no necessity for obtaining police permission for peaceful protests unless the Commissioner of Police had issued prohibitory orders under the 1888 Act. Such prohibitory orders could be in force for a maximum of 15 days.  After hearing him at length, the judge decided to examine the issue and directed the APP to ensure that a counter affidavit was filed in the case within four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-desists-from-dismissing-case-on-anti-caa-kolam-protest/article32085517.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MGR institute cancels entrance exam||The Dr. MGR Educational and Research Institute (deemed to be University) has cancelled the All-India MGR Engineering Entrance Examination for admission to engineering courses for the academic year 2020-21. The University will admit students to all engineering courses based on Class 12 marks or its equivalent examinations, the institution said. Weightage will be given to scores obtained in the Joint Entrance Examination, according to the registrar. The details of all the courses offered and eligibility criteria are available at www.drmgrdu.ac.in For further clarifications, call 74012 20777/21777 or 78239 44325/44326.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mgr-institute-cancels-entrance-exam/article32085515.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders’ bodies meet Deputy Chief Minister||The State government will consider the traders’ demands to reopen the Koyambedu wholesale market and other markets across Tamil Nadu. A decision will be taken after consultations with officials. The issue was discussed during a meeting on Tuesday between Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and the members of the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu and the Koyambedu Wholesale Traders’ Association. The traders’ body’s president, A.M. Vikramaraja, said the Deputy Chief Minister assured them that a decision would be taken soon. Meeting postponed After the talks, the traders’ body temporarily postponed a meeting with the Federation of All Traders Associations of KWMC Periyar Market, which was to be held on July 16. Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority Member Secretary D. Karthikeyan and Federation’s president D. Rajasekaran were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-bodies-meet-deputy-chief-minister/article32085518.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Cabinet approves Rs. 2,500-cr. investments||The Tamil Nadu Cabinet on Tuesday approved investments to the tune of Rs. 2,500 crore by four companies in various sectors across the State. An international automobile component-maker engaged in manufacturing airbags will invest around Rs. 900 crore in its unit in Kancheepuram district. It will invest over Rs. 400 crore in the first phase, and the rest over a 10-year period. Ather Energy Private Limited, which manufactures electric vehicles and batteries, will invest around Rs. 600 crore near Hosur. Philips Carbon Black Limited (a part of RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group), one of the largest carbon black producers in the country, will invest around Rs. 600 crore in its unit at Thervoy Kandigai in Tiruvallur district. ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division (ITC-PSPD) will invest around Rs. 500 crore in a unit near Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district. Besides approving the investments, the Cabinet cleared incentive packages for them. The government also decided to amend the existing procedures for the appointment of district kazis under the Kazis Act, 1880. The Cabinet has decided to make rules for deciding terms of appointment, responsibility and remuneration. “The intention is to have persons, who are well-aware of the principles of their religion,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-cabinet-approves-rs-2500-cr-investments/article32085504.ece
15 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Another policeman succumbs to COVID-19||Yet another policeman in Chennai succumbed to COVID-19 on Tuesday. He is the fourth personnel from the city police to have lost his life due to the infection. The victim, Gurumurthy, 54, was a sub-inspector attached to the Meenambakkam police station. Following an illness, he was admitted to the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super-Specialty Hospital in Omandurar Estate last month. He died on Tuesday, without responding to treatment. Chennai Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal tweeted, “We lost another hero SI Gurumurthy. He sacrificed his life at the altar of duty in corona prevention activity. We salute his supreme sacrifice.” On the field Over 1,500 police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 so far, across the State. Of these, 1,434 are in Chennai. Most of them are involved in efforts to contain the spread of the virus. As many as 847 police personnel have been cured of COVID-19, and have rejoined duty. On June 17, S. Balamurali, an inspector in Mambalam, died of the infection. He was the first police officer attached to the city police to die of COVID-19. On July 1, R. Manimaran, 57, a special sub-inspector of police, Pattinampakkam, succumbed to COVID-19. On July 6, G. Nagarajan, 32, an armed reserve police constable, died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-policeman-succumbs-to-covid-19/article32085549.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senior living communities during pandemic times||Ashiana Housing Limited and The Hindu Property Plus will present a webinar on ‘Senior Living Community – Positives in Today’s Pandemic Scenario’. The webinar is scheduled for July 18 from 11.30 a.m. The panelists include geriatric neuro psychiatrist U. Gauthamdas; India CBRE’s executive director and head, Consulting, Harish Nair; director and head (Research), ANAROCK Property Consultants, Prakash Thakur and Ashiana Housing Limited joint managing director Ankur Gupta, who is also chairman of the Association of Senior Living India. The webinar will touch on issues such as spurt in demand for retirement homes owing to fears spiked by the lockdown of living alone without aid at hand and how it will affect the market at large in comparison to other countries like the United States. The programme will also examine the main characteristics of senior living facilities available today and the split between independent and assisted living. The webinar will also touch on why South India has a more developed senior living market and a look at the market from the investors’ point of view. Link to register: https://bit.ly/3gXywH1 or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-living-communities-during-pandemic-times/article32085523.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special trains cancelled till July 31||The Southern Railway on Tuesday announced that special train services within Tamil Nadu shall remain suspended till July 31. The seven services that ere operated within the State were earlier cancelled till July 15 based on the direction of the State government. However, the special superfast train being operated between New Delhi and Dr. MGR Chennai Central station would not be disturbed. According to a Southern Railway press release, the cancelled special trains include the Tiruchi-Chengalpattu-Tiruchi, Madurai-Villupuram-Madurai, Coimbatore-Katpadi-Coimbatore, Tiruchi-Chengalpattu-Tiruchi, Arakkonam-Coimbatore-Arakkonam, Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai-Coimbatore and Tiruchi-Nagercoil-Tiruchi services. Full refund would be given to passengers, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-cancelled-till-july-31/article32085537.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry MLA moves HC||The Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notices to the Speaker of Puducherry Legislative Assembly, the Government Whip and the Election Commission of India on a writ petition filed against thedisqualification of Bahour MLA N. Dhanavelou under the anti-defection law. Justice K. Ravichandrabaabu permitted senior counsel A.R.L. Sundaresan and advocates P. Dinesh Kumar and Niranjan Rajagopalan to accept the notices on the petition filed by the disqualified MLA and file their respective counter affidavits within four weeks. In his affidavit, the litigant denied having indulged in any activity against the interests of the ruling Congress on whose ticket he had won the 2016 Assembly election. He claimed to have raised only a genuine public grievance regarding the lack of infrastructure in a PHC in Bahour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-mla-moves-hc/article32085540.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mechanised boats to resume operation today||After a break of over 110 days, mechanised boats will leave the Kasimedu fishing harbour on Wednesday. Sources in the Fisheries Department said around 3,000 passes had been issued to those who have work inside the harbour. “Those without passes will not be allowed to enter. We will ensure temperature checks for those entering,” the official said. Of the 1,000-odd mechanised boats, only around 150 will leave due to a lack of migrant workers. A senior official said only wholesale auctioneers will be allowed, while retailers will have to purchase from the markets at Chintadripet, Red Hills and Pattalam. Gradually, local fishers from neighbouring villages will also be allowed. “We need to begin restoring normalcy because this is a question of livelihood,” the official said. However, G. Arasu of the Chennai Chengai Singaravelar Visai Padagu Meenavar Sangam said they were worried about retailers not being allowed inside. “About 70% of our catch is small fish, which can only be sold by retailers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mechanised-boats-to-resume-operation-today/article32085519.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami tests negative for infection||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has tested negative for COVID-19. He took a test on Monday, the State government said on Tuesday. According to an official release, all those in the Chief Minister’s Camp Office also tested negative for the infection. Testing in State A total of 15,85,782 persons across the State have been tested for COVID-19 at 105 testing centres so far, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-tests-negative-for-infection/article32085547.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal: step up rural health infrastructure||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Tuesday said the State government should ensure that adequate doctors and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits are available at primary health centres (PHCs) to arrest the spread of COVID-19 in the rural areas. In a statement, Mr. Haasan said the government machinery had only focused on building infrastructure in the cities and had overlooked the needs of the villages. “Open drains, garbage-filled PHC compounds and a lack of manpower and protective equipment are common in rural areas. The government has not prioritised rural health but has only focused on health infrastructure in cities,” said Mr. Haasan. While the lockdown in cities would only affect their economies, in villages, it would create a shortage of food, he said, and called upon the government to make efforts to create awareness about the disease in rural areas and allay the fears of villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-step-up-rural-health-infrastructure/article32085554.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister, Deputy CM hold meeting||The much-awaited re-organisation of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) district units may be announced shortly, according to a cross-section of leaders in the ruling party. The expectations of the leaders were based on the one-to-one meeting between Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Tuesday, even though details of the meeting are not out yet. The two leaders, who are the co-coordinator and coordinator of the AIADMK respectively, held discussions at the Secretariat, after taking part in the Cabinet meeting. Originally, the matter was to have been finalised by a panel of five leaders last week. But Electricity Minister and a member of the panel, P. Thangamani, tested positive for COVID-19. However, there was an opinion in the party that the issue over the re-organisation should be resolved as early as possible. 11-member committee The constitution of an 11-member high-powered committee, which was spoken about for the last three years, might also take place now. The party was also making arrangements for giving assignments to 40,000 youngsters — 20,000 each under the Information Technology (IT) wing and the youth wing, the leaders added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-deputy-cm-hold-meeting/article32085535.ece
15 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Therapist held under POCSO||The Adyar All Women Police, on Tuesday, arrested K. Mahesh, 42, a therapist, on charges of sexually assaulting a 13-year-old gymnast he was helping. He was booked under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/therapist-held-under-pocso/article32085524.ece
15 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Schoolchildren get dry rations under noon meal scheme||Students studying in Classes I to VIII in 1,271 government and government-aided schools in Coimbatore district are being provided with dry rations under the noon meal programme. An official with the Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department said that the distribution began on July 8 in these schools for the primary (Classes I to V) and upper primary (Classes VI to VIII). The primary class students will each receive 3.1 kg rice and 1.2 kg pulses and upper primary students will be given 4.65 kg rice and 1.25 kg pulses. These dry rations are the quota for the month of May, the official said, which are provided to ensure that the students receive the adequate nutrition as the schools are closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The distribution is expected to be completed by July 20 and distribution of the dry rations for June will be started as per orders of the State government, he said. “About 3,500 employees from the Department are engaged in this initiative in Coimbatore district,” the official said. A. Bellie, headmaster of Government Higher Secondary School in Velliangadu, said that over 50 students have received the dry rations in his school as of Tuesday. As part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures, the school premises were disinfected and personal distancing was maintained, he said. The students and their parents along with the staff members wore masks during the distribution, Mr. Bellie said.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:  The dry ration for school children in government and government-aided schools in Salem district would be distributed between July 14 and 20, a release from district administration said. According to a release, students, parents can visit their respective schools according to schedule and collect the dry ration materials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schoolchildren-get-dry-rations-under-noon-meal-scheme/article32085594.ece
15 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Taxi drivers demand government assistance||Members of the All India Tourist Vehicle Drivers Welfare Association staged a demonstration in front of the Regional Transport Office – Central on Dr. Balasundaram Road here on Tuesday demanding government assistance for taxi drivers affected due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The petition, addressed to the Joint Transport Commissioner (JTC) of Coimbatore Zone K. Umasakthi, said that all taxi drivers, particularly those in the tourist sector, have been affected due to the nationwide lockdown and its impact on tourism. “We are unable to look after our household expenses and monthly rent,” the petition said. The Association requested the State government to provide road tax exemption for all drivers and cash assistance. “Most of the drivers have no other sources of income,” said C.P. Balaji, State joint secretary of the Association who owns three taxis in Coimbatore. The drivers need at least Rs. 5,000 every month to meet their expenses, he claimed. Nearly 100 members participated in the demonstration as members of other organisations also joined, due to which personal distancing was not maintained, according to Mr. Balaji. An official in the JTC’s office said that Mr. Umasakthi was not available to receive the petition on Tuesday. Nonetheless, the petition will be forwarded to the Transport Commissioner in Chennai for further action, he said.  Erode Staff Reporter adds:  In Erode, members of the South India Tourist Vehicle Drivers’ and Owners Welfare Association staged a demonstration outside the Regional Transport Office (East) urging the State government to provide welfare assistance to drivers and waive the road tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taxi-drivers-demand-government-assistance/article32085587.ece
15 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Temporary closure of banks, govt. offices hits trade and industry||As COVID-19 cases increase in the district, bank branches, government offices are closed temporarily if the employees test positive. In some cases, these leads to problems for trade and industry. As of now, one or two branches are closed in the district. If there are positive cases in a branch, it is closed for five to seven days. The customers of that branch are asked to approach the nearest branch of the same bank. The employees are asked to go on home quarantine for a specific period, said S. Venkataramanan, the district lead bank manager. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy said industries carry out most of the transactions online. Customers need to go to the bank only to withdraw cash or deposit cash. Since the branches are closed only for a short period, trade and industry would be able to adjust for that period, he said. However, in the case of government departments, he said that the government should extend time for all mandatory filings and payments. It should give time till the end of this financial year. Since the COVID-19 spread is throwing up new challenges, it will be difficult to complete the mandatory filings if the local offices are closed, he added. Bankers added that action was taken on two or three branches for not regulating crowd. There are some branches where the number of customers who walk in every day is relatively higher. The police should help these branches regulate the crowd rather than taking action, he said. Coimbatore and Tirupur District Tiny and Micro Enterprises Association president C. Sivakumar said that in several instances the public are unaware of the details of the government offices, police stations or bank branches that are closed temporarily. The details and the date when the offices would be opened should be shared. Coimbatore Consumer Cause secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said the details of containment zones and buildings closed temporarily should be shared online. The government offices in the containment areas and where the public can go to instead should be announced. This will help the public to be careful and avoid going there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-closure-of-banks-govt-offices-hits-trade-and-industry/article32085586.ece
15 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dilution in MSME definition sought||The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations has appealed to the Union Government to include a separate category called ‘cottage industries’ in the revised MSME (Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises) definition and to restrict the new definition to the manufacturing sector. The Federation, representing 19 industrial associations here, said in a press release that the revised definition brought together micro units of less than Rs. 1 crore turnover and a medium-scale enterprise of nearly Rs. 250 crore turnover under the same category. Orders from PSUs Currently, Public Sector enterprises (PSUs) should procure 25 % of their store requirement from MSMEs. With the new definition, micro units need to compete with medium-scale enterprises to get the orders from PSUs. According to data available, 95 % of the MSMEs in the country were in the micro category. Further, manufacturing and trading companies were now on the same platform. The Federation said the government should introduce a clause ‘an enterprise engaged in manufacturing or production of goods, pertaining to any industry and by employing plant and machinery in the process of value addition’ so that only the manufacturing units come under the MSME sector. Separate category For industries with less than Rs. 25 lakh investment and not more than Rs. 1 crore turnover, there should be a separate category called cottage units. And the cottage and micro units should get 50 % of the PSU procurement orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dilution-in-msme-definition-sought/article32085575.ece
15 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three-year-old girl falls into septic tank, dies||A three-year-old girl died after she fell into a septic tank on the premises of her home at Irugur near Coimbatore on Monday. The girl was identified as Baby Malik, daughter of Dushasan and Madhoo Malik from Kendrapara district in Odisha. According to Singanallur police, the couple work in a mill at Irugur. On Monday afternoon, Mr. Dushasan played with the girl on the premises of their quarters. Around 5 p.m., the man went inside the house to get some sleep and the girl continued playing outside. Around 6.30 p.m. the couple searched for the girl and they could not trace her. During searches, the neighbours found a gap on the concrete slab of the septic tank. They removed the slab and found the girl dead inside the tank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-year-old-girl-falls-into-septic-tank-dies/article32085602.ece
15 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on senior living communities on July 18||The Hindu PropertyPlus and Ashiana Housing Ltd. will organise a webinar on the increase in demand for senior living communities amid the COVID-19 pandemic on July 18. The webinar will focus on the reasons behind the spurt in demand for retirement homes as the nationwide lockdown caused fears of living alone among the senior citizens. The panellists will analyse whether this will be a sustained spurt or it is just pandemic-related, how well-developed is India’s senior living market, characteristics of senior living facilities available in India and the main challenges for realty market in creating senior living communities. The webinar will also touch upon the emotional well-being of the senior citizens living in these communities. Panellists for this webinar are U. Gauthamdas, a geriatric neuropsychiatrist; Harish Nair, Executive Director and Head Consulting of India CBRE, a real estate services and investment firm; Prashant Thakur, Director and Head – Research, ANAROCK Property Consultants, and Ankur Gupta, Joint Managing Director, Ashiana Housing Ltd. and the Chairman of Association of Senior Living India (ASLI). The webinar will begin at 11.30 a.m. on Saturday. Those interested shall register online through the website https://bit.ly/ 3gXywH1 or scan the QR code provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-senior-living-communities-on-july-18/article32085601.ece
15 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||Alandurai police on Monday arrested a 30-year-old man on charges of stabbing two of his wife’s relatives. P. Kumaresan is a taxi driver at Molapalayam near Alandurai. His wife Sangeetha went to her parents’ home 10 days ago, allegedly due to his alcoholism. On Monday, he went to his wife’s house in an inebriated state and demanded his in-laws to send Sangeetha with him. Her relatives Karuppusamy and Ajithkumar allegedly argued with Kumaresan. He stabbed them with a knife. They were admitted to CMCH where Karuppusamy’s condition was said to be critical. Kumaresan was arrested and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested/article32085589.ece
15 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Call taxi owners in Erode allege e-passes given only to select taxis||Alleging that that two corporate companies that operate call taxis in the district are given e-pass easily whereas other taxis are not given e-passes even for emergencies, members of the Tamil Nadu All Call Taxi Owners’ Welfare Association submitted a petition to the district administration here on Tuesday. Members said that lockdown had hit their livelihood hard. They said that two companies that own 200 to 300 call taxis are given e-passes and they travel to other districts regularly. Members also said that they had obtained loan from private financial institutions that are pressuring them to pay EMI and the interest. “Employees from those institutions are even trying to seize our vehicles for non-payment of dues”, they said and demanded action against them. They said that their earlier petition to the district administration did not yield any result as the Erode North Police conducted an inquiry and no action was taken so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-taxi-owners-in-erode-allege-e-passes-given-only-to-select-taxis/article32085573.ece
15 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Residential colony named as ‘Edappadiyar Nagar’||As a tribute to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for bringing in two water supply schemes that benefit people in Perundurai, a residential colony was named as “Edappadiyar Nagar” here on Tuesday. AIADMK Perundurai MLA and former Minister Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam unveiled the name board at the colony that has 50 houses, located near Thoppupalayam, which is native place of Mr. Venkatachalam. “People here are facing water shortage for many years and the Chief Minister sanctioned Rs. 237 crore for the Kodiveri Combined Water Supply Scheme that will mitigate the drinking water needs in 28 village panchayats in Perundurai Panchayat Union”, he told The Hindu . The MLA said that an overhead tank with three lakh litre capacity is constructed near the colony and people will directly receive water in another six months from the tank. “People came up with three names and I suggested the name “Edappadiyar” and asked them to decide and finalise it. They wholeheartedly agreed to the name”, he said. The MLA said that Athikadavu – Avinashi Ground Water Recharge and Drinking Water Supply Scheme will also help water bodies in the union to get recharged and hence naming the colony after the Chief Minister is a tribute to him. “It is not for any political gain or publicity”, he added. His move comes ahead of the CM’s visit to Erode for a review meeting scheduled on July 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residential-colony-named-as-edappadiyar-nagar/article32085598.ece
15 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Boy escapes unhurt in air cooler explosion||A 13-year-old boy escaped unhurt after the air cooler at his house exploded on Tuesday. The incident happened when the boy was sleeping alone while his parents had gone to a nearby shop. Neighbours found black smoke emanating from the house and broke open the door and rescued the boy. Fire and Rescue Services personnel brought the fire under control in an hour. Inquiries reveal that that explosion took place due to a problem in an electric circuit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-escapes-unhurt-in-air-cooler-explosion/article32085590.ece
15 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Kavindapadi sub-station , power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 16 at Kavindapadi, Kolathupalayam, Odathurai, Pethampalayam, Ellispettai, Singanallur, Perundalaiyur, Vellankovil, Appakudal, Krishnapuram, Dharmapuri, K. Pudur, Marappampalayam, Ayyampalayam, Velampalayam, Chandirapuram, Perumapalayam, Thannachipatti, Pandiyampalayam, Kunjaramadai, Odamedu, Karukkampalayam, Kannadipudur, Manickavalasu, Ayyanvalasu, Manipuram, Viralimedu, Thangamedu, Sevacoundanur, Alandur, Kavundampalayam, Kuttipalayam and Serayampalayam.  In view of the proposed maintenance works to be undertaken at the Sellappampalayam sub-station on July 17 , there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the following areas: Sellappampalayam, one part of Moopripalayam, Alampalayam one part, Ponnandampalayam, Pothiyampalayam one part, Thattampudur and Mappillaigoundenpudur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32085572.ece
15 July 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Two girls drown in quarry water pool||Two girls of Porani West Street in Jagadhabi drowned in a pool of stagnant water at a private stone quarry near Vellianai on Tuesday. According to sources, four girls, who were studying in a government school, had gone to the quarry for bathing. When they were taking bath, they were said to have moved into a deep area and started drowning. On hearing their cries, passers-by saved Kasthuri (8) and Darshini (13). But, they could only retrieve the bodies of S. Kavya (10) and K. Kalaiarasi (13), which were taken to Government Medical College Hospital here. Vellianai police have filed a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-girls-drown-in-quarry-water-pool/article32085902.ece
15 July 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Relief sought for school vehicles||The Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary, Matriculation, Higher Secondary and CBSE Schools’ Association have sought relief in statutory compliances for school vehicles in view of the continued shut down of schools and the lockdown. They have called for a freeze to road tax and toll tax up to September 2020. The Association has called for suspension of vehicle and road tax and other compliance under the Motor Vehicles Act, for school and college vehicles.It said there were thousands of school vehicles that have been off roads since the lockdown and the crew had been rendered jobless. Earlier, the members held a demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-sought-for-school-vehicles/article32085574.ece
15 July 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||CM visiting Krishnagiri today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is slated to inaugurate the international flower auction market here on Wednesday. The Chief Minister will also inaugurate projects and review COVID relief measures in the district. In view of the Chief Minister’s visit, over 1,000 police personnel have been deployed in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-visiting-krishnagiri-today/article32085591.ece
15 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Fever camps help in identifying cases’||Out of the 3,224 COVID-19 positive cases detected in Madurai Corporation from June 30 to July 13, around 55.92% of the cases were those who had influenza-like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), according to a data released by the district administration. Seventy per cent of these ILI or SARI cases had been identified at fever camps, Urban Primary Health Centres and Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH)while others were detected at private hospitals. Collector T.G. Vinay said that fever camps had played an important role in identifying ILI and SARI cases in the city. “We have been able to screen one lakh residents of the city at fever camps. The fever camps help to identify symptomatic cases and test them early. We are containing these areas to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” he said. While fever camps were held since the beginning of the intensified lockdown period, the numbers were increased from July 7. Currently, around 140 fever camps are held in the city everyday. “The mobile fever clinics are strategically placed at areas where a cluster of COVID-19 cases are reported,” said City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan. Apart from the screening, swab collection has been ramped at fever clinics, he said. Swab collection is done at all 31 Urban Primary Health Centres. “Recently, we have deployed lab technicians at all six ESI dispensaries, where fever camps are held, so that swab collection can be done. We have collected as many as 2,600 swabs through fever clinics,” he added. The Collector said that even if lockdown norms are relaxed, fever clinics would continue to detect symptomatic persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fever-camps-help-in-identifying-cases/article32085861.ece
15 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CBI gets custody of five accused policemen||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was on Tuesday granted custody of five suspended policemen in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case till July 16. The five were among those arrested in connection with the death of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks due to alleged custodial torture. The five policemen were produced before Madurai Chief Judicial Magistrate T.V. Hemanandakumar. He granted CBI the custody of former Sattankulam inspector Sridhar, sub-inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj. The CBI was directed to produce them before the court at 5.30 p.m. on July 16. The agency had sought the custody of the accused for five days. The CBI has booked the five police personnel under Sections 302 (murder), 342 (wrongful confinement), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) read with Section 109 (abetment) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused, lodged in the Madurai Central Prison, were brought to the Madurai district court complex on Tuesday. Following the CJM’s order granting custody to the CBI, they were taken to the Madurai Government Rajaji Hospital for a medical examination. Subsequently, the accused were taken to the CBI office in Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-gets-custody-of-five-accused-policemen/article32085539.ece
15 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘No curbs on over-the-counter sale of paracetamol tablets’||The State government on Tuesday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that it had not issued any order restricting the over-the-counter sale of paracetamol tablets in pharmacies. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by A. Joel Sugumar from Madurai, who sought a direction to the State not to restrict the over-the-counter sale of paracetamol tablets. He said that under the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, paracetamol tablets were classified as household remedies and could be sold over the counter, without a prescription from a registered medical practitioner. The petitioner said that if there was such a restriction, then people would be put to much hardship. People suffering from fever or cold, and not COVID-19, could buy these tablets for relief, he said. ‘Based on conjectures’ Special government pleader V.R. Shanmuganathan submitted that the PIL petition was filed based on conjectures and surmises and there was no such order from the State government restricting the over-the-counter sale of paracetamol. Recording the submissions made in the case, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam disposed of the public interest litigation petition.  Under the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, paracetamol tablets were classified as household remedies, and could be sold over the counter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-curbs-on-over-the-counter-sale-of-paracetamol-tablets/article32085556.ece
15 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Give financial assistance to licensed barbers: PIL plea||A barber from Palani in Dindigul district filed a public interest litigation petition before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday, seeking a direction to the State government to provide financial assistance to licensed barbers of Dhandayuthapani Swamy Temple in view of COVID-19 pandemic. In his petition, N. Periyasamy said the Palani temple that attracted a large number of devotees had been remaining closed for more than 100 days, as a result of which several groups such as the licensed barbers had been put to much hardship. Initially, the government distributed a monthly financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 to the barbers. But the monetary aid had stopped. He said while the employees of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department drew full salaries, the interests of licensed barbers, archakars and odhuvars were not looked into. He sought a direction to the State to provide Rs. 600 daily as financial assistance to the licensed barbers. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the State and adjourned the hearing till July 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-financial-assistance-to-licensed-barbers-pil-plea/article32085846.ece
15 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Track doubling around Vanchi Maniyachi railway station to be launched today||The first phase of doubling project on Madurai-Thoothukudi/ Vanchi Maniyachi-Nagercoil broad gauge sections for around 45 km on three stretches around Vanchi Maniyachi railway station will be commissioned on Wednesday. Mega blocks for line and power on the Madurai-Tirunelveli and Vanchi Maniyachi-Thoothukudi sections began on Tuesday morning, to facilitate the taking up of the final touches of the project. “No railway movement will be allowed on these sections on Tuesday and Wednesday to enable the work,” a senior railway official said. Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RNVL) has taken up the doubling project along with electrification for 260 km, and had originally planned the integration of the newly-laid second line and the old line at the railway stations of Gangaikondan, Naraikinaru, Vanchi Maniyachi, Tattaparai and Kadambur railway stations at the end of March. “The work that was taken up between March 16 and 28 had to be suspended midway after the State and Central governments announced lockdowns following the COVID-19 threat,” an official from RVNL said. Though the work started in the first week of May, lack of skilled workforce, especially labourers from north Indian States who returned to their hometowns, slowed the progress of the work. “Men had to be mobilised from other places to bring the work on track,” the official said. Earlier in March, RVNL had sought a limited period of line/power blocks on these sections when trains were run as usual. Now, the Madurai Division of Southern Railway is able to provide mega blocks for two days as, except for parcel trains, no other rail service is operated on these sections. The final phase of the task includes the removal and insertion of points, signal work and overhead electrification work. As part of the doubling project, the new station buildings at these stations are getting advanced electronic signal systems. The triangle of Vanchi Maniyachi-Kadambur (Madurai side); Vanchi Maniyachi-Gangaikondan (Tirunelveli side) and Vanchi Maniyachi-Thattaparai (Thoothukudi side) sections is one of the congested sections in the Madurai-Nagercoil/Thoothukudi sections. “Doubling of these sections will increase line capacity and thereby de-congest these sections,” the official added. The project of doubling tracks on the Madurai-Thoothukudi section for 158 km and Vanchi Maniyachi-Nagercoil section for 104 km was originally scheduled for completion in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/track-doubling-around-vanchi-maniyachi-railway-station-to-be-launched-today/article32085844.ece
15 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. employees seek bus facility||Members of the Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association demanded bus facilities to go to their respective offices and staged a protest here on Tuesday. Its district secretary K. Neethiraja said they come from different parts of the district to their respective offices. Employees who succumbed to COVID-19 should be compensated and personal protection equipment (PPE) should be given to all frontline workers including conservancy workers. The State government, which has frozen Dearness Allowance (DA) until 2021 July, should withdraw its order. It should also withdraw its order regarding encashment of earned leave. Panchayat assistants, librarians and anganwadi workers who are working on special time-scale based pay should be giben regular pay, he added||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-employees-seek-bus-facility/article32085858.ece
15 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No community transmission: officials||Seven per cent of all recorded COVID-19 cases in the Madurai Corporation in the last two weeks neither have any contact with patients who have tested positive for the disease nor influenza-like illness symptoms. Data released by the district administration shows that a total of 3,224 cases have been recorded in the corporation limit in the last 14 days between June 30 and July 13. Of them, 234 cases have been categorised as ‘local cases.’ Officials say that ‘local cases’ are those where the source of the COVID-19 infection cannot be clearly established. While experts say this could be an indication of community transmission, officials deny it. Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association President K. Senthil said spread of these local cases could indicate community spread. ‘However, community transmission need not be across the city. It could be in certain hotspots which are thickly populated,’ he said. Another source stated that areas around the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) could be susceptible to community spread as attenders keep travelling in and out of the hospital for their meals. There could be transmission in areas like Sellur which is thickly populated and where a number of cases have been reported. Collector T. G. Vinay said these cases are usually recognised when patients walk in for surgeries and then learn about being carriers of COVID-19. “They are usually asymptomatic and get a CT-scan done before the surgery. This is when it is found that they have COVID-19,” he said. He said there was no community transmission in the district. These cases are likely to be secondary contacts of positive cases, he said. “The contacts of these cases need to be probed further to ascertain where they contracted the disease,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-community-transmission-officials/article32085850.ece
15 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on senior living community||The Hindu Property Plus, along with Ashiana Housing Limited, is conducting a webinar on ‘Senior Living Community - positives in today’s pandemic scenario’ on July 18 at 11.30 a.m. The list of speakers for the webinar includes Dr. U. Gauthamdas, Geriatric Neuro Psychiatrist; Harish Nair, Executive Director and Head Consulting, India CBRE; Prashant Thakur, Director and Head - Research, ANAROCK Property Consultants; and Ankur Gupta, Joint Managing Director, Ashiana Housing Limited and Chairman of Association of Senior Living of India. The webinar will have discussion on topics like the spurt in demand for retirement homes as the lockdown has created fear of living alone and sustainability of such a trend. There will be discussion on development of India’s senior living market and its comparison with other countries. The availability of facilities for senior living, challenges for the realty market in creating senior living communities and the investment required by a developer for initiating senior living projects will be discussed. An analysis of why south India has a more developed senior living market compared to the north will be discussed. The webinar will touch upon the emotional well-being of senior living. Those interested can register athttps://bit.ly/3gXywH1or scan the QR code to participate in the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-senior-living-community/article32085854.ece
15 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Discrimination in appointment of priests’||There is discrimination in appointment of non-brahmin priests, trained in Tamil Nadu government’s archakas (priest) training centres, in appointment in major temples across the State that follows Agamas (treaties), says S. Vanchinathan, State co-ordinator of People’s Rights Protection Centre. “For many years, all those who have graduated from the centres, are struggling to get a job based on their qualifications,” said Mr. Vanchinathan in a press release. Only brahmin priests are posted in major temples under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department like Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, Sri Dhandayuthapani Swamy Temple in Palani, Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple at Srirangam and Kapaleeswarar Temple in Chennai, which follow Agama, he said. “There is no transparency or proper test in their appointment. The jobs are filled on hereditary basis,” he said. Though there are many vacancies in temples under the purview of HR and CE across the State, non-brahmin priests, who have graduated from the centres, have not been appointed, he said. The State government should take steps to address the issue and make sure that all non-brahmin priests are posted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discrimination-in-appointment-of-priests/article32085851.ece
15 July 2020||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||450 test positive in Madurai||A total of 450 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 6,990. All the new cases were indigenous. The number of active cases stands at 4,199. Four deaths were recorded, which took the toll to 124. Virudhunagar recorded 328 cases, which took its total case count to 2,427 and number of active cases to 1,425. With the deaths of two aged persons from the district at Madurai Government Rajaji Hospital on Sunday and Monday, the district’s toll rose to 19. Meanwhile, Executive Officer of Sundarapandiam Town Panchayat Mohan Kennedy, died at the GRH on Wednesday. He had tested positive on July 7. Paralachi police station was closed after two police personnel tested positive. Theni reported 53 fresh cases – 28 men, 20 women and 5 children. Periyakulam recorded 16 of the new cases and Cumbum 10 cases. There were 57 fresh cases in Dindigul district, which pushed its tally to 946. Among the 16 fresh cases reported in Dindigul Corporation was a Sub-Inspector of Police attached to the All Women Police Station. Natham recorded 10 cases and Kodaikanal seven cases. Ramanathapuram recorded 64 new cases, with which its total case count rose to 1,956. A total of 408 people were discharged. Sivaganga’s tally went up to 1,003 with the addition of 112 cases. Kanniyakumari reported 122 fresh cases and four deaths. The district’s tally stands at 1,613, with 1,050 active cases. Its toll now is 10. Thoothukudi added 112 cases to its tally that soared to 2,497 with 1,359 active cases. The district recorded one death on Tuesday which took its toll to 17. Tenkasi recorded 103 new cases, 102 of which were indigenous, and one death. Its toll now is 3. Tirunelveli, with the addition of 59 cases, has 989 active cases. Its tally rose to 1,935. The district has witnessed 11 deaths. A politician died at Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital with COVID-19 symptoms on Monday. Pressure mounted on the hospital authorities to hand over the body to the relatives. When the body was taken to the burial ground on Tuesday, his swab result turned out to be positive. Those who paid their last respects to him are giving samples for COVID-19 test. City Health Officer Arun Kumar initiated an inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/450-test-positive-in-madurai/article32085848.ece
15 July 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||CM opens bridges||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami declared open two newly built bridges in Perambalur district through video conference from Chennai on Tuesday. He declared open a bridge on Ezhumur-Malavarayanallur Road, built at a cost of Rs. 1.98 crore, and another on Kolakanatham-Sirukanpur Road, built at an estimate of Rs. 1.45 crore. Collector V. Santha and Highways Department officials inspected the bridges after the inauguration, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-opens-bridges/article32085907.ece
15 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bastille Day celebrated||The French Consulate General here joined French missions in the country in celebrating Bastille Day with various online programmes. French Consul General Catherine Suard paid floral tributes at the French war memorial. T. Arun, District Collector, and other dignitaries paid homage at the memorial that serves as a tribute to soldiers martyred in the First World War.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bastille-day-celebrated/article32085566.ece
15 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Fiat to kin of women local body leaders||The Pudukottai district administration on Tuesday has cautioned husbands and relatives of elected women local body representatives against taking part in local body activities as proxies. Collector P. Uma Maheswari in a release said husbands or kin of women panchayat presidents should desist from taking part in review meetings, gram sabha and panchayat meetings instead of women panchayat presidents. Any complaints in this regard could be conveyed to the Collectorate toll-free number 1800-425-9013 or to the number 04322-222171.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fiat-to-kin-of-women-local-body-leaders/article32085894.ece
15 July 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Film producers summoned by Ramnad police||Three film producers on Tuesday were issued summons by Ramanathapuram police for inquiry into alleged financial fraud. Following a complaint from Thulasi Manikandan of TNHB Colony here, a case was registered against Neethimani, his wife Maneka and Anand, a teacher from the district. The complainant said the three producers, Siva of Salem, Gnanavelraja of T.Nagar, Chennai, and Muruganandam of K.K. Nagar, Chennai, allegedly promised to deliver good returns on his investments. Hence, he invested Rs. 5 lakh in June 2018. The business was on the lines of MLM. Based on the confession of the key accused, police said over Rs. 10 crore could have been collected by the firm. While a majority of investors received returns for about six months, some got returns for nine months. Trouble started when the finance firm sought time to repay the principal and even threatened or switched off their phones when investors contacted them. The key accused lured investors in Sivaganga, Madurai, Salem, Coimbatore, Chennai and, through their relatives, in Singapore and Malaysia, police said. SP V. Varun Kumar said bank transactions showed that the finance firm transferred money received from investors to bank accounts in the name of film producers. Interrogation of Neethimani and Anand revealed that the money was ploughed in film production and distribution. When the accused named the role of the three film producers, police tracked their conversation on mobile phones and WhatsApp messages and bank transactions. They had been asked to appear at Ramanathapuram Bazaar police station between July 20 and 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/film-producers-summoned-by-ramnad-police/article32085863.ece
15 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||3 die of COVID-19 in western region||A 75-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here, died on Tuesday. According to officials, the deceased was a resident of Kallakuruchi. He was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Salem and was shifted to the government hospital on July 10. He was suffering from respiratory issues, the officials said. Coimbatore In Coimbatore, a 73-year-old woman died of the disease on Monday, taking the official death toll of the district to 10. As per the media bulletin issued by the Health Department, the woman, who died at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, was suffering from type II diabetes and hypothyroidism. She was admitted to the hospital on June 30. A 61-year-old woman from Dhali Town Panchayat died of COVID-19 at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Monday, Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan tweeted on Tuesday. With this, Tiruppur district recorded four COVID-19 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-die-of-covid-19-in-western-region/article32085584.ece
15 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners demand withdrawal of fuel price hike||Members of the Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners’ Federation staged a protest at various places here on Tuesday condemning hike in fuel prices. The protesters demanded that due to COVID-19 pandemic, transport business has been severely affected. Murugan Venkatachalam, president of Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners’ Federation said: “the transportation sector has been severely affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown.” The organisations also demanded the State government to waive road tax and announce relief for drivers and others involved in the transportation business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-owners-demand-withdrawal-of-fuel-price-hike/article32085595.ece
15 July 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Two women murdered, 75 sovereigns stolen||A 60-year-old woman and her daughter-in-law were murdered and about 75 sovereigns of gold jewellery stolen from their house at Mudukoorani in Kalayarkoil block in Sivaganga district on Tuesday. Preliminary inquiry showed that the house belonged to Stephen, 38, who was enlisted in the army and posted in Ladakh. His father Santiago, 66, mother Rajakumari and wife Sneha, 30, lived there. The younger couple’s seven-month-old girl was also with them. On Tuesday morning, when Santiago was away at a farm in the neighbourhood, the burglars are suspected to have gained entry into the house. They attacked the two women and decamped with gold jewels and other valuables in the almirah, which was found broke open. Ramanathapuram SP V. Varun Kumar (holding additional charge of Sivaganga district) visited the scene of crime. A sniffer dog was pressed into service and fingerprint experts visited the spot. The bodies were sent to GH for postmortem. A case of murder for gain was registered. An investigating officer said the burglars might have attacked the women with iron rod, causing fatal injuries. On hearing the cries of the child, which was left unharmed, neighbours rushed to the house. DIG of Police (Ramanathapuram Range) Mylvaganan inspected the scene of crime. Five special teams were formed to nab the killers. Santiago said his family members had dedicated themselves to the army. His second son, James Raj, was also in the army. Villagers said there was a rise in the number of crimes after 82 remand prisoners were let off from the sub-jail in the district. While they were released on bail due to COVID-19, it was for the police to keep a check on their movements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-murdered-75-sovereigns-stolen/article32085840.ece
15 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Kumbakonam vegetable market closed for second time||The wholesale business at the Kumbakonam vegetable market has been suspended after a few persons in the market tested positive for COVID-19 recently. Three persons working in the vegetable wholesale units tested positive for the novel coronavirus three days ago and immediately the operations in the market area were suspended. Around 300 persons, those doing business in the market and those engaged by them for work were subjected to COVID-19 test for the past two days and out of the 300 swab and blood samples, 20 samples turned positive. All those 20 persons have been quarantined in their respective houses, according to the Collector, M. Govinda Rao. Another batch of 300 persons having business contacts in the market area have been identified and they would be subjected to tests over the next two days, he added. The wholesale vegetable market on the banks of Arasalar river was temporarily closed on May 10 following a goods carrier driver who had brought potato load from Mettupalayam to the Kumbakonam market tested positive. The market resumed its operations on May 25 after the COVID-19 tested goods driver recovered from the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kumbakonam-vegetable-market-closed-for-second-time/article32085900.ece
15 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Bail plea adjourned||Hearing of the bail petition of suspended Sub-Inspector of Police of Sattankulam K. Balakrishnan, who has been arrested in connection with the twin custodial deaths case, was adjourned till Wednesday by Thoothukudi Principal Sessions Judge N. Logeswaran. The CB-CID counsel informed the court in the forenoon of Tuesday that the investigating agency had handed over the case to the CBI, which was not represented by a counsel then. Hence, the court passed over the case to 1 p.m. after asking the CB-CID’s advocate to alert the CBI counsel. Later, appearing through WhatsApp from Madurai, CBI counsel S. Vijayan said all records pertaining to the case had been transferred to the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Madurai, for hearing and the Thoothukudi court could not entertain the bail petition. When he was asked to submit his objection in writing, he could not do so. Hence, the case was adjourned. Meanwhile, SSI Pauldurai and constable Thomas, who have been arrested in the case and were undergoing treatment at Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, were discharged and taken to Thoothukudi District Jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-plea-adjourned/article32085862.ece
15 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||271 fresh COVID-19 cases in central region||As many as 271 fresh COVID 19 cases were reported in the central region on Tuesday. Tiruchi district topped with 117 cases among the central districts. The State Health Department bulletin also recorded nine more deaths, which had occurred on Saturday and Sunday in the region. The bulletin recorded six deaths in Tiruchi, two in Thanjavur and one Pudukottai district. All patients, who died of COVID 19 in Tiruchi district, had comorbidities. Of them, two patients were under treatment for heart diseases. Meanwhile, according to reliable sources, two patients, who had tested positive for the virus, died of respiratory failure in Tiruchi on Tuesday. A 50-year-old female patient from Palakkarai, who was admitted to K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College on Saturday, died of respiratory failure on Tuesday. Her swab sample lifted on Sunday turned out positive. She had diabetes mellitus and hypertension. A male patient, who died after being tested positive for the virus, belonged to Sangiliandapuram. The 55-year-old patient was admitted to the K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital on Saturday with complaints of breathlessness. He was under treatment of diabetes and acute hypertension. Apart from the 117 new cases in Tiruchi, Pudukottai recorded 56 cases. Thanjavur and Ariyalur accounted for 29 fresh cases each. There were 15 fresh cases in Nagapattinam and 5 in Karur. Only one patient tested positive for the virus in Perambalur district. In Tiruchi, more positive cases were reported in Srirangam, E.B. Road, Anna Salai, Uyyakondan Thirumalai, Thennur, Woraiyur, Uppiliyapuram and Mannachanallur. Five persons tested positive for the virus in Manapparai. There were cases from Lalgudi, Tiruverumbur, Kattuputhur and Palakkarai. A total of 82 patients were discharged in Tiruchi. Of them, 48 patients received treatment at K.A.P. Viswanatham Hospital. Remaining 34 patients were treated at the COVID care centre at Khajamalai. The Tiruchi City Corporation, which has intensified the COVID-19 testing, collected more than 750 swab samples. Many people from the affected areas, particularly from the Big Bazaar zone, came forward to test themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/271-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-central-region/article32085901.ece
15 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on ‘Senior living’ in Tiruchi||The Ashiana Housing Ltd and The Hindu Property Plus will host a webinar on ‘Senior living community - positives in today’s pandemic scenario,’ at 11.30 a.m. on July 18. As the lockdown led to apprehensions over living alone and without aides, there was a spurt in demand for retirement homes. Is senior living the next big thing in the real estate market? Is this a sustained spurt? How well developed is India's senior living market? And how does it compare to markets in other countries? What are the main features of senior living facilities available and what are the main challenges for realty market in creating senior living communities? These and other related issues would be the key focus of the webinar, which would also touch upon the emotional well being of senior citizens. U. Gauthamdas, geriatric neuro psychiatrist, Harish Nair, Executive Director & Head Consulting, India CBRE, Prashant Thakur, Director & Head – Research, ANAROCK Property Consultants, Ankur Gupta, Joint Managing Director, Ashiana Housing Ltd., and Chairman, Association of Senior Living India, will be the panellists. To participate in the webinar, register at: https://bit.ly/3gXywH1 or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-senior-living-in-tiruchi/article32085897.ece
15 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Relocate sewage treatment plant: farmers||A large number of farmers and residents staged a sit-in protest in front of the Collectorate in the city on Monday in protest against the Tiruchi Corporation move to set up a sewage treatment plant (STP) close to agricultural fields at Keezha Kalkandarkottai and in support of their charter of demands. One of the farmers, identified as Ravi of the locality, caused a flutter by slashing his hand allegedly with a knife during the protest and was rushed to the K.A.P.Viswanatham Government Medical College Hospital for treatment for a bleeding injury. The agitation was led by P.Ayyakannu, president, Desiya Thennidia Nadigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam. Apart from its opposition to the STP, the association also urged the government not do away with the free power supply to farm connections and demanded steps to ensure fair and remunerative prices for agricultural produce, sanction of monthly pension of Rs. 5,000 to all farmers above the age of 60 and linking of rivers. According to Mr. Ayyakannu, the STP at Keezh Kalkandarkottai, to be established as part of the Rs. 344 crore-phase II underground drainage project, being implemented under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), has been situated on a poromboke land which was still being used as threshing floor by farmers. The agitators withdrew the stir after Collector S.Sivarasu held brief talks with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relocate-sewage-treatment-plant-farmers/article32085892.ece
15 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special trains cancelled up to July 31||Southern Railway has announced that special trains, which were in operation within the State, have been further cancelled till July 31 as per the request of the Tamil Nadu government. The Tiruchi - Chengalpattu - Tiruchi via Vriddhachalam superfast intercity special daily; Madurai - Villupuram - Madurai superfast intercity special daily; Coimbatore - Katpadi- Coimbatore superfast intercity special daily; Tiruchi- Chengalpattu-Tiruchi via Mayiladuthurai daily special; Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai- Coimbatore Jan Shatabdi special (six days a week) and Tiruchi - Nagercoil - Tiruchi superfast intercity special daily have been cancelled. A Southern Railway press release said full refund would be given to passengers who had made reservations. Passengers who had booked online would be refunded automatically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-cancelled-up-to-july-31/article32085903.ece
15 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fireman death: 3 arrested||Perambalur police have arrested three persons, including the owner of a farm and a licensed explosives dealer, in connection with the death of a firemanwho died of suffocationwhile trying to rescue a couple of labourers trapped inside an open well in Selliampalayam village near Perambalur Town on Sunday. One of labourers too, died in the incident. The case, which was initially booked under section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the death of the fireman R. Rajkumar and the labourer, R. Radhakrishnan, has now been altered and booked under IPC section 304 (ii) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) read with sections 3 and 6 of the Explosive Substances Act. Those arrested were V. Murugesan, the owner of the farm where the well was dug; D. Ashokan (50), a licensed explosives dealer of Siruvachur, and T. Lakshmanan (42) of Pudukudi, who had placed the explosives inside a borewell adjoining the well. The three were arrested on Monday night by the Perambalur Police. They were remanded to judicial custody and lodged at the sub jail in Jayamkondan in Ariyalur district. Police sources said Murugesan of Selliampalayam had dug the well to a depth of nearly 60 feet but it did not yield much water. He subsequently sunk a borewell adjoining the open well to a depth of around 300 feet . As there was no groundwater even at that depth, Murugesan bought explosives from Ashokan and asked Lakshmanan to place them inside the borewell sunk adjoining the well and blast the rocks. Sources said Lakshmanan did not have the mandatory licence required to handle explosives. Murugesan too, had not obtained permission from authorities for using explosive substances. Noxious fumes had apparently remained trapped inside the open well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fireman-death-3-arrested/article32085899.ece
15 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drive against encroachments||Officials of the Highways Department on Tuesday carried out an eviction drive near Mambazhasalai where service lanes are yet to be fully laid alongside the newly built road overbridge near Periyar Nagar on the Chennai Trunk Road. Highways Department sources said some encroachments were removed during the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-against-encroachments/article32085908.ece
15 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will be suspended between 9.45 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Thursday in the following places owing to maintenance works to be taken up by the Tangedco at the Samayapuram sub-station: Samayapuram, Manachanallur Road, Vengankudi, V.O.C.Nagar, Ezhil Nagar, Karunya City, Manchanallur, Kalpalayam, Mela Seedevimangalam, Irungalur, Purathakudi, Konalai, Kariyamanickam, Edumalai, Thaenur, Thiruvellarai, Poonampalayam, Kanniyakudi, Valaiyur, Palaiyur, Koothur, Nochiyam, Pazhur, Pachur, Azhagiyamanavalam, Thiruvasi, Kumarakudi, Thiruvarangapatti, Kovarthakudi, Panamangalam, Sirukudi, Sirupathur, Virani, Salapatti, Maniyampatti and Peramangalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32085906.ece
15 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown in Tirunelveli||Power supply to the following areas will be suspended between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Thursday (July 16) in view of maintenance work to be carried out by Tangedco in Melapalayam sub-station: Melapalayam Kottikulam Bazaar, Ambasamudram Main Road, Market areas, Kulavanigarpuram, Palayamkottai Central Prison areas, Maasilaamani Nagar, Veeramanickapuram, Netaji Road, Haamimpuram, Mela Karunkulam, Munneerpallam, Aaraikulam, Annai Nagar, Tharuvai, Omanallur, Kandiththaankulam, Eswaripuram, PSN College areas, Perumalpuram, Pothigai Nagar, NGO Colony, Government Engineering College area, new bus-stand areas, Reddiyarpatti, Tuckerammalpuram, Konganthaanpaarai, Ponnaakudi, Adaimithippaankulam, Sengulam, Puthukkulam, Ittaeri and Thaamaraiselvi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown-in-tirunelveli/article32085842.ece
15 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Wedding hall now comes home!||With wedding halls across the State remaining shut for over three months as part of efforts to arrest the spread of COVID-19, an art designer in Udumalpet, Tiruppur district, has come up with a “mobile wedding hall” to continue providing the experience of celebrations. A. Abdul Hakkim, who has been an art designer for nearly 20 years, constructed a wedding stage at the back of his truck. “I wanted to help those unable to hold their weddings in these [COVID-19] times,” he told The Hindu over phone on Tuesday. The “mobile wedding hall” is moved to the location preferred by the marriage parties. Masks also on offer Mr. Hakkim and six of his staff members then arrange the stage. A total of 50 chairs, as mandated by the State government, are placed in front of the stage. Masks and sanitisers are also provided for those attending the wedding, he said. Other items such as carpets, flower decorations, attractions for children and provisions for dining are also set up, Mr. Hakkim said.  Following its inauguration on July 11, a wedding reception was held on the “mobile wedding hall” in Udumalpet, he said. The initiative has already received five bookings from people living in and around the Udumalpet block. “Although we are currently in Udumalpet, we are ready to go to any part of Tamil Nadu or even India,” Mr. Hakkim said. Cheaper option Questioned about the charges for his services, he said that the entire cost would only work out to “around 20-25%” of the usual expense for wedding halls. M. Kannan, district joint secretary of the AIADMK advocate wing, inaugurated the mobile wedding hall on July 11. “With weddings being held in temples or houses during the lockdown, this ‘mobile hall’ will give the parents [of the bridegroom or the bride] some satisfaction about being able to provide the atmosphere of a wedding hall,” he said. Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan had also appreciated the initiative, Mr. Kannan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wedding-hall-now-comes-home/article32085563.ece
15 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Senior health official tests positive||Joint Director for Health Services, Tiruppur district, G. Shanthi was reported to have tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The 53-year-old official had fever and did not report to work for three days at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. Her swab sample was lifted on Monday, hospital sources told The Hindu . Following confirmation on Tuesday that she tested positive, Ms. Shanthi was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore, the sources said.  12 more cases  Tiruppur district saw 12 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking its overall tally to 319. Among the positive cases was a 45-year-old man with the Fire and Rescue Services in Udumalpet. Six of the cases were from Tiruppur Corporation limits, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said in a tweet. Three women aged 42, 31 and 56 from Jeeva Street in Anupparpalayam in Corporation limits tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-health-official-tests-positive/article32085576.ece
15 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Eco panels in the Nilgiris restore native habitats||While most eco-development committees (EDCs) tasked with providing environmentally sustainable livelihoods to tribal residents in the Nilgiris have been shut due to the closure of the district to tourists, the Pagalkodu Mund EDC, near Udhagamandalam, is restoring native Shola habitats in places over-run by invasive species. Northey Kuttan, president of the Pagalkodu Mund EDC, said that during the pandemic, 18 persons employed with the EDC were being engaged in getting rid of Cestrum nocturnum plants, which had encroached on native Shola habitats in the Wenlock Downs area. “The spread of Cestrum nocturnum is a threat to all Shola and grassland habitats, as it does not allow any native flora to thrive, Mr. Kuttan told The Hindu . Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Todas, who are in charge of taking care of the Pagalkodu Mund EDC, encompassing the Ninth Mile Shooting Spot, have removed more than two hectares of Cestrum plants. “The Cestrum plants, unless completely removed along with their roots, will keep sprouting and taking over Shola and native grasslands,” said Mr. Kuttan. The Todas are growing their own saplings and have set up a nursery, which will have more than 7,000 saplings of native Shola trees, ready to be planted in the coming years. “We estimate that it will take around 4-5 years to clear all the invasive plants located from Sandynallah to Pykara and reintroduce native flora,” added Mr. Kuttan. The Forest Department has been encouraging local EDCs to carry out afforestation of native flora at a time when tourism is banned in the Nilgiris. District Forest Officer D. Guruswamy said afforestation works were a vital facet of each EDC. “Apart from the commendable work of the Pagalkodu Mund EDC, other EDCs, such as the Doddabetta EDC and the Pykara EDC, are involved in huge clean-up operations and habitat-restoration works,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eco-panels-in-the-nilgiris-restore-native-habitats/article32085551.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district sees highest single-day spike||Coimbatore district reported the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases on Tuesday with 188 more persons testing positive. Health officials said three more officers from the Income Tax (I-T) Department office in Coimbatore tested positive. Already, a senior official of the Department, who came from Delhi, and three of his family members had contracted the disease. Three cases were reported from the 105 Rapid Action Force (RAF) Battalion based at Mahalingapuram near Vellalore. Swab samples of several persons were collected from the campus for COVID-19 testing, officials said.  City tally crosses 1,000 The number of COVID-19 positive cases in Coimbatore city crossed the 1,000 mark on Tuesday. From 998 cases on Monday, the total number jumped to 1,086 on Tuesday. Sources said that at present the civic body declared as containment area a house or an apartment or a part of a street or a small locality depending on the number of cases. The Corporation had also declared a few areas as partial containment zones, allowing for some relaxations from restrictions it imposed on containment areas. As of Tuesday, the city had 204 streets with active cases, adding nine for the day. The day also saw the Corporation conduct 42 fever clinics, lift around 500 samples and levy Rs. 14,000 as fine from persons without mask. Salem In Salem district, of the 58 persons, who tested positive, 57 were indigenous cases including 24 from the Corporation limits. One patient returned from Namakkal, health officials said. Namakkal Namakkal saw 14 cases, 11 of them were contacts of previous cases. Two persons came from Andhra Pradesh and one from Dharmapuri. Erode In Erode, 28 cases were reported of which 23 were in the Corporation limits, two in Perundurai and one each at Bhavani, T.N. Palayam and Bhavani Sagar. Six patients were frontline workers. Currently, 248 persons are under treatment while the district’s tally is 451.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-sees-highest-single-day-spike/article32085583.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Handbook released||The district administration and Tirunelveli Corporation have prepared a four-page handbook on COVID-19 prevention. It explains the importance of wearing mask, washing hands and periodic testing of body temperature and symptoms. Siddha practitioners have agreed to supply hampers at Rs. 120 each containing gooseberry tablets, aswakanda tablets, arsenic album 30C and nilavembu kudineer packet, which will be useful for one person for a month. The hampers will be available at many locations in the city, Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/handbook-released/article32085841.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 14     Persons tested +ve so far: 1,480 Indigenous cases: 1,448 Imported cases: 32 Active cases: 1,131 Deaths: 10    Home quarantined: 2,965 Positive: 319 Discharged: 185 Active cases: 130 Deaths: 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article32085577.ece
15 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi breaches 500 mark||With the detection of 64 new COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, the tally in Belagavi district reached 561. The number of deaths touched 14 with four reported in the last three days. A total of 366 persons have been discharged after spending varying periods in the district designated hospital. There are only 185 active cases in the hospital now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-breaches-500-mark/article32085669.ece
15 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Serve rural populace, medical graduates told||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar has urged young medical graduates to be ready to serve the rural population for at least five years after passing out of medical colleges. Nearly 70 % of the population lives in villages where access to health care is scarce. “That [serving rural population] will not only bring you satisfaction but also build a stronger India,” he said. He was delivering the convocation address of KAHER (Deemed to be University), beamed live from Bengaluru on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/serve-rural-populace-medical-graduates-told/article32085668.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. likely to normalise II PU students’ marks||As Class 12 students who wrote the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian School Certificate (ISC) did not appear for many of the examinations and still got marks for the same, the State government is mulling over ways to normalise the scores for second pre-university (II PU) students too. Students will be admitted to universities based on these scores. For entrance to various professional courses as well, the Class 12 marks are being considered in addition to their performance in competitive examinations. Speaking at a press conference on Tuesday, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar said that he would take up the matter with Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwathnarayan. “We will see what best can be done for the students so that it is a level playing field for all,” he said. Many PU students had pointed out that they would be at a disadvantage as students from central boards were graded based on the performance in the papers completed as well as their internal assessment scores for the papers that were cancelled. A PU student who hopes to get into a prominent college affiliated to Bengaluru Central University said, “The scores of ISC students are based on some of their best performances of the papers they have written and their internal assessment. So their scores will naturally be higher than ours. This needs to be set right so that the parameters of admission are fair.” Many degree college principals The Hindu spoke to also said that they were confused about how they should conduct admissions. “For some courses we have admission tests and online interviews. But for courses where there is no entrance test, we have to look only at Class 12 scores. We know that in the current situation, this is not a fair playing field, but we cannot devise our own formula to normalise scores,” said a principal of a city-based degree college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-likely-to-normalise-ii-pu-students-marks/article32085499.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Huge increase in number of centums in II PU exam||There has been a huge increase in the number of centums scored by students in the second pre-university (II PU) examination. This year, 20,958 centums have been bagged by students in different subjects, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Tuesday. This is a 74.5% increase from the previous year. Last year, students had secured 12,008 centums in different papers. The highest number of centums — 7,131 — have been secured in mathematics. Last year too, the most number of full marks — 2,477 — were bagged in mathematics. This year, the percentage increase in centums in the paper is 187.8. The second-most number of perfect scores — 2,305 — is in accountancy. Officials in the Department of Pre-University Education said the increase in centums could be attributed to the pattern of the question papers. “Over the last few years, evaluators have been sticking to textbooks and many questions were from picked from the questions at the end of the chapters. This is because they don’t want to be pulled up and told that they are asking questions out of the syllabus,” an official said. Role of teachers Another reason for the high number of centums in Science stream subjects, an official pointed out, is that teachers are now well-versed with the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) syllabus, which was first introduced for II PU students in 2012. The lowest number of perfect scores have been bagged in ‘Beauty and Wellness’ and ‘Urdu’, with only one student managing to do so in each subject. The percentage of distinctions too has increased this year. Out of the 4.17 lakh students who cleared the exam, 16.5% have secured distinction. Last year, the percentage was 13.22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/huge-increase-in-number-of-centums-in-ii-pu-exam/article32085490.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Week-long lockdown begins||The city went into a week-long lockdown as shutters were downed and roads barricaded on Tuesday at 8 p.m. The lockdown will end at 5 a.m. on July 22. The day also saw a rush at supermarkets and liquor stores, with people hoarding up supplies for the coming week. Liquor stores made brisk business on Monday and Tuesday, as they will be shut during the lockdown. More stringent lockdown Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao appealed to citizens to cooperate with the police to enforce a strict lockdown in the coming week, and warned that this lockdown would be more stringently enforced than the previous ones. “During the last lockdown, there were 20 containment zones in the city. Now, there are nearly 2,000 containment zones. Citizens must understand the severity of the situations and cooperate,” he said adding the police will not issue any travel passes this time. “Only those working in services that are permitted to operate can travel with their ID cards. Emergency travel will be allowed on a case-by-case basis,” he said. Pre-scheduled trains and flights will operate as usual. Cabs will be available only for railway stations and Kempegowda International Airport, he said. Except for roads leading to these destinations, other roads will be barricaded, all flyovers and underpasses will be closed for traffic. “Violators of lockdown norms will be strictly dealt with and booked under National Disaster Management Act, 2005,” he warned. The Commissioner also said deadlines for commercial establishments will be strictly enforced in the city. “All shops and markets except pharmacies and hotel kitchens shall be closed at noon every day. Hotel kitchens and food delivery can operate till 8 p.m.,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/week-long-lockdown-begins/article32085472.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Arts pass percentage down, but science numbers up||There is a steep decline in the pass percentage in the Arts stream this year, while the pass percentage in the Science stream has jumped. The pass percentage in Arts stands at 41.27%, down from 50.53% last year — an increase of 9.26 percentage points. On the other hand, the pass percentage in the Science stream has increased from 66.58% to 76.2%. The pass percentage in the Commerce stream has declined marginally — 65.52% this year from 66.39% last year, a decrease of 0.87 percentage points. The pass percentage only for freshers stands at 82.27% in the Science stream, 72.60% in Commerce, and 47.9% in Arts. K.R. Manjunath, principal of MES PU College and general secretary of Karnataka State PU College Principals’ Association, said the huge decline in Arts pass percentage could be attributed to the poor performance of rural students in the Economics and English papers. “Students in the Arts stream have the NCERT syllabus for Economics, which they are struggling with. Students have failed in the Economics and English language papers, and this is responsible for the decline in pass percentage,” he said. He added that there was a need for more orientation programmes for teachers. Thimmaiah Purle, honorary president of Karnataka State PU College Lecturers’ Association, said many students who pursue this stream come from poor socio-economic backgrounds in rural areas. “The students attend classes and also take up various odd jobs to meet the financial requirements of their families. Many students may also miss classes if they have to be at work,” he said. He also pointed out that the Arts stream was often the last priority for students who did not get seats in the Science and Commerce streams because of their higher cut-offs.  Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said officials were yet to analyse the results. “We will strive to improve next year after going through the causes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arts-pass-percentage-down-but-science-numbers-up/article32085488.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID Care Centre at BIEC to function only by August||As a fallout of the recent controversy over facilities at the COVID Care Centre (CCC) at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) — touted to be the largest in the State — the facility is now likely to be ready only by August, pushing the date of it becoming operational by nearly a month. Rajendra Kumar Kataria, Secretary of Department of Horticulture, who heads the team constituted to oversee setting up of the CCC in the city, had pointed out that hiring the cots and beds would translate to Rs. 24,000 a month, while a good quality cot was available in the market anywhere between Rs. 7,000 to Rs. 10,000. Following this, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had directed the officials to explore the possibility of buying the beds and cots from the service providers. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, who heads the task force formed to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, said a team had been constituted to look into the procurement of seven different reusable items, including beds and cots. The team would recommend rates based on the prevailing market rates, following which negotiations with the service providers would be taken up. A senior official said this meant that BIEC would be ready only in August. The plan was to open BIEC and shut down CCC in Sri Sri Ravishankar Ayurveda Hospital, GKVK – Agriculture Hostel, and Government Ayurveda Hospital. “This was in anticipation of the educational institutions being allowed to open in September,” the official said and added that Haj Bhavan and BIEC were expected to take the load. In addition to this, the service providers, who have provided several components of the infrastructure, including beds, cots, generators, shower cubicles, etc., are now contemplating taking them all back. This may further have a bearing on when the CCC will be ready to accept COVID-19 patients. A service provider, who spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, said his firm had provided 49 different items, including sofas, electrical points, partitions, toilets, generators. “We don’t want to get involved any more. We are ready to sell the beds and cots at whatever rate the government fixes. We will take a call on the remaining items shortly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-care-centre-at-biec-to-function-only-by-august/article32085478.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tahsildars asked to issue land records in land buyers’ name||With the repeal of Sections 79 (a) and (b) of the Land Reforms Act, 1961, the Revenue Department on Tuesday issued a circular to all deputy commissioners to direct tahsildars to issue land records (Pahani) in the name of buyers of agricultural lands, who have been till now denied records citing violation of sections while purchasing lands. In its circular to DCs, the Revenue Department’s principal secretary said that the new law has come into effect by repealing sections 79 (a) and (b) of the Act, following clearance of an Ordinance by Governor Vajubhai Vala. The changes in the law enabled non-agriculturists to purchase agricultural lands without any income limit. The government has repealed sections 79 (a), which prescribes an income limit to purchase farm land, and 79 (b), which prohibits non-farmers from purchasing agricultural lands. In a total of 13,841 cases of land purchase deals, records have not been registered in the name of buyers of farm land citing that they have violated sections 79 (a) and (b) of the Act. As many as 1,811 cases were pending in Bengaluru Rural district followed by 1,080 cases in Bengaluru Urban district. These cases have been pending since 2012. The circular has directed all sub-divisional officers and tahsildars to take action to clear all cases pending citing violation of sections 79 (a) and (b) of the Act. The director of the Bhoomi project has been instructed to make necessary changes in the portal to issue RTCs to land buyers. The Congress has opposed repealing sections of the Act saying it would spell doom for the marginal and small land-holders by reducing them to farm workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tahsildars-asked-to-issue-land-records-in-land-buyers-name/article32085493.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Work on metro to KIA may start in Q1 of 2021||Taking the hopes of air passengers for multi-modal transport to the airport a step closer to reality, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) floated the tender to construct the metro line on a stretch of 38 km on Tuesday. The BMRCL is hopeful of starting construction work on the line to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) from K.R. Puram in the first quarter of the next year. The news comes days after it was revealed that the railway halt station on the boundary of KIA will be ready at the end of August, enabling the South Western Railway (SWR) to give a stoppage for trains being operated on the Yelahanka-Bangarpet line. Ajay Seth, MD, BMRCL told The Hindu that the tender process will be completed by December so that the project can start in the first quarter of 2021. “The land acquisition is expected to be completed by September. All the work of shifting utilities, except a gas pipeline at one location, should get completed before the work is awarded,” he said. As per the notification, the BMRCL has floated tenders for three phases. The first one from K.R. Puram interchange station to Kempapura metro station on an 11-km stretch. The BMRCL will build stations at Kasturinagar, Horamavu, HRBR Layout, Kalyanagar, HBR Layout, Nagawara, Veerannapalya and Kempapura and includes building a line to connect the existing Baiyappanahalli depot. The metro alignment runs on the median on the busy Outer Ring Road. In the second phase, the project will be taken up between Hebbal and Bagalur Cross over a 12 km stretch. Stations will come up at Hebbal, Kodigehalli, Jakkur Cross, Yelahanaka and Bagalur Cross. The third phase of the project will cover a distance of 15 km after Bagaluru Cross. The tender states that two stations will come up on this stretch at Bettahalasur and Doddajala. The BMRCL is building a 718-metre cut under cover line near Yelahanka air base. The tender work also includes widening of the road and removing utilities. As per the plan, the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), the operator of the KIA, will build two stations inside the campus of the airport. A BMRCL official said, “The 38-km line from K.R. Puram to KIA needs more than 3 lakh square metres of land. We have received land from the NHAI for building a viaduct from Hebbal to the trumpet interchange. On ORR from K.R. Puram to Hebbal, compensation has been paid to a majority of the property owners barring five. For the rest of the line, compensation is being paid to property owners. We will complete the process as early as possible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-on-metro-to-kia-may-start-in-q1-of-2021/article32085469.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Number of vehicles heading out comes down||People continued to leave the city even on Tuesday, but officials said the number of vehicles were lower than on Monday. The KSRTC operated 1,300 buses on Tuesday and over 26,000 people utilised the services. The KSRTC has cancelled all services scheduled from Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts during the lockdown. Those have booked tickets online will get the refund. The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) will operate only essential services during the lockdown. The Corporation will operate 134 buses for those carrying out essential services that include doctors, nurses, government employees, police and others.. Those who are travelling to railway stations and the Kempegowda International Airport must carry their ticket and an ID card. Students appearing for exams will also be allowed to travel. Deputy Commissioner of Bengaluru Rural P.N. Ravinda said, “Barring essential services, no other movements will be allowed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/number-of-vehicles-heading-out-comes-down/article32085474.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Coop. polls postponed till December||The Cooperation Department has issued an order to postpone elections till December, to various cooperative banks and societies, including Apex Bank, in the State. In its circular on July 14, Jurisdictional Registrars have given authority to appoint administrators to cooperative banks and societies. Cooperatives, which have announced calendar of events to hold elections, too have been asked to postpone till the end of this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coop-polls-postponed-till-december/article32085480.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students from Russia return||A total of 227 medical students stranded in Russia returned to Bengaluru on Tuesday. Congress Rajya Sabha member G.C. Chandrashekar had urged the Centre to bring back these students. Of the 227, 170 students are from Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-from-russia-return/article32085494.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||80 metro workers test positive||The BMRCL has said that 80 personnel working on the underground metro line have tested positive for COVID-19. All of them are getting treatment in COVID-19 Care Centres. “Last week, a metro worker tested positive. After that, people working with him in the construction sites were tested. They are all getting treatment. We have already sanitised the construction sites.” They were working on the line between Shivajinagar and Tannery Road metro stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/80-metro-workers-test-positive/article32085470.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Webinar on senior living community||A webinar on ‘Senior Living Community - Positives in today’s pandemic scenario’ is been organised by Ashiana Housing Ltd. and The Hindu PropertyPlus on July 18 at 11.30 a.m. The panellists include Dr. U Gauthamdas, geriatric neuro psychiatrist; Harish Nair, Executive Director and Head Consulting, India CBRE; Prashant Thakur, Director & Head – Research, ANAROCK Property Consultants; Ankur Gupta, Joint managing Director, Ashiana Housing Ltd. and Chairman – Association of Senior Living India (ASLI). The webinar will touch upon key points such as the spurt in demand for retirement homes, how well developed is India's senior living market, and what are the main challenges for the realty market in creating senior living communities, among others. Link to register: https://bit.ly/3gXyw H1 or scan the QR CODE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar-on-senior-living-community/article32085468.ece
15 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Banks to be closed on all Saturdays||All banks in the State will remain closed on all Saturdays till second week of August 2020, in addition to the existing holidays on second and fourth Saturdays, according to a notification issued by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/banks-to-be-closed-on-all-saturdays/article32085476.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State records huge spike in no. of deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday saw 87 deaths, the highest on a single day so far. With this, the toll has touched 842. This is apart from six non-COVID-19 deaths. With 2,496 new cases, the total number of positive cases touched 44,077 on Tuesday. With a total of 17,390 discharges, the State now has 25,839 active cases. Of these, 540 patients are being monitored in the ICU. Bengaluru Urban recorded 1,267 cases and 56 deaths. After seeing a decline in the number of tests in the past two days, as many as 23,674 tests were conducted on Tuesday. With this, the total number of tests conducted in the State is nearing 9 lakh. The State government has issued an order announcing payment of Rs. 10,000 COVID risk incentive to all Group D workers who are on COVID-19 duty in hospitals, swab centres and COVID Care Centres for the next six months.  In another order, the government has permitted Deputy Commissioners to appoint 1,419 nurses, 506 lab technicians, 916 pharmacists, and vacant Group D workers on contract basis for six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-records-huge-spike-in-no-of-deaths/article32085479.ece
15 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dashboard on bed availability||The BBMP has set up a dashboard to provide information about real-time bed availability in Bengaluru. People can log in tohttp://chbms.bbmpgov.in/ portal/reports/hreport.html||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dashboard-on-bed-availability/article32085481.ece
15 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man dies of COVID-19||A 48-year-old man died of COVID-19 in Hassan on Monday taking the number of such deaths to 22 in the district. The number of confirmed cases increased to 715 with four fresh cases on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-dies-of-covid-19/article32085670.ece
15 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||People urged not to misuse relaxations given during lockdown in Dharwad||As the Dharwad administration gets ready to implement lockdown in the district, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil has announced several relaxations, while making an appeal to the people not to misuse them. As per the announcement already made, there will be lockdown in the entire district from 10 a.m. on Wednesday (July 15) to 8 p.m. on July 24. On Tuesday, Mr. Patil issued a detailed order on the guidelines to be followed in the district during the period. Stating that the main objective in announcing lockdown again was to check the surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in the district, he appealed to the people to follow the guidelines in their own interest.  Exemption  As per the order issued by the Deputy Commissioner, farming, industry, construction, road works, sale of essential commodities, medicine, milk, vegetables, fruits, bakeries and grocery and movement of those engaged in essential services, emergency health care, media, sanitation and transport of essential goods have been exempted from the lockdown restrictions. The Deputy Commissioner said that all commercial activities will be allowed from 5 a.m. to noon on all days during the lockdown. And, on July 19, which is a Sunday, there will be complete lockdown, Mr. Patil added. As per the order, parcel service of food items and refreshments from hotels, restaurants and other small eateries will be allowed.  Closed However, schools, colleges, coaching centres, all types of liquor shops, bars and restaurants, sports complexes shall remain closed. And, all religious ceremonies, conferences, seminars, rallies and marriages are barred. There will be no public transport services during this period.  No arrivals Mr. Patil told presspersons that there would be a ban on arrival of people from other districts in Dharwad. He, however, clarified that private vehicles from other districts that have to pass through the district to reach other districts would be permitted on the condition that they did not drop anyone or pick up any passengers from the district. He also clarified that people from Dharwad district who wish to go to other districts would be permitted to go but they would not be allowed back till the lockdown got over. “In case, people need to visit Dharwad district for medical emergencies, they will have to apply through sevasindhu portal,” Mr. Patil said. Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to allow those who have already booked tickets on trains or flights scheduled to arrive during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-urged-not-to-misuse-relaxations-given-during-lockdown-in-dharwad/article32085678.ece
15 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad hits a century||Dharwad district, where lockdown will be implemented from Wednesday (till July 24), hit a century on Tuesday by recording 100 new COVID-19 cases. Meanwhile, with the death of a 56-year-old woman, the number of deaths went up to 39 on Tuesday. With this, Dharwad now has a total of 1,259 such cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-hits-a-century/article32085676.ece
15 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Girl rescues distressed II PU friend||Dejected by failure in her II PU examination, a student from Hosapete made an attempt to end her life by jumping in front of a train on Tuesday. She suffered injuries with two of her fingers severed. After being provided primary care in a city hospital, she was taken to the Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) in Ballari for further treatment. Her friend, who rescued her, also suffered injuries in the head and back and is admitted in a private hospital in Hosapete. As per information available, the two girls were students of KSPL PU College and the one who tried to end her life is a resident of Eshwar Nagar. The other is a resident of Old Medar Road in Hosapete. The police said that the two girls checked their results on a website in the morning and one of them got distressed after she came to know that she had failed in the exam securing only 187 marks out of 600. The other girl passed the exam in First Class with 383 marks. Unhappy with her exam result, the girl decided to end her life. Her friend tried her best to convince the girl against the extreme step. The distressed girl then went to a railway track near Ananthasayanagudi, despite her friend dissuading her, the police said. Just as a freight train going towards JSW Steel plant arrived there, the girl made an attempt to jump in front of it but her friend rescued her. The girl and her friend survived but suffered injuries and they began crying. Hearing them cry standing on the railway track, people started gathering there. They soon realised what had happened and rushed the two girls to a local hospital, the police said. A case has been registered by the Railway Police. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/girl-rescues-distressed-ii-pu-friend/article32085672.ece
15 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kottur PU college steals the show||The top six places in the Arts stream were taken by 13 students of Ballari district, 10 of them students of Indu PU College at Kottur. Karegouda Dasannagouda from the institution topped the Arts stream in the State by securing 594 marks out of 600. He scored 100 marks in three subjects — Sanskrit, History, and Education, and 99 in Kannada Optional, 98 in Political Science, and 97 in Kannada Language. The second and third positions were secured by Swamy S.M. with 592 marks and Mahmad Rafiq H. with 591 marks, also from the same college. While Swamy obtained 100 marks in Sanskrit, History, and Education,and 99 in Kannada Optional, 98 in Kannada Language, and 95 in Political Science, Rafiq scored 100 in Sanskrit, History, and Education, 98 in Kannada Optional and Political Science, and 95 in Kannada Language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kottur-pu-college-steals-the-show/article32085482.ece
15 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Week-long lockdown imposed in Bidar||Considering the alarmingly rising COVID-19 cases and resultant deaths in Bidar district, Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate Ramachandran R. has imposed lockdown for a week starting on Wednesday. The order came hours after Minister for Animal Husbandry, Haj and Waqf and district in-charge Prabhu Chauhan announced the lockdown for a week to contain the spread of COVID-19. The conditional order issued under the Disaster Management Act 2005 said that lockdown would be in force throughout the district from 8 p.m. on July 15 to 5 a.m. on July 22. As per the conditions laid down in the order, all business and social activities, except for hospitals and medical shops, in the containment zones will be banned during the lockdown period. All activities that attract crowds are banned throughout the district. The order said that all business outlets that offer essential services such as milk parlours, grocery shops, hospitals, medical shops, agricultural input trading units, banks, government offices and BSNL offices would function as usual. The order also made it clear that there would be no restriction on the movement of goods vehicles. Bars, restaurants, liquor outlets, garment shops, jewellery shops and other units would remain closed. People are cautioned against venturing out on the streets except for emergencies and other essential tasks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/week-long-lockdown-imposed-in-bidar/article32085671.ece
15 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Life mostly unaffected in Kalaburagi city||The week-long lockdown imposed by the district administration was not total in Kalaburagi city on the first day on Tuesday as life remained mostly unaffected. The guidelines issued by the district administration allow partial relaxation for various sectors. However, there was confusion as grocery stores in the city were asked to down their shutters. As per the guidelines, grocery stores, vegetable and fruit stalls and milk vendors will operate as usual, but the police reportedly went around asking such shops to pull down shutters in several areas in the city. This forced shopkeepers to seek clarity on the norms and the operating schedules from the authorities concerned. Except for the withdrawal of long-distance bus services, reducing bus schedules in the city and closure of business establishments and hotels, two-wheelers, four-wheelers and autorickshaws were found operating across the city throughout the day. Meanwhile, the police personnel at various traffic junctions seized autorickshaws and two-wheelers for violating prohibitory orders promulgated to prevent COVID-19. And, the city was deserted after 5 p.m., as the police personnel intensified their checks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/life-mostly-unaffected-in-kalaburagi-city/article32085674.ece
15 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi borders to be sealed for a fortnight from today||The Udupi administration on Tuesday decided to seal the district borders at 8 p.m. on Wednesday night till July 29 to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Movement to and from the district will not be allowed during the period, while commercial activities can go on as they did during Unlock 2.0, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha has said. Speaking to reporters after a meeting there with MLAs from the district, Mr. Jagadeesha said that those leaving the district or reaching it could do so by 8 p.m. on Wednesday. Thereafter, there will be no movement to and from the district, except for medical emergencies. Though bus services would not be available during the period, there would be no restriction on commercial activities except during the Sunday lockdown. However, public gatherings, including shandys, religious or public meetings and festivals, would not be allowed. Marriages the dates of which were decided earlier could be conducted after the parties concerned obtain permission from Tahsildars concerned with a maximum attendance of 50 people. Religious places could throw their doors open to devotees but with a maximum of only 20 people at a time, Mr. Jagadeesha said. If traders decide to observe voluntary lockdown, the administration has no objection to it, he said. Mr. Jagadeesha said of the total COVID-19 positive patients in the district, 8.86 % had had travel history and 14.2 % were their primary contacts. Experts have suggested that preventing cross-border movement of people could effectively curtail the spread of the disease. The Deputy Commissioner said that 140 beds were available at the TMA Pai Hospital, Udupi, for advanced COVID-19 care, while government hospitals at Kundapur and Karkala would be used to treat COVID-19 patients with minor symptoms. In all, 470 beds were available for symptomatic patients, while 600 were available for treating people with minor symptoms. The administration has the capacity to enhance total beds to 1,800 in the coming days. MLAs V. Sunil Kumar, K. Raghupathi Bhat, Halady Srinivas Shetty, B.M. Sukumar Shetty and Lalaji R. Mendon, Superintendent of Police Vishnuvardhana and others attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-borders-to-be-sealed-for-a-fortnight-from-today/article32085680.ece
15 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Twin districts report 163 positive cases||As many as 91 persons tested positive in Dakshina Kannada, while 72 tested positive in Udupi district on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the Dakshina Kannada district administration also announced the death of three persons. As many as 47 persons were discharged, and with this, there are 1,414 active persons under treatment in Dakshina Kannada. Out of the 72 found positive in Udupi, 48 are primary contacts of COVID-19 patients, while 14 had ILI and one had SARI. Seven had had a history of visiting Bengaluru and two had visited Mangaluru. As many as 41 persons are from Kundapur, 16 from Udupi and 15 from Karkala taluks. There are two children among those who tested positive on Tuesday. With 40 persons discharged, the total number of active cases in Udupi stands at 370.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/twin-districts-report-163-positive-cases/article32085682.ece
15 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three-hour window to buy essentials in Dakshina Kannada||Essential commodities, including fruits and vegetables, milk and groceries, will be allowed to be sold between 8 a.m. and 11 a.m. in Dakshina Kannada during the week-long lockdown starting on Wednesday. A notification from Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate Sindhu B. Rupesh here said that lockdown would start at 8 p.m. on July 15 and end at 5 a.m. on July 23. As per the guidelines, all offices of the State government and its undertakings would remain closed during the period. However, health, medical education, police, Home Guards and civil defence, Fire and Emergency Services and Mangaluru City Corporation would function. State undertakings that would be functional include power and water supply. Other essential services, urban and rural local bodies, Deputy Commissioner’s and subordinate offices, treasuries and all other COVID-19-related will function as usual. Union government offices and establishments, including those rendering essential services, banks, post offices, refineries, GST offices, would remain functional. Lockdown would not affect goods transportation by road, rail and air, Ms. Rupesh said. Air and train services already scheduled would continue to be operational while travel tickets would be considered as passes for passengers travelling to and from airports/railway stations by taxis/autorickshaws. Public transport vehicles except those hired for essential services would remain off the road. Hotels and restaurants could remain open only for food preparation and supply. All religious places should be shut for the general public. Movement of people is completely restricted except for emergencies. Employees travelling for activities that are allowed could do so with their identity cards. Shops and establishments selling essentials, including PDS, grocery, fruits and vegetables, would be allowed to function between 8 a.m. and 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-hour-window-to-buy-essentials-in-dakshina-kannada/article32085681.ece
15 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Triplets hope to become chartered accountants||Though they have scored more than 90% marks in the Commerce stream, triplets Jeevan, Jayesh, and Jitesh plan to apply for re-evaluation. These children of beedi industry worker Urmila and labourer Vishwanth are visually impaired, but are determined not to let that impede them. “We expected more marks in the History paper. We intend to apply for re-evaluation,” said Jeevan, who has secured 577 marks and topped at Narayana Guru PU College, Katipalla. Jayesh has scored 564 marks, while Jitesh has secured 560 marks. Jeevan, Jayesh, and Jitesh wrote the exam without any assistance from a scribe. “Since my school days, we have been doing so,” said Jayesh. All three can see letters from very close distance. “We all want to become chartered accountants. We are yet to work out ways to achieve this goal,” said Jitesh. Urmila has stood behind her children in getting them educated. “My children have good fighting spirit. They received good support from teachers in secondary school and now in college.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/triplets-hope-to-become-chartered-accountants/article32085491.ece
15 July 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Complete lockdown in Yadgir from today||Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao, has announced a complete lockdown in the entire Yadgir district from 8 p.m. on July 15 to 8 p.m. on July 22 owing to the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the district. He said that the decision was taken after holding discussions with in-charge Minister Prabhu Chavan and MLAs from the district. As per the guidelines, grocery shops, milk parlours, fruit and vegetable stalls and petrol pumps will be open till 1 p.m. in the day during the lockdown period. Apart from these, shops that sell agriculture and horticulture equipment and those that sell seeds, fertilizers and chemicals will be allowed to be open till 1 p.m. There will be no restriction on agricultural activities and also works going on under the Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Act. Liquor outlets, bar and restaurants, tiffin centres, pan shops, hotels, cloth stores, jewellery shops are not allowed to conduct business. However, parcel service of food items and home delivery services will be allowed. Banks, BSNL offices, government and post offices and other such offices will remain open. Lockdown will not be enforced on medical shops, hospitals, veterinary hospitals and essential services such as drinking water and sanitary works. Weekly markets and religious programmes are strictly prohibited. Private vehicles, autorickshaws and government-owned bus services will be allowed to operate only for urgent needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complete-lockdown-in-yadgir-from-today/article32085675.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Short of personnel, police seek volunteers||On the frontlines of the fight against the pandemic, the city police have now called upon citizen volunteers to join the force to help with the fight as over 2,500 police personnel are unavailable for work. Over 500 of them have tested positive for COVID-19, nearly 700 others are under quarantine, and the rest on leave as they are above 55 years of age or above 45 with serious co-morbidities. “The police have been at the frontlines of the fight against COVID-19 taking up work they were never trained for and have no experience of. Eight police personnel have laid down their lives due to COVID-19, but we are ready to work 24x7. But with several personnel not available for work, policing is taking a hit. So we have decided to rope in citizen volunteers to help us with our work,” said Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao on Tuesday. These volunteers will be called civil police wardens, and will be given a cap and a jacket. They will be posted at police stations to do paperwork and at barricades on roads to assist policemen. There are 154 police stations in the city. Each station is in need of at least 100 volunteers, the Commissioner said. The wardens will be posted on a shift basis and will be made to work for 10 hours a week, not more. Addressing concerns of whether the civil wardens will be authorised to enforce, he said, “They will only help police personnel. They will not be given any lathis and will not be sole enforcers as well,” he clarified. Responding to his tweet calling upon ‘physically fit and service minded residents of Bengaluru, both men and women, between the age of 18 and 45, to volunteer’ on Tuesday afternoon, nearly 500 people have already applied, in a span of a few hours, Mr. Rao said. Those interested to volunteer can apply onbcp.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/short-of-personnel-police-seek-volunteers/article32085466.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Making the most of it||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/making-the-most-of-it/article32085684.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||PU snippets||As many as 92 colleges have secured 100% pass results, which is an increase from 80 last year. Meanwhile, not a single student from 88 PU colleges passed this year. The number of colleges with zero results last year was 98.   Many students with special needs did well this year. Of the 310 such students who appeared for the exam this year, 218 passed. A total of 70.32% of visually impaired students passed. The pass percentages of students with special needs in other categories are — 48.77% of the hearing-impaired, 62.95% of the locomotor-impaired, and 59.29% of the students with multiple disabilities.   The Department of PU Education is yet to decide the supplementary exam dates. They would likely be conducted in August after assessing the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pu-snippets/article32085495.ece
15 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||34 more positive in Alappuzha||The district on Tuesday registered 34 fresh COVID-19 cases. The patients included 17 persons who contracted the disease through local transmission. The COVID-19 cluster related to the Kayamkulam market continues to remain a huge concern. Fourteen persons, all hailing from Kayamkulam and on the contact list of a vegetable vendor, who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 earlier, were diagnosed with the disease. A woman from Kuruthikkad on the contact list of a fish vendor from Kurathikad, who was diagnosed with COVID-19 two weeks ago, was diagnosed with the disease on Tuesday. The fish vendor used to collect fish from the Kayamkulam market and sell it at Kurathikad. So far around 60 cases have been reported related to the Kayamkulam market cluster. The source of infection of a 37-year-old man from Kayamkulam and a 50-year-old native of Punnapra remains unknown. Two more Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel at the Nooranad unit tested positive, taking the tally there to 134. Of the other cases in the district on Tuesday, 10 came from abroad and four from other States. Meanwhile, 17 persons tested negative on the day. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 523. Positive posthumously A 47-year-old man from Chunakkara, who died on Monday while undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital here, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday posthumously. “He came from Saudi Arabia on July 2. A cancer patient, he was later taken to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kottayam, for treatment. After undergoing medical check-ups and COVID-19 tests, he was discharged from the hospital. The person tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 in the initial examination. He was shifted to the MCH, Alappuzha, in the early hours of Monday after his condition worsened. Results of samples collected from him returned positive for SARS-CoV-2 after his death,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/34-more-positive-in-alappuzha/article32085884.ece
15 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||It’s time when lawyers find their calling in farming||They are a group of nine, all practising law in the Alappuzha district court. COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown brought their practice to a pause, but it has made them resilient enough to practise farming. The young lawyers hailing from different parts of the district have joined hands to form Lawyers Farm and taken up paddy and vegetable farming at Thaduthuveli under the Kayippuram Krishi Bhavan in Muhamma grama panchayat.  Members of the Lawyers Farm say they decided to try a hand in agriculture after feeling exhausted doing nothing during the lockdown. “After the lockdown was imposed, the thought of what to do next came to our minds. We zeroed in on the idea of pursuing paddy cultivation. Following lockdown relaxations, three acres of land was taken on lease for Rs. 25,000 at Thaduthuveli and they started farming. The launch of the Subhiksha Keralam programme strengthened our resolve,” says, Manoj George, a member of the collective. The court has since been reopened and members of the farm are playing the dual role of counsel and farmer nowadays. “Due to the pandemic, the number of cases being listed daily is low. After spending some time in court, all of us travel to Thaduthuveli in the afternoon and engage in farming,” Mr. George says.  By doing paddy cultivation, they revived a karapadam (upland rice field) that had been lying idle for the past 20 years. Upbeat farmers “Preparing the land for cultivation was a herculean task. Although it is a new experience for the majority of us, almost all the works related to rice farming are being done by us,” says Arun Krishnan, another group member. The Kayippuram Krishi Bhavan provided them with 200 kg of seed free of cost. Apart from paddy cultivation, the group has also undertaken organic vegetable farming. Other members of the Lawyers Farm are Abhilash C. Soman, Nidheesh Pulimoottil, Manu V.M., Aneesh Gopinathan, Harris T.R., Shivasankar, and Rakesh Kammath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-time-when-lawyers-find-their-calling-in-farming/article32085779.ece
15 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||CM opens office building||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday inaugurated the newly constructed building of the sub-registrar office at Mararikulam via videoconferencing. Situated in Mararikulam South grama panchayat, the two-storey structure houses the sub-registrar’s office room, record room, computer room, visitors room, library, dining hall, toilet with ramp and rain harvesting system. Following the inauguration, district panchayat president G. Venugopal opened the building to the public. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran presided. Aryad block panchayat president Sheena Sanalkumar, Mararikulam South panchayat president Indira Thilakan, and others took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-opens-office-building/article32085882.ece
15 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||T.N. man collapses, dies||A 48-year-old man from Tamil Nadu collapsed and died during a brawl at Haripad on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Murukan, a cobbler residing at Oachira. The police arrested Vinod (Kunjumon), another cobbler from Haripad, in connection with the case. Officials said that a scuffle broke out between the two around 9 a.m. near Taluk Hospital, Haripad. Though Murukan was taken to a hospital after he collapsed, his life could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-man-collapses-dies/article32085883.ece
15 July 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Foundation laid for office||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that optical fibre cable connection of BSNL will be provided to all sub-registrar offices in the State to ensure uninterrupted online services to the public. He was speaking after laying the foundation stone for the sub-registrar office at Mananthavady in the district through videoconferencing on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/foundation-laid-for-office/article32085760.ece
15 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Chellanam, Keezhmad reel under mounting COVID-19 cases||Chellanam continues to reel from a surge in COVID-19 positive cases, with 20 people from the area testing positive on Tuesday. All 20 patients were on the contact lists of those who had tested positive earlier. Since the situation remains critical, a 50-bedded COVID first line treatment centre would be set up soon at the St. Antony’s Church Hall in Chellanam, said Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar at a press briefing here on Tuesday. The Chellanam area has registered at least 70 cases over the past few days. The district recorded a total of 70 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, of whom 11 people had arrived from outside the State and 59 had acquired the infection through local contact. Of the figures, 33 people had tested positive on Monday, but the figures had not been included in the day’s tally due to a technical glitch after one of the data entry staff members tested positive, said Mr. Sunil Kumar. Eight family members of a Karumalloor native who was a vegetable vendor in Kakkanad have tested positive. Five relatives of an Alangad native who had tested positive last week have been infected. Thirteen people from Aluva market area have also tested positive. A 48-year-old health worker at the Keezhmad primary health centre, a 69-year-old and a 55-year-old, both residents of Keezhmad, and a 26-year-old lorry driver from Keezhmad, who were on the contact list of a patient from the area, have tested positive. The three-year-old son of a COVID-19 patient at Keezhmad, has also turned positive. A 27-year-old employee of a private establishment at Edappally, two natives of Pallarimangalam, two residents of Kavalangad and a 77-year-old from Pachalam have been infected. The 13-year-old son of a Mulavukad-based patient has also tested positive. With regard to a pre-wedding ceremony that was held at Keezhmad, resulting in positive cases from the area and from nearby panchayats, Mr. Sunil Kumar said that the ceremony was held with over 100 people in violation of all COVID-19-related protocol. Twelve people had tested positive earlier in connection with the ceremony, he said, adding that strict action would be taken against those organising such events. The Aluva police said that a case, under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, had been registered against the person who had organised the ceremony. The outpatient facility at PVS Hospital would begin functioning soon after triage facilities were set up there, said the Minister. Containment zones The new containment zones declared were Ward 16 of Vadakkekara panchayat, Wards 7, 10 and 11 of Karumalloor panchayat, Ward 8 of Kavalangad panchayat and Divisions 22 and 69 of the Kochi Corporation. Press Club Road and Market Road of Division 38 and Netaji Road and Surabhi Road of Division 40 of Kochi Corporation were declared micro-containment zones. Ward 5 of Paingottoor panchayat and Division 58 of the Kochi Corporation have been released from containment zone status. ‘Govt. hiding facts’ Meanwhile, the Paschima Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samithy has alleged that the State government is hiding the actual extent of COVID-19 spread in Chellanam. The government must come out with the actual number of people infected and accept that community spread is a fact. Under these circumstances it is essential that the government provide proper medical care for the infected. Chellanam could turn into a major tragedy if care was not taken, the statement issued by T.A. Dalphine of the Samithi said. Since the majority of the people in Wards 15, 16 and 17 were in home quarantine, they were unable to get supplies of essentials and medicines on time, the statement said, while demanding that the people’s needs should be taken care of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chellanam-keezhmad-reel-under-mounting-covid-19-cases/article32085776.ece
15 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam market to reopen with strict access control measures||The Ernakulam market may soon be a fortified area with regulated entry as the city police are drawing up elaborate plans for its staggered reopening. The market was shut down and declared a containment zone last week after a few workers there tested positive for SARS-COV-2. However, it is now felt that keeping the market shut and maintaining it as a containment zone was not just unfeasible but futile as well. “The purpose of containment zones is not served in the case of the market since no one lives there whereas we have quarantined everyone who worked there and were vulnerable to the infection. Keeping the market closed for longer periods is unsustainable as it will have serious impact on the general essential food supplies” said Vijay Sakhare, Inspector General and District Police Chief (Kochi City). The police are working on a plan complete with separate timings for wholesalers, retailers and customers while restricting the number of customers at a time in keeping with physical distancing norms. The plan will be extended to other medium and small markets. “There will be strict access control like in airports so that people cannot just walk in. There will be only one entry and exit manned by the police,” said Mr. Sakhare. The idea is to allot a four-hour early morning slot for wholesalers to offload their produce from inter-State trucks and the next three hours for retailers to stock up their shops. Staggered entry of customers will be allowed for the next nine hours till closing time at 7 p.m. The initial plan is to open up one-third of the total shops in the market on a day with the number of customers in shops and queues restricted to not more than two and four times the total number of shops respectively. For instance, if 30 shops are opened not more than 60 customers will be allowed inside those shops at a time while the queues outside would not be allowed to collectively accommodate more than 120. The rest of the customers will be given a time slot. “Shop owners will be held responsible for any violation of physical distancing norms and will be slapped with fines straight away,” said Mr. Sakhare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-market-to-reopen-with-strict-access-control-measures/article32085768.ece
15 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Adhere to COVID-19 norms, HC tells political parties||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed all political parties and organisations in the State to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 guidelines issued by the State and Central governments while organising dharna, demonstration and protest meeting. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali directed the State government to take preventive measures to ensure that no organisation violated the directives. The directives were issued on a public interest litigation filed by John Numpeli Junior of Kochi and two others. The court observed that the directives of the governments made it clear that the guidelines were intended to be strictly adhered to by all citizens, political parties, and associations. Violation of these guidelines was punishable. The court pointed out that a notification issued by the government on July 2 spoke about regulating social gatherings. Regulation 3(a) in the notification stipulated that no kind of social gathering, including get-together, processions, dharna, congregations, and demonstrations, shall be conducted without the written permission of the authority concerned. It further ordered that the maximum participants in such social gathering shall not exceed 10 persons and that the participants should wear face cover/masks, use sanitiser and observe a physical distance of six feet among themselves. The court noted that during Unlock 2.0, certain activities, including, social, political, sports, entrainment, academic, cultural and religions functions and other large-scale congregations, were not allowed. The Bench directed the State government to inform the court about the action taken against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adhere-to-covid-19-norms-hc-tells-political-parties/article32085798.ece
15 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Webinar on future of senior citizen communities||A webinar on “Senior citizen living community - positives in today’s pandemic scenario,” will take place on July 18, from 11.30 a.m., under the aegis of Ashiana Housing Ltd and The Hindu PropertyPlus . It will have the following eminent panellists: Dr. U. Gauthamdas, geriatric neuro-psychiatrist; Harish Nair, executive director and head of consulting, India CBRE; Prashant Thakur, director and head of research, ANAROCK Property Consultants; and Ankur Gupta, joint managing director, Ashiana Housing Ltd and chairman of the Association of Senior Living India (ASLI). The webinar will touch upon the following key points: The spurt in demand for retirement homes as the lockdown spiked fears of living alone and without aid at hand; is it a sustained spurt or only pandemic-related, the scale and the extent of development of India’s senior living market; how it compares with the senior living market in a country like the U.S., for example, the main characteristics of the facilities available today and how they split up between independent, assisted facilities; the main challenges for the realty market in creating senior living communities; how much more a developer has to invest in a senior living project; and what the return on investment (RoI) period and percentage are. Other aspects such as mixed communities within existing gated complexes, some independent homes and some senior living homes - the way to go forward; South India having a far more developed senior living market than the North and the reasons; and what senior living real estate looks like from an investment point of view. The webinar will also touch upon the emotional well-being of “senior citizen living”. Registration The link to register for the webinar is:https://bit.ly/ 3gXywH1or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-future-of-senior-citizen-communities/article32085773.ece
15 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||With harbours closed, fishers in dire straits||The closure of fish landing centres and sales hubs attached to them in the wake of COVID-19 spread has made life miserable for the fishing community, which is already going through an unusually lean fishing season. The spread of COVID-19 has led to all major harbours and their fish markets being shut down. Though the Thoppumpady harbour had closed for the trawl ban season, the market at the harbour has been closed as the area is now a containment zone. Chellanam mini fishing harbour and Munambam too are locked down. The Kalamukku fishing harbour and wholesale centre is closed. Smaller landing centres like the ones at Fort Kochi and Kamalakkadavu too are closed, leaving no option for the fishers to sell their catch. Financial trouble At least half the 7.50 lakh fishers in the State was in serious trouble following the lockdown in coastal areas, said Charles George of Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedhi on Tuesday. He said there was no ban on fishing but all the markets were closed and the fishermen did not know what to do with their catch. P.V. Jayan of Kerala Parambaragatha Matsya Thozhilali Samithi said that the government should take steps to ensure that fishers had an opportunity to sell their catch as they were in serious financial trouble. Online sale Meanwhile, fishermen, especially those owning small boats, have started online sale of their catch. Around eight boats that ventured out on Monday sold 1,000 to 1,200 kg of shrimp at prices ranging between Rs. 160 and Rs. 190 a kg, said Mr. Jayan. It was a good move as middlemen were being excluded gradually. The govenrment must organise online sales in a bigger way with the help of agencies like Matsyafed, added Mr. Jayan.  The community leaders said that the government must bring in strict control over both fishing activities and sales so that the present crisis could be overcome at least temporarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-harbours-closed-fishers-in-dire-straits/article32085765.ece
15 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Two-shifts system in rural police stations||With the number of containment zones within their limits rising, the Ernakulam Rural police have decided to adopt a cautious double shift system in police stations within the zones so that the entire workforce is not exposed to infection at the same time. The system kicked in on Tuesday. “It will come into effect in almost 50% of stations having containment zones. Men in each shift will work continuously for a week while those in the other shift will stay back at home. More importantly, those on duty will not be allowed to go back home during the course of the week and will either have to stay put at their place of duty or station as the case may be. Thereafter, the second shift will take over and vice versa,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). The system will be in place till further orders. The two-shifts system was proposed by the State Police Chief for the entire State long before COVID-19 cases surged at an alarming proportion. However, that proposal remained largely on paper, as the duty of police personnel increased with the corresponding increase in the number of people returning from other States and countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-shifts-system-in-rural-police-stations/article32085766.ece
15 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Students win laurels in Class 12 exams||Global Public School, Thiruvaniyoor, won 101 distinctions in the Class 12 examinations, the results of which were declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education on Monday. Delta Study, Fort Kochi, bagged 49 distinctions while the corresponding figure for Campion School, Edappally, was 57. NSS School, Thripunithura, won 28 distinctions. Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Kannamaly, secured 60 distinctions while SSRVM, Kochi, bagged 15 distinctions. Eighteen students of Sivagiri Vidyaniketan Senior Secondary School, Aluva, secured marks above 90%. Mar Thoma Public School, Edachira, registered 100 per cent pass with all the 87 students securing first class.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-win-laurels-in-class-12-exams/article32085769.ece
15 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||More treatment centres being readied||In the wake of an increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district, additional First Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs) are likely to come up soon, with local bodies being directed by the district administration to keep such facilities ready for asymptomatic patients or patients with minor symptoms. With the new FLTCs at the ward, panchayat and block levels, the total number of beds at these centres is likely to go up to 10,000 in 10 days. The FLTCs that are ready have a combined capacity of 850 beds – 300 at Adlux Angamaly, over 200 beds at the CIAL Convention Centre, 60 beds at the EMS Hall in Perumbavoor, a 60-bed facility at a convention centre in Kolenchery, and 130 beds at the Rajagiri Hostel, Kalamassery. The Kochi Corporation has been directed to set up two FLCTs for the corporation area as a whole, besides identifying a 50-bed facility for each division. The corporation has identified the community halls at Palluruthy and Mattancherry for the purpose and would equip them with necessary facilities soon, Mayor Soumini Jain said. The corporation would, in the next two days, identify buildings for centres in each division, she said. While each panchayat has been directed to set up facilities for 50 to 100 beds, that could be a tough ask for some of them, said Benny T., Mulavukad panchayat vice president. A large area where such facilities could be arranged, along with access to a good road for patient transport, might not be available in panchayats, he said. “Even a smaller facility of about 20 to 50 beds at the panchayat level could be considered,” said Sub Collector Snehil Kumar Singh. According to a health official, around 16,000 hospital beds are available in the district, including those in wards and private rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-treatment-centres-being-readied/article32085770.ece
15 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam registers 23 more cases||Twenty-three persons, including four members of a family, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. Among the patients eight persons had come from abroad while one had travelled from Maharashtra. Fourteen others, all of them suspected contact cases, include three men aged 54, 31, and 20 and a 50-year-old woman from a family in Nedumankavu. Five others from Rajagiri, Sasthamcotta, are suspected to have contactracted the disease from a fish vendor who tested positive on July 6. Rest of the patients are a 36-year-old Paravur resident, a four-year-old from Chavara Thekkumbhagam, a 48-year-old health worker from Muttara, a 28-year-old Punalur resident, and a 38-year-old Thevalakkara resident with no travel history. After the district recorded the highest single-day spike on Monday, the Health Department and district administration had reinforced preventive measures. Auto and taxi drivers have been asked to separate the driver’s cabin with acrylic sheet and use mask, gloves and sanitiser without fail. All the harbours and auction centres have been closed and marine fishing has been banned. The Health Department has increased the number of daily tests and Mercy Hospital, Valakom, has been converted into a centre for treating COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-registers-23-more-cases/article32085887.ece
15 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Sooraj confesses to killing Uthra||Sooraj, the prime accused in Uthra murder case, broke down in front of the media on Monday and confessed to killing his wife by saying “I did it.” He was brought to his house at Adoor by forest officials who had sought his custody for evidence collection. Though he was repeatedly asked about the motive for the murder, Sooraj brushed aside the question without clearly answering it. He had earlier confessed to the police that he had planned the crime and brought the snakes in a bottle and threw them on Uthra while she was asleep. But later when he was brought to Uthra’s house in Anchal for evidence collection, he kept repeating to the media that he had not killed his wife. Foul play Uthra’s parents had alleged foul play after the 25-year-old was found dead on May 7 at her home in Anchal. She died of snakebite while she was recuperating after a similar incident which took place at her husband’s home in Adoor. Later it was revealed that Sooraj had been plotting the murder for sometime and he had procured poisonous snakes from Suresh, a handler from Kalluvathukkal. An autopsy of the snake had confirmed that the investigation report was right.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sooraj-confesses-to-killing-uthra/article32085826.ece
15 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||CBSE Plus Two: good show by Kollam schools||Lakeford School, Kavanad, has secured 100% pass in CBSE Plus Two examinations. Of the 66 students who appeared for the examination, 58 secured distinction and the rest first class. Nandini J. Shenoy (97.6%), Saniya Rahat (96.8%) and Rahul Suryanandan Krishnan (95.6%) are the toppers in science, humanities and commerce batches respectively. Five students from Startford Public School and Junior College secured full A1 while 11 students scored marks above 90%. Fifty students secured distinction and others got first class. Sree Gurudeva Central School, Kudikode, posted 100% pass. Bharat Maravoor (94%) and Abhiraj Anil (89%) are the toppers in science and commerce. Among the 248 students from SN Public School, Vadakkevila, 247 qualified for higher studies. Tony Augustine Frank (97.6%) and Janaki Raghunath (96%) are the toppers in science and commerce respectively. Three students from Brook International School, Sasthamcotta, Amith Mathew, Sreya Hari and Abhijith D.P., secured full A1. 100% pass St. Mary’s Residential School, Ramankulangara, and St. Gregorios Central School, Karunagappally, registered 100% pass. While 85% students from St. Mary’s Residential School secured distinction, Varsha Sudarsanan, Arya Ganga B. and Christina Mary are the toppers in various streams. At St. Gregorios Central School, 69% secured distinction and remaining first class. Riya M. Roy is the school topper. Sabarigiri English School, Anchal, achieved 100% results. Twelve students secured A1 in all subjects. Rose Angela Subin, Sreejith and Farah Lulu are the school toppers. T.K.M. Centenary Public School, Karicode, achieved a pass percentage of 99.6 and Sona S. is the school topper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbse-plus-two-good-show-by-kollam-schools/article32085891.ece
15 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam’s tally up by 25||Twenty-five persons, including 15 who returned from abroad, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday, taking the total number of active cases to 162. According to Health Department officials, four persons contracted the viral infection through local contact and six others are people who came from other States. A doctor at the Ernakulam General Hospital is among the persons who contracted the disease through local contact. The 37-year-old doctor from Aymanam was on the contact list of a COVID-19 patient in Ernakuam. A 65-year-old Parathodu native who came from Kannur on June 10, a 58-year-old head-load worker, also from Parathodu, and a 28-year-old theological student who returned from Kozhikode on June 20 are the other patients who contracted the disease through contact. A 12-year-old boy from Aymanom, a 10-year-old girl from Ettumanur and a 16-year-old girl from Thiruvarppu are among the patients who returned from abroad. Six persons, including a 10-year-old boy from Ayarkunnam who came back from New Delhi and a 35-year old-woman from Jharkhand, who returned from other States also tested positive. Dead man tests negative Meanwhile, a second test on the swab sample collected from the 72-year-old Parathodu native, who died the other day, tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. The person was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, with high fever and viral pneumonia on July 6. A primary test of his swab sample had tested positive for the virus infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayams-tally-up-by-25/article32085888.ece
15 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MBBS student found dead||A 20-year-old MBBS student, who was in home quarantine after returning from Russia last week, was found dead hanging at her residence here. The deceased was identified as Krishnapriya of Paippad, near Changanassery. She returned from Russia on July 9 and was in home quarantine. The police have booked a case of unnatural death and are awaiting the post-mortem examination results. (Suicide Prevention Helpline: DISHA - 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mbbs-student-found-dead/article32085889.ece
15 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rapid spike in local transmission cases||The highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases as well as the largest number of infected persons through local transmission were reported in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. Of the 58 persons tested positive for the virus, 53 got it through contact with infected persons. They include the grama panchayat president of Thooneri and a panchayat official there. Against this backdrop, the District Disaster Management Authority has imposed more restrictions across Kozhikode, District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao said. Action would be taken against those who violate the protocol laid down by the Health Department, he said. The unscientific use of face masks and crowding was dangerous. The control rooms set up in local bodies would keep a tab on anyone coming from other places and rapid response teams would have to be informed about the visit to other districts. The visits of people from other districts to tourism spots in Kozhikode would be restricted too, Mr. Rao said. According to sources, the grama panchayat office in Thooneri has been closed and triple lockdown has been imposed there. As many as 47 COVID-19 cases there were detected through antigen tests. They are now put up at the first-line treatment centre set up at the hostel of National Institute of Technology-Calicut at Chathamangalam. There were three cases in the nearby Nadapuram grama panchayat too, all through contact with infected persons earlier. The other cases of local transmission in the district are from Kallayi and Nallalam. Twenty-one others recovered from the infection too. The total number of active COVID-19 cases in the district now is 209.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rapid-spike-in-local-transmission-cases/article32085759.ece
15 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Surveillance up in coastal areas||Police patrol will be intensified in the coastal wards of Kozhikode city as a measure to avoid local transmission of COVID-19 in the region. A meeting of stakeholders chaired by Mayor Thottathil Raveendran on Monday decided to take precautionary measures to avoid such a situation, especially after three cases of unknown source were reported in the city recently. The Kozhikode Corporation has suggested that the district administration impose restrictions on the number of people attending weddings, funerals, house-warming and other functions. No public or private functions will be allowed in the coastal belt until further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surveillance-up-in-coastal-areas/article32085761.ece
15 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Singers’ unique show ends on high note||In 1974, K.J. Yesudas won his second successive national award for the best playback singer for a timeless melody created by composer G. Devarajan and lyricist Vayalar Ramavarma. More than four decades later, the song ‘ Padmatheerthame unaroo…’ (Gayathri) remains one of the greatest in Malayalam cinema. Fittingly, Sudeep Kumar chose that song to kick off the grand finale of the 72-day live music show organised on Facebook by the association of Malayalam playback singers, SAMAM. He was followed by Mridula Warrier’s rendition of the K.S. Chithra song ‘Yamuna sangeetham…’ (Sound of Boot). A little later, Jyotsna came on the screen, with her version of S. Janaki’s classic ‘Sharike en…’ (Swapnam). The show had begun well. And it got better as the night wore on. Top singers take part More than 70 singers, including Yesudas, P. Jayachandran, Chithra, Unni Menon, Minmini, Gayathri, Manjari and Rimi Tomy, performed to ensure that SAMAM’s initiative to raise fund for musicians rendered jobless by COVID-19 ended on the right note. An amount of Rs. 25 lakh was collected from the series of shows that had begun on May 4. “We never imagined the programme would become such a big success,” Sudeep, president, SAMAM, told The Hindu . “It is gratifying to note that all the live shows were received enthusiastically by music lovers over the last three months.” Among the most popular shows were those by Chithra, Jayachandran and Rimi Tomy. Chithra attracted 3.5 lakh views, while Rimi’s programme has been watched 1.5 lakh times within a week. “I opened a new Facebook account just for this show and though I was apprehensive about the idea, I ended up enjoying it thoroughly,” said Rimi. “It was great interacting with music fans in real time and singing the songs requested by them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/singers-unique-show-ends-on-high-note/article32085797.ece
15 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||VC to probe charges against professor||The Syndicate of Calicut University has entrusted Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj with an inquiry against the former head of the Department of Women’s Studies over the controversy related to the award of internal marks to a former Students Federation of India leader. The Syndicate meeting held on Tuesday urged the Vice Chancellor to probe the academic qualifications of Moly Kuruvilla, right now a professor in the department, and her activities, and submit a report at the next meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vc-to-probe-charges-against-professor/article32085764.ece
15 July 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||No respite from COVID-19 cases in Malappuram||Fifty-eight persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Tuesday, and 22 of them were found to have been infected through local transmission. Twenty-one of them, including two children below 10 years of age, were found positive during a special surveillance being held in Ponnani. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that 29 of the newly confirmed cases had returned from abroad and seven from other States. In Thrissur In biggest single-day spike, Thrissur recorded 42 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Out of the 42 cases on Tuesday, 32 persons contracted the disease through local transmission. The District Collector has declared the 12th division of Kunnamkulam Municipality and wards 9,13 and 14 of Muriyad panchayat as new containment zones. As COVID-19 was confirmed in municipal workers, the office of the Kunnamkulam Municipality was closed. To assess the spread of COVID-19, antigen tests will be conducted in the district from Wednesday. In Palakkad Twenty-six persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Tuesday. Eighteen of them had returned from the UAE, three from Saudi Arabia, two from Karnataka, one from Oman, and one from Kuwait. A 53-year-old man from Kottopadam apparently got the infection from a primary contact. The district administration will carry out antigen tests for COVID-19 in major markets, including Valiyangadi, from Wednesday. In Kasaragod Local transmission cases in Kasaragod is on the rise. Of the 44 persons tested positive for the virus in the district on Tuesday, 20 got infected through contact. Nine persons had come from other States and 15 had returned from abroad, said District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas. In Kannur Twelve more persons tested positive for the virus in Kannur on Tuesday. According to District Collector T.V. Subhash, of the 12 cases, three had come from abroad and six had come from other States. Two were CISF personnel and one got infected through contact. Five more COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs) have been set up in Kannur district. The new centres are at Government Ayurveda College, Pariyaram, Kannur Sports School Hostel, Palayat Diet Hostel, Anjarakandy MIT Engineering College and Kannur Kendriya Vidyalaya. In Wayanad Wayanad district reported 12 more COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. One among them arrived from abroad and 11 came from other States, including a couple from Telangana.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kasaragod, Thrissur, Kannur, and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-respite-from-covid-19-cases-in-malappuram/article32085763.ece
15 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 1.75 cr. seized||The Air Customs intelligence unit at the Karipur airport seized 3.5 kg of smuggled gold worth Rs. 1.75 crore since Sunday. The contraband has been seized from five passengers who arrived at Karipur on SpiceJet flights from Ras Al Khaimah and Jeddah. Four passengers who reached Karipur on SpiceJet flight SG 9026 on Sunday were found to have concealed gold in paste form in their clothes. Customs officers recovered 1.8 kg of gold in paste form from Seena Mol from Thiruvananthapuram. She was found to have hidden the gold in her undergarments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-rs-175-cr-seized/article32085802.ece
15 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Abhijith tops among Kendriya Vidyalayas||T.R. Abhijith of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Kanjikode, topped among the 1,235 schools under the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan at national level by securing 499 marks out of 500 in science stream in the CBSE senior secondary examinations. He lost one mark in English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abhijith-tops-among-kendriya-vidyalayas/article32085795.ece
15 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Financial crisis in Travancore Devaswom Board deepens||The prolonged ban on entry for devotees to places of worship in the State following the Covid-induced lockdown has deepened the financial crisis in the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) that owns 1,250 temples in the State. Talking to The Hindu , TDB president N. Vasu said the board was able to disburse the salary and pension to its 5,000-odd employees and nearly 4,000 pensioners till this month. However, if the situation continued, the board would be forced to take some harsh decisions in the coming months. Mr. Vasu said the TDB had to spend nearly Rs. 40 crore towards the employees’ salary and pension alone every month apart from the expenditure for performing daily rituals at its temples. He said the TDB had already apprised the State government of its situation and had sought a financial relief of Rs. 160 crore ahead of the annual Sabarimala festival season. The offerings made by the devotees were the main revenue for the TDB and it had dropped sharply with the ban on entry into temples, he said. Mr. Vasu said the TDB decision to open temples for devotees a month ago was taken in consultation with the Tantri Samajom, the Tantri Mandalom, and the tantris (chief priests) of various temples in the State. But those who were clamouring for opening temples themselves turned harsh critics of the board for its decision to open temples in June and the board had revoked its decision, he said. Sabarimala season Mr. Vasu said a TDB meeting, held at its headquarters in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday to discuss the preparations for the ensuing annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku pilgrim season that begins in mid-November, had decided to invite tenders for supplying jaggery, rice and other articles for prasadom preparation. The total requirement of jaggery alone for the annual pilgrim season has been put at 40 lakh kg. The tender would be finalised on July 22, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/financial-crisis-in-travancore-devaswom-board-deepens/article32085782.ece
15 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Three cases in Pathanamthitta||Health Department authorities here heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday as only three persons in the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district dropped to 267 with 19 persons cured of the disease. A total of 291 persons, comprising patients and those with symptoms, have been admitted to the isolation wards of hospitals as on Tuesday evening.  Containment zones The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority declared 13 more municipal and panchayat wards as containment zones in Thiruvalla municipality and in the grama panchayats of Aruvappulam, Kodumon, Naranganam, Kottangal and Cherukol on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32085890.ece
15 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Power generation resumes at Kakkad||Power generation at the 50 MW power house of the Kakkad hydroelectric project of the Kerala State Electricity Board at Seethathode has resumed with the running of the 25 MW Generator-II by Tuesday noon. The generation at the power station was stopped following a minor fire that damaged Generator-I on Monday night. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-generation-resumes-at-kakkad/article32085783.ece
15 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Huge spurt of 201 cases in capital||The capital district witnessed a massive spike in COVID-19 with 201 people, including four health workers, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. The highest single-day spurt also saw 177 people contracting the infection through local transmission. Among them, 158 people belong to the COVID-19 clusters in Poonthura, Kottackal, Pulluvila and Venganoor. With cases emerging in other places, the district administration has declared new containment zones. The sources of infection were unknown in 19 of the fresh cases reported from Powdikonam, Valiyathura, Jagathy, Vallakadavu, Poovar, Manacaud, Parassala, Vanchiyoor, Nandavanam, Anjuthengu and Kadakkavoor. The health workers include a doctor and an attender of the Government Taluk Hospital, Fort, and employees in two private hospitals. The imported cases were detected from people who came from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE, Karnataka, Kanyakumari and Maharashtra. District Collector Navjot Khosa declared new containment zones in the Anjuthengu and Parassala grama panchayats; Ottapana, Perumathura, Pozhikara, Pulunthuruthi, Muthalapozhi, and Arayathuruthi wards in Chirayinkeezhu grama panchayat; Madanvila ward in Azhoor grama panchayat; Kuzhakkadu and Kovilvila wards in Poovachal grama panchayat; Chowallor ward in Vilappil grama panchayat; Venganoor, Vizhinjam, Harbour, Vellar and Thiruvallam wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Pallam, Erayimmanthura, Pulluvila and Chembakaramanthura wards in Karumkulam grama panchayat; Keezhkolla, Vattavila, Kottamam, Arayoor Kizhakku and Thottinkara wards in Chenkal grama panchayat; and Kothakulangara, Attukal, Panavoor and Vazhode wards in Panavoor grama panchayat. Containment zone restrictions were withdrawn in the Aryanad grama panchayat, Vazhuthoor ward in Neyyattinkara municipality, Chemmarathumukku ward in Nagaroor grama panchayat, Kuravara ward in Ottasekharamangalam grama panchayat, Thalayal ward in Balaramapuram grama panchayat, and Vellanad Town and Kannampally wards in Vellanad grama panchayat. Fifteen people, including two Kollam natives, recovered from the infection. A total of 794 people, including those from Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Thrissur, Wayanad and Tamil Nadu, are being treated in various hospitals here. The City police registered a case against a 50-year-old Nemom native for allegedly jumping quarantine. He was quarantined in an institutional quarantine centre in the women’s hostel at the College of Agriculture, Vellayani after he was listed in the primary contact list of a COVID-19-infection person. He was apprehended from his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/huge-spurt-of-201-cases-in-capital/article32085835.ece
15 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Using their prize money to help and ease pain||Some rest on their laurels while some others use these as stepping stones for even bigger heights. The Nedumangad block panchayat in Thiruvananthapuram district is doing the latter. Winner of the Centre’s Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar for the best block panchayat for three consecutive years and a winner of the State government’s Swaraj trophy for two successive years, the block panchayat has been now using all the prize money to set up a fund to provide monthly grants to cancer patients from economically backward families. The Nedumangad block panchayat now has Rs. 1.3 crore in a separate bank account, which along with funds obtained from the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes, will be deposited in a fixed deposit account, the interest of which will be used to set up a fund from which Rs. 1,000 each will be sent to the bank accounts of cancer patients in the five panchayats coming under the Nedumangad block. Field visits “We have got a list of 20 cancer patients from each panchayat. Priority is given to children, the differently abled, transgender persons, unmarried or divorced, or those unable to support themselves,” says Nedumangad block panchayat president B. Biju. “Usually, such prize money is spent on roads or buildings for which there are already funds. We wanted to use it for welfare spending. The cooperative bank is a partner in the initiative, providing a high interest of 7.25%. Many are also donating as part of the CSR,” says Mr. Biju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/using-their-prize-money-to-help-and-ease-pain/article32085825.ece
15 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Crew change off Vizhinjam today||Decks have been cleared for outer anchorage crew change for ships off the Vizhinjam port, opening new business opportunity for shipping companies, transshipment service providers, and the travel trade hit by COVID-19 Ever Globe, a 2.19-lakh tonnage container ship, sailing under the flag of Panama from Egypt to Colombo, will exercise this facility three nautical miles within the Vizhinjam port limits on Wednesday, helping 14 seafarers to sign off and 15 to sign on. The vessel, owned by Ever Green Group, is captained by Keralite Ajith Kumar Pillai and has 23 crew. The ship, which began its voyage on June 16, is expected to reach Colombo on July 15. Anchorage is the cheapest option for cargo-laden ships that deviate from its normal route just to drop off crew working beyond their contract tenure and to bring in relievers. Ships diverting to Indian ports for crew change during the pandemic carry out this task at outer anchorage to cut cost and time and the Kochi port is one of the favoured destinations. “Necessary clearances have been given after it was agreed by shipping agents to bring the vessel within three nautical miles of port limits from the international shipping lane and it is expected at 6 a.m.,” official sources said. Soon, officials of Customs, Immigration, and the port health officer along with the 15 joining the ship will proceed from the port in tugs accompanied by a Marine Enforcement boat adhering to the COVID protocol. Those joining the vessel are in the capital for the last few days and have been subjected to health screening. After completing the formalities, they will join the vessel while 14 will disembark from it . Those who have signed off will be brought ashore and have to undergo quarantine as per protocol.  Exchequer to benefit The exchequer will earn Rs. 3.5 lakh from the crew change. More vessels are scheduled for crew change off the Vizhnjam port in the coming days. Lack of tugs and infra facilities in the harbour are hurdles to it emerging as a permanent crew change destination such as Mumbai, Kochi, and Goa ports. Travel and lodging of the seafarers will benefit the travel trade in a big way. Over 250 ships had used the facility since March in Kochi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crew-change-off-vizhinjam-today/article32085785.ece
15 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||All arrangements in place for KEAM||All arrangements are in place for KEAM 2020, the State entrance examinations for admission to engineering and pharmacy courses on Thursday. Safeguards have also been put in place to segregate candidates in line with the COVID-19 protocol. Consequent to a decision taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan a day ago, 60 students in the critical containment zone in Thiruvananthapuram have been allotted a new examination centre at St. Antony’s Higher Secondary School, Valiyathura. A total of 1,10,250 students have registered for the examination consisting of two papers that will be held in the morning and afternoon. The examination will be conducted at 343 centres across the State and in Mumbai, New Delhi, and Dubai. Mr. Vijayan, who briefed mediapersons on Tuesday, said separate rooms had been arranged in each centre for candidates in quarantine as well as those who came from containment zones and hotspots in other parts of the country. Short visit passes had been issued for candidates coming from other States. Police personnel would be deployed at examination centres and bus stops to ensure physical distancing. The Kerala Fire and Rescue Services had been tasked with disinfecting the centres before and after the examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-arrangements-in-place-for-keam/article32085791.ece
15 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State to focus on integrated farming||With food security emerging as a major concern during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Agriculture Department is promoting the concept of integrated farming systems (IFS) that could help small and marginal farmers in the State use their land and resources better. In May, the State government announced the ‘Jaivagriham’ project under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative (RKI), envisaging an integrated system of agriculture, animal husbandry, poultry, apiculture and aquaculture for maximum utilisation of land, time and energy. As per this, farms under the Agriculture Department in various districts will developed as model farms by adopting hi-tech and integrated farming methods. The technical support for the Rs. 25-lakh project will be supplied by the Integrated Farming Systems Research Station (IFSRS), a Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) station here at Karamana. Agro-ecological unit (AEU)-specific IFS models that promise higher productivity, sustainability and profits will be validated and showcased under the project. It will explore the possibilities for developing new models and examine whether existing models could be scaled up.  As part of showcasing the IFS, the IFSRS has uploaded a series of YouTube and Facebook entitled Krishi Arivukal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-focus-on-integrated-farming/article32085777.ece
15 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online classes for tiny tots running full house||Kilikonchal , a programme telecast on the Victers channel and KITE YouTube channel for children in the 3-6 age group, is getting lakhs of views. The programme, which started telecast on the Victers channel on July 1 in the 8 a.m. slot, has been envisaged by the Women and Child Development Department, in association with KITE, for development of pre-primary students, including the more than 4 lakh children in the 3-6 age group who attend the 33,115 Anganwadis in the State. With the Anganwadis also closed owing to the COVID-19 situation, the pre-primary children are confined to their homes. Kilikonchal aims at keeping them engaged with activities that they can watch and do with the support of their parents. The activities taken up in Anganwadis as part of their theme-based curriculum are now shot and telecast online, says Bindu Gopinath, Assistant Director, Women and Child Development Department. 30 themes Nisha V.I., State Programme Officer, Women and Child Development Department, says as part of early childhood care and education, 30 themes are taken up in Anganwadis in a year. The activities cover the development domains of the children such as physical and motor development, cognitive and language development, social and emotional development, and so on. For the online classes, each theme includes 25 activities, with each class having three to four activities. At the end of each class, parents are given a feedback on the purpose of the activities and how the children benefit from these. Four themes have been shot and edited so far in the studio of the Centre for Development of Imaging Technology here. Ms. Gopinath says the response from viewers has been positive. The first class has received 10 lakh views, and the next two classes over 5 lakh views so far. Following feedback that the 30-minute class was packing in too many activities, the forthcoming classes will include only three activities, she says. The classes will also mention briefly the activities to be taken up the next day. The Kilikonchal class is retelecast at 9 p.m. the same day on the Victers channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-classes-for-tiny-tots-running-full-house/article32085829.ece
15 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cyber cell retrieves cash lost in online fraud||The city cyber cell on Tuesday retrieved the money that a woman lost as a result of an online fraud, thanks to quick reporting of the crime and immediate action on the part of the officials. According to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay, the woman who is staying in Poojappura police station limits had got a call from someone claiming to be an officer from the State Bank of India (SBI). Though the woman was initially not convinced about the caller due to the recent instances of online fraud, the caller, who claimed to be making the call for activation of a newly applied credit card, read out certain digits of her account number and other details to convince her. The woman then passed on the card number and other information sought by the caller. She realised that it was a case of online fraud only when she got a message that an amount of Rs. 70,700 has been deducted from her account. Since she contacted the Cyber cell immediately, the officials there were able to contact the various wallet services used for debiting the amount to retrieve it and get the bank to block the card to prevent further transactions. An amount of Rs. 70,000 was retrieved. Contact for complaints According to Mr. Upadhyay, usually the complaints in such cases are registered only much later, making it hard for the police to take steps to recover the money. Public could contact the city cyber cell (9497975998) for similar cases of online fraud through ATM cards or bank accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cyber-cell-retrieves-cash-lost-in-online-fraud/article32085837.ece
15 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MCJ fraternity demand new-generation courses||Miffed at being allegedly ignored by the government-constituted expert panel entrusted with recommending new-generation courses, the Mass Communication and Journalism (MCJ) academic fraternity has demanded the inclusion of relevant programmes in the discipline that are especially in tune with the post-COVID-19 scenario. The six-member committee chaired by Mahatma Gandhi University Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas recently proposed courses that are considered necessary in the changing job landscape. However, 50 academicians, including former and serving heads of the MCJ departments in State universities, have expressed displeasure over the neglect shown towards tapping the potential of the MCJ course while suggesting new courses. In a memorandum submitted to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the teachers highlighted the dearth of opportunities that existed in pursuing higher education in the field in the State. While around 5,500 students in 90 higher secondary schools have opted MCJ as their main subject of study, the inadequate number of UG and PG seats compel many to flock to other States. They say the discipline offered excellent chances for linkage with other study areas. Besides, the COVID-19 pandemic has opened up opportunities in the field. Changes that could be The academicians have proposed the introduction of BA Honors in Mass Communication, three-triple main programmes, specialisation in online, business, entrepreneurial journalism, media management, and risk communication during the fourth year of degree programmes, optional minor through electives in conventional programmes, programmes in innovative areas such as digital journalism, and integrated postgraduate programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mcj-fraternity-demand-new-generation-courses/article32085832.ece
15 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||WWF’s second national youth summit today||WWF India’s 2nd National Youth Summit under its youth engagement programme ‘ECHO-Building Environment Conservation Heroes’ will be held on Wednesday. Youth representatives from Sree Ayyappa College, Eramallikkara, Chenagannur, and other five teams from Delhi, West Bengal, Assam and Maharashtra will present their innovative, scalable, cost-effective project ideas that are aligned to advance the ‘Sustainable Development Goals 12: Responsible Production and Consumption’. These five teams will be judged by a panel of experts from the field of management, policy, governance, education, partnerships and fund-raising. The winner of the National Youth Summit 2020 will be awarded the coveted Panda trophy and provided mentoring support to continue their project activities. The event will be live streamed on WWF India’s YouTube Channelhttps://youtu.be/ SM6taq9GypA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wwfs-second-national-youth-summit-today/article32085827.ece
15 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP plans series of agitations||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is gearing up to launch a series of agitations demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for the alleged involvement of his office in the gold smuggling case. A party release said here on Tuesday that the party district committees would stage satyagrahas at district headquarters on July 16 and 17. National Democratic Alliance leaders will stage a day’s fast in Ernakulam on July 22. The party will stage a protest at 15,000 centres across the State on July 27 demanding the resignation of the Chief Minister. This would be in compliance with the COVID-19 guidelines. Various feeder organisations of the party would organise agitations, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-plans-series-of-agitations/article32085801.ece
15 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||e-stamping for below Rs. 1 lakh soon: CM||The government will make available stamps below Rs. 1 lakh through e-stamping, Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the new buildings of the sub-registrar offices at Mararikulam, Udambanchola, Thoppamkudi and Naduvannur and kicking off the work of the new sub-registrar office buildings at Mananthavady and Triprayar through videoconference from the State capital on Tuesday. The government will make available BSNL Optic Fibre connectivity to all sub-registrar offices in the State to ensure hassle-free online services, the Chief Minister said. Minister for Public Works and Registration G. Sudhakaran and Minister for Electricity M.M. Mani attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-stamping-for-below-rs-1-lakh-soon-cm/article32085786.ece
15 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||File affidavit on ESAs, Chandy tells govt.||Senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy has urged the government to respond to the Supreme Court notice and file an affidavit on Ecologically Sensitive Areas (ESA) in Kerala. In a letter to the Chief Minister on Tuesday, Mr. Chandy stressed the need to ensure the livelihood of settler farmers while protecting the Western Ghats ecosystem. Pointing out that the apex court had sent notice to Kerala and five other States, asking them to file an affidavit, he said the report of the Oommen V. Oommen committee constituted by the previous UDF government had recommended steps to protect the interests of lakhs of settler farmers in the ESAs. This report, he said, should be considered while filing the affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/file-affidavit-on-esas-chandy-tells-govt/article32085793.ece
15 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel to probe allegations against Sivasankar||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said a committee headed by the Chief Secretary was probing the allegations that his former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar had telephonic links to the accused in the gold smuggling case. The police intelligence wing would aid the committee. Central agencies were probing whether Mr. Sivasankar had any knowledge or role in the economic offence. A government could only act on legally verified facts. It would not hesitate to take action if the investigators found Mr. Sivasankar guilty of wrongdoing. When pressed why the police intelligence had not forewarned the Chief Minister’s Office about accused Swapna Suresh, Mr. Vijayan said he would probe the "angle".||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-probe-allegations-against-sivasankar/article32085800.ece
15 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Entrance exam date extended||Registration for the entrance examination for the PCM batch of the Kerala State Civil Service Academy for 2020-21 has been extended to July 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entrance-exam-date-extended/article32085830.ece
15 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dak Adalat to be hosted on Google Meet||A Dak Adalat of the Trivandrum North division of the Department of Posts will be conducted at 10 a.m. on July 23 through Google Meet. Complaints/suggestions related to services of post offices under the North division could be forwarded with the sender’s email ID/WhatsApp number todotpuramnorth.kl@ indiapost.gov.inorssptvnorth.keralapost @gmail.comor to Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Trivandrum North Division, GPO Building, Thiruvananthapuram – 695001 before July 21. The link for the Google Meet will be shared on the email ID/WhatsApp number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dak-adalat-to-be-hosted-on-google-meet/article32085831.ece
15 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation disinfects Poonthura||The city Corporation has carried out disinfection activities in all the houses and public spaces in the Poonthura area, which reported a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in recent days. The emergency response team, led by Mayor K. Sreekumar, used jetters and power sprayers for the disinfection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-disinfects-poonthura/article32085836.ece
15 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||top briefly||The Plus Two higher secondary and vocational higher secondary education (VHSE)examinations results will be declared on Wednesday. Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath will announce the results at 2 p.m. The results will be available on the websites keralaresults.nic.in, dhsekerala.gov.in, vhse.kerala.gov.in, prd.kerala.gov.in, results.kite.kerala.gov.in, and kerala.gov.in They will also be available on the mobile applications PRD Live, Saphalam 2020, and iExams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/top-briefly/article32085790.ece
15 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Third fatality in police department||The coronavirus pandemic on Tuesday claimed the life of yet another frontline worker in Anantapur district — a police official who was on COVID-19 duty. Circle Inspector (Traffic) G. Rajasekhar succumbed to the virus at the KIMS-Saveera Hospital on Tuesday evening. This is the third death in the police force in the district. Another police officer in the district who tested positive for COVID-19 is convalescing in hospital. Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu expressed grief over Rajasekhar’s death and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family. Parigi Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police Sk. Habibullah was the first policeman to die of COVID-19. Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang travelled to Anantapur and paid tributes to the deceased police officer. The second was an Armed Reserve Constable and Dharmavaram MLA Kethireddy Venkatarami Reddy’s gunman who posthumously tested positive for coronavirus.  Meanwhile, there were 10 COVID-19 deaths recorded in a span of 24 hours till Monday evening. There were 185 new cases recorded by Monday evening, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the district to 3,651. The death toll due to COVID-19 in the district now stands at 40.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/third-fatality-in-police-department/article32085913.ece
15 July 2020||G.V.R. Subba RaoVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paddy sowing shows a decreasing trend in State||On the back of a normal monsoon in the State, the cultivation target for paddy in the kharif season is 15.90 lakh hectares. It is less than the last year's target of 16.25 lakh hectares. In fact, the target was less last year also when compared to the 2018 kharif season which was 16.26 lakh hectares. According to information, the normal sowing during the season was 16.03 lakh hectares in the 2016 kharif season. Now, the normal sowing during the season is just 14.97 lakh hectares. The normal sowing has been on decline since 2016. Districts such as East and West Godavari and Krishna, which are known for paddy cultivation, have shown a decline trend in paddy sowing. For instance, the normal paddy sowing in Krishna was 2,45,279 hectares in 2016 kharif. It has slipped to 2,30,375 hectares now (2020). Similarly, it was only 2,23,431 hectares in East Godavari as against 2,29,617 hectares in 2016. Likewise, the normal sowing was 2,38,524 hectares in West Godavari in 2016 and is now 2,27,161 hectares. Strikingly, districts like Srikakulam have shown a steady growth. In Srikakulam, the normal sowing was 2,04,661 hectares in 2016 and rose to 2,07,432 hectares in 2020. Similarly, the normal sowing was 1,19,069 hectares in 2016 in Vizianagaram and now stands at 1,22,007 hectares.  Main reason “The decline in some districts is primarily due to switching over to other crops or aquaculture. The farmers feel other crops/ aqua culture is better than paddy cultivation,” says an official on condition of anonymity. The agriculture officials, however, are hopeful that the paddy cultivation will surpass the set targets in view of normal monsoon. So far, the rainfall is excess. The season's normal rainfall is 556 mm, while it was 126.2 as on July 8. Overall, the average rainfall received in the State from June 1 to July 8 was recorded as 159.9 mm as against normal as on date is 126.2 mm. Also, all major reservoirs are holding 328.29 tmcft compared to 189.62 tmcft last year as on July 8. “This will encourage the farmers to go for sowing. Also, reaping a bumper crop yield this season is likely with the Met department predicting a normal monsoon this year,” opines a senior official. The agriculture officials say that they have commenced seed distribution by taking a village as a unit. The seed distribution is under progress. Paddy crop is at nurseries to the transplantation stage. Early sown paddy is at vegetative to tillering stage, say the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paddy-sowing-shows-a-decreasing-trend-in-state/article32085941.ece
15 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government tightens entry curbs as cases shoot up||The government has included Telangana and Karnataka in the high risk-category States and issued fresh guidelines for home and institutional quarantine for travellers, both domestic and foreign. In the earlier categorisation, New Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu were placed under the high-risk category. For people coming by air, seven-day institutional quarantine is compulsory for foreign returnees as per the fresh guidelines issued by the Home Ministry. Also, COVID test will be conducted for the returnees between the fifth and seventh days. In the case of domestic air travellers, tests will be conducted randomly for 10% of the passengers . Swabs would be collected at airports itself and the passengers are required to undergo home quarantine for 14 days. In the case of travel by train, swabs would be collected for 10% of the passengers . The electronic manifest of passengers would be collected and kept as a record for reference. Irrespective of tests, all persons must undergo home quarantine for 14 days. Data collection In the case of people coming by road, swabs would be collected for 10% of them coming from other States at the border check-posts. All persons coming from other States will be advised strict home quarantine for 14 days. The details of passengers coming by domestic flights and by road through inter-State border check points will be captured 100% using the QR code on the e-pass using smartphones available with the personnel manning such facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-tightens-curbs/article32085692.ece
15 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anti-Human Trafficking Units to have more teeth||The Centre has issued directions for establishment of Anti-Human Trafficking Units (AHTUs) in every district and strengthening them in the State to curb the crime of trafficking in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. The Ministry of Home Affairs, Women Safety Cell, has given details of funds released during 2010 to 2019 for setting up AHTUs in 50% districts of India, and later in March 2020 funds were released for setting up of AHTUs in all districts. In this context, NGOs have urged the State government to strengthen the AHTUs across the State and set up new ones. Ongole-based ‘Help’ secretary N.V. Rammohan in a letter submitted to DGP Gautam Sawang urged him to empower the AHTUs on the lines of the powers of regular police stations as that helps in speedy investigation of the trafficking cases in the State. “At present there are five AHTUs in the State but none has the powers of police stations,” he said. “The police personnel facing stress with different law and order cases and also with bandobast duties are facing challenges in dealing with these trafficking cases and are failing to get convictions for traffickers because of weak investigation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anti-human-trafficking-units-to-have-more-teeth/article32085421.ece
15 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP pats personnel for prevailing over disease||Mental strength is the best medicine to recover from any ailment, said Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan here on Tuesday. The district police chief personally called on the 21 policemen from the district, who had contracted COVID-19 while in the line of duty and recovered after taking proper medical care and nutritional diet, and appreciated them for their resilience. At the parade grounds, the district police chief gave away a nutritional kit comprising fruits, dry fruits and protein supplements to the personnel. “They have not only shown the power of mental strength, but also helped removed the fear in the minds of people on the disease,” he added. The personnel explained how the department had reached out to their family members in their absence by providing essential commodities and giving them courage through personal counselling in order to overcome the challenging ordeal. Deputy Superintendents of Police Vamsidhar (Special Branch), Chenchu Babu (Faction zone) and B. Ramanaiah (Armed Reserve) took part in the programme. Mr. Anburajan later felicitated Armed Reserve inspectors who were leaving the district on transfer – Vijay Kumar (Anantapur), Srisaila Reddy and Chandrasekhar (Tirupati) and Javed (Chittoor).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-pats-personnel-for-prevailing-over-disease/article32085921.ece
15 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri Lankan vessel, crew handed over to police||The Indian Coast Guard authorities on Tuesday handed over the Sri Lankan fishing vessel and six crew members to the Andhra Pradesh Marine police at the Kakinada port in East Godavari district. On Sunday, the Sri Lankan fishing vessel and the crew were detained by the Coast Guard 128 nautical miles off the Kakinada coast and brought to the Kakinada port on Tuesday. The vessel was registered at Mattara in Sri Lanka. The fishing vessel set sail on June 28. The Marine police led by Investigation Officer and Marine Circle Inspector S. Gowri Shankar received the fishing vessel and the six crew. The health condition of the crew is stable. The six crew have been identified as Pashenadigi Jagat Priyantha (crew lead), Pala Vitanagey, Kottawa Hattige Charith Madusudhan, Ginthata Hewage Nuwan Kamal Prasad, Kuda Baduge Ujjith, Gadhi Kuchi Hey Wage Nuwan Sameer, according to Mr. Gowri Shankar. The Coast Guard and the Marine police sold the fish catch of tuna, that was seized from the fishing vessel, which fetched Rs. 33,000 during the auction. Case booked  “Cases have been registered cases against the Sri Lankan crew under the Section 3/10 and 7/14 of the Maritime Zones of India (Regulation of fishing by foreign vessels) Act, 1981 under the Vakalapudi Marine Police limits in Kakinada,” said Mr. Gowri Shankar. The crew would undergo the medical tests, including COVID-19 test, at the Government General Hospital in Kakinada on Wednesday before beign produced before a local court, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-lankan-vessel-crew-handed-over-to-police/article32085345.ece
15 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Konaseema JAC gives ‘chalo Kirlampudi’ call||The Konaseema Joint Action Committee (KJAC) of the Kapu reservation movement on Tuesday gave a call for ‘Chalo Kirlampudi’ on July 16 (Thursday), aimed at persuading community leader Mudragada Padmanabham to reconsider his decision to dissociate himself from the movement. Mr. Padmanabham, whose announcement on Monday created a flutter, cited “verbal attacks” on him following his letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the reservation issue as the reason. Addressing a press conference, KJAC president Kalvakolanu Tataji said all efforts would be made to mollify Mr. Padmanabham. “If he rejects our appeal, we will stage a sit-in in front of his residence at Kiralmpudi until he relents,” he added. Mr. Tataji claimed that people belonging to the community in the Amalapuram Lok Sabha constituency had already given their consent to organise the ‘Chalo Kirlampudi’ programme. However, key leaders would meet Mr. Padmanabham on Thursday, keeping in mind the restrictions on account of the COVID outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/konaseema-jac-gives-chalo-kirlampudi-call/article32085937.ece
15 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTU-K to celebrate platinum jubilee tomorrow||Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Kakinada (JNTU-K) is all set to celebrate the platinum jubilee of its University College of Engineering, Kakinada (UCE-K) on July 16 through online streaming. In an official release, JNTU-K Vice-Chancellor Prof. M. Ramalinga Raju said, “Former Delhi Metro Rail Corporation managing director Dr. E. Sreedharan, Santa Biotech chairman K.V. Varaprasada Rao and A.P. State Higher Education Council Chairman Prof. K. Hemachandra Reddy will take part in the celebrations through online mode.” The UCE-K website, ucekacademics.ac.in, will be launched during the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jntu-k-to-celebrate-platinum-jubilee/article32085915.ece
15 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held with 1,325 kg ganja||The Chintoor police on Tuesday arrested two persons and seized a lorry transporting 1,325 kg of ganja while they were heading from Odisha to Bhadrachalam in East Godavari district. The ganja is worth Rs. 39.75 lakh. The accused have been identified as Sachin Hemanth Pawar (30), and Ganesh Dadapatil Soawane (23), of Ahmednagar in Maharashtra. The duo was transporting the ganja to Maharashtra along with two buyers, who had absconded. A search is on to nab them, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-with-1325-kg-ganja/article32085914.ece
15 July 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nurses’ agitation disrupts services at Nellore hospital||Nurses in the Government General Hospital here staged a protest on Tuesday in protest against suspension of two of their colleagues serving COVID-19 patients. Boycotting their duties, the nurses from all departments assembled in front of the Government Medical College and raised slogans demanding revocation of the suspension of the two staff nurses. Medical services in the GGH were disrupted following the protest. The nurses were placed under suspension for alleged dereliction of their duties on a complaint from some patients. The agitated nurses raised slogans demanding justice for their two colleagues. Separated from their families, they were providing their services to patients in the COVID-19 Isolation ward even risking their lives. It was unfortunate that instead of praising them for their services, two of their colleagues had been suspended, they lamented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nurses-agitation-disrupts-services-at-nellore-hospital/article32085917.ece
15 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus tightens grip on south coastal A.P.||Coronavirus continued to cause havoc in south-coastal Andhra Pradesh as three more patients succumbed to the pandemic while 257 others — 137 in Prakasam district and 120 in Nellore district — tested positive in the last 24 hours. With this, the death toll rose to 11 in Prakasam district while the number of confirmed cases went up to 1,642. Nine additional containment clusters were created as the disease spread to newer areas. The total number of confirmed cases rose to 1,764 in SPSR Nellore district. Meanwhile, 107 patients — 83 in Nellore district and 24 in Prakasam district — were cured of the disease and discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. In Prakasam district, 66 new patients were admitted to hospital. An 88-year-old woman from Kopperapadu village was among those who tested positive for the disease. The health condition of 345 patients was stable, health officials said. As many as 1,659 persons tested negative. The results of another 8,528 persons are awaited. Mammoth exercise Health workers in Prakasam district traced over 1,600 primary contacts of those who had tested positive, and subjected them to testing before isolating them. A containment action plan was implemented with full vigour in the 46 ‘very active’ clusters and 87 active clusters. It was found that 40 of the infected persons had no prior travel history to any COVID-19 hotspots. Four of the infected persons were from Telangana, three from Odisha and two each from Karnataka and Maharashtra. Health officials tested 132 persons who had returned to Prakasam district from other States. The fresh cases in Prakasam district came from, among other places, Ongole, Hanumanthinipadu, Gudluru, Darsi, Peddapavani, Markapur, Kopperapadu, Dubagunta, Kolabhimunipadu, Kothuru, Kanigiri, Muthyalapadu, Singarayakonda, Kandukur, Mundlamuru and Giddalur. Three doctors — two paediatricians and an orthopaedician in Pogathota area in Nellore — and 10 hospital staff members were among those who tested positive in Nellore. Nellore city accounted for a maximum of 73 fresh cases in the district. The infected persons included police personnel attached to II Town police station. New cases came from different parts of the district bordering Tamil Nadu, including Tada (8), Sullurpeta(5), Atmakur (5) and Buchireddypalem (3). Two persons who had come from Prakasam district, one each from Kadapa and Guntur and yet another person from Bengaluru, also tested positive, health officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-tightens-grip-on-south-coastal-ap/article32085920.ece
15 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Viswashanti Homam performed at Tirumala||Viswashanti Homam was on Tuesday observed at the Dharmagiri Veda Vignana Peetam to ward off the coronavirus pandemic and pray for universal good health. The ritual was carried out amid chanting of Sudarsana, Astakshari and Dwadasakshari mantras by Vedic scholars in the presence of TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy. With the day also coinciding with Aswini, priests recited extracts from all four Vedas, Divya Prabhandam, Venkatachala Mahatyam, Srimad Ramanayana, Sundarakanda, Pancharatra Agama Sastra and Durga Saptasthuti to invoke the blessings of Lord Venkateswara, and observed Poornahuti in the auspicious Bhoumaswina yogam. Principal of the peetam Sri Kuppa Sivasubramanyam Avadhani and professor Sri Mohanrangacharyulu also addressed the Vedic students who took part in large numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/viswashanti-homam-performed-at-tirumala/article32085742.ece
15 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam performed||Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam was on Tuesday performed at the Lord Venkateswara temple here as a prelude to the annual Anivara Asthanam scheduled for Thursday. A herbal paste made of turmeric, camphor, sandalwood powder, vermillion and other ingredients that acts as a disinfectant was applied to the pillars, walls and ceiling inside the sanctum sanctorum of the temple. While the main idol was provided with a water-proof covering the idols of other parivar deities were temporarily removed and reinstalled after the completion of the ritual. A big contingent of TTD employees took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/koil-alwar-thirumanjanam-performed/article32085939.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||61 new cases detected in city||As many as 108 fresh COVID cases were reported in the district as of 6 p.m. on Tuesday, according to the District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz. While 61 cases were detected in over 20 municipal wards of the city, 47 cases came up in 21 mandals of the district. In the city, the cases were detected in Patamata (9), Krishnalanka (6), Labbipet (5), Kothapeta (5), Ajith Singh Nagar (4), Gandhi Nagar (3), Gunadala (2), Ashok Nagar (2), Machavaram (2), Madhura Nagar (2), Satyanarayana Puram (2) and Bhavanipuram (2). One case each was reported in Lenin Centre, Loyola College area, Mutyalampadu, Srinagar, Ramalingeswara Nagar, Kedareswarapeta, One Town and Payakapuram while nine cases were reported elsewhere in the city. Surrounding areas In Vijayawada Rural mandal eight cases emerged in Ramavarappadu, Prasadampadu, Gollapudi, Enikepadu and Nidamanuru areas. In Penamaluru mandal 12 cases surfaced in Poranki (8), Yenamalakuduru (3) and Kanuru (1). In Machilipatnam six cases were detected and in Gudivada and Gannavaram four cases each. Three were found in Jaggaiapeta and two cases each in Nuzvid and Challapalli. One case each was reported in Gopavaram, Guntupalli, Pedana, Kankipadu, Muchintala and Nandigama villages. Meanwhile, Mr. Imtiaz said that the district’s COVID recovery rate is at 69% with 1,887 recoveries so far and 1.39 lakh samples were tested so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/61-new-cases-detected-in-city/article32085420.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last rites: govt. announces aid||In a huge relief to the families of COVID-19 victims, the State Government has decided to provide a financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 to each of them for performing the last rites. At a review meeting on Tuesday, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the officials concerned to implement the decision immediately. Referring to preventive measures, Mr. Jagan asked health officials to come up with a plan of action. He made it clear that quality food should be served and hygiene and sanitation maintained at all COVID care centres, hospitals and quarantine centres. The government had decided to make COVID examination centres permanent ones, he said. “No patient should be denied medical treatment. If the hospital authority refuses to do so, he or she will be dealt with severely and the hospital’s permissions will be revoked,” the Chief Minister said. Officials told the Chief Minister that an additional 17, 000 doctors and 12, 000 nurses were required to meet the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-rites-govt-announces-aid/article32085922.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deodhar condemns attack on party leader in Vizianagaram||BJP national secretary Sunil Deodhar has reacted to the attack on BJP leader Kalla Narayana Rao in Vizianagaram. He twitted that the leader was attacked by YSRCP goons just because he was serving the people of his locality. “YSRCP workers better refrain from such acts. I expect impartial action by Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” he said. Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan too condemned the attack. He said the victim, who was contesting as the BJP-JSP joint candidate in the Vizianagaram corporation elections, was attacked while he was getting sanitation works done in his division limits as social responsibility. Not ready to be cowed down, the BJP leader continued to work, by directly participating in the cleanliness drive for which he and his family members were also attacked. Despite a police complaint, no action was taken against anyone. Mr. Pawan Kalyan demanded that the DGP order a probe into the attack and bring the culprits to book. MLC stages protest In Vizianagaram, MLC P.V.N. Madhav urged SP B. Rajakumari to take stern action on the perpetrators. Jana Sena leader Tyada Ramakrishna Rao also urged the police to act swiftly. Ms. Rajakumari asked the officers to launch an investigation and arrest the perpetrators. As many as 20 persons were reportedly involved in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deodhar-condemns-attack-on-party-leader-in-vizianagaram/article32085928.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam demands inquiry into fire accident||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has said that the government must launch an inquiry into the fire accident at the Visakha Solvents plant in Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City at Parawada in Visakhapatnam. Naidu expresses shock TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu said that he was shocked to hear about the explosion in the Pharma City. In a late night tweet on Monday, Mr. Naidu said: “Shocked to hear about the explosion in Vizag’s Pharma City. The visuals coming in look dreadful. I pray that the workers doing the night shift inside the premises come out safely.” In a statement, TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh also expressed shock over the accident and expressed his condolences to the family members of senior chemist Srinivas Rao whose charred body was found at the accident site. ‘Two incidents in 15 days’ Accusing the government of acting neglegently on industrial accidents in the State, Mr. Lokesh said, “People are agitated over the series of industrial accidents in Visakhapatnam. Soon after the styrene leak at LG Polymers, the government asserted that all necessary precautions were taken to prevent such accidents in future. However, two accidents—one at Sainor Chemicals and the other at Visakha Solvents—have been reported from the Phrama City in just 15 days.” Mr. Lokesh demanded that the government must launch an inquiry and take action against those responsible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-demands-inquiry-into-fire-accident/article32085927.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to ‘unlock’ tourist destinations from August 1||Tourism Minister Muthamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said the State will throw open tourism destinations to visitors from August 1. Speaking to reporters after reviewing the situation and tourism projects with the department officials on Tuesday, the Minister said private players would be invited to establish 5-star and 7-star hotels. He said as part of the plan to establish new districts, it was decided to name one of them after Alluri Sitarama Raju. He said the department had incurred a revenue loss to the tune of Rs. 60 crore on account of the lockdown which saw all tourist destinations shutting down. If there were any repairs to be carried out, they would be done in the next 15 days and from August 1, all tourist destinations would be ready to welcome visitors, he added. COVID protocols The Minister said a plan was being prepared to set up 5-star and 7-star hotels in seven places in the State with private participation (PPP mode) and the department would also celebrate and observe birth and death anniversaries respectively of important personalities, in strict adherence of the COVID-19 guidelines. He said as per Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s plan to establish additional districts, a new district in the Visakhapatnam region would be named after freedom fighter 'Manyam Veerudu' Alluri Sitarama Raju. The Minister said decentralisation of power would ensure equal distribution of development across the State. Citing the example of Hyderabad in the composite State of Andhra Pradesh where development was centralised, he said the government did not want to repeat the same mistake. Referring to the explosion in a chemical plant in the Visakhapatnam Pharma City which claimed one life and caused injuries to three others, the Minister said industrial units must give top priority to safety. The Minister said he would hold a meeting with all industrial unit owners in the State next month on safety norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-unlock-tourist-destinations-from-august-1/article32085931.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP claims about State’s ‘poor finances’ hold no water: Buggana||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy has refuted the allegations made by the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) that the State finances had deteriorated and that the development had come to a grinding halt during the YSRCP rule. “There is no iota of truth in the allegations. It seems former Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu cooked up some false figures,” Mr. Rajendranath Reddy told the media here. He said there was no truth in the TDP claims that the State had achieved a double digit growth by the time it stepped down from power. “The first revised estimates (FRE) put the growth figures in single digit. The second revised estimates (SRE) will reveal the fact,” he said. The Finance Minister said the per capita income (PCI) has increased to Rs. 1.60 lakh in the 2019-2020 fiscal (YSRCP rule) from Rs. 1.51 lakh during the 2018-19 fiscal, when the TDP was at office. Inflation figures The inflation in the State has been put at 3.54% when compared to the national average of 4.57%. “The inflation in A.P. is far low than that of other south Indian States. The inflation in Telangana is 4.53%, while it is 6.14% in Karnataka. The inflation in Tamil Nadu and Kerala is also higher than A.P. The figures are quite in contrast of the allegations made by Mr. Ramakrishnudu that the inflation rose steeply ,” pointed out Mr. Rajendranath Reddy. The former Finance Minister said that the revenue receipts had fallen by 40%. “The fact is that there was a fall of mere 2.5%, which is due to economic slowdown triggered by COVID-10 pandemic across the country. The revenue receipts were Rs. 1.14 lakh crore in 2018-19 fiscal and Rs. 1.10 lakh crore in 2019-20. The revenue expenditure increased by about Rs. 9,000 core in 2019-20 when compared to that of 2018-19,” said Mr. Rajendranath Reddy. Capital expenditure The TDP’s allegations that the capital expenditure had fallen holds no water. As the government wants to clean up the mess created by the TDP government, it took six months to complete the inquiries. Now, the capital expenditure is gaining momentum,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-claims-about-states-poor-finances-hold-no-water-buggana/article32085926.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Stop meddling in Simhachalam temple affairs’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday urged the State government to stop interfering in the affairs of the Simhachalam temple management and MANSAS Trust. Mr. Naidu made this comment while referring to the Supreme Court judgment that upheld the rights of the erstwhile Travancore royal family in running the Padmanabhaswamy temple in Kerala. The TDP chief said the ‘landmark judgment’ of the apex court also protected the ‘sanctity of the prior agreements and traditions of the royal families in managing trusts’. The government should not meddle in the affairs of MANSAS Trust and protect the rights of the Pusapati family, the Vizianagaram royals, as custodians, he said. ‘Dirty politics’ “AP gov(t) must take note of this development & stop interfering with the mgmt of Simhachalam Board & MANSAS trust to attain their evil goals. Gajapathi family’s rights as custodians must be protected. @ysjagan must not meddle with God & family-run trusts to play dirty politics,” Ms. Naidu posted on his Twitter handle. In March this year, the State government appointed P. Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju, daughter of P. Ananda Gajapathi Raju, as the chairperson of the Simhachalam Devasthanam and MANSA Trust, by removing former Union Minister and TDP leader P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stop-meddling-in-simhachalam-temple-affairs-naidu-tells-govt/article32085350.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP launches special drive under ‘Operation Muskaan’||Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang on Tuesday launched the week-long ‘Operation Muskaan’ across the State at the AP Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri. Mr. Sawang flagged off rescue vehicles of the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate and Guntur Rural and Urban district vehicles on the occasion. Additional Director-General of Police (Addl. DGP, Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar, CID Addl. DGP P.V. Sunil Kumar, Rural Development Trust Vijayawada team leader Sridevi, Pure Hands NGO representative Sailaja, officers of various departments participated. The drive aims at tracing missing children of other States, preventing child labour and bonded child labour and rescuing children engaged as domestic help, the DGP said. Coordinated effort Teams consisting of the police, revenue, juvenile welfare, Women Development and Child Welfare, labour, medical and health and other departments and Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), raided hotels, garages, factories, houses, shops and other establishments since dawn. Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said 57 children were rescued during the day and all of them were handed over to their parents. Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said 125 children, including 24 girls, belonging to different places, were rescued. Police and staff of other departments conducted raids in Nuzvid, Avanigadda, Machilipatnam, Gudivada and Nandigama sub-divisions and rescued the minors, the SP said “Raids were conducted on shops, hotels, mechanic sheds and other hazardous industries in West Godavari, Nellore, Guntur, Prakasam, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Srikakulam and other districts,” a CID officer monitoring the operation said. Mr. Ravindranath said three orphan children were referred to a Child Care Institution (CCI) and the others were handed over to their parents. In West Godavari, 130 children were rescued and except one, all were reunited with their parents after counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dgp-launches-special-drive-under-operation-muskaan/article32085944.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||210 kg ganja seized, two arrested||Sleuths of the Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) seized 210 kg of ganja, worth about Rs. 10.50 lakh, and arrested two persons in this connection. The contraband was being smuggled from Visakhapatnam to Maharashtra, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. On a tip-off, CTF Additional DCP K.V. Srinivas Rao and his team intercepted a van and seized the contraband concealed under activated carbon powder (coal chips). The arrested were Yogesh Mahajan and Samadhan Pitamber from Maharashtra. Investigation is under progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/210-kg-ganja-seized-two-arrested/article32085422.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 case in Inter office||The office of the Commissionerate of Intermediate Education will remain closed for a week, from July 14 to July 19, for sanitisation, as a COVID-19 positive case has been reported from there. In a statement released here on Tuesday, Special Commissioner of Intermediate Education V. Ramakrishna said all the officers and staff members had been instructed to work from home on these days and attend duties from July 20 when the office would reopen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-case-in-inter-office/article32085424.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||989 liquor bottles seized, eight arrested||The Krishna district police on Tuesday seized 989 bottles in separate raids and arrested eight persons for smuggling liquor. Police seized 489 bottles at Bhudawada checkpost, 300 bottles at Pedda Modugapalli and 96 bottles at Gandrayi checkpost, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Vakul Jindal said. Cases have been registered in Vatsavayi and Chillakallu police stations against the accused under relevant sections of the IPC, Mr. Jindal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/989-liquor-bottles-seized-eight-arrested/article32085923.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Group clash: four more arrested||The Patamata police on Tuesday arrested four more persons in connection with the group clash that occurred at Thotavari Veedhi a few weeks ago. Two gangs, headed by K. Manikanta and T. Sandeep, clashed with lethal weapons in an open area creating panic among the residents. Sandeep died in the attack and about 10 persons suffered injuries. Police arrested 54 persons of the two groups so far. On Tuesday, S. Anantha Kumar alias Ananth, a rowdy-sheeter, A. Ajay, B. Shankar and Sk. Mastan were arrested, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. Externed A rowdy-sheeter under Gannavaram police limits, Pathan Yousuf Khan alias Yousuf Buddi, was externed from the city. In order to maintain law and order and to provide protection to the general public, Pathan was externed from the city, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/group-clash-four-more-arrested/article32085423.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC limited period offer||People who had booked tickets to travel by APSRTC buses from March 20 to April 19 but could not get them cancelled due to the lockdown, can do it now. RTC Executive Director (Operations) K.B. Reddy said the tickets can be cancelled now from July 15 to 29 (15 days). Mr. Reddy said the full amount would be refunded at any of the RTC counters or the authorised ticket booking counters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-limited-period-offer/article32085929.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID tests for children||Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang has said that COVID-19 tests will be conducted for the children rescued under ‘Operation Muskan COVID-19’.  “The theme of the drive is Secure, Test and Restore'. If any child is suffering with fever, cold, cough and other symptoms, he would be sent for COVID test, and they would be sent to isolation ward in the COVID Hospital,” Mr. Sawang said. If any rescued child is tested positive, necessary treatment would be given. Details of all the traced children shall be uploaded in ‘Track the Missing Child’ portal, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-tests-for-children/article32085942.ece
15 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA/ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains flood many areas in Krishna||Incessant rains inundated many areas in Tiruvuru town of Krishna district on Tuesday. Flood water entered the houses in Rajiv Nagar on the outskirts and the residents were shifted to safer places. As heavy rain is predicted in the upstream areas, officials sounded alert on Andhra Pradesh-Telangana borders and took measures to prevent human and animal loss. Rain water entered villages near Tiruvuru bypass road and crops in many areas were submerged. Many colonies were also submerged as downpour continued the last two days. Transportation between Tiruvuru and Vissannapeta was cut off as Yedullavagu is overflowing on the main road at Mallela village. A lorry overturned due to the floods on Vissannapeta road. Police arranged security on both sides of the road to stop traffic as the rivulet was overflowing on the road, said Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. At Thotamula and Kothapalli villages, Kattaleru Vagu was overflowing on Cheemalapadu road and communication was cut off to some villages in Gampalagudem mandal. Collector A. Md. Imtiaz said as of now there was no flood threat to the Krishna river and the downstream areas as the inflow and the outflow were below the danger level. Valluripalem, Royyuru and some other island villages in Thotlavalleru mandal too remained cut off in the district. Woman rescued Police rescued an 80-year-old woman, who was trapped in a collapsed house at Gopavaram village in Kaikalur mandal on Monday, the villagers said. Alert in West Godavari The district received 807.2 mm rain in the last 24 hours with many mandals reporting good rainfall. Officials sounded alert and directed the staff of the Panchayat Raj, Revenue and Irrigation to strengthen canal bunds to prevent breaches. Highest rainfall Undrajavaram received the highest rainfall of 79.4 mm, followed by Peravali 73.6 mm, Tanuku 58.6, Tadepalligudem 44.4, Jangareddygudem 44.2, Nallajerla 34.2, Nidadavole 33.2, Ungutur 30.8, Chagallu 24.4, Jeelugumilli and Pentapadu 24.2, Pedavegi 23.4, Denduluru 22.6 and T. Narsapuram mandal 20.2 mm. Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik directed the police to be alert and intensify patrolling along the Godavari bund villages. “The Station House Officers were instructed to coordinate with the ITDA, Revenue, Village Secretariat, Tribal Welfare, Medical and Health, Panchayat Raj and Irrigation Department officials and take up rescue and rehabilitation operations in the low-lying villages,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rains-flood-many-areas-in-krishna/article32085431.ece
15 July 2020||VISAHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties seek safety audit of all units in JNPC||Tension prevailed near the Visakha Solvents plant at Parawada on Tuesday, when leaders of the CPI (M) and CPI and Telugu Desam Party tried to stage a protest, demanding that a detailed safety audit of all the units the Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC) be conducted. A posse of police personnel deployed at the plant arrested more than 10 leaders including CPI (M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao, CPI State secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy and TDP leader Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy. The leaders assembled near the factory after a major fire broke out in Visakha Solvents late on Monday night, in which one employee was charred to death and another suffered burn injuries. Mr. J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy said that the fire at Visakha Solvents was the second accident to be reported from the Pharma City in the last two weeks, in which three persons have lost their lives and five were injured. ‘Order probe’ Meanwhile, expressing concerns over the recurrent industrial accidents in the city, YSRCP MLA (Anakapalle) Gudivada Amarnath on Tuesday urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to order a detailed probe into the incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-seek-safety-audit-of-all-units-in-jnpc/article32085947.ece
15 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home quarantine option only for patients meeting strict norms||The district administration has started the giving the option of home quarantine for COVID-19 positive patients with strict guidelines from the State government. As on Tuesday, 10 patients are being treated under home quarantine facility in the district and the number is expected to gradually increase in the coming weeks. According to Joint Collector Arun Kumar, there are some criteria to fulfil if a patient wants to stay in home quarantine. The person must be asymptomatic and he/she should not have any health issues or co-morbidity. The patient should be young, educated and must have knowledge to monitor health condition such as checking body temperature or oxygen levels in the blood using pulse oximeter. “The patient should be living in an independent house and should have an attached bathroom in it. Home quarantine will not be allowed if there are any elderly persons (Above 60 years with health issues) or children below 10 years in the house,” he said. The Joint Collector also made it clear that they would not allow any patient above 60 years of age or any person with co-morbidities for home quarantine. He said that once a person is allowed home quarantine, his house will be geo-tagged. The information will be passed to ANMs and ASHA workers and ward volunteers. The staff will monitor the health condition on a daily basis. However, it is the duty of the patient himself to keep checking his health condition.  Control room According to Principal of Andhra Medical College & Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar, they have set up a control room in the district for the home quarantine facility. “These five doctors will work on a shift basis and will call the patients twice in a day to check their health conditions. They will clarify doubts and also suggest if the patients seek any help. We may increase the number of doctors in future if needed,” Dr. Sudhakar said. Mr. Arun Kumar said that as of now they are not giving permission for home quarantine if patients are residing in apartments. “Other residents in apartments may oppose due to fear/stigma if we allow any resident for home quarantine facility if he/she tests positive. However, the decision may change,” the Joint Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-quarantine-option-only-for-patients-meeting-strict-norms/article32085954.ece
15 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another accident rocks Pharma City||Close on the heels of the accident at Sainor Life Sciences at Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC), Parawada, in Visakhapatnam, another accident rocked the pharma city, developed by Ramky group, late on Monday night. A major fire broke out at Visakha Solvents and engulfed a major part of the facility. One person was charred to death and another sustained burn injuries in the incident. The deceased has been identified as K. Srinivasa Rao, senior chemist, a resident of Anakapalle, and the injured is Malleswara Rao, junior chemist. Mr. Malleswara Rao suffered about 30% burns and is being treated at a corporate hospital in the city. The incident occurred between 10.45 p.m. and 11 p.m. on Monday. According to CEO of JNPC P.P. Lal Krishna, the incident occurred when a solvent chemical DMSO (Dimethyl Sulfoxide) was in the distillation process. “One of the chemist was trying to remove some sample from the reactor, and at that moment static electricity was generated resulting in a fire. The chemist instead of dousing the fire with a fire extinguisher, allegedly ran from the spot and the fire spread within minutes to engulf the facility. It spread to the storage facility resulting in a huge inferno,” said Dr. Krishna. Luckily, as per the CEO, there were only four persons inside plant at the time of the incident. Visakha Solvents is a common solvent recovery facility for JNPC, and all difficult solvents from various units are sent to the factory for treatment. As per the business model, the solvent after treatment is disposed of or sold. People panic After the fire spread from the reactor room to the storage facility, solvents stored in drums started to explode one after another and it created a panic-like situation in the pharma city and the neighbouring villages. Fresh with memory of LG Polymers incident, people panicked and were seen fleeing the area. Fire tenders reach spot Police teams and fire tenders reached the spot within 30 minutes and braving heavy rain, fought the fire for almost six hours. The flames were doused by about 5 a.m. and only then they could ascertain that one person had died. “We had to use both water and foam to douse the fire,” said Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena. With this accident at Visakha Solvents, in the last three months, the city has seen three major industrial accidents, including two in JNPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chemist-killed-in-fire-accident-in-visakhapatnam-pharma-city/article32085352.ece
15 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District death toll mounts to 35 with six more fatalities||As many as 179 new positive COVID-19 cases were reported from the district, taking the tally to 2,375 here on Tuesday. This is the biggest single-day spike in the cases so far. Six more persons succumbed to COVID-19, taking the death toll to 35. Meanwhile, 58 persons have been discharged after testing negative. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stands at 1,124 and the number of persons discharged is 1,216. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V Sudhakar, 25 new clusters. including Andhra Kesari Nagar, Anjayya Colony, APHB Colony (PM Palem), BS Layout, Visalakshi Nagar, KK Agraharam, K Kotapadu and Nakkapalle were formed in the district. There are 151 very active clusters, 183 active clusters and 122 dormant clusters in the district. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said. The death rate has been a serious concern for the Health Department. As many as 30 deaths were reported in the last 11 days. It may be remembered that on July 3, five persons died in Visakhapatnam district and on July 14, the number has gone up to 35. “Apart from two, almost all the persons who died in the district are above 60 years of age and have co-morbidities. The government has been working on seriously to reduce death rate by early treatment to high-risk patients,” said Dr Sudhakar. Voluntary lockdown Merchant associations from various areas have been voluntary restricting their timings due to increase in cases. After Kancharapalem Merchant Association, Poorna Market Merchant association on Tuesday announced that their shops would be closed by 2 p.m. every day till further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-death-toll-mounts-to-35-with-six-more-fatalities/article32085956.ece
15 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Factories Safety Board, now or never||The recurring industrial accidents in Visakhapatnam have brought to the fore the urgency of the setting up of Factories Safety Board (FSB) which would be entrusted with the responsibility of the implementation and monitoring of the safety norms at factories. The high-power committee that probed into the styrene monomer leak at LG Polymers has recommended the setting up of the FSB. The panel, in its 400-page report, has dedicated a chapter on the FSB, highlighting its need and relevance. In the last three months, the city has witnessed three industrial accidents that claimed 15 lives and left 600 persons hospitalised. First the styrene leak at LG Polymers, then leakage of hydrogen sulphide at Sainor Life Sciences Private Limited and the latest is the major fire at Visakha Solvents on Monday night. “The high-power committee has suggested the setting up of a Central Factories Safety Board (CFSB) and State Factories Safety Board (SFSB),” said panel chairman Neerabh Kumar Prasad. Mr. Prasad pointed out that many departments such as Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), Inspector of Factories and Inspector Boilers were looking into various aspects of industrial safety at present. Problems of plenty “Individually, all these organisations are weak and lack the required capacity. Moreover, having multiple bodies make things difficult when it comes to accountability. Our idea is to have single umbrella organisation to look into all the safety issues at factories,” explained Mr. Prasad. During the probe into the LG Polymers accident, he said, the panel found a number of shortcomings pertaining to safety monitoring. Mr. Prasad also said that safety audit by one organisation would stand good both for the government and the companies, as accountability could be fixed, adding that making safety training mandatory for all factories was the need of the hour. Visakhapatnam Police Commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena, who was also a part of the HPC, said the common observation in all the recent accidents was that the factory employees lacked training in emergency management and had poor awareness on the safety norms. “Pre-induction training, safety mock drills and crisis management should be made mandatory for all industrial units. We have recommended it in our report,” said Mr. Meena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/factories-safety-board-now-or-never/article32085934.ece
15 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Owners seek permission to reopen gyms||Owners of various gyms from the city have staged protests requesting the government to allow them to reopen gyms. They promised that they would run gyms without overcrowding and following all safety protocols on the premises. Following social distancing norms, Visakha Gym Owners Welfare Association staged a protest at Old Gajuwaka Junction on July 13 in which owners of 16 gyms from Gajuwaka, Peda Gantyada, Malkapuram, Duvvada and surrounding areas took part. Earlier, they staged a similar protest at Madhurawada with the owners of various gyms from surroundings of PM Palem. The members alleged that the government has given permissions to almost every sector, except for gyms, swimming pools and cinemas. Among these, gym sector has hit the most and most of the medium-scale gym owners are suffering due to financial problems. The owners say that they are unable to pay the rents of the buildings and meet family expenses. Also, due to non-use for three months, the gym equipment is getting rusted. This would cause a huge loss, the members said during the protest. According to a member of Visakha Gym Owners Welfare Association, Kilani Ganesh, if the government allows them to reopen gyms at least for some hours, it will be helpful. “We will allow our members in shifts or come up with some other idea to make sure there is no overcrowding. We will also ensure strict social distancing norms are followed,” he said. Financial help The association members have met YSRCP MP V. Vijayasai Reddy and sought him to take steps for opening of gyms. Explaining about their financial problems since the lockdown, the members requested the MP to bring some financial scheme on the lines of other sectors for the gym owners also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/owners-seek-permission-to-reopen-gyms/article32085951.ece
15 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New quarantine policy for air passengers from today||The changes in the quarantine policy relating to handling of passengers coming by air, rail and road is being welcomed by travellers. In fact, many passengers coming to Visakhapatnam by air have been demanding for some time that swab testing should be done at the airport itself. Earlier, all the air passengers were being taken to the Sri Sitarama Kalyana Mandapam near Akkayyapalem Highway in RTC buses for swab testing involving a long, tedious process, which drew flak from passengers. The new order issued by the State government a couple of days ago provides for random swab testing of 10% of domestic air passengers at the airport itself and sending them to home quarantine for 14 days. Those aged above 60 and below 10 would not be tested. “The swab testing at the airport will begin on July 15 (Wednesday). All passengers will, however, have to be under home quarantine for 14 days,” Airport Director M. Raja Kishore told The Hindu . Institutional quarantine continues to be compulsory for the passengers coming by flights from abroad. The mandatory quarantine period has now been made seven days for all countries uniformly. The tests would be conducted on the fifth and seventh day, and based on the result, the follow-up action would be initiated. Swab tests would be conducted for 10% of passengers at the railway station but all passengers must undergo home quarantine for 14 days. In the case of road travel, 10% of people coming from other States would be subjected to the test at border check-posts though the 14-day quarantine would apply to all those from other States. The details of the passengers who arrived are made available on the MSS portal and the same is attached to the local ward/village secretariat and PHC Medical Officers concerned for supervision of home quarantine. Those who test positive may be shifted to a COVID hospital or care centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-quarantine-policy-for-air-passengers-from-today/article32085936.ece
15 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Increase bed strength at VIMS: Collector to officials||District Collector V. Vinay Chand visited Visakhapatnam Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) and reviewed the situation. He instructed the officials to make arrangements for increasing the bed strength from 548 to 750. He directed them to ensure adequate supply of oxygen at all the beds. The Collector was accompanied by Joint Collector Arun Babu and Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar. Later the Collector, addressed all the Superintendents of teaching hospitals in a meeting held at Andhra Medical College. He instructed the officials to make CSR Block ready for occupation with 300 beds. The Collector has given directions to Superintendents of GHCCD, ENT, REH and RCD hospitals to get ready for the COVID-19 testing immediately. These hospitals shall prepare 250 more beds for keeping the patients in isolation, while awaiting the test results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/increase-bed-strength-at-vims-collector-to-officials/article32085948.ece
15 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain likely today and tomorrow||The southwest monsoon has been active over coastal Andhra Pradesh and normal over Rayalaseema. Very heavy rainfall occurred at Tiruvuru in Krishna district and heavy rainfall occurred in Vishakapatnam and Chodavaram in Vishakapatnam district and at Dowleshwaram of East Godavari district . Thunderstorm along with lightning and heavy rainfall likely to occur at isolated places in north coastal A.P. and Yanam on Wednesday. Thunderstorm along with lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in Rayalaseema on Wednesday and in south coastal A.P. on Wednesday and Thursday and north coastal AP on Thursday. Rainfall occurred at many places over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam and at a few places over Rayalaseema. The chief amounts of rainfall (in cm) received during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday are: Tiruvuru (Krishna) 17, Visakhapatnam airport 10, Chodavaram (Visakhapatnam) 8, Dowleshwaram (East Godavari) 7, Piduguralla (Guntur) 6, Tanuku (West Godavari) 6, Kandukur (Prakasam) 6, Visakhapatnam 5, Avanigadda (Krishna) 5, Kakinada (East Godavari) 5, Vijayawada(arg) (Krishna) 5, Rajahmundry (East Godavari) 5, Santhamaguluru (Prakasam) 5, Bobbili (Vizianagaram) 5, Rayalaseema: Badvel (Kadapa) 5 and Atmakur (Kurnool) 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-likely-today-and-tomorrow/article32085949.ece
15 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Negligence case booked against company||The City Police have booked cases under Section 304 (part II) of the IPC (negligence) against the management of Visakha Solvents. According to Police Commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena, a team has been formed to probe into the fire accident that at the plant on Monday night.. Meanwhile, a five-member committee appointed by District Collector V. Vinay Chand to inquire into accident submitted its preliminary report on Tuesday evening. According to the report, the fire broke out in the reactor no. SSR 102, which was under the process of distillation of dimethyle sulfoxide (DMSO) on the first floor of the solvent recovery plant. Around 8.30 p.m. on Monday, steam and vacuum were applied to the reactor. During the shift change around 9 p.m., it was observed that the intensity of vacuum had increased from 600 mm of Hg to 350 mm, the report said. Chemist T. Malleswara Rao immediately cut off the steam supply to the reactor and rushed the second floor to check the vacuum pumps. He returned to the first floor and found smoke coming out of the shaft seal of the agitator of the reactor. He immediately asked junior operator K. Srinivasa Rao to move out of the block, the report said. Mr. Malleswara Rao sustained burns, while Srinivasa Rao was later found dead at the accident spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/negligence-case-booked-against-company/article32085935.ece
15 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Suicide victim’ tests positive||The 48-year old man, who allegedly ended life by jumping from a building at Arilova on July 11, tested COVID-19 positive here on Tuesday. The police suspecting that he might have committed suicide due to fear of suffering from coronavirus symptoms, apart from facing financial issues. G. Srinu Mahesh, a resident of ASR Nagar, had been in depression for the last six months due to health and financial problems. The Health Department staff have shifted the primary contacts of Mahesh to quarantine to conduct tests. Those having suicidal tendencies can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suicide-victim-tests-positive/article32085955.ece
15 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||55 children rescued||As many as 55 children, including 18 girls, were rescued by the police teams as part of phase VI 'Operation Muskaan', an initiative for saving street children from COVID-19, in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. Teams from the city police under the supervision of Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena rescued 23 children, including seven girls. Police teams from the district police, guided by SP B. Krishna Rao, rescued 32 children including 11 girls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/55-children-rescued/article32085957.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 curve continues to move up||Guntur district has been recording a steep spike in COVID-19 positive cases in the unlock-2 phase. With 3,356 positive cases being registered so far, Guntur stands third and just below Kurnool (3,823) and Anantapur (3,356). The total number of confirmed cases in the State are 33,109, up by 1,916 since Monday, but the good news is that there is 52.9% of recovery and just 1.29% of mortality rate. A day after recording 387 cases, the district recorded 305 cases on Tuesday, out of which Guntur city recorded 107 cases. The figures show a pattern of steep rise in COVID-19 positive cases since the unlock began in the first week of June. With lesser travel restrictions and opening of shops, people began to move freely. The testing has been ramped up, with the virology labs able to do testing of 2,000 samples, but an overload of samples delays the test results. Amid the uncertainty and fear of the community transmission of the pandemic, the district administration has imposed a graded lockdown allowing shops and commercial establishments to remain open till 12 noon. This led to public outcry with shopkeepers pleading that the shops be kept open till 2 p.m. at least, but the request has not been heeded so far. Containment Residential areas in Brodiepet continue to be under severe containment with access blocked on all sides. Several areas in Lakshmipuram, Chandramouli Nagar, Krishna Nagar, and Pattabhipuram continued to be in the containment zone. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar visited Vinukonda to take stock of the situation. On Monday, he visited Mangalagiri which recorded 20 positive cases this week. “I urge people to follow physical distancing and take all basic precautions. We have got more number of rapid antigen testing kits with a capacity to give results within one hour of test,” said the Collector. On the other hand, the local administration has been crippled with several departmental heads either testing positive or opting for home isolation. Departmental heads of rural development, health, a municipal commissioner in Tenali, several superintendents have been forced to opt for home isolation. Random tests showed that several staff members working in the government offices have tested positive. Superintending Engineer, SPDCL, M. Vijaya Kumar, made it clear that only 50% of staff are allowed inside the office premises at Sangadigunta after some staffers tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-curve-continues-to-move-up/article32085427.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parking at owner’s risk!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parking-at-owners-risk/article32085433.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Charting a growth path||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/charting-a-growth-path/article32085960.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Playing for maskingsafe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/playing-for-maskingsafe/article32085946.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protest in South Korea over styrene leak||The Centre for Environment and Health, South Korea, staged a protest in that country against the styrene leak at LG Polymers plant inVisakhapatnam. Highlighting that the accident had claimed 12 lives, apart from resulting in damage of crops, soil pofile and water contamination in the vicinity of the plant, the Centre for Environment and Health demanded that the South Korean CEO and Directors of the LG Chem be prosecuted. The CITU expressed solidarity to the protest, on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protest-in-south-korea-over-styrene-leak/article32085924.ece
15 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘COVID-19 spread will continue’||The spread of COVID-19 will continue until herd immunity is achieved either naturally or through vaccination, according to Dr. Krishna Reddy Nallamalla, Country Director, Access Health International (AHI). In an interview with The Hindu, he also says that fault lines in health systems have been exposed by the raging pandemic. AHI is a non-profit think tank, advisory group and implementation partner with a mission to provide quality and affordable healthcare to people. Edited excerpts: What is the ACCESS Health International’s assessment of the COVID-19 situation in India at present? Containment measures instituted in the beginning have been able to bring down the reproduction rate (R0), i.e., number of people each person can infect, from ~2.8 down to ~1.2. However, given the socio-cultural factors, we have not been able to bring it down below 1.0 in order to bring it under full control. Hence, it will continue to spread across the population. What should be done in such a situation? Continuing personal protection and social distancing measures (social vaccine) with extra protection of vulnerable population (elderly and those with co-morbidities) will maintain or slow the spread to manageable levels. At the current level of positive cases, public health system capacity is not sufficient for an effective containment in terms of isolation of positive cases and quarantine of primary contacts. Will the virus spread subside over a period of time on its own or will it continue till a vaccine is available for its treatment? Virus spread will continue until herd immunity is achieved either naturally or through vaccination. Percentage of population needed to be infected to reach herd immunity levels are given by the formula 1-1/R0. For example, if R0 is 2.8, 64% of people need to get infected to reach herd immunity. However, if R0 is 1.2, and containment measures are continued, herd immunity may reach when ~20% of the population is infected. Since asymptomatic infections are common, current testing for viral detection (RT-PCR or antigen methods) in symptomatic cases only will not give us an idea of population infection rate. So, what else is being done to get an accurate rate of infection? Serological studies (which detect antibodies against the virus after a period of ~2 weeks) will give more accurate picture of population infection rate. For example, serological studies in Spain indicated that 5% of the population (~23.5 lakh) were infected, while RT-PCR positive cases numbered only ~3 lakhs, suggesting that the asymptomatic cases may be 8 to 10 times more than the symptomatic cases. Hence, seroconversion studies being undertaken by ICMR will give an idea as to what proportion of population in a given area is infected and how close has the population come to the level of herd immunity at the current reproduction rate. It will be interesting to know the results of recent seroprevalence study carried out in Delhi, as it is witnessing declining rate of new cases. Besides seroprevalence, are there any other studies in the pipeline with regard to COVID-19? Recent scientific evidence demonstrated presence of innate cell-mediated immunity, possibly due to exposure to other corona viruses which underlie common colds. It is not clear if it plays a role in infection rates and herd immunity level. It is not yet clear as to how long the immunity is protective against a second infection. This also has relevance in effectiveness of vaccines. There are multiple ongoing studies that are studying existing antiviral drugs. Early treatment with effective antiviral drugs will also influence the spread of the virus. What are the shortcomings of the current practices by the Central and State government in tackling COVID-19 in the country? Major fault lines in health systems have been exposed by the raging pandemic across the globe. The hard choice between lives and livelihoods has also constrained the public health response. One of the major shortcomings, both at the Central and State levels, has been poor public communication in the face of misinformation. We need a clear, consistent, persistent and transparent communication in a way people can understand. Second was in case of testing. Adequate testing tailored to an area would have helped in calibrating the response. In addition, testing, not conjoined with isolation and quarantine of primary contacts, will not serve the purpose of containment. Third shortcoming was in preparing the hospital systems to meet anticipated surge in cases. Most of the capacity was built in public healthcare facilities, while the people trust in these facilities has deteriorated over last few decades. Engagement of private sector right from the beginning of the pandemic in planning the response would have avoided the current situation, wherein people are flooding limited private healthcare capacity despite fears of unaffordable costs, while public facilities remain unoccupied. Fourth is the response to non-COVID health needs of people. Since entire public health system has been engaged in COVID response, vaccinations, antenatal visits, tuberculosis and HIV treatment programs might have suffered to a large extent with long term consequences. Telemedicine, helplines and mobile clinics will be of great help. Last shortcoming has been the response from the payer system (Public and Private Health Insurance). Beneficiaries are not aware whether their health card/ policy covers COVID-related health needs. Similarly, there has been no dialogue between payers and empanelled hospitals on the subject to arrive at a mutual agreement. Governments have an option to extend health coverage through existing schemes (PMJAY, Arogyashri etc). Have the Central and State governments adopted any of AHI suggestions so far to address the spread of virus? AHI has shared a study comparing the response of various countries in tackling the epidemic. It also submitted a note on engaging private health system in joint response to COVID, and participated in a collaborative report on managing testing supply chains. It has been providing support to State health agencies administering PMJAY in addressing steep drop in claims for non-COVID health needs, in ramping up testing capacity in Uttar Pradesh by identifying private facilities with capacities to undertake these, and in addressing various concerns of PMJAY-empanelled hospitals. You said fault lines in health systems have been exposed. What is AHI doing in this regard? We are tabulating health system response to COVID-19 across its various pillars (governance, payers, providers, public health, and health information) in order to come up with policy briefs in strengthening health systems and making them more resilient.  Since entire public health system has been engaged in COVID response, vaccinations, antenatal visits, tuberculosis and HIV treatment programs might have suffered to a large extent with long term consequences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-spread-will-continue/article32085705.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mahabubnagar shifts to e-office system||With the increasing spread of COVID-19 cases in the district, the authorities of Mahabubnagar have turned to e-office system for file clearance from village to district level. Although the system is being implemented by all district level offices already, the offices in the division, mandal and village level have now been instructed to follow the e-file clearance system to contain the spread of coronavirus. In a video conference held with officials of the education and agriculture departments, District Collector S. Venkata Rao told them to manage the file movement only through the e-office system henceforth. Stating that all the offices in district headquarters, MPDO offices and tahsildar offices have already been following the e-office system, Mr. Venkata Rao said the State government had already issued instructions to manage the file movement only through the e-office system by completely avoiding the physical circulation of files from village level since COVID spread was on the rise. According to health department officials of Mahabubnagar, a total of 170 positive cases have been reported in the district so far, including 10 from other districts whose samples were collected in Mahabubnagar. The active cases as on Saturday were 111, including 18 in government hospitals, 12 in private hospitals, 80 under home isolation and one in government quarantine. They further stated that there were 56 active containment zones, mostly in Mahabubnagar town, in the district. “The chances of missing files and any leakage of information are completely ruled out in the e-office system, and secrecy over some decisions can be easily maintained by the officials concerned in the system,” the Collector said. E-office system would also ensure safety of employees from health risk by reducing physical contact with files during the circumstances, he noted. According to District Informatics Officer Satyanarayana Murthy, they were helping the officials in practising e-office system by clearing doubts from time to time and by training them, if necessary. “The system would also ensure safety of files even in case of fire accidents as the back-up would be maintained in the servers at more than one place,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mahabubnagar-shifts-to-e-office-system/article32085722.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||At long last, TIMS opens doors to COVID patients and suspects||COVID-19 patients and suspects now have more options for hospital admissions. Apart from existing government hospitals, they can finally head to the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), Gachibowli. Besides, free treatment is being offered to patients and suspects at hospitals attached to at least three private medical colleges in the State. Seven more such medical colleges will also follow suit soon. With such developments, the hospital bed capacity in the State has increased. As cases continue to steadily rise, hospitals will see more patients knocking at their doors. However, only patients with moderate to severe condition are admitted to government hospitals. In a few cases, mild patients are also admitted. Those who are asymptomatic are advised to self-isolate and undergo treatment within the confines of their home. If they do not have facilities at home for isolation, they are offered isolation at government hospitals. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao and Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said that around 80% to 85% of COVID-19 patients are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. TIMS facility Among the existing government hospitals, TIMS attracted public attention after photos of medical infrastructure there were widely circulated on social media platforms. Plush interiors and beds with ventilators gave an impression that it is better equipped than any State-run healthcare facility in Telangana. Several dates were announced for its launch over the past few months, but patients were finally admitted to TIMS without a grand event. When a COVID patient walks into TIMS, their medical condition is accessed in triage to decide whether they need admission or must be shifted to another hospital. Patients in critical condition are directed to Gandhi Hospital as multi-speciality doctors are available there. Dr. Ramesh Reddy said they were not limiting treatment at hospitals in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, and have started admitting COVID patients to Area Hospitals and District Hospitals too. He added that measures are taken to ensure that the infectious disease does not spread to non-COVID patients who come to the hospital.  Dr Srinivasa Rao said at least 10 hospitals attached to private medical colleges have come forward to collaborate with the State government in fighting COVID-19. Treatment there is free of cost for patients and suspects. However, the State government would be providing the hospitals with drugs, medical consumables, dietary products etc. Of those 10 hospitals, three have started offering treatment — Kamineni Medical College, Mamatha Medical College and Malla Reddy Medical College. “A help desk will be established there to guide patients and suspects,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/at-long-last-tims-opens-doors-to-covid-patients-and-suspects/article32085697.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fatalities in road accidents drop||There has been a 23% drop in road accidents which resulted in fatalities in the first six month of this year as compared to the same period last year in the Hyderabad Police Commissionerate limits. According to the police, the decrease in deaths was a result of identifying 60 black spots and accident-prone areas after accident data of 2019 was analysed and, as a result, corrective measures were taken. Joint inspections with Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, Hyderabad Road Development Corporation Limited, and National Highways Authority of India, among other stakeholders, were conducted. The percentage drop translates to a decrease of 31 fatalities as compared to last year. According to the police, there were 106 fatalities in road accidents this year. These include 90 deaths which were caused by overspeeding, eight on account of drunk driving, two each because of negligence and driving on the wrong side of the road, and four deaths that were caused by dogs crashing into vehicles. However, there was an increase in some traffic rule violations such as riding without helmet. While 2019 saw 18,12,198 such violations, this year 22,26,625 were recorded. Similarly, the number of dangerous driving cases also spike from last year’s 25,852 to 89,871 this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fatalities-in-road-accidents-drop/article32085714.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 700 staff protest at Gandhi Hospital||The indefinite strike by over 700 outsourced employees at Gandhi Hospital on Tuesday led to over two hours delay in declaring the death a COVID-19 patient and shifting of his body to the mortuary on Tuesday. The COVID-19 patient who was admitted in Intermediate Care (IMC) of the hospital died on Tuesday early afternoon. Usually, after a COVID-19 patient dies, it takes two hours to shift the body from the ward to the hospital’s mortuary. In case of the patient who died on Tuesday afternoon, it took four hours to complete the process. Doctors from the hospital said that after a COVID patient dies, a few medicines are administered as a last resort. If the medicines do not work, they check for brain stem reflections. “When we take ECG, the line (on monitor) should be flat. The process of declaring death takes 45 minutes to one hour,” said Dr. M Raja Rao, Superintendent of Gandhi Hospital. Thereafter, the body is taken to mortuary. Photos of the deceased are taken. One is pasted on the body bag, another is kept for records. Entry and exit registers have to be filled with details of the person who died. It takes around two hours from the time a person dies, to complete the process. In case of the patient who died on Tuesday afternoon, the process got stretched to four hours, according to preliminary information with the hospital’s authorities. Dr Rao said that strike by the outsourced employees led to the delay. On Tuesday, regular employees had to manage the patients. “We had to manage six Intensive Care Units (ICU), and all other wards with the available workers. As we concentrated on patient care and treatment, clearing the dead body got delayed by around four hours and not seven or eight hours. And bodies do not putrify in this time,” the hospital’s Superintendent said. Indefinite strike The 210 outsourced nurses who were on protest from past four days were joined by over 600 outsourced employees at Gandhi Hospital on Tuesday demanding that their jobs be regularised. “The outsourced employees include 110 patient care providers, 200 sanitation staff, 100 security staff and over 200 Class-IV employees. They will be on indefinite protest from Wednesday till their demands are met,” said J Kumaraswamy, president of Telangana United Medical & Health Employees Union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-700-staff-protest-at-gandhi-hospital/article32085734.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RAT negatives of suspects to be validated by RT-PCR||Introduction of Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) in Telangana to detect coronavirus has left many questions in the minds of people, the most common being, what happens if someone with COVID-19 symptoms tests negative? Earlier, only reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests were used to detect the virus. However, from July 9, the Health department officials have started resorting to RAT from which results can be extracted in a jiffy. Those who test positive for coronavirus using RAT are declared to have COVID-19. However, a negative result using the test has to be cross-checked as there is scope for false negatives. At a press conference held at State Health Campus, Koti, on Tuesday, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said if any one tests negative on RAT but still has COVID symptoms, swab samples are collected again for a RT-PCR test, which is more conclusive. While the results of a RT-PCR test usually take a day or two to arrive, a RAT result shows up in just 15-30 minutes. Dr Rao said that the RAT helps in early identification of cases so that early treatment can be offered. This could help patients avoid slipping into severe or critical conditions. In Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, RAT is offered at 300 urban primary health centres, some Basthi Dawakhanas and State government hospitals. In case of other districts, RAT is offered at Area Hospitals and District Hospitals. Just like in the case of RT-PCR, RAT is used to test those who are symptomatic, are close contacts of positive patients, belong to a vulnerable group (children and the elderly), have compromised immunity or have co-morbidities. Currently, around two lakh RAT kits are available in the State and officials said they would procure three lakh more kits. Some 8,000 to 11,000 tests have been conducted per day in the past four days. The number could increase to 20,000 so that more people who suspect they have COVID can undergo the tests. Around 25,000 tests were conducted using RAT till July 14. The total tests performed are mentioned in medical bulletin issued by the State Health department. However, tests are not categorised according to RT-PCR and RAT. People complained that though they were informed of RAT results, it took more than a day to hold of the test report. The issue was taken to the notice of officials who said steps are being taken to address the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rat-negatives-of-suspects-to-be-validated-by-rt-pcr/article32085698.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-19 drugs seized||As many as eight persons, said to be of an inter-State gang involved in black-marketing emergency COVID-19 medicines, were apprehended on Tuesday and generic versions of several drugs and other items worth over Rs. 35.5 lakh was seized from their possession. In a joint operation, the South Zone Task Force and the Chaderghat police apprehended the accused and confiscated the generic versions of Remdesivir, Actemra and Fabiflu tablets which were being prescribed to COVID-19 patients. Police seized 51 vials of Remdesivir 100 mg, nine Actemra 400 mg and four vials of 80 mg and Rs. 55,000. The accused are K. Venkata Subramanyam (36), who was into surgical instruments business, Santosh Kumar (39), a businessman, Mohd. Shanker (34), who was running a medical agency, K Kishore (29), who was in medicine distribution business, Rahul Agarwal (29), Gagan Khurana (21), Saif Ali Mohammed (22) and Firdous Mohammed (26). The accused allegedly sold some of the medicines at nearly eight times the original price. Police said that Subramanyam was managing director of Sri Medicure Products (OPC) Pvt Limited which he ran from his house in Malkajgiri. He was said to have purchased drugs from a pharmaceutical company in Sangareddy and sold them to Santosh who supplied them to Kishore and Shaker. The alleged selling at higher prices continued by Firdous and Saif. Police said what was initially sold at a profit of Rs. 3,500 was being sold for Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 40,000. Police said Rahul allegedly bought Actemra medicine from Delhi through Khurana and was selling it at a much higher price. According to the police, the MRP of Actemra (Tocilizumab) 400 mg is Rs. 40,000. This was allegedly sold at about Rs. 1 lakh. Similarly, the MRP of Actemra (Tocilizumab) 80 mg is Rs. 8,000. This was allegedly sold at Rs. 25,000. The accused and the seized material were handed over to the Chaderghat police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-drugs-seized/article32085715.ece
15 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress slams KTR over ‘just 2%’ death rate remarks||Telangana Congress leaders slammed TRS working president and Minister K.T. Rama Rao for his statement that the death rate in the State was “just 2%”. “KTR must realise that each number in the statistics represents a human being and a family. Life of each and every citizen of Telangana is highly precious and deserves to be saved. Will KTR or any TRS leader give a similar statement if those 2% include a member of their family?” TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy and CLP leader Bhatti Vikaramarka asked. Addressing the party cadre through Facebook on Tuesday, they said Mr. KTR and other TRS leaders were trying to downplay the COVID situation while Telangana was still in the bottom of list of states in conducting tests and in recovery rate. They said that the KCR government did nothing to prevent the spread of coronavirus during the last four months. Despite repeated requests by the Congress, the State government did not increase the testing rate. The health infrastructure was not upgraded during the lockdown period and today the situation has turned so worse that the staff of Gandhi Hospital, the frontline warriors against coronavirus, had to go on strike demanding adequate payment, they said. They added that the TPCC COVID-19 Task Force, headed by senior leader Marri Shashidhar Reddy, has decided to launch the “Speak Up Telangana” online Social Media Campaign to voice the concerns of the people and asked the party cadre to expose the failures of TRS government in handling coronavirus. Mr. Reddy demanded that the State government include COVID treatment in Aarogyasri scheme, pay Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia to frontline warriors, including health, sanitation workers, journalists and police personnel who died due to COVID and Rs. 10 lakh ex gratia to the families of all coronavirus victims. Open letter Meanwhile, in an open letter, TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar also condemned Mr. KTR’s statement and questioned the insensitive attitude. “It reflects how this government is least bothered about people’s lives,” Mr. Prabhakar said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-slams-ktr-over-just-2-death-rate-remarks/article32085730.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Massive afforestation in OU||The Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) is taking up a massive afforestation programme on the lands of Osmania University, as part of the Haritha Haram programme. Miyawaki forests, which have been hugely successful in Yadadri, are being developed in four locations of the campus, namely, university library, auditorium, near D-Hostel and opposite the Law College. Saplings were also being planted on both sides of the main road on the campus in the gaps of the existing trees. Planting was being taken up on more than 16 km of the road length, including internal roads. Ficus, amla, custard apple, pomegranate, jamun, pongamia and neem saplings were being given preference, to aid biodiversity in the area. Besides, flowering plants were being planted in the avenues to enhance the beauty quotient. Block plantation was being taken up in 253 acres of additional area in OU forests, with 2X2 metres block size, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/massive-afforestation-in-ou/article32085712.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB awaits ICMR approval to scale up testing with dry swabs||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has asserted that the current testing capacity of 2 lakh tests a day across the country can be quickly scaled up to 6 lakh tests a day by collecting dry swabs from patients for safer, cheaper and faster COVID-19 testing. “This method has been validated and tested by two other institutions —— Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD) here and Indian Institute of Science Education & Research (IISER) at Berhampur, Odisha. We had approached the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for approval in June first week and an appropriate advisory is expected soon which will help in getting more tests done at much lower costs, giving us a better chance at managing the pandemic,” said CCMB director Rakesh Mishra on Tuesday. In an exclusive interaction, he said that a shift towards dry swab testing will immediately entail a saving of up to Rs. 75 crore a day! The director explained that the current methods of RT-qPCR testing are done in the form of swabs from samples received in Viral Transport Medium (VTM) followed by RNA extraction and RT-qPCR. Instead of this, scientists of CSIR-CCMB have generated a simplified protocol for this test where dry swabs are collected and directly used for RT-qPCR. “This method has been established to have no loss of sensitivity and is on par with the current gold standard of testing," he affirmed. Dry swabs will also enable the collection and transport process to be simpler and safer as there is no liquid sample handling and leakage and fear of contamination for the persons handling the sample in highly secure BSL-3 lab facilities. “It is also faster by about five hours as there is no RNA extraction and VTM containing tube handling. It is cheaper too as there is no RNA extraction and no VTM; correspondingly less manpower is needed,” said Dr. Mishra. A major bottleneck for testing is the process of RNA extraction because of the time involved and trained manpower constraints. Removal of this step can improve the capacity of testing by about threefold, without any additional inputs. Dr. Mishra pointed out that as per the current situation, the country could well be testing up to two lakh people per day for the next six months and it could cost up to Rs. 5,400 crore. However, the dry swab method will allow testing of more than six lakh people per day at a cost of Rs. 3,740 crore for the same six-month period. “Importantly, we need not spend any extra resources in training or equipment. A quick approval will save a lot of resources,” he reiterated. Rates have been calculated at Rs. 1,100-2,250 per test by the current RT-qPCR method which takes 15-24 hours whereas the simplified CSIR-CCMB method, taking five-six hours only, will cost Rs. 350 in comparison, saving anywhere between Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,900 a test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-awaits-icmr-approval-to-scale-up-testing-with-dry-swabs/article32085702.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||250 km of BT roads relaid||The GHMC has stated that it is about to complete road maintenance works worth Rs. 450 crore, taking advantage of the thin traffic on roads during the lockdown period. The agencies chosen under the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP) could relay about 250 km of BT roads and a few CC roads too during this time, a statement by GHMC said. Following instructions from Minister of Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) K. T. Rama Rao, road works were taken up in a big way during the lockdown imposed by the Central and State governments between March 22 and May 31, in view of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. During normal conditions, work would be carried out only for six hours during night between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m., so as to avoid traffic congestion during day. The turnout of work at the end of each night would be mere 1.5 km of four-lane road. During the lockdown, the duration had been increased to 14 hours per day, taking advantage of the curfew timings announced by the government since 7 p.m. The CRMP agencies had deployed multiple sets of machinery to finish works worth Rs. 320 crore to date, and were likely to complete works costing more than Rs. 400 crore by the end of July. As per the CRMP agreement, strengthening and re-carpeting of 50% of the contracted road length had been completed in the first year, which amounted to 331 km, the statement said. Other contractors completed internal roads worth about Rs. 50 crore, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/250-km-of-bt-roads-relaid/article32085710.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water lifting for Rajiv Bheema project phase-2 begins||Lifting of water for Rajiv Bheema Lift Irrigation Scheme (Phase-2) commenced on Tuesday evening with Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy switching on the motors at the pump house located near Tirumalayapalli village in Wanaparthy district. A total of 1.7 lakh acres ayacut is intended to be irrigated under the two phases of the lift irrigation scheme this season. Pumping of water from Bheema Phase-1 started on July 6 itself. According to officials, Bheema Phase-2 would irrigate about 48,000 acres ayacut in Wanaparthy, Devarakadra and Kollapur constituencies. Phase-1 would irrigate about 1.25 lakh acres. He said that in spite of relief and rehabilitation problems, water was being given to the ayacut from 2015. Other irrigation systems based on Jurala reservoir water such as Nettempadu and Koilsagar lift irrigation schemes and filling of tanks under Jurala, Right, Left and Parallel Canal systems has already commenced. He said that pumps of the Mahatma Gandhi Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Scheme too would be switched on once the water released from Jurala reaches the pumping station located on the foreshores of Srisailam reservoir. Devarakadra legislator A. Venkateshwar Reddy, Collector Shaik Yasmin Basha and others attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-lifting-for-rajiv-bheema-project-phase-2-begins/article32085725.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IR designs ‘Post-COVID Coach’||Indian Railways production unit, Rail Coach Factory at Kapurthala, has developed a Post-COVID Coach to fight COVID-19. This coach has design improvements in it like hands-free amenities, copper-coated handrails and latches, plasma air purification and titanium dioxide coating for COVID-free passenger journey. Hands-free amenities: Foot operated water tap and soap dispenser, foot operated lavatory door (outside), foot operated flush valve, foot operated latches in lavatory door, outside washbasin with foot operated water tap and soap dispenser and forearm operated handle on compartment door. Copper-coated handrails and latches: Equipped with copper-coated handrails and latches because copper degrades the virus landed on it within few hours. Copper has anti-microbial properties. When virus lands on copper, Ion blasts pathogen and destroy the DNA and RNA inside the virus. Plasma air purification: Having provision of plasma air equipment in AC duct to sterilise the air and surfaces inside the AC coach using ionised air to make the coach COVID-19 and particulate matter resistant. This provision will also improve the ion concentration from 100 ions/cm3 to more than 6,000 ions/cm. Titanium Dioxide coating: Nano structured Titanium Dioxide coating in the coach functions as photoactive material. This is eco-friendly water-based coating that kills viruses, bacteria, mould, and fungal growth and most importantly enhances indoor air quality. This Titanium Dioxide coating is applied on washbasins, lavatory, seats and berths, window, floor, and virtually every surface that comes in human contact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ir-designs-post-covid-coach/article32085738.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt appoints 17 new additional collectors||Furthering its attention on the flagship programmes Palle and Pattana Pragati aimed at comprehensive development of the rural and urban infrastructure, the State government has nominated 17 senior officers as Additional Collectors (local bodies) in different districts. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued orders appointing the new additional commissioners who included eight IAS officers, all of the 2018 batch and nine special grade deputy collectors who had been promoted as additional commissioners. These officers would assume office with immediate effect after completion of the training programme designed for the purpose. The development follows the government decision to simplify the administration and take governance closer to the people. The State government in February second week had created the posts of additional collectors replacing most of the joint collectors across the State. The move was aimed at creating a focal post that can take care of the needs of the people at the grassroots level and ensure availability of senior level officials to the common man. The government has therefore created two posts of additional collectors in each district, one to assist the district collector in the revenue matters and the other dealing with the issues relating to local bodies. The creation of the posts of additional collectors is seen as the first step towards administrative reforms to reach out the common man who was faced with cumbersome processes for even registering the grievance at his level. The list of IAS officers included Anudeep Durushetty who is posted as addition collector Bhadradri Kothagudem district, Koya Sri Harsha (Jogulamba-Gadwal), Abhilasha Abhinav (Mahabubabad), B. Satya Prasad (Rajanna-Sircilla district) and Adarsh Surabhi (Mulugu). In all, 10 special grade deputy collectors had been designated as additional collectors to exclusively focus on the Palle and Pattana Pragati programmes to ensure that the focus on the two programmes aimed at ensuring that there are no complaints from the grassroots level on the facilities that are being created in the last unit of administration – the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-appoints-17-new-additional-collectors/article32085729.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,524 new cases in TS||The State registered a moderate hike in the number of COVID-19 cases on Tuesday The total cases registered during the day stood at 1,524 and the cumulative cases stand at 37.7445 as on date. Ten people succumbed to the virus, taking the total number of deaths to 375. GHMC area continued to report a major chunk of positive reports with 815 of the total patients tested positive to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1524-new-cases-in-ts/article32085706.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSHRC moved for arrest of corporator’s spouse||A woman moved the Telangana State Human Right Commission, alleging that the husband of a corporator and his associates ‘outraged her modesty’ and used expletives against her and assaulted her spouse. The petition was submitted to the TSHRC on Monday, and the issue came to light a day later after the panel called for a report from the Rachakonda police. The woman named eight persons, including Boduppal corporator’s husband B Sridhar Goud. She alleged that Goud and his associates had trespassed into her house, and when her husband, Purender Reddy, had tried to intervene, they had assaulted him with sticks after which he was admitted into a private hospital at Banjara Hills for treatment. While a case was registered under the Indian Penal Code, the petitioner said the police were not taking action against the accused, and sought the TSHRC’s intervention. Meanwhile, the Telangana Congress criticised the police for “not taking any action” against the Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader. TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy said a video of the attack went viral. “They did not even listen to the minor boy who pleaded with them to spare their father.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tshrc-moved-for-arrest-of-corporators-spouse/article32085718.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||E-mode in all govt. offices may take more time||The State government’s decision to shift to e-office mode to avoid person-to-person contact to the extent possible is likely to take more time. In the wake of rise in the number of coronavirus cases, especially in government offices, the State government had decided to shift to e-office mode where most of the work is file-based. Deployment of software developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), as part of Digital India initiative, has been contemplated for ensuring paperless administration. The new system would require training to employees at different levels in handling the processes right from uploading files online at the section level. Though training for employees has started a few days ago, the government, according to officials, is yet to deploy the necessary machinery like scanners at the section level to upload files online. The process of obtaining digital signature of employees, who would be engaged in the e-office processes, is yet to be done. This apart, the new software would require allocation of unique identification of officials at higher levels with encrypted passwords for security of data. “The process is not completed yet. Training is currently underway and installation of the equipment, connectivity and other paraphernalia is likely to take a week or ten days more,” a senior official said. The system, according to officials, has been mooted for movement of files irrespective of whether the officer is. In addition to ensuring transparency, the officials concerned would be alerted about the status of the files by alerts that would be sent to their mail IDs or mobile phones. (However, the authorities of Mahabubnagar have turned to the e-office system for file clearance from village to district level).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/e-mode-in-all-govt-offices-may-take-more-time/article32085728.ece
15 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth links Secretariat demolition to ‘treasure trove’||Telangana Congress working president A. Revanth Reddy alleged that the ‘secrecy’ behind the Secretariat demolitions were linked to the “secret treasure of the Nizam” and the “G block in the Secretariat was linked to the tunnels connecting the building to the nearby buildings outside the Secretariat complex”, which the media had widely reported a few years ago. At a press conference here on Tuesday, he claimed that the midnight demolitions under the personal supervision of the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police (DGP) clearly indicated that there was “something fishy”. “To wipe out such suspicions, the Archaeological department should be handed over the block first to inspect the underground of G block so that they can excavate to find if the treasure trove was a fact,” the Congress leader said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-links-secretariat-demolition-to-treasure-trove/article32085731.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Maoist Adellu, his squad on move for 4 months||Sometimes they move with arms. Now and then, without arms. Members of the CPI-Maoist Telangana State Committee member Malirepu Adellu’s squad were adopting different tactics and taking every precaution not to get tracked by the police in the deep forests of Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. Adellu and his team of Maoists had been moving in the area for the past four to five months, Telangana intelligence officials said on condition of anonymity. They had a narrow escape from police combing parties on Monday. “In recent past they managed to give a slip to the police four times. Unlike their earlier movements, they are not seen carrying firearms every time. This is one of their tactics,” intelligence sources said. Adellu is one of the six members of the CPI-Maoist Telangana State Committee. He is in charge of the Kumaram Bheem Asifabad-Manchierial division committee of the Maoists. Adellu and his team had been trying to revive fresh contacts in the area by meeting the villagers. “Looks like they are trying to get a foothold by taking advantage of some rifts between the Lambadas and the Adivasis. Apparently, they could not succeed,” intelligence officials said. Meanwhile, movements of CPI-Maoists in Manuguru, Palvancha, Bhoopalpally and surrounding areas were noticed. “They seem to have crossed Godavari river and entered the area 10-15 days ago,” the intelligence sources said. “It is believed their presence in northern Telangana now is the consequence of the direction of CPI-Maoists supremo Nambala Keshava Rao to go back to their earlier strongholds and revive the movement,” police officers said. Massive combing operations have been launched for the past one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maoist-adellu-his-squad-on-move-for-4-months/article32085735.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSHA urges recovered patients to donate plasma||The Telangana Superspecialty Hospitals Association (TSHA) has urged COVID-19-recovered people to come forward to donate plasma for the treatment of those battling with the infection. Association president and KIMS managing director B. Bhaskara Rao expressed concern that not many are coming forward to donate plasma because of certain misconceptions. There would not be any major side-effects because of plasma donation, he asserted. Dr. Rao said though mortality rate of COVID patients was not very high, the increasing rate of person-to-person transmission had become a cause of concern. Sarat Chandramouli, an expert in clinical immunology who accompanied Dr. Bhaskara Rao, said plasma therapy (the method in which plasma retrieved from COVID-cured patients is transfused into other affected patients so that their immunity system becomes stronger) is not new. It had been used in treating different pandemics since the 1950s. Use of plasma therapy in patients with moderate symptoms would be effective and persons who recovered from COVID-19 could donate plasma 28 days after the recovery. The cost of the therapy is also low.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsha-urges-recovered-patients-to-donate-plasma/article32085739.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No salary for three months for 217 care providers at OGH||Around 217 patient care providers at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) convened on Tuesday to request authorities for payment of last three months’ salary. The staff members, who have been working at the government hospital for the past three to 10 years, have also asked the Health department officials to regularise their jobs so that their salaries can be hiked. They work as pharmacists, lab technicians, data entry operators, in respiratory unit, and other sections of the hospital. COVID-19 suspects with severe symptoms are admitted at OGH. A minimum of 100 suspects are attended on any given day. Some of them test positive for coronavirus, and that means the care providers are exposed to the virus risk. “We have been doing a job filled with risk. Our salary is only Rs. 12,000 per month. We want our jobs to be regularised so that our salaries can increase. Besides, we request officials to clear our pending salaries,” a patient care provider said. They said that they have not boycotted their duties and had just gathered at the hospital to voice their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-salary-for-three-months-for-217-care-providers-at-ogh/article32085700.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spillway gates of Jurala lifted||Discharge of flood from the spillway of Priyadarshini Jurala project in Jogulamba-Gadwal district commenced on Tuesday night with the dam authorities lifting five gates to let a flood of about 27,000 cusecs into the river. Release of water through power generation commenced earlier in the day with the operation of three hydel units of 39 MW capacity each to let over 23,000 cusecs of flood water. According to the flood monitoring engineers, two gates were lifted for a height of 2 metres each and three gates were lifted for a height of 1 metre around 10 p.m. to discharge the flood. The decision to lift the crest gates was taken following increase in flood from the upstream to over 50,000 cusecs. Last year, the spillway gates were lifted on July 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spillway-gates-of-jurala-lifted/article32085726.ece
15 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Record response to UoH courses||University of Hyderabad has attracted record number of applications for the entrance exam for its courses this year with 62,853 candidates applying compared to 56,000 odd last year. Prof. Appa Rao Podile, Vice-Chancellor, UoH said such record applications even during the pandemic was gratifying. The number of foreign students applying has also gone up more than 20% this year. “The Institution of Eminence tag has certainly helped the UoH to further brighten its already positive image among the student community who want to be part of the institution. The university will ensure that affordable education is made available at global standards.” Out of the total applicants, general category are 35.26%, OBCa are 33.70%, EWS are 4.77%, SC are 17.37%, and STs 8.90%. Out of these 48.96% are males, 51% females and 11 applications (0.04%) are transgender category. The highest number of applications have been received from Telangana (28612) followed by Kerala (7019), Delhi (5082), Andhra Pradesh (4250), West Bengal (3878) and Orissa (3349). The highest number of applications were in five-year Integrated Science course for which 6,189 candidates applied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/record-response-to-uoh-courses/article32085709.ece
15 July 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman ends life||A 31-year-old woman on Tuesday set herself afire and succumbed to the burns, police said. The body of K Sravanthi, a private employee was found in the lift around 4.30 a.m., according to a complaint filed the manager of the apartments where she lived. Chandanagar inspector B Ravinder said harassment by in-laws was suspected to be the reason. While a case of suspicious death was registered, police were waiting for the victim’s parents to arrive from Srikakulam district of AP. (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +914066202000 or 66661117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-ends-life/article32085717.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man dies in road accident||A 28-year-old man was killed in a road accident on Tuesday after he crashed into a lorry on the Nagaram main road. Keesara police said Thuti Sudhakar, a resident of Thurkapally, was travelling on his two-wheeler from Chakripuram when a lorry, moving in front of him, was suddenly stopped, resulting in Sudhakar crashing into the lorry and being crushed. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-dies-in-road-accident/article32085716.ece
15 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Former DGP’s wife passes away||Former DGP late M. Mahender Reddy’s wife Indira Reddy passed away on Tuesday due to age related issues. She was 83 years old and is survived by a son, three daughters, five grand-children and two great grand-children. She was the mother-in-law of Hyderabad Metro Rail MD N.V.S. Reddy. She hailed from an illustrious family of KC Reddy, the first Chief Minister of Karnataka and a Minister in former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s cabinet. In view of the prevalent COVID-19 situation, the cremation was held at Mahaprasthanam in Jubilee Hills in the presence of immediate family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-dgps-wife-passes-away/article32085727.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Set up weblink for complaints: HC||Telangana High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to set up a weblink through which citizens can file complaints against erring private hospitals over-charging patients. Stating that Section 32 of Clinical Establishment Act-2010 empowered the Public Health director to cancel registration of erring private hospitals, a bench headed by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan instructed the Director to invoke the powers to rein in private hospitals indulging in over-charging of patients and other violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/set-up-weblink-for-complaints-hc/article32085736.ece
15 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Rapid antigen testing kits launched in Khammam||Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar launched rapid antigen testing kits named ‘Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection kits’ meant for quick diagnosis of coronavirus infection, at the district headquarters hospital here. Speaking on the occasion on Tuesday, he said as many as 1,000 rapid antigen testing kits have been sanctioned to the district headquarters hospital and another 1,124 kits at primary health centres across the district. These kits will be used for quick screening of COVID-19 in emergency cases, mainly for pregnant women, accident victims and those in need of emergency surgical care. Arrangements have been made to provide home isolation kits each consisting of 12 items including tablets, hand sanitiser, liquid handwash and gloves to those diagnosed with COVID-19 , he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rapid-antigen-testing-kits-launched-in-khammam/article32085744.ece
15 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Farmers resist move to acquire land for highway||Tension prevailed at Basavapuram village in Chintakani mandal on Tuesday when a large group of local farmers put up stiff resistance to attempts by the Revenue department staff to conduct a survey near the village for land acquisition for the proposed Khammam-Devarapalli four-lane Greenfield highway. Trouble broke out when the Revenue staff, accompanied by a large posse of police, arrived at Basavapuram crossroads to conduct the land survey earlier in the day. The aggrieved farmers, including several women from Raghavapuram, Kodumuru, Ramakrishnapuram and other nearby villages, staged a sit-in near Basavapuram. Leaders of the Left parties including the CPI (M) State secretariat member P Sudarshan Rao, CPI State assistant secretary K Sambasiva Rao and others extended their support to the farmers’ protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-resist-move-to-acquire-land-for-highway/article32085745.ece
15 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BRF||District Collector Prashant Jeevan Patil on Tuesday appealed to farmers, who still have not received Rythu Bandhu benefit in their accounts, to apply for the same now. “Farmers who got their pattadar passbook by June 16, but not applied for Vaanakalam - 2020 Rythu Bandhu assistance can submit their applications now,” he said in a statement. “Farmers can register by calling toll-free number 18004251442, sending request letter to dronalgonda@gmail.com / daonalgonda@gmail.com or on the department’s WhatsApp number 9010299339,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32085720.ece
15 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Sanga BRF||Applications are invited from innovators as part of ‘Innovators at every house’ scheme. The programme is being organised by Telangana Innovators Cell. The innovations will be exhibited online on Independence Day. Innovators have to submit the details at 9100678543 before the July 20 through WhatsApp with a two-minute self explanatory video. For further details, contact district science officer Vijay Kumar at 9963423691, according to a release here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sanga-brf/article32085732.ece
15 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Gang of arms smugglers busted in Punjab, 2 held||The Punjab police on Tuesday said they have busted a gang of international arms smugglers and highway robbers, with the arrest of two gangsters — proclaimed offender Gurpreet Singh alias Gora and Germanjeet Singh. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said a bullet proof jacket, along with a major haul of arms and ammunition smuggled, has been seized. “The duo was arrested by the Jalandhar (Rural) police and a bullet proof jacket, and a .455 bore pistol provided by gangster Gopi Ghanshampuriya, two Glock 09 mm pistols with four live cartridges, one pump action 12 bore Rifle, one .32 bore revolver, one .30 bore pistol and live cartridges were recovered,” said Mr. Gupta, adding that the Verna car they were travelling was also seized. Mr. Gupta said Gora revealed that he was in close contact with Baljinder Singh Billa Mandiala, who was well connected with Pakistan-based drug and arms smugglers, Mirza and Ahmdeen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gang-of-arms-smugglers-busted-in-punjab-2-held/article32085663.ece
15 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Meerut police digging tunnel to get to the bottom of a case||For four days, the Meerut police has been digging a tunnel into a non-functional borewell in Jitola village to unearth the mortal remains of Roopak, a 20-year-old ITI student, who was allegedly killed by his ‘friends’ on July 25. While the main accused is still absconding, four others have been detained by the police. According to the FIR registered by Jaswant, his son Roopak, a resident of Fazalpur village, was taken away by his ‘friend’ Sagar from his uncle’s place. Sagar was seen with Vikas alias Vikky, Arvind, Pappu and Mohan from Jitola. Jaswant alleged that Vikky ran a dairy in his village and had killed Roopak. The police have detained Sagar, Arvind, Pappu, and Mohan, but Vikky is on the run. On July 13, Meerut Superintendent of Police Akhilesh Naryan Singh told reporters that the four admitted to their crime and said Roopak was taken for a party. During the party, one of them used inappropriate words for his sister, leading to a fight in which Roopak was shot dead. “They said they had buried the body near a brick kiln in Jitola but later they changed their version and said they cut the body into pieces and dumped them into a borewell.” Mr. Singh added the police were digging a tunnel to reach the bottom of the borewell. Mr. Jaswant told The Hindu that he was coming every day to Jitola village, around 30 kms from Fazalpur, to help the police dig out the body parts of his son. On Tuesday, the efforts seemed bear fruit as traces of human skin could be seen in the mud being dug out. Pankaj Kumar Singh, Circle Officer, Daurala, refused to take questions on the delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/meerut-police-digging-tunnel-to-get-to-the-bottom-of-a-case/article32085665.ece
15 July 2020||Mumbai,||Govt. orders probe into ‘Covid-19’ marksheets||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday ordered an inquiry after marksheets of agriculture university students in the State were found with ‘Promoted Covid-19’ stamped on them. Agriculture Minister Dada Bhuse also said that no such instruction to format the marksheet has been ordered by the State government. “The government has ordered an inquiry into the instances of distributing marksheets with ‘Promoted Covid-19’ stamped on them. Those guilty will face strict action from the government,” said Mr. Bhuse. The Minister has asked Maharashtra Council of Agriculture Education and Research (MCAER), Pune, to conduct an inquiry. “A detailed report regarding the same should be submitted to the State government. Investigation must be held on who issued such directions without government orders,” he said. All four agriculture universities in the State — Balasaheb Sawant Konkan Agriculture University, Dapoli; Mahatma Phule Agriculture University, Rahuri; Marathwada Agriculture University, Parbhani; and Dr. Punjabrao Deshmukh Agriculture University, Akola — conducted examinations for the final year students, while the rest were promoted. According to reports from these regions, the students of first, second and third year of agriculture, gardening, agri-biotechnology, forestry, agriculture business management, agriculture engineering and food technology have been given marksheets with ‘Promoted Covid-19’ stamped on them. Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) slammed the government for the mistake. BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said that his party has been constantly warning the government of this. “The incident is not only wrong but an injustice on the students. This government does not want to listen to our instructions but then it commits such long-lasting damage to students,” said Mr. Shelar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-orders-probe-into-covid-19-marksheets/article32085659.ece
15 July 2020||Mumbai,||Special court rejects bail pleas of HDIL and DHFL promoters||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court on Tuesday rejected the regular bail pleas filed by the Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) promoters and key accused in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case, Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan. The special court also rejected the default bail pleas filed by the Diwan Housing Finance Limited promoters, Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, in connection with the multi-crore Yes Bank fraud case. Mr. Rakesh Wadhawan (66) has been admitted to GT Hospital since July 10 after he was tested COVID-19 positive. He has been lodged in the Arthur Road Jail with his son Sarang, following their arrest in October last year, on charges of money laundering. A doctor at GT hospital said, “He was brought in on July 10 and is in the ICU.” Advocate Subir Kumar, representing Mr. Rakesh Wadhawan, said, “He has several medical issues such as gastrointestinal bleeding.” On rejecting the regular bails filed by the duo, Judge P.P. Rajvaidya also directed GT Hospital to submit Mr. Rakesh Wadhawan’s latest health report. On May 25, the sessions court had rejected both their interim medical bail pleas on the grounds of the COVID-19 pandemic. On May 8, a magistrate court had also rejected Mr. Rakesh Wadhawan’s interim medical bail plea. HDIL accounted for nearly 73% of PMC Bank’s total loans. Of the Rs. 4,355.46 crore loans under the scanner, Rs. 2,145.78 crore were transferred to accounts held by the Wadhawans. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had registered an FIR on September 20 against HDIL, its directors, group companies, and employees of PMC Bank, under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc.), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. It was alleged that the Wadhawans, in a criminal conspiracy with PMC Bank officials, including former managing director Joy Thomas and former director Waryam Singh, had availed of loans to the tune of Rs. 4,355 crore from the bank in a fraudulent manner. On May 6, the ED had filed a chargesheet against Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, his wife, and three daughters on charges of laundering money to the tune of around Rs. 5,050 crore. For the debentures, Mr. Kapoor and his family members got a kickback of Rs. 600 crore from Mr. Kapil Wadhawan, who paid the sum to DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Limited, under the garb of a loan for repayment of Rs. 300 crore loan taken earlier, and the rest for general purposes, the ED claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/special-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-hdil-and-dhfl-promoters/article32085821.ece
15 July 2020||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao in neurology ward following complaint of giddiness||Poet Varavara Rao (81) has been admitted to the neurology department of JJ Hospital after he complained of giddiness, and is undergoing tests. He was taken from Taloja Central Jail to the State-run hospital on Monday morning. Dr. Sanjay Surase, superintendent of JJ Hospital, confirmed to The Hindu that Mr. Rao is admitted to the neurology department. “This is a case of giddiness and he is under evaluation and investigation. His general condition is fair and vitals are stable,” he said. Sunil Ramanand, Additional Director General (Prisons), said Mr. Rao has been admitted to JJ Hospital for some tests and doctors will decide whether he needs to be admitted for any further treatment. When asked about which tests have been conducted on Mr. Rao so far, a doctor at JJ Hospital said, “Tests and investigations conducted on a patient cannot be revealed. It would be a breach of the patient’s privacy.” Mr. Rao’s daughter, Pavana, however, said the family was not informed about him being shifted from the jail to the hospital. “We had called in the morning of July 13 and were told by the Superintendent of Taloja jail that Mr. Rao was doing absolutely fine,” she said. She recollected events on May 29 when she learnt about her father being shifted to the hospital a day later not from prison authorities but from the local police in Hyderabad. Mr. Rao was incoherent and delirious when he called his family on July 11 and spoke about his parents’ funeral that took place decades ago. Vernon Gonsalves (61), a co-accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case, who takes care of Mr. Rao inside the prison, told the family that he is not able to walk, go to the toilet, and brush his teeth on his own. Meanwhile, advocate R. Sathyanarayanan, who represents Mr. Rao in courts in Mumbai, has filed an application before the Bombay High Court to urgently hear Mr. Rao’s appeal against rejection of interim medical bail. It is slated to be heard on July 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/varavara-rao-in-neurology-ward-following-complaint-of-giddiness/article32085819.ece
15 July 2020||Mumbai,||Over Rs. 2.5 crore already spent on Tatya Tope monument, State tells HC||The State government on Tuesday informed the Bombay High Court that more than Rs. 2.5 crore had already been spent on the construction of a national monument of the general Tatya Tope at Yeola in Nashik district. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a social worker Anand Gulabrao Shinde, who is involved in various activities in Yeola taluka. The PIL sought a direction to authorities to change the place sanctioned for the monument from Yeola taluka to a plot in Angangaon village in Yevla tehsil of the same district, which belongs to the Irrigation department. On June 30, the HC declined to provide an interim relief on the belated approach of Mr. Shinde and said 50% of the construction work of the monument had already been completed. Through a resolution dated November 20, 2017, the general body of the town planning department, Nashik, had proposed construction of the monument on an area measuring seven acres. On December 8, permission was granted by the department. On November 19, 2018, the State ministry of tourism and cultural affairs approved the proposal for building the monument. The HC said construction of the monument and selection of the site was essentially a decision within the administrative domain and that in such cases, the court ought to stay at a distance unless breach of any provision of law was demonstrated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-rs-25-crore-already-spent-on-tatya-tope-monument-state-tells-hc/article32085661.ece
15 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Two workers killed in cylinder blast at Khopoli industrial unit||Two people died and one sustained injuries after an LPG cylinder exploded at an industrial plant in Khopoli in the early hours of Tuesday. According to the police, the incident occurred at India Steel Works Ltd. around 1.15 a.m.. “The industry manufactures steel wires by processing scrap material. The blast occurred while the cutting of some scrap material involving steel rods was going on. Two workers died on the spot while another received 15% burn injuries and was taken to Criticare Hospital, Kamothe, Navi Mumbai,” senior police inspector Dhanaji Kshirsagar of Khopoli police station said. The impact of the explosion was such that the sound was heard in a radius of one km and the bodies of the duo were torn into pieces. “The cause of the explosion is not clear,” Mr. Kshirsagar said. The deceased have been identified as Dinesh Wamanrao Chavan (55) and Pramod Dudhnath Sharma (30), and the injured is Subhash Dhondiba Vanjale (55). Chavan is survived by wife and a son, who is an engineer, while Sharma is survived by wife and a four-year-old daughter. While Chavan had been working as a fitter in the company for the last 22 years, Sharma, an engineer, had been overseeing the work in the plant for 10 years. Anand Panmand, assistant general manager, industrial relations of the company, said, “Sharma supervised the work, and it seems while he was taking rounds, he got trapped in the explosion.” Sharma’s father and a brother also work in the same company, as a fitter and an engineer, respectively. “We manufacture stainless steel and for that scrap material is cut into around two feet length before melting it. The workers were cutting the long steel rods in an open yard when the LPG cylinder exploded. How it occurred is yet to be found out. Around 36 people, including four security guards, were present when the incident happened. We will take care of the medical expenses of the injured and provide compensation to the family members of the deceased,” Mr. Panmand said. The assistant commissioner of the Labour department, and officials of the pollution control board and the Revenue department visited the blast site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-workers-killed-in-cylinder-blast-at-khopoli-industrial-unit/article32085660.ece
15 July 2020||Patna,||Flood threat looms over north Bihar districts||With many north Bihar rivers in spate, flood threat looms over areas in border districts. Some low lying villages of East and West Champaran districts have already been inundated. The catchment areas of neighbouring Nepal have been witnessing heavy rain for the last several days, causing rivers originating from the Himalayan region to overflow. On Monday, the Bagmati river crossed the highest flood level at Belsand in Sheohar district, while Kosi threatened to cross the danger mark in Khagaria district. Similarly, the enhanced release of water in Gandak river from Nepal through Valmikinagar Barrage in West Champaran triggered flood threat in the district and neighbouring Gopalganj. “The water levels in Lalbakeya, Sikarahana, Kamla-Balan and Gandak rivers have been rising alarmingly,” said an official. Several villagesin West Champaran district have been inundated. A video footage also showed floodwaters gushing into a Sashastra Seema Bal camp near Jhandu in Bagaha subdivision. ‘Officials on high alert’ “All officials and engineers have been put on high alert in view of rains in Nepal region… round-the-clock vigil is also being maintained by officials in flood-prone areas,” said State Water Resources Minister Sanjay Kumar Jha. State chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Monday held a high-level meeting with crisis management group to review the flood situation in north Bihar. “There is heavy pressure of floodwater on embankments in these areas but the situation until now is under control,” said a water resources department official. cEarlier, the Central Water Commission too had issued flood alert in areas of East Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Jahnjharpur and Madhubani districts. “Heavy rainfall can be expected only at isolated places in north Bihar over next 24 hours… However, south-west monsoon has been active in Bihar and rainfall with thunderstorm would occur in all 38 districts till July 16,” said Sanjay Kumar of the Patna Meteorological Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/flood-threat-looms-over-north-bihar-districts/article32085662.ece
15 July 2020||Washington,||U.S. rejects Beijing’s claims in S. China Sea||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Monday the United States would treat Beijing’s pursuit of resources in the dispute-rife South China Sea as illegal, ramping up support for Southeast Asian nations and triggering a furious response from Beijing. It was the latest forceful statement by President Donald Trump’s administration to challenge China, which he has increasingly cast as an enemy ahead of the November elections. “We are making clear: Beijing’s claims to offshore resources across most of the South China Sea are completely unlawful, as is its campaign of bullying to control them,” Mr. Pompeo said in a statement. “The world will not allow Beijing to treat the South China Sea as its maritime empire.” The United States has long rejected Beijing’s sweeping claims in the South China Sea, which is both home to valuable oil and gas deposits and is a vital waterway for the world’s commerce. Mr. Pompeo’s statement goes further by explicitly siding with Southeast Asian nations, including the Philippines and Vietnam, after years of the U.S. saying it took no position on individual claims. “America stands with our Southeast Asian allies and partners in protecting their sovereign rights to offshore resources, consistent with their rights and obligations under international law,” Mr. Pompeo said. “We stand with the international community in defence of freedom of the seas and respect for sovereignty and reject any push to impose ‘might makes right’ in the South China Sea or the wider region.” ‘Vague delineation’ Beijing claims most of the South China Sea through a so-called nine-dash line, a vague delineation based on maps from the 1940s. It has spent years building military bases on artificial islands in the contested areas to cement its claims, while dragging out a diplomatic process to resolve the disputes for nearly two decades. China on Tuesday responded forcefully to Mr. Pompeo’s comments, saying the accusation of unlawfulness was “completely unjustified”. “We advise the U.S. side to earnestly honour its commitment of not taking sides on the issue of territorial sovereignty, respect regional countries’ efforts for a peaceful and stable South China Sea and stop its attempts to disrupt and sabotage regional peace and stability,” said its embassy in Washington. The statement accused the U.S. of trying to “sow discord” between China and its fellow claimants in the sea. Mr. Pompeo issued his statement to mark the fourth anniversary of a tribunal decision that sided with the Philippines against the nine-dash line. Mr. Pompeo said that China, based on the court decision, cannot make claims based on the Scarborough Reef or Spratly Islands, a vast uninhabited archipelago. The United States as a result now rejects Beijing’s claims in the waters surrounding Vanguard Bank off Vietnam, Lucania Shoals off Malaysia, waters considered in Brunei’s exclusive economic zone and Natuna Besar off Indonesia, Mr. Pompeo said. “Any PRC action to harass other states’ fishing or hydrocarbon development in these waters — or to carry out such activities unilaterally — is unlawful,” he said. Friction across fronts Mr. Pompeo also rejected Beijing’s southernmost claim of Malaysian-administered James Shoal, which is 1,800 km (1,150 miles) from the Chinese mainland. The 2016 decision was issued by a tribunal under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. Mr. Pompeo noted that China is a party to it and called the ruling legally binding. The United States, however, is one of the few countries that is not part of the convention, with conservatives opposing any loss of autonomy to a global body. The South China Sea statement comes amid rising tensions surrounding China, including a deadly border clash last month with India that Mr. Pompeo called part of a strategy by Beijing to challenge its neighbours. Mr. Trump has also strongly criticized China for not doing more to stop the coronavirus pandemic, news of which was initially suppressed when it emerged in Wuhan late last year. Critics both at home and abroad say that Mr. Trump is hoping to deflect attention ahead of the November election over his handling of the virus in the U.S., which has suffered by far the highest death toll of any country. Mr. Trump, after bipartisan calls in Congress, has also stepped up pressure on China over its incarceration of more than 1 million Uighurs and other Turkic Muslims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-rejects-beijings-claims-in-s-china-sea/article32085330.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||China making deep inroads into Iran||Both countries are at odds with the U.S. One is a huge energy market and is abundant with surplus cash and the other is a sanctions-hit, cash-strapped energy exporter. At a time when the U.S. is targeting both through a host of economic measures, China and Iran are taking their partnership to a new levelthrough a $400-billion long-term agreement. According to a New York Times report, the countries are in an advanced stage of finalising the agreement that would allow China to expand its presence in banking, telecommunications, ports, railways and several other sectors in the Islamic Republic in return for heavily discounted oil for 25 years. While for Iran, whose oil sales plummeted after PresidentDonald Trump unilaterally pulled the U.S. out of the Iran nuclear deal in May 2018and reimposed sanctions on the country, this agreement could be an economic lifeline, China could enhance its strategic influence in a region where the U.S. has built a strong presence since the Second World War. Strategic value The partnership was first proposed by China’s President Xi Jinping during a visit to Iran in 2016. The Iranian government cleared it last month, according to Foreign Minister Javad Zarif. This means, Mr. Xi made the proposal after the nuclear deal was reached in 2015 that led to international sanctions on Iran being lifted. Now, when Iran is grappling with a struggling economy hit by sanctions following the unravelling of the deal, its leadership has cleared the Chinese proposal. “Iran has a very crucial place in China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). China always wanted to bring Iran on board. As the Americans pursued the policy of ‘maximum pressure’ against Iran and left Iran under extraordinary privation and deprivation, it is now open to the Chinese initiative,” said Talmiz Ahmad, who was India’s Ambassador to several Gulf countries. The partnership agreement has to get the final clearance from the Iranian Parliament. According to the NYT , China and Iran would launch joint training exercises, joint research and weapons development and intelligence sharing. China will also offer its GPS to Iran, build infrastructure for 5G rollout and develop free trade zones. “It is a long-term strategic partnership agreement with energy, economic, logistical and military aspects. Iran and China will be enmeshed — two countries under extraordinary and sustained American pressure found comfort with each other,” said Mr. Ahmad. The deal could offer an immediate reprieve to Iran’s economy that is reeling under the U.S.’s ‘maximum pressure’ policy. The International Monetary Fund has forecast that Iran's economy will contract by 6% this year. “Iran has been isolated. And its infrastructure is in a shambles. Over a period of time, this will receive an upgrade. From the Chinese point of view, Iran would present a very major energy, economic, geopolitical and logistical partner and a very crucial role player in the BRI,” said Ambassador Ahmad. Game changer In his view, a new multipolar world order is emerging in which China is playing a crucial role. China has already cemented ties with Russia in this emerging order. Iran has joined this bloc. “In terms of the evolution of the new world order, this agreement is a game changer.” The agreement, if goes through, could attract punitive measures from the U.S. against China. The U.S. State Department has already said it would target Chinese companies if they make investments in Iran defying American sanctions. But China, which is already in a trade and technological war with the U.S., seems determined to go ahead with its partnership. China continued to buy Iranian oil over the past year even after the U.S. sanctions waivers expired in May 2019, although in smaller volumes. In contrast, India stopped buying Iranian oil last year after U.S. waivers ended. In 2019-20, India’s crude oil imports from Iran were 1.7 million tonnes, down from 23.9 million tonnes in the previous fiscal. India’s role Coincidentally, at a time when Iran and China are finalising this partnership agreement,Iran has dropped India from a project to build a rail linefrom the Chabahar port to Zahedan, along the border with Afghanistan, The Hindu reported on Tuesday. The project, signed in 2016, was hailed as a major trilateral project that would give India access to Afghanistan bypassing Pakistan. But Iranian officials cited delay in the proposed $400 million funding as the reason for dropping India from the project. Under the new partnership agreement, China is likely to play a role in Chabahar port. The original Chabahar agreement between India and Iran was signed in 2003 between Iranian President Mohammad Khatami and Prime Minister A.B. Vajpayee. “Within a year, we abandoned it. We started engaging with the Americans, so we stopped pursing it. And again, we brought it up. Prime Minister Modi went to Tehran and we agreed on a trilateral track with Iran and Afghanistan that we would develop Chabahar and then we would go forward with building a railway and road networks. The strategic plan was to make India a potential role player in the Eurasian scenario,” said Mr. Ahmad. “None of this has happened because under the second Modi government, India has pursued the American line. It’s a very serious mistake. Iran cannot afford to wait for India forever. They waited for 17 years. Now they don’t need you. I think India has lost out very badly.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-making-deep-inroads-into-iran/article32085332.ece
15 July 2020||LONDON,||Britain bans Huawei from future role in 5G network||Britain’s government on Tuesday backtracked on plans to give Chinese telecommunications company Huawei a limited role in the U.K.’s new high-speed mobile phone network in a decision with broad implications for relations between London and Beijing. Britain said it imposed the ban after U.S. sanctions made it impossible to ensure the security of Huawei equipment, forcing it to start turning to other suppliers for components. The U.S. threatened to sever an intelligence-sharing arrangement with the U.K. because of concerns Huawei equipment could allow the Chinese government to infiltrate U.K. networks. U.K. Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden said the decision would delay the 5G rollout and cost millions of pounds, but that it had to be done. “This has not been an easy decision but it is the right one,” he said. No new purchases The decision gives British telecom operators until 2027 to remove Huawei equipment already in Britain’s 5G network. The operators must stop buying 5G equipment from Huawei by the end of the year. Critically for telecom operators, the government opted not to order firms to rip out legacy equipment manufactured by Huawei in earlier systems, like 4G. Such a decision might have caused havoc in U.K. telecom systems. Mr. Johnson in January sought to balance economic and security pressures by agreeing to give Huawei a limited role in Britain’s so-called 5G network, excluding the company from core components of the system and restricting its involvement to 35% of the overall project. But the move set up a diplomatic clash with the Americans, who threatened to cut off security cooperation unless Britain dumped Huawei. Huawei called the decision “disappointing” and motivated by politics.  Mr. Dowden conceded that Tuesday’s announcement means more Britons will have to wait longer to get full access to the speedy new network. “This means a cumulative delay to 5G roll-out of two to three years and costs of up to £2 billion,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/britain-bans-huawei-from-future-role-in-5g-network/article32085335.ece
15 July 2020||Istanbul,||Hagia Sophia will be open outside prayer time: Turkey||Turkey’s Hagia Sophia could open to visitors outside prayer times and its Christian icons will remain, religious officials said on Tuesday, after a court ruling paved the way for it to become a mosque. The sixth-century Istanbul landmark’s museum sta tus — in place since 1934 — was revoked on Friday and control was handed to the religious authority, Diyanet. The decision sparked condemnation from Western governments, Russia and Christian leaders with Pope Francis saying he was “very distressed”. Hagia Sophia spent almost 1,000 years as a cathedral before being converted into a mosque in 1453 and later a museum. Diyanet said in a statement on Tuesday that Christian icons in Hagia Sophia were “not an obstacle to the validity of the prayers”. “The icons should be curtained and shaded through appropriate means during prayer times,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hagia-sophia-will-be-open-outside-prayer-time-turkey/article32085333.ece
15 July 2020||COLOMBO,||‘Maldives can’t grow without India’||The Maldives cannot grow or develop further if the country abandons its ties with India, Speaker and former President Mohamed Nashid has said. Speaking at a ceremony in Male on Monday, to mark the Government of India’s handing over of outdoor fitness equipment for 61 islands across the Maldives, Mr. Nasheed said: “We must be wise, and join hands with India, so that we may enjoy similar growth and development. It is my opinion, and my firm belief that we cannot grow or develop beyond what we are now, if we abandon our close relationship with India.” Emphasising the Maldives’s presence and role in the Indian Ocean Region, Mr. Nasheed said: “I am also certain that Maldivians and their elected leaders will be wise and make shrewd and sensible decisions regarding our foreign policy and our relationship with our closest allies and neighbours, the closest and dearest of whom is India.” Monday’s initiative is part of New Delhi’s nearly 200 million MVR-worth cash grant and development projects, being executed with Male, apart from the $800 million line of credit. Speaking on the occasion, Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid said: “The traditionally close, bilateral relationship between the Maldives and India have been strengthened and deepened since November 2018. This is in no doubt, due to the personal commitment of President Solih to cultivating good neighbourly relations with our closest neighbour.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/maldives-cant-grow-without-india/article32085334.ece
15 July 2020||Washington,||First federal execution in U.S. in 17 years||The U.S. carried out its first federal execution in 17 years on Tuesday, putting to death convicted murderer Daniel Lee over objections by his victims’ relatives after the Supreme Court gave its go-ahead. Lee was convicted for his role in the killing of three members of an Arkansas family in 1996. His accomplice, Chevie Kehoe, is serving life term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/first-federal-execution-in-us-in-17-years/article32085336.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The stand-off and China’s India policy dilemma||For China, which has long been preoccupied with its relentless pursuit to approach the centre of the world and in managing a turbulent relationship with the United States, the June 15 incident of a violent face-off between Chinese and Indian troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), causing casualties on both sides, came as a big jolt. It brought the national focus back on an otherwise not-so-popular topic of China-India relations. The development took China’s strategic community by storm, while the intense debate and discussions that followed, rather than generating a consensus, brought out China’s many dilemmas vis-à-vis India. No accident On one side of the debate are China’s top India watchers such as Lin Minwang and Zhang Jiadong, from Fudan University, and Li Hongmei from the Shanghai Institutes for International Studies (SIIS) among others, who believe that the present conflict is not an “accident” but an “inevitable result” of what they perceive as “India’s long-standing speculative strategy on the China-India border”. From Doklam to Kashmir to India’s “unending infrastructure arms race” at the LAC, they say, Beijing was “fed up” and “had to teach India a lesson”. Their key argument is that China-India relations hold no great prospect in the current international situation. There is no possibility of a negotiated settlement of the border dispute any time soon. India is already a “quasi-ally” of the U.S. with no scope for reversal. With opportunities for cooperation at the global level diminishing, regional competition intensifying and the earlier system of effective management of bilateral differences crumbling beyond control, periodic violent conflicts, they predict, are the “new normal” in China-India ties. China, they argue, should reconsider its prevalent strategic thinking that India is not its main strategic challenge and, therefore, peace needs to be maintained in its direction as much as possible. Only by daring to fight, by showing strong determination, the will and the ability on the western frontier can China effectively deter its adversaries on the eastern coast. This is also, what they called, the right way to resolve China’s primary contradiction, that is the China-U.S. problem, by first breaking “its arms and legs”.  Handling a resurgent India To deal with a resurgent India, Chinese hardliners suggest a policy of “three nos”: “no weakness, no concession and no defensive defence”. In other words, China should take all opportunities to crack down on India, take the initiative to hit it hard whenever possible. This, it is argued, will not damage China-India relations; on the contrary, it will make it more stable. Didn’t the 1962 China-India war help China to maintain peace and stability on the western front for a long time and directly eliminate American and Soviet ambitions to use India to contain China? In this backdrop there is renewed interest among certain sections of the Chinese strategic community to: keep India under control by destabilising the entire border region, creating tension across the board, from the McMahon Line in the east to the Aksai Chin area in the west; take the initiative to attack and seize territories under India’s control from Kashmir to Arunachal Pradesh, and weaken India internally, by supporting the cause of Maoists, Naga separatists and Kashmiris. Some criticism However, on the other side of the debate are Chinese political thinkers and professors such as Zheng Yongnian and Yu Longyu among others, who in their analysis of the Galwan Valley incident, have been somewhat critical about China’s policies towards India, which they say remain mostly tactical, of a “reactive nature” and are characterised by a “tit-for-tat” approach without any clear strategic intent. This, according to them, stokes extreme nationalism in India and unites the otherwise divided nation against China, which not only harms China’s interests but might eventually draw China into an untimely military conflict. They criticise those vying to “teaching India a lesson” as being “short-sighted” and not “psychologically prepared for the rise of India”. China, they argue, lacks understanding of the fact that India, as a rising power, is very important to China and will be increasingly crucial in the future, with China-India relations evolving as the most important pair of relations after China-U.S. links. If China-India ties are damaged beyond repair, they warn, India alone or in association with other countries will cause “endless trouble for China”. For instance, an openly hostile India will use every possible means to prevent China from reaching the Indian Ocean. On the other hand, the decoupling of China-India relations will further strengthen the “anti-China alliance” between the U.S., Japan, Australia, Vietnam, Indonesia and other countries, who will actively take the initiative to reshape global industrial chains, use the Indo-Pacific Strategy to check and balance China’s military and economic power, and expand international organisations such as the G-7 to weaken China’s influence in international affairs. Opinion on scenarios On a similar note, various commentaries in the Chinese press highlight that downgrading China-India relations to the level of India-Pakistan relations or a ‘Kashmirisation’ of the China-India border is easier said than done as this will require a complete reversal of China’s present LAC policy of being “reasonable, profitable and economical”. Strategically too, they say, it is “unwise” for China to take the initiative to get into a comprehensive military conflict with India — “a big country with comparable military strength”— at this point in time. The general view among these military analysts is that if China has an advantage in terms of psychology, equipment, and logistics mobilisation, India too has advantage on various fronts such as deployment, supply line, practical war experience, topography, and climate among others. If India’s disadvantage remains in the fact that its capital lies well within the bombing range of China, China’s key disadvantage is its particularly long supply lines. Therefore, if the conflict ends in a short period of time, it will benefit China. But if it is prolonged, China will be disadvantaged. If a war starts, they argue, India will make all efforts to prolong it as long as possible, and the U.S. is likely to help India to attain this objective. Even if the two sides ended in a tie, in India it will be counted a victory and the national morale will rise sharply; on the contrary, in China, the morale will decline if it cannot beat India decisively. Therefore, in its effort to “teach India a lesson”, they fear, China might lose more than it would gain. What India must note The overall consensus within this group is that it is still not the time to ‘resolve’ the India problem. Instead, China, for now, should strive to make India retreat without a military conflict, maintain basic peace and stability at the borders, and, at the minimum, not deliberately push it towards the U.S. Meanwhile, China simultaneously carries out its strategy of weakening India internally by leveraging its social and political differences, completing its strategic encirclement, improving troop deployment in the Tibet region to secure the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, and stationing Chinese troops in the Gwadar Port (Arabian Sea), so as to secure China’s Indian Ocean sea routes, among other interests. In the words of another Chinese strategist, Yin Guoming, rather than winning a war, China should aim at attaining a comprehensive and overwhelming advantage in geopolitics vis-à-vis India, which cannot be altered by war. To sum up, despite all the jingoism and rhetoric propagated through its official media, China is actually in a serious dilemma over its India policy. As we, in India, seek to reset ties with Beijing in the post-Galwan era, we should take note of the ongoing Chinese debate on India, factor in its many internal contradictions and perceived vulnerabilities vis-à-vis India, and leverage the same to our benefit. Antara Ghosal Singh is a Researcher at the Delhi Policy Group (DPG). She is a graduate from Tsinghua University, China and has been a Chinese language fellow at the National Central University, Taiwan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-stand-off-and-chinas-india-policy-dilemma/article32085314.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Sending the right message||Miscommunication has rocked numerous aspects of the response to COVID-19. Sometimes, scientists who ought to provide clear, unambiguous public health information have failed to do so because of political interference. At other times, even when key public health messages were clearly articulated, some reporters misperceived grey areas and ongoing debates as scientific chaos and not as open questions that may simply require more evidence to resolve. There has also been mistrust in the efficacy of medical management and cynicism among those who follow public health messages from governments regarding the pandemic. Communicating vital information Some people are seen removing their masks to speak to others in close proximity or even to cough, but otherwise wear them diligently in public as a badge of civic honour. The message that is entirely lost is that even simple masks can largely stop expelled droplets from a person’s nose or mouth; thus, we protect one another from infection when we wear masks. People suspected of having flu-like symptoms are shunned or, worse, physically assaulted. On the other hand, there seems to be little or no awareness that asymptomatic cases may be everywhere. U.S. President Donald Trump has been one of the worst possible communicators of vital information during the crisis. A few Americans reportedly drank bleach in response to his suggestion that it would perhaps work inside the body. There were also open disagreements between Mr. Trump and medical experts who shared the stage with him during daily media briefings. In any crisis where science matters, messages that ask people to change their behaviour have to be very clear to be understood and followed. Providing instructions on medication, treatment choices, physical distancing, testing and wearing masks requires elaborating on the reasons, so that people understand the logic. Instead of trying to manage the news, providing sufficient funding for public health research and allowing scientists to work freely and give independent reports to the press without censorship are vital to a good health system. Transparency and clarity on what public health proposals are being considered would build faith and confidence in the government. The social vetting of scientific claims is necessary and can only happen with transparency. People do not expect infallibility from their governments, but they do seek accountability. Instead, all but a few countries have misled people on numbers of cases and testing protocols. Climate change communication Some commentators have wondered whether COVID-19 and climate change communication matters are alike. While some aspects seem similar, I believe they are quite different, although there are insights to be learned from experience with the latter. For several years, a few scientists and the fossil fuel and petrochemical industry have deliberately muddied the facts and the messaging on climate change. Although the science is clear — that rising greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere mainly due to the burning of fossil fuels have raised average global temperature over more than a century — that message has been deliberately and systematically eroded in some quarters through funds from private parties and corporations that are merely concerned about their profits. For instance, in the U.S., the Koch Brothers are major sponsors of smokescreens concerning climate change. The Koch Family Foundations are reported to have spent over $125 million to finance 92 groups that have attacked climate change science and policy solutions, from 1997 to 2017. In an article in The New York Times (July 10, 2019), one learns that funds even from corporations, like Google and Amazon, which have publicly committed themselves to supporting climate change action, were funnelled into groups like the Competitive Enterprise, a Washington-based think tank that challenges anthropogenic climate change. Lawyers and experts who previously worked with the tobacco industry and helped them lie about tobacco being seriously harmful to health have been funded by conservative think tanks like the George C. Marshall Institute to support the climate change denial industry. In Merchants of Doubt , Naomi Oreskes and Erik Conway argue that these groups have operated by sowing doubt although scientific consensus has already been reached. Their strategy has been to maintain the controversy and therefore keep any fake confusion alive. By roping in scientists, establishing research groups and appointing spokespersons who maintain doubt, they are co-opting scientific trappings without deploying scientific logic and methods. The same approach has been applied to tobacco smoking, DDT, acid rain, the ozone hole and some nutrition studies. These activities therefore end up looking and sounding like legitimate science. While the focus of the confusion in the case of climate change is deliberate and planned, in the case of COVID-19, scientists did not know much about the SARS-CoV-2 virus when the pandemic broke. There appears nothing to be gained from deliberately obfuscating the message. But those who consider economic losses to be a graver danger than lost lives through COVID-19 are protesting. Will elite interests then try to muddle the science deliberately? Responsibility towards the public Communicating science means explaining details to the public without condescension, admitting mistakes, promptly rebutting pseudo-science, being guided by data and interpreting the logic for policies undertaken. Instructions provided by scientists may be inconvenient and fail to take note of election cycles. Even when the situation is long-drawn-out, as in the COVID-19 pandemic, listening to scientists and putting their advice into practice can lead to better management of the pandemic, as seen in New Zealand and some Southeast Asian countries. It is essential that those who can influence decisions, such as civil servants and scientists, along with the politicians making decisions, be guided by a sense of responsibility towards the public. Sujatha Byravan is a scientist who studies technology, science and development policy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sending-the-right-message/article32085327.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Viral outrage only spikes the data||As the number of cases of COVID-19 in Karnataka and Telangana begins to surge, there is a corresponding urge to affix blame to a cause. This has happened earlier too when there was a rise in cases in other States — evidence that governments had failed and had shielded numbers finally appeared to be here. But the knee-jerk response to bad numbers is actually causing great harm. Affects lesson learning When we react with outrage to the rising numbers alone, we get no closer to finding out or fixing what is wrong; if we were to react with horror to bad processes instead, we would have some hope of mitigating the worst of the crisis. This is particularly important in the context of a disease that, in most of the country, can only be identified when a doctor prescribes a test based on limited criteria; reported new cases are a direct consequence of the decision and ability of State and city administrations to expand the parameters of testing, and numbers need to be viewed in that context. Roughly 5,000 COVID-19 cases are what separate Telangana from Andhra Pradesh, but it would be a mistake to see this as an indication that the two States are in a similar situation. Telangana discovered these 34,000 cases by testing just 1.7 lakh tests, while Andhra Pradesh discovered its 30,000 cases by conducting 11.5 lakh tests. Then there is the question of what type of test is being conducted. Delhi now conducts more than twice as many tests each day than it did a month only to discover fewer cases. But well over half of its tests are the far less sensitive and reliable antigen tests. What all of this means is that the number of new cases reported each day in a city or State is not a purely mathematical fact. It is a combination of not just the city’s disease environment but also its political economy. Reacting to its numbers without accounting for this will lead us to the wrong lessons. We have seen this tendency to view higher numbers as a lack of governance than a success of reporting, and it has had similarly deleterious consequences. The publication of India’s annual crime statistics is met every year with headlines about relatively developed States having among the highest rates of reported crime, particularly against women. But until we reach the point of “full registration” — which means a country that is confident it is capturing the full extent of crime — more reported crime is for the most part a good thing. Jacob Punnoose, former Director General of Police of Kerala, put it this way to this writer: “If the police of a State [are] able to significantly increase the registration of crimes in which grievous physical injury does not take place, molestation, for instance, or overspeeding, I will congratulate that police commissioner.” Instead, the outrage following “bad” new numbers is already creating perverse incentives against honest reporting. While investigating the working of committees set up by State governments to audit COVID-19 deaths, this writer found that not all deaths of those who were COVID-19 positive were being recorded as COVID-19 deaths. What was more worrying was that Chennai, New Delhi and Mumbai had recorded zero “suspected or probable” COVID-19 deaths — deaths of people who presented like COVID-19 patients but had not had a positive test prior to death — despite clear guidelines by the World Health Organization and the Indian Council of Medical Research. This means that such cities could be missing 20-30% or more of true COVID-19 deaths, according to Dr. Prabhat Jha, professor at the University of Toronto and an expert on mortality who led the ‘Million Death Study in India’. In each of these three cities, health administration officials said reporting more deaths would lead to their cities and States being heavily criticised, and unfairly so, they thought. An adviser to the Delhi government said, “If we start adding suspected deaths, no one’s going to praise us for it. All we’ll get is ‘Deaths shoot up in Delhi’ sort of headlines.” The delay factor Such concerns have been borne out by recent media coverage of similar attempts. Reconciliation exercises aimed at fixing delayed data in the three cities and were reported as if hidden deaths had been “exposed”, even though delayed reporting and reconciliation are a feature of epidemic reporting the world over, and the new numbers were the result of these audit committees doing the job they were set up to do. When missing deaths are discovered, they are slowly added to the total over the next few days by administrations that fear people becoming angry or panic-stricken if they read about or see a sudden spike. From a public health perspective, the attempts of State governments to restrict the numbers of deaths being reported so as not to show a higher burden than other States is a loss of valuable knowledge. In fact, Dr. Jha recommends that governments adopt the most liberal definition of a COVID-19 death as possible; leaving in a few extra deaths of COVID-19 positive persons who died in road accidents, or untested people who died of a respiratory illness that was not COVID-19 is a small price to pay, given all of the potentially missed cases such a liberal attitude will bring into the system, he said. It would of course be a mistake to celebrate every increase in numbers, particularly in the case of a pandemic that is causing such devastation. But parsing the numbers to see what is driving the increase, and whether the underlying processes are working well is key. Without that, all that our outrage would do would be to create incentives to suppress numbers. That is a decline in data that we should not celebrate. Rukmini S. is an independent journalist based in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/viral-outrage-only-spikes-the-data/article32085316.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Tablighi Jamaat, an island unto itself||The Tablighi Jamaat, a non-political body, is considered to be the ‘ideal Muslim organisation’, focused solely on introspection in isolation. Often criticised for reducing Islam to a set of rituals, the Tablighi Jamaat was accused of spreading COVID-19 in Delhi following a mass gathering in March. Inside the Tablighi Jamaat provides a lowdown on the organisation and its ideological beliefs. An excerpt:  Founded in 1927 in Mewat, the Tablighi Jamaat is now perhaps the largest Muslim organisation in the world, and the only one to have a footprint across all continents. Its membership is rather conservatively pegged at 80 million, though admittedly, with millions of floating members who join for a tour and drop out, only to come back later, keeping a headcount is not easy. Or, perhaps, even desirable. In any case, the Tabligh does not maintain an account of its members, their names, addresses, profession, family, and other such details. There is no card-holding cadre; just foot soldiers of Islam. People join of their volition and leave accordingly; sometimes they return. No questions are asked. That this leaves the organisation vulnerable to charges of possibly hosting a potential terrorist who might use his membership to get visas and lodging in mosques is another matter. In England, for instance, two of the 7/7 bombers, Shehzad Tanveer and Mohammed Siddique Khan, had prayed at a Tablighi mosque in Dewsbury. Although this did not prove that the Tablighi Jamaat was involved in the incident, the organisation did come under suspicion. The Tablighis reason that merely offering a prayer in the Markaz or any of its centres in other countries does not make the organisation responsible for a person’s conduct. No more than it does the church or temple where a terrorist might offer prayers. No questions asked Due to its almost unprecedented flexibility on membership and lack of records, the Tabligh has flummoxed sociologists and religious commentators alike. The body has no written constitution, no plans chalked out to reach a certain number of people by a certain date and year. It does not operate using a blueprint for progress, and does not take stock of the year gone by. Unlike the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind or the Tanzeem-e-Islami of Pakistan, the Tablighi Jamaat defies easy definition. It does not aim to restore the Caliphate. It does not set out to establish a world order governed by the Quran and Sunnah. Unlike the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, it nurtures no pronounced emphasis on the concept of nationalism either. The Tabligh never questions the nizam, the laws of the land, the way of functioning of a polity. Its volunteers travel to a new city or a country, park themselves in a mosque, read and recite from religious books, share the message of faith with their fellow practitioners, and go back home. The body eschews conversion of people of other faiths and concentrates on making Muslims better Muslims. This makes it difficult for opponents of Islam, or the Tabligh, to point fingers at the organisation. After all, it does not seek depletion of numbers in other religions, or augmentation within the ranks of Islam. If it says not a word on divorce among Muslims, internationally, it does not speak on political issues involving countries such as Palestine or Yemen, or even some of the poverty-stricken Muslim states of the African continent. This again is unlike other Muslim organisations which have taken an unequivocal pro-Palestine stance, or a more nuanced stand in the Saudi-Yemen conflict. The Tabligh professes a uniquely insular approach that chooses to emphasise particular aspects of Islam while underplaying others, thus ensuring the organisation remains an island unto itself. While it certainly believes in the five pillars of Islam — the Kalima, salah, roza (fasting in the month of Ramzan), zakah and Hajj — it follows its own six principles, of which it clearly stresses salah or prayer above all else. The Tabligh’s proponents say that it is because of the Tablighi Jamaat that several community members who might have fallen prey to the last century’s Shuddhi campaigns did not. No other organisation came forward to help the deprived and the dispossessed find their way back to their own faith. A huge number of young men and women today owe a debt of gratitude to the Tabligh for teaching their ancestors the correct way to offer prayers and perform ablutions, the importance of fasting in the month of Ramzan, and other aspects of the faith. Controversial actions While these are, undoubtedly, laudable accomplishments, a few questions about the Tablighi Jamaat and the way it functions remain. It is fine to recruit a man who is either unlettered or knows little about Islam and teach him the basics, but why should the teaching stop at that? Why should a man who memorised certain surahs on a three-day trip with the Tabligh do the same repeatedly over a 40-day or even a four-month trip? Why does the Tabligh assume that every new entrant is either ignorant or negligent of his prayers? What does it offer people with higher intellectual prowess? Why not look for answers to emerging issues in the light of the Quran and Sunnah, instead of resorting to obscurantism or convenient silence? Excerpted with permission from HarperCollins||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tablighi-jamaat-an-island-unto-itself/article32085322.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Needed: Clear testing data||India’s fight against the pandemic started on a commendable note. The government responded early by issuing travel advisories, conducting screening at airports, imposing lockdowns, and putting in place a series of testing strategies devised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) based on the progression of the disease in the population. The use of rapid antigen PoC A recent development in the testing strategy devised by ICMR was the adoption of rapid antigen point-of-care (PoC) tests, which provide test results within 30 minutes. Delhi has used this in substantial numbers, as is evident from its bulletin reports, to improve the testing numbers, in the last three weeks. And Delhi has shown a steady reduction in the daily number of confirmed cases (from 3,788 on June 24 to 1,781 on July 11). SD Biosensor, which manufactures these kits, has the Food and Drug Administration’s approval dated April 23 for the Standard M nCoV Real-Time detection kit (a RT-PCR kit) but not for the Standard Q COVID-19 Ag (rapid antigen PoC test) which ICMR has approved based on independent validations by AIIMS and itself. The rapid kits are to be used across India in containment zones, hospitals and labs under the NABL. The manufacturer claims sensitivity (ability of a test to correctly identify those with the disease) of 84.4% and specificity (ability of the test to correctly identify those without the disease) of 100%. The test procedure requires a nasopharyngeal sample (taken from a part behind the nasal cavity which forms the upper throat). The kit needs to be maintained at a temperature of 2°C- 30°C for optimal results. The negative results reported by these rapid antigen kits in Delhi need to be interpreted with caution. Individuals need training and expertise in collecting nasopharyngeal samples, else the swab will only collect nasal secretions. Temperatures in Delhi now average 40°C-45°C; hence the cold chain used for transporting and storing these kits in the community needs to be monitored closely. Low sensitivity could be worsened further by these factors and pave the way for ‘false negatives’. Although ICMR has said that all rapid antigen test negatives should be re-tested in RT-PCR, the Delhi bulletin report doesn’t show how many of these negatives have been tested again. The ideal sensitivity and specificity in community settings can be estimated if there’s data showing how many of these negatives turned out to be positive in RT-PCR. Additionally, if these kits were used in low prevalence settings, the validation parameters (sensitivity and specificity) get disturbed by Bayesian laws. Details in break-up Delhi should start giving a break-up of these test numbers so that a scientific conclusion can be made on the success of these kits. Else it could be possible that ‘false negatives’ continue to spread the virus unknowingly. The break-up could include a) symptomatic/asymptomatic tested; b) RT-PCR/rapid antigen test used; c) first test/second test of the individual. Since re-tests are mandatory for all rapid test negatives, it’s possible that the same individual could be counted twice — once on the day of rapid testing and then on the day of RT-PCR. Positivity rate is a metric that measures the adequacy of testing capacity in a given region. According to the World Health Organization, if the positivity rate is less than 5% for 14 days, the region can be classified as having good testing. Taken on face value, Delhi’s epidemic appears to have been controlled very well (positivity rate is now below 10%). However it’s important to get the break-up of these numbers to understand the reality behind the scenes. The COVID-19 fight would require real-time data reporting for insights. It also requires synchronisation of data between communities, laboratories and hospitals to plan and prioritise resources. Data collection, analysis and interpretation can have layers of bias. Hence, monitoring the process during this phase of the epidemic is of paramount importance. Dr. Giridara Gopal, M.D., is pursuing a Ph.D. and working as a research scientist in AIIMS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/needed-clear-testing-data/article32085323.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Lost opportunity||Right from the beginning of its tenure, the government has underlined the geostrategic importance it attaches to the Chabahar port project. The project, signed in 2003, has been a symbol of traditionally important India-Iran ties. Connected by sea lanes to ports on India’s west coast, Chabahar would form the fulcrum of India’s outreach to Russia and Central Asia, enhancing connectivity, energy supplies and trade. Given that Pakistan had blocked Indian aid to Afghanistan and all trade over land, Chabahar provided India an alternative to permanently bypass its troublesome neighbour. As a result, the government fast-tracked plans for the project, and in 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was in Tehran to sign a trilateral trade and transit agreement with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani. According to the MoUs, India would be granted a 10-year lease to develop and operate two terminals and five berths, access to the Chabahar free trade zone, and the opportunity to build the 628 km rail line from Chabahar to Zahedan, just across the border from Afghanistan. The government acted quickly to develop Chabahar port facilities, sent exports to Afghanistan in 2018, and has moved over half-a-million tonnes of cargo, including grains and food supplies, for Afghanistan again, through the port. However, the rail line has never taken off for a number of reasons despite a commitment from state-owned IRCON, to undertake its construction at an estimated $1.6 billion. While contract changes by the Iranian side and delayed responses from the Indian side were part of the problem, the main hurdle has been the fear of American penalties. Even though India was able to negotiate a sanctions waiver for the Chabahar port and rail line from the U.S., few international construction and equipment partners were willing to sign on to the project; New Delhi has also dragged its feet on the matter. After appeals to India, including one issued by its Foreign Minister Javad Zarif when he visited Delhi in January this year, Iran decided to go on its own, by beginning to lay tracks for the line connecting Chabahar to Afghanistan and Turkmenistan, last week. Regardless of the reasons for India’s inability to join the railway project, the decision can only be seen as an opportunity lost. The impression that India wavered due to U.S. pressure, especially after India cancelled oil imports from Iran, also questions New Delhi’s commitment to strategic autonomy. While Iran claims it will fund the railway using its own resources, it seems to have embarked on the Chabahar-Zahedan project with a confidence borne from an imminent deal with China for a 25-year, $400 billion strategic partnership on infrastructure, connectivity and energy projects. In a world where connectivity is seen as the new currency, India’s loss could well become China’s gain, and New Delhi must watch this space, created by its exit, closely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lost-opportunity/article32085309.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Field on track||A blend of joy and relief rippled through the cricketing world last Sunday as the first Test between host England and the West Indies climaxed at Southampton’s Ageas Bowl. Coming as it did after a pandemic-induced lull over the last few months, the willow game’s resumption, much like the revival of football, tennis and Formula One races, offered cheer in these grim times wilting under the global march of the coronavirus. With the previous breaks having occurred during last century’s two World Wars, it was fitting that cricket’s third enforced pause concluded at its birthplace England; and to make it doubly sweet, the men of swagger from the Caribbean islands snatched a four-wicket victory. The clash had all the hallmarks of the slow-burn and shredded nerves and cricket could not have asked for a more surreal comeback especially as the solemn backdrop featured the Black Lives Matter movement. West Indian pace legend Michael Holding wrung hearts with a speech on Sky Sports that held a mirror to racism’s sordid history. That Jason Holder’s men, with their roots harking back to indentured African and Indian labourers at sugar cane plantations, could stun their former colonial masters tied in with sport’s proven ability to break through the established order. It may be premature to whisper about a resurgence in West Indian cricket, but a start has been made. England is a tough opponent at home and the next two Tests at Manchester will offer an intriguing mix while the West Indies will draw inspiration from speedster Shannon Gabriel and batsman Jermaine Blackwood. Besides the action on view, Southampton offered a glimpse of cricket in a bio-bubble wherein a sanitised venue with no spectators and teams staying at a hotel that is part of the ground, ensured that the game could keep the virus at bay. And cricket’s quirks were also in vogue as the relevance of saliva and sweat in triggering reverse swing, occupied airwaves and column-width. There were discussions about the ban on applying saliva to the red cherry in these fraught times while selection quibbles were again in play as Stuart Broad’s axing from England’s playing eleven, whipped up debate. Above all cricket’s return highlighted sport’s penchant to spring surprises. Just a year ago, Ben Stokes delivered a bravura performance at Lord’s as Eoin Morgan’s men won the World Cup against a doughty New Zealand led by the dignified Kane Williamson, in a final for the ages. Today, Stokes is mulling over ways to get past the West Indian ambush! Above all, bilateral cricket is back but as for bigger events such as the Twenty20 World Cup in Australia or the much-delayed IPL, the pandemic could still have the last word.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/field-on-track/article32085310.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Imperial Preference Committee (From an editorial)||We wonder when the Government of India are going to realise that the documents prepared by them are of greater use and interest to the country than to the British Press which often dismiss them with but a tantalising reference and at most a jejune and indifferent hundred or fifty-words summary. The Times in a recent issue referred to the Government of India’s memorandum prepared in the Commerce Department for the Imperial Preference Committee and the reference shows that that paper is in possession of a copy of that memorandum. But we, in this country, who are certainly far more interested in the question, unless the theory as well as the practice be that the Government of India exist to forward the interests represented by the Times, have had to be content with the two-page report of the Committee published in the Gazette of India, a report which in more than one place refers to the memorandum but does not give us any full and definite idea as to the nature of the contents of the memorandum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/imperial-preference-committee-from-an-editorial/article32085317.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Tusker dying due to lack of funds||Kesavan, the 60-year-old temple tusker of Kachamkurichi temple, is to-day fighting a grim battle for his life. But the temple has no funds to pay for his treatment. In the absence of adequate medical attention, the once majestic pachyderm is undergoing real torture. With his head drooping, Kesavan has been on his legs for the past six months, unable to lie down and relax. There are ulcerous wounds all over his body, with worms thriving in them. Kesavan, who is owned by the Vishnu temple in Kachamkurichl, was in great demand for temple festivals all over Kerala, and earned for the temple an annual income of Rs. 10,000. And when this “faithful servant” is stricken, the temple is unable to help him. Mr. K. Sankunni Menon, Manager of the temple, said the temple depended solely on the income from its lands. The tenants had not paid the rent, following the implementation of the Land Reforms Act, and even the hereditary servants of the temple could not be paid for the last five months. The elephant, he said, could be saved if treated immediately and he had to raise a loan for the purpose. The Kachamkurichi temple is one of the oldest and biggest landowning temples in Palghat district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tusker-dying-due-to-lack-of-funds/article32085318.ece
15 July 2020||GRANADA,||Real closes in on title||Real Madrid ground out a 2-1 win at Granada on Monday to record its ninth consecutive victory and move within touching distance of reclaiming the LaLiga title. The win saw Zinedine Zidane’s side restore the four-point lead over Barcelona and it will clinch its first title since 2017 with victory at home to Villarreal on Thursday, or if it beats Leganes on the final day of the season. The visitors got off to a flying start when French defender Ferland Mendy skipped into the box unopposed and rifled the ball into the net from the tightest of angles in the 10th minute. This was his first goal for the club. Benzema strikes again Real’s top-scorer Karim Benzema doubled the advantage with a cool finish six minutes later to net his 19th goal of the season. Darwin Machis pulled one back for Granada in the 50th. Real ’keeper Thibaut Courtois was forced to produce a fine save to deny forward Antonin late on while captain Sergio Ramos cleared a Ramon Azeez shot off the line. In the Premier League, Manchester United’s Champions League qualification hopes suffered a blow after an equaliser deep in stoppage time from Michael Obafemi earned Southampton a 2-2 draw at Old Trafford. In Serie A, Inter Milan staged an impressive second-half comeback to beat Torino 3-1 and move up to second, bouncing back after letting victory slip in two previous games.  The results:   LaLiga: Villarreal 1 (Cazorla 85) lost to Real Sociedad 2 (Willian Jose 61, Llorente 75); Alaves 0 drew with Getafe 0; Granada 1 (Machis 50) lost to Real Madrid 2 (Mendy 10, Benzema 16).   Premier League: Manchester United 2 (Rashford 20, Martial 23) drew with Southampton 2 (Armstrong 12, Obafemi 90+6).   Serie A: Inter Milan 3 (Young 49, Godin 51, Martinez 61) bt Torino 1 (Belotti 17) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-closes-in-on-title/article32085439.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Venkateswara Rao’s mission for Olympic Games glory||Dronacharya I. Venkateswara Rao is on a mission. After being based in Visakhapatnam for quite some time, the Sports Authority of India boxing coach is now at the Centre of Excellence, Guwahati, training a select group of 14 boxers (men and women). The 59-year-old chief coach has been at this task for almost a year now working on creating Olympic medal winners. Big names “This SAI scheme was started at different centres across India. Some of the trainees here include big names Lovlina Borgohain, Jamuna Boro, besides Vizag boxers B. Monica, J. Revathi and B. Likitha,” Rao told The Hindu from Guwahati on Tuesday. “This is a long-term training programme with emphasis on improving skills as well as providing requisite scientific support combined with exposure to major events,” said Rao, who has produced 10 World championship medallists and several champions at Asian level. “At the end of each year there is a critical review of the performances, and non-performers are weeded out,” Rao said. “It is a different kind of challenge for any coach. One has to handle boxers with different mindsets and get the best results out of them even while ensuring strict discipline. But, I am enjoying it since I have been doing this for the last 35 years.” Full support The Federation, SAI and the Union Sports Ministry provide immense support to the boxers and that has shown in recent results, said Rao, who is also a qualified judge. The 59-year old’s retirement plans include setting up of a full-fledged boxing academy in Visakhapatnam and grooming the abundance of talent available in and around that city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/venkateswara-raos-mission-for-olympic-games-glory/article32085686.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The fascinating Test had many messages for sports and the world in general||The writer John Berger ended one of his essays thus: “The moment at which a piece of music begins provides a clue to the nature of all art.” That probably holds true in other spheres too – the moment at which a Test match begins, for instance, provides a clue to the nature of all sport. Berger goes on to talk about “the incongruity of that moment, compared to the uncounted, unperceived silence which preceded it…” Sacred moments The silence before the Southampton Test may not have been uncounted or unperceived, but the incongruity was inescapable. The moment before the first ball is bowled in a Test match is one of cricket’s sacred moments, full of possibilities and hope; the crowd holds its collective breath as it prepares for the unexpected, for that single delivery, which, in hindsight carries with it the potential of all that follows. Yet, there was no crowd to hold its collective breath, no palpable tension in the air. But it didn’t matter. Cricket was restarting, and it wouldn’t have mattered if rain had stolen a chunk of it, or if it had finished in three days. God was in his heaven and all was right with the (cricket) world. Showing the way Not for the first time, cricket showed the way. The first-ever modern international sporting event was, after all, the cricket match between the US and Canada in 1844, more than half a century before the Olympic Games. West Indies’ win over England in the first Test meant that a team ranked No. 8 had overcome one that was placed four places higher, and that is one of the joys of sport — to watch the superior team being brought down to earth. Man-for-man England were the better side, and they were playing at home. But the West Indies had spirit and they had been in England for a month to get acclimatised, two things that seemed to nullify England’s natural advantages. Joe Root returns to captain England in the second Test this week, and stand-in skipper Ben Stokes can focus on his game, leaving the worrying about the details to someone else. He must be relieved.  This wasn’t a great Test match, but it was a fascinating one, and of the many messages it had for sports and the world in general, three are particularly significant. Holding takes centrestage At its conclusion, there was a half-serious suggestion that commentator Michael Holding be named Man-of-the-Match. On the opening day, he and Ebony Rainford-Brent — the first black woman to play for England — spoke eloquently and emotionally about what it means to be black. Later, during a rain break — seldom have rain breaks been as welcome — Holding barely managed to hold it in as he explained the whats and whys of racial discrimination. It was stirring stuff. And it set the tone not only for the return of cricket but also for lassoing it into the real world where terrible things happen and need to be called out. The players taking a knee was of a piece with that. Cricket has opened a door through which other protesters could enter. The second significant event was the indication that sport may be moving closer to being a complete television event, with neither spectators nor large stadiums absolute necessities. Technological advancement could, sometime in future, enable a viewer to be virtually present at the ground or stand next to a fielder taking a catch, and that would sound the death knell of the paying spectator. High-fives and social distancing Thirdly, there was the manner of handling the pandemic. High-fives flew, there was physical contact and lack of social distancing (the most difficult to observe on a sporting field), but it might not matter if the teams, who stayed on separate floors of the same hotel, figured the bubble kept outside influences away. We will know soon enough, but from all accounts, the England and Wales Cricket Board handled it well, and the players and officials followed the do’s and don’ts. Much is at stake for both the individual and the sport. A critic once wrote that all post-War novels must recognise the fact, implicitly or otherwise, that we live in the shadow of the nuclear bomb. Likewise, all competitive sport today must acknowledge the existence and danger of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is not a pleasant thing, and we will forget about it in time. But for those living through it, that is difficult to do. How this series, and the one following against Pakistan, goes will impact India’s tour of Australia later in the year. ‘Bio-secure bubble’ has already entered cricket’s lexicon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-fascinating-test-had-many-messages-for-sports-and-the-world-in-general/article32085453.ece
15 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||‘No substitute for hard work’||Raman Vijayan’s football journey began from a remote village Kandaramanikam in Sivaganga district of Tamil Nadu and took him to the famed grounds in Kolkata. He was mocked for his small size and was called ‘mosquito’ by his schoolmates. But Vijayan’s determination and ambition saw him become one of the best players of his generation. Now a respected coach with his own football school — Raman Vijayan Soccer School – the 47-year-old recalled his journey during a web talk with trainees of the Little Flower Football Academy (LIFFA) on Tuesday. Vijayan said that there was no substitute for hard work and sacrifices. Citing his own example, he said he always put in that extra effort during practice to sharpen his skills, especially at the Indian camp where he was competing for a place with players more talented than him. “When I was young I used to come early for practise and scored goals from every conceivable angle and used to stay back after practise to work on my headers,” Vijayan said. “At the national camp I gave more than 100% to impress the coaches. IM Vijayan and Bhaichung [Bhutia] were definitely more talented than me but I wasn’t overawed. I believed in my ability and worked extra hard to win my place.’’  He said he took a great risk when he left his job with Indian Bank and landed in Kolkata to play for East Bengal. “People told me I was mad and none supported me when I decided to move to Kolkata. But I knew if I wanted to play for India I had to come out of my comfort zone. The training was more professional in Kolkata and things fell into place when I started scoring,” he said. Vijayan said it was a fanboy moment when he met Brazilian legend Roberto Carlos at the erstwhile ISL club Delhi Dynamos, where he worked under Carlos as assistant coach. “He was a legend who had won a World Cup, Champions league, Copa America and every trophy under the sun. I was in awe of him. Carlos created a buzz. But personally I think he wasn’t ready when he took over as coach of Delhi Dynamos,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-substitute-for-hard-work-says-raman-vijayan/article32085502.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Divij, Vijay Sundar back on court||Divij Sharan and Vijay Sundar Prashanth had a taste of the new normal as they competed in doubles in a tournament organised by the Lawn Tennis Association (LTA) in Roehampton. Interestingly, Divij drove from Manchester with wife Samantha, while Vijay drove in from London. “It is so much easier to drive. Driving is much safer, as there is no interaction with anyone,” said Divij. Understandably, the duo was rusty and lost the first match, which was played on a short-set format, in the super tie-break. Divij and Vijay won the next two matches to finish fifth out of eight teams. Both the Indians had remained in the UK during the lockdown and decided to get back to the game by playing in the event. “It was more about getting on court and competing. I haven’t had a chance to play matches in the last four months. First round was pretty rusty, but got better with each match,” said Divij. Only one set of balls was used in a match. The COVID-19 tests were done on Friday for doubles players, results were received on Saturday and matches played on Sunday. “They have decided that there is little risk of transmission through balls, but you can’t speak to your partner with the balls in front of your face, to avoid breathing into them,” he said. “Also, since they were washing the courts after every session, we got limited practice.” At the cafeteria, there was only one chair per table to ensure physical distancing. The players tapped racquets instead of shaking hands and wore masks when they were indoors.  The results:   Divij Sharan & Vijay Sundar Prashant bt Ben Jones & Joshua Paris 2-4, 4-1, [10-8]; Divij & Vijay bt Jack Gibbens & Isaac Stoute 4-1, 4-1; Charles Broom & David Stevenson bt Divij & Vijay 4-1, 1-4, [10-7].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/divij-vijay-sundar-back-on-court/article32085608.ece
15 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Hemang Amin appointed BCCI’s interim CEO||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) may have appointed Hemang Amin as the interim chief executive officer (CEO) after relieving Rahul Johri of his duties last week, but the Indian Premier League (IPL) chief operating officer may soon emerge as a serious candidate for the CEO’s position. Late on Monday evening, BCCI secretary Jay Shah circulated a note to State associations, informing them about Amin’s new role and Johri’s exit. According to BCCI insiders, the “timing” of the announcement hints at Amin being in contention for the CEO’s role. Meeting on Friday The BCCI apex council is set to meet on Friday after more than two months and point No. 9 on the agenda is “discussion on appointment of new employees”. Among the major positions to be filled are CEO and chief financial officer (CFO), posts that were introduced in 2016. Amin’s standing as a 'BCCI old-timer', having joined the IPL executives’ team in 2010 after stints at the Bombay Stock Exchange and Deutsche Bank, is likely to work in his favour. Ticking the boxes “He ticks all the boxes, has the expertise, requisite experience, has earned the trust of his colleagues and BCCI officials alike and has mastered the art of tackling different regimes,” said a former BCCI official. “Don’t be surprised if they decide to promote Hemang rather than get a new face just like the previous one and shell out a huge package for him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hemang-amin-appointed-bccis-interim-ceo/article32085435.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Sportstar’s Star Talk webinar series||The IPL, since its inception in 2008, has grown in stature and is now one of the most successful sports leagues in the world. It has always provided a platform for budding youngsters and unheralded players to showcase their talent. In the first episode of Sportstar’s Star Talk, a webinar series, on Wednesday (July 15), at 5 p.m., an expert panel will decode the IPL success story and the road ahead for Indian cricket. The panel comprises India cricketer and IPL’s second-highest scorer Suresh Raina, and former Zimbabwe captain and ex-KKR and Gujarat Lions coach Heath Streak. Joining them will be India player and IPL’s eighth-highest scorer Robin Uthappa, and Delhi Capitals CEO Dhiraj Malhotra. The session will be moderated by the Sports Editor of The Hindu , K.C. Vijaya Kumar. You can be part of the webinar by registering for free at https://bit.ly/3fvr4Te .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sportstars-star-talk-webinar-series/article32085437.ece
15 July 2020||London,||I am incredibly happy, says Guardiola||Pep Guardiola said on Tuesday a weight had been lifted from Manchester City after its European ban was overturned by the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS). “I am incredibly happy for the decision. It shows all the people said about the club wasn't true,” said Guardiola. “People cannot understand how difficult it was for everyone as a club being under suspicion. Now we have proven it at the court, we go again on the pitch.” A disaster Tottenham’s Mourinho said the court's decision was a “disaster” and showed FFP, which limits club’s spending in line with their revenue, is now dead, while Liverpool boss Klopp said City’s reprieve was a bad day for football. Guardiola feels it is City which is owed an apology. “We should be apologised to because if we did something wrong we would accept the decision from UEFA, because we did something wrong,” said Guardiola.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-am-incredibly-happy-says-guardiola/article32085687.ece
15 July 2020||Southampton,||Blackwood upset at not staying till the end||He missed out on a well-deserving century during the opening Test against England, but West Indies batsman Jermaine Blackwood was more disappointed about not being able to stay till the end. Blackwood scored a match-winning 95 in the second innings as West Indies registered a four-wicket win. He was dismissed with his team just 11 short of the target of 200. “I was very disappointed when I got out at that stage of the game,” said Blackwood. “It was very emotional for me when I got out, not because I got out, it was because I didn’t take my team across the line. I wasn’t thinking about the hundred.” England head coach Chris Silverwood backed the struggling Jos Buttler, saying he looked good with the bat in the first Test and will be given the “best chance to succeed” in the remainder of the series. “I’m not going to go down that road yet of putting Jos under pressure, because I don’t think it’s going to help him,” said Silverwood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blackwood-upset-at-not-staying-till-the-end/article32085438.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Rijiju interacts with State sports officials||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Tuesday interacted with ministers and officials of Sports and Youth Affairs from 18 states and Union Territories as part of the two-day meet to share a roadmap for resumption of sports post COVID-19. Representatives from Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala, Ladakh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttarakhand and West Bengal, participated on Tuesday while the remaining will do so on Wednesday. “Our ministry will assist and fund states in their endeavour to achieve excellence in one or two sports. States can also choose to train athletes in other sports but the focus should be on one or two disciplines with the Khelo India State Centres of Excellence (KISCEs) becoming nodal centres,” Rijiju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rijiju-interacts-with-state-sports-officials/article32085440.ece
15 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana to follow Central guidelines: Goud||Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud has told the Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju that once the Central Government takes a decision on re-opening sports facilities including stadia and academies, Telangana will also initiate similar measures. In a video conference in which Rijju interacted with sports ministers of different States on Tuesday, Goud appealed to the Sports Ministry to release funds which are due to the State for 2019-20 and 2020-21 .  The Minister added that the State has sent proposals to the Union Ministry to sanction funds of Rs. 218.67 crore to create infrastructure like laying synthetic tracks for athletics, construct swimming pool and multipurpose stadia in the State. “We have requested to include six disciplines in the Centres of Excellence in the State but were given only three disciplines. So, kindly take necessary action immediately,” he said. “I would like to stress here that the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao is determined to encourage sports in a big way and this is evident by the way we are implementing the 2% quota for sportspersons in employment to State government jobs and also 0.5 % quota for them in professional educational courses like engineering, medicine,” Goud said. “The cabinet sub-committee appointed by the Chief Minister will soon come out with a new Sports Policy after studying the best of features from other states to give a new direction to sports in the State,” he added. The meeting was also attended by Sabyasachi Ghosh, IAS, Raghunandan Rao, and K. Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/telangana-to-follow-central-guidelines-goud/article32085688.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 07:51 IST,||Sudoku - July 15, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-15-2020/article32086272.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Your guide to buying a pre-owned two-wheeler||Over the last few months, two-wheeler sales took a massive hit due to obvious reasons and the lockdown period saw numbers sink to an all-time low. However, the figures from June, though nowhere near as high as those from a year ago, come as a silver lining. As people slowly start getting back to their normal lives, the need for an affordable, personal mode of transportation has increased; especially when public transport is something many will be trying to avoid. Considering that we live in the largest two-wheeler market in the world, there are a lot of used two-wheelers out there that one can choose from. We have listed out some steps you can follow to ensure a hassle-free purchase. Be prepared As self-explanatory as this might be, it is best that you know exactly what you are looking for and what your budget is. Once you have narrowed down your options, do your homework by going through forums and speaking to your local mechanic or service centre to know more about the bikes. Many bikes have dedicated forums with owners’ experiences and these will give you a lot of insight. Search for similar offerings as that will help you compare prices, consider service and running costs — things that you usually look into even if you were buying a brand-new motorcycle. Where to buy from? There are three main avenues you can buy your used motorcycle from: a used-bike broker, an online platform, or directly from a motorcycle owner who is interested in selling to you. Your final pick depends on which of these options has what you are looking for and how convenient each of them is for you. A broker gives you the opportunity to physically inspect the bike before you lay down your money. Most establishments like this also have an in-house workshop that usually services the pre-owned motorcycle before it is put on the market. So even if you are not the most mechanically adept person, you can rely on a trusted broker to offer you a bike that is not riddled with issues. Your second option is to use an online portal. Droom and CredR seem to be two popular options at the moment. The former also has a rather extensive list of tools that will make the buying process a whole lot easier. For instance, it offers help with the certification process — namely, transfer of ownership and insurance. Droom also offers add-on benefits like roadside assistance and a full refund scheme if the bike does not match the buyer’s description. Considering the safety net you have when making a financial decision like this, an online marketplace seems to be your best bet at owning a pre-owned motorcycle. However, let us assume the motorcycle you are looking for is not listed on one of these websites — we have listed some pointers to make the process simpler:  Talk to the seller  Some questions you should be asking the seller are: Why are they selling the motorcycle? How often has it been serviced? Has it had any falls or major alterations you should know of? If the seller is able to provide you with service slips and bills of what they have spent on the bike, it usually points towards a well-looked-after motorcycle. Nevertheless, it is always safer to be wary and do your own inspection. Physical inspection Unless you are looking to acquire an older model in particular, it is usually best to avoid one that is over five years old. It is also worth noting that mileage sometimes has little to do with how well a bike runs. A bike that has seen regular oil-changes and proper maintenance at 20,000 kilometres is typically a better deal than one that has ridden half the distance, but with half the care. In most cases, a thorough physical inspection should tell you what to be wary of. As the most expensive component on the motorcycle, the engine is the first component to inspect. Ideally, a short test ride should give you a better understanding as to how well it runs. Check for rust on the frame and do not be afraid to question the owner about anything that seems out of the ordinary. See if all the electrical components are working and that there’s no questionable wiring to be seen. Also take a look at the bearings and seals. Prop the bike up on its centre stand and see that the wheels spin freely, and that the rear shock and fork oil seals aren’t leaking. Next, look at consumables like tyres, brake pads and the chain sprockets. These could be worn out and that is something you should factor into the final price negotiations. Paperwork Once a motorcycle fits your requirements, the last part is the paperwork. Important documentation includes the registration certificate, vehicle insurance papers, original purchase invoice, road-tax receipt and the valid pollution certificate. You will also need Form 28 — the No Objection Certificate (NOC); Form 29 — the intimation of transfer of vehicle ownership; and Form 30 — the report of transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle. If the vehicle was financed, you will also need to submit Form 35 to the RTO, along with a copy of the NOC from the financing company stating that there are no more dues to be paid. Keep in mind that any change in the vehicle, like engine replacement or a new body colour, has to be updated in the registration certificate as well. Also, make sure that there is no accident history associated with the vehicle. Making your decision Buying a used two-wheeler can be a daunting prospect, but remember to stay grounded and think with your wallet if you are on a budget. Follow the steps and guidelines we have listed here and buying a pre-owned bike will be a seamless experience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/your-guide-to-buying-a-pre-owned-two-wheeler/article32085810.ece
15 July 2020||July 15 2020 00:00 IST,||A throwback to the Golden ’60s||In 1960s Czechoslovakia, after more than a decade of the nationalisation of the film industry, emerged a breed of filmmakers who resisted against the political establishment in their movies, while ironically being funded by the State. This Czechoslovakian New Wave, a movement of creative rebellion in cinema, permeated the country’s cinema till the fall of Communism in November 1989. The Golden ’60s, as it was called, saw the emergence of some critical filmmakers like Jiří Menzel, Miloš Forman, Ivan Passer, Jaromil Jireš, Pavel Juráček, Ewald Schorm, Jan Němec and Věra Chytilová, whose works were not just popular among the masses but also formed the cornerstone of the movement in film history. In 2010, filmmaker Shivendra Singh Dungarpur met Menzel at a café in Prague, to fulfil his desire to interview the filmmaker after watching his debut film, Closely Watched Trains (1966), an integral product of the New Wave. The purpose was simply to understand Menzel’s works, which fascinated Dungarpur as a film student. But the encounter gave birth to Czechmate - In Search of Jiří Menzel , a documentary chronicling the evolution of the New Wave movement and Menzel’s pivotal contribution to it. “I had no idea that the meeting would result in a film and certainly not [one] that would take eight years to make, be seven hours long and be about so much more than Menzel,” recalls Dungarpur. Censorship and cinema Dungarpur’s documentary explores the artistry of the Czech New Wave as well as delves into the socio-political background, covering a period of over four decades. “As I heard the stories of avant-garde filmmakers who had to work in factories, or as sweepers, whose films were banned for years or who had no choice but to make films on dam-building and housing, some who even died from depression, having to deal with the heavy hand of the censors and an oppressive regime, but yet managed to make remarkable films... it really made me think,” he reminisces. What intrigued Dungarpur was the parallels between India and Czechoslovakia, in terms of censorship and using cinema for political resistance. “In India, in the fight against censorship, it’s every filmmaker for himself. I don’t see the industry standing together against the government,” he observes. “I also found parallels between the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) and the Film and TV School of Academy of Performing Arts in Prague (FAMU), both state-funded film schools that gave birth to the New Wave movements in their countries — the only difference being that the Czechoslovakian filmmakers took on the regime through their films.” Beyond Menzel As Dungarpur investigated the movement further, he decided to broaden his ambit and establish connections with other New Wave movements around the world. The 85 film personalities he interviewed, included filmmakers like Andrzej Wajda in Warsaw, Raoul Coutard in Bayonne, István Szabó in Budapest, Ken Loach in London and Emir Kusturica in a village in Bosnia. “The documentary discovers a generation of filmmakers who fell off the map,” says Dungarpur. In the process, lasting almost a decade, Dungarpur formed a friendship with Menzel. “Being a part of his life, I saw him become a father at the age of 77 and was privileged to be at his side travelling on the train to Loděnice station to celebrate 50 years of Closely Watched Train s,” he shares. While he managed to feature most names on his wishlist, legendary Czech filmmaker Otakar Vávra, who had turned 100 in 2011, passed away before he could be interviewed for the documentary. “The other person I really tried my best to get an interview with, and failed, was [author] Milan Kundera,” informs Dungarpur. “He taught these filmmakers at FAMU and had a huge influence on them.” A long watch With a surfeit of material collected over years of interviews, archival footage and film clips, editing the documentary proved to be challenging, especially as the film was primarily in Czech. With the first cut of 15 hours, Czechmate took nearly three years to be brought down to its final runtime of 446 minutes. “I was very clear I did not want a linear structure and if you see the film, you will see how everything is interlinked and it was interesting to go back and forth between different periods,” he points out. The documentary is the longest Indian feature film to be cleared by the Central Board of Film Certification. The length of the film made it difficult for the makers to find distribution and even slots at screenings and festival programming. “The film was screened at II Cinema Ritrovato Festival in Bologna, Mumbai Film Festival and the Kolkata Film Festival and had screenings at UCLA, in London, Prague and Bratislava, but festivals have found blocking a seven-hour slot for the film a challenge.” The film has now been released by Second Run on Blu-Ray. “The special features on CzechMate include two of Menzel’s rare early short films and a 24-page booklet with extracts of my shooting diaries from 2010 to 2016,” he informs.  I had no idea that the meeting would result in a film and certainly not [one] that would take eight years to make, be seven hours long and be about so much more than Jiří Menzel Shivendra Singh Dungarpur Filmmaker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-throwback-to-the-golden-60s/article32085805.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Online exams for final-year DU students to start from Aug. 10||Delhi University will hold online open book examinations (OBE) for final-year undergraduate students from August 10-31, the High Court was told on Monday. DU had earlier decided to hold the exams from August 17. It, however, agreed to advance the date after the court noted that the career prospects of final-year students were at stake as many of them had to join other courses in India or abroad. DU also clarified that students left out of online exams will be given an opportunity to appear in a physical examination, to be held sometime in September. The university also informed the court that a new set of mock tests would start from July 27. DU had recently held mock tests online but many students had complained of technical glitches and the exercise was widely criticised. DU further informed the court that around 95% of the 2.7 lakh final-year students had filled forms for online exams, and that the deadline to fill up forms had been extended till July 25. It added that details of students had been updated on the portal and that colleges and students could verify the information. The university sought more time to respond to the court’s query on schedule for physical exams and declaration of results. The High Court was hearing petitions by final-year DU students seeking clarity on the date and mode of OBE. A lawyer for one of the petitioners said he received over 500 emails from students “many of whom were suffering from mental trauma due to repeated postponement of exams”. The students had raised the issue of difficulty in pursuing postgraduate studies in foreign universities as transcripts had to be submitted by the end of July or early August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/online-exams-for-final-year-du-students-to-start-from-aug-10/article32085610.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC tells NCDC to submit results, analysis of sero-survey today||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to submit a report and analysis of the serological survey that was recently conducted in the national capital. A Bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad ordered the NCDC to place the report before the court by Wednesday. Under the survey, blood samples of 21,793 people were tested for antibodies against COVID-19. The Delhi government collected the samples and sent them to the NCDC, which comes under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The survey was done between June 27 and July 5. The results of the survey have not been released. The High Court was informed that the Delhi government had sent an email to the NCDC on July 11 asking for the sero-survey report, but it has not been provided so far. Delhi government standing counsel Satyakam said he had personally called up Sujeet Kumar Singh, director of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme of the NCDC, on July 12 to enquire about the report only to be told that he had “no business to call him up”. The Bench told Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma and the Centre’s standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia, representing the Ministry of Health, that the court would not accept such kind of “red-tapeism” and asked them to ensure that the NCDC director is present on Wednesday. The High Court’s direction came on a petition filed in public interest by Rakesh Malhotra, highlighting various issued faced by individuals while conducting tests for COVID-19. The Delhi government, in its report, said that 9,844 Rapid Antigen Detection (RAT) tests were conducted on July 1, and by July 10, the figure had increased to 11,741. It added that on July 1, 10,697 RT-PCR tests were also conducted, which decreased to 9,526 on July 10. Mr. Malhotra stated that the report does not specify how many persons had undergone RAT tests and turned out to be COVID-19 negative, and then were made to undergo the RT-PCR test. He stated that those figures would correctly reflect the extent of ramping up of tests that Delhi government claims it has done. Taking note of the submission, the High Court directed the Delhi government to submit a brief affidavit clarifying the matter. The Bench also asked the Indian Council of Medical Research to submit an updated affidavit indicating the applications it has received from private hospitals and labs in Delhi seeking authorisation for carrying out RAT tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-tells-ncdc-to-submit-results-analysis-of-sero-survey-today/article32085643.ece
15 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||No quarantine in Punjab for three-day visit: CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Tuesday that those coming to Punjab for less than 72 hours would be exempted from the mandatory home quarantine. “It has been decided to provide this concession to facilitate students wishing to come for examinations and business travellers, whose stay in the State is less than 72 hours from the time of their arrival. It has been decided to exempt such travellers from the 14-day mandatory home quarantine requirement that remains in place for domestic inbound travellers in Punjab,” he said in a statement. He said the travellers would, however, need to submit a formal undertaking at all border check posts in a standard format provided on COVA app, which they would have to download on their phones. Besides entering their details in the app’s travellers’ information section, these persons would have to undertake that the COVA app would remain active throughout their period of stay in Punjab. The additional SOPs for such travellers require them to voluntarily submit that they were not coming from any containment zone and undertake not to stay for more than 72 hours in Punjab from the time of arrival in the State, he added. While the Government of India had recently waived the requirement of home quarantine for domestic travellers and replaced it with self-monitoring, Capt. Amarinder had made it clear that quarantine restrictions would continue to remain in place in Punjab on account of the rising numbers. Tuesday’s announcement is the only exemption to the rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-quarantine-in-punjab-for-three-day-visit-cm/article32085654.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi sees less than 2K cases for fourth consecutive day||The city recorded less than 2,000 new COVID-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day on Tuesday with 1,606 fresh infections being reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,15,346, read a health bulletin released by the government. Since June 23, when 3,947 new cases were reported — the highest so far —the number of new cases has been dropping and it has been less than 3,000 for the past 18 days. Also, 35 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 3,446. Of the total cases, 93,236 people have recovered and there are 18,664 active cases. Though the total cases in Delhi have been increasing, the active cases have been decreasing since July 1. The number of active cases was 27,007 on July 1 and has decreased by 30.8% to reach 18,664 on Tuesday. Also, the number of people admitted to COVID-19 hospitals has been steadily decreasing for the past 13 days. On July 1, a total of 5,892 beds in COVID-19 hospitals were occupied and it has decreased steadily to 4,194 on Tuesday. The number of COVID-19 positive people on home isolation has also decreased from 16,703 on July 1 to 10,695 on Tuesday — a decrease of 35.96%.Also, the positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has dropped from 12.2% on July 1 to 7.6%. But lesser RT PCR tests, which has higher positivity, and more rapid antigen tests, which has lower positivity, was done, shows bulletin. “Close monitoring of patients to be done by specialists,”read an advisory by the government. It also said the ‘Internal Death Audit Committee’ of the hospital should suggest remedial measures to lower mortality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-sees-less-than-2k-cases-for-fourth-consecutive-day/article32085650.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Riots: no actionable evidence against politicians, say police||The police have informed the High Court that “no actionable evidence has surfaced yet” against political leaders “instigating or participating” in the north-east Delhi riots that broke out in February. “When substantial evidence of involvement of aforesaid persons in the commissioning of any offence surfaces, Delhi Police will take steps in the already registered FIRs. However, no fresh FIR is warranted at this stage,” the police said in an affidavit. The police made the submission in response to a bunch of pleas alleging hate speeches given by BJP leaders Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur, Parvesh Verma and Abhay Verma before the riots. One of the petitioners had also sought action against Congress leaders such as Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra; Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders Manish Sisodia and Amanatullah Khan; and AIMIM MLA Waris Pathan for allegedly giving hate speeches. The police also declined to make public the 751 FIRs lodged in connection with the riots. “A conscious decision has been taken to declare the FIRs connected to the riots as sensitive,” read the affidavit, adding: “This has been done to preserve communal harmony as putting these FIRs in public domain would disclose the names of complainants, witnesses and accused.” Out of the 751 cases, chargesheets have been filed in 200, said the police, adding that an SIT is probing 59 cases out of which chargesheets have been filed in 43. In response to a petition that alleged involvement of police personnel in rioting and criminal conduct, Delhi Police filed an affidavit stating that “no involvement of any police personnel had been found in the matter”. One of the petitioners also sought the setting up of a website giving details of all people detained since February 23, including name, gender and date of arrest. The police, however, said all the details are mentioned on the notice boards of concerned police stations. As of July 11, a total of 1,430 people have been arrested in connection with the riots. The affidavit said that investigation had revealed that “protests were held at 21 sites and large scale mobilisation was done in the garb of peaceful march”. The High Court has posted the batch of petitions for hearing on July 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/riots-no-actionable-evidence-against-politicians-say-police/article32085612.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal, Sisodia laud govt. schools for exam results||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday congratulated Delhi government school students, teachers, and parents for achieving 98% passing percentage in CBSE Class 12 examinations. Mr. Kejriwal said that Delhi’s model of education had made history with 98% of the children in government schools passing in Class 12 exams and no other State had achieved such great results in the last 70 years. No measure He also said that the excellent results of Delhi government schools had proved that “intelligence cannot be measured by financial status” and that these schools had come a long way from a time when they were looked down upon. “This year, Delhi has achieved 98% in CBSE Class 12 results. I think no government schools in any State have achieved such a great result in the last 70 years. The private schools have achieved 92.2% results, and government schools have received 97.92%, which is the highest amongst the government schools in the entire country,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Examinations were conducted in a total of 916 schools of the Delhi government out of which 396 schools had received 100% results. Since the Aam Aadmi Party government was formed results had been consistently improving since 2016, he said. Results achieved in 2016 were 88.9%, 90% in 2018, 94% in 2019, and 98% results have been achieved this year, he said. “These results have proved that because the condition of the government schools was bad, poor families did not use to send their children to schools. But when the conditions of the schools improve, a poor family wants to invest time and money in the education of their child. They have proved that they are no less than private school teachers,” he also said. Mr. Kejriwal also sought to assure students among the 2% who were not successful and either failed or got compartments not to be disheartened. Mr. Sisodia said the most important point related to the results was that students who had passed were first-generation students who are the first in their families to be admitted to schools and to have passed high school or Class 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-sisodia-laud-govt-schools-for-exam-results/article32085617.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||DU panel to finalise admission schedule||The admissions committee of Delhi University will meet in the coming weeks to finalise the admissions schedule and other related issues following the release of CBSE Class 12 exam results, officials said on Tuesday. Academic calendar The final schedule of dates for the release of cut-offs for the university’s merit-based entrance exams as well as for its entrance exams will depend on the release of UGC’s revised academic calendar as well as dates of NEET and JEE examinations, said Dean of Admissions Shobaha Bagai. With regard to criteria for admissions in the light of students not being able to complete some or many papers, Ms. Bagai said that the final mark sheet provided by the Board — calculated based on algorithms determined by it — would be used. While the admissions committee will take a final call on the matter, she said that it was unlikely that there would be any changes in this process. So far, there have been nearly 3.8 lakh registrations for undergraduate courses at the university; about 1.5 lakh registrations for postgraduate courses; and 27,031 registrations for MPhil and PhD courses. The extended last date for registrations is July 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-panel-to-finalise-admission-schedule/article32085613.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Twins score identical marks in CBSE Class 12 examination||Identical twins Manasi and Manya Singh were in for a surprise on Monday when their CBSE Class 12 results were announced as both scored identical marks. Growing up, their teachers could not differentiate between them, and it seems nor could the CBSE. Both scored 95.8% with the same marks in English, Computer Science, Physics, Chemistry and Physical Education. Having gotten used to scoring similar marks right through school, the twins said that it was a happy coincidence that they managed identical marks in the Board exam. The twins want to pursue engineering and are waiting to appear for JEE Mains, scheduled in September. Students of Aster Public School in Greater Noida since Class 9, the twins said they have always had heath competition between them. “There was never any pressure to do something because my sister was doing it. We just turned out to be very similar people apart from looking alike and have always encouraged each other to become better versions of ourselves,” said Manasi. The twins said that when they were growing up, teachers would get confused between them as they were inseparable. In Class 9, a request was made to change their section. “Although many people think we were put in different sections as our teachers could not differentiate between us, the truth is that out parents wanted us to be separated as we are introverts and were not making friends with new students,” said Manasi. The twins studied in various schools across the country as their father is in the India Air Force. They have been living in Greater Noida for the past four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/twins-score-identical-marks-in-cbse-class-12-examination/article32085621.ece
15 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Speaker dismisses petitions for disqualification of 7 MLAs||Nagaland Speaker Sharingain Longkumer has dismissed petitions for the disqualification of seven MLAs of the Opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF). The NPF had filed the petitions against the lawmakers in 2019 for ‘wilfully’ defying its collective decision to support Congress candidate K.L. Chishi in the Lok Sabha elections that year. The seven MLAs had ahead of the election issued a ‘declaration’ supporting Tokheho Yepthomi of the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party, which runs the government in alliance with the BJP. This, the NPF had said, was tantamount to voluntarily giving up the party’s membership. The Speaker said in his “final hearing” on Tuesday there were no sufficient grounds to presume that the MLAs in question had voluntarily given up the membership of the NPF. ‘Angry with NPF’ The seven MLAs had in their statement said they were angry with the NPF for not fielding a candidate and backing the Congress nominee “against the principle of regionalism”. The NPF had subsequently suspended them from the party’s primary membership after serving them show-cause notices. After Manipur, the BJP is facing trouble in Nagaland, with 12 of its legislators, including Ministers, camping in New Delhi seeking the ouster of State unit president and Minister Temjen Imna Along Longkumer. Ten district unit presidents of the BJP had earlier written to the central leadership seeking his removal, resenting his ‘autocratic’ and ‘dictatorial’ style of functioning. “We met national president J.P. Nadda on Monday and discussed the way he [Mr. Longkumer] is running the party,” said a party leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/speaker-dismisses-petitions-for-disqualification-of-7-mlas/article32085657.ece
15 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gadkari lays foundation stone for 11 highway projects in Haryana||Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday inaugurated and laid foundation stone for 11 highway projects worth Rs. 20,027 crore in Haryana through a web-based function. Mr. Gadkari laid the foundation stone for eight road projects at a cost of Rs. 17,787 crore. The projects include 227 km six-lane access-controlled Greenfield Expressway from Ismailpur to Narnaul on NH-152D in eight packages costing Rs. 8,650 crore, 46.11 km four-lane Gurugram-Pataudi-Rewari section of NH-352W for Rs. 1,524 crore, 14.4 km four-lane Rewari by-pass costing Rs. 928 crore and 30.45 km four-lane Rewari-Ateli Mandi section of NH-11 for Rs. 1,057 crore. The Union Minister also inaugurated three big road projects worth Rs. 2,240 crore — 35.45 km four-lane Rohna/Hasangarh-Jhajjar section of NH-334B costing Rs. 1,183 crore; 70 km four-laning of Punjab-Haryana border to Jind section of NH-71 for Rs. 857 crore and the 85.36 km two-lane with paved shoulders Jind-Karnal Highway on NH-709 costing Rs. 200 crore. New vistas Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Gadkari said National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) would spend Rs. 2 lakh crore on the construction of new roads in Haryana in the next two years. He said the highway projects worth Rs. 20,027 crore, which he dedicated to the people of Haryana, would open new vistas of development in the State and provide better road connectivity to the western part of the country and also neighbouring States of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. He said that apart from these road projects, the 687-km-long Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway passing through Jind in Haryana would benefit Haryana and give boost to the State’s economy. The Union Minister also urged Chief Minister Mahohar Lal to develop new industrial clusters along the Delhi-Mumbai Corridor and said that Centre was ready to give all support to Haryana in this work. SYL Canal row Expressing gratitude to Mr. Gadkari for dedicating various highway projects, Mr. Lal sought his intervention in resolving the long-pending issue with Punjab regarding Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal so that Haryana could get its legitimate share of river water. Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda said that four-lane Rohna/Hasangarh-Jhajjar section of NH-334B and four-laning of Punjab-Haryana border to Jind section of NH-71 were approved during the UPA government in 2013 and 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gadkari-lays-foundation-stone-for-11-highway-projects-in-haryana/article32085637.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two held for bank fraud, staging robbery to claim vehicle insurance||Two persons were arrested for allegedly committing bank fraud and staging a robbery to claim insurance, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said that the accused were identified as Raj Kumar Gupta alias Sudhir Raj Gupta (36) and Sunil Jaiswal alias Sumit Jaiswal (26). The police received a call on July 7 from Sunil Jaiswal. He said that around 3.30 p.m., while he was entering his house, two persons robbed him of his phone, cash and car keys. The robbers then locked him inside the house and fled. However, the complainant couldn’t explain how he managed funds to buy a car worth Rs. 17 lakh. After scanning the CCTV footage, it was found that the robbery was staged. He had obtained a car loan from a bank using forged documents with the help of Raj Gupta and Manoj Kumar Shastri, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-held-for-bank-fraud-staging-robbery-to-claim-vehicle-insurance/article32085619.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||After ILBS, Delhi gets its second plasma bank at Lok Nayak Hospital||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated Delhi’s second plasma bank at the Lok Nayak Hospital on Tuesday. The new plasma bank was set up 15 days after the first plasma bank was opened at the ILBS Hospital. The Chief Minister said that the government will continue setting up facilities and beds even if the beds for COVID-19 patients remain vacant to ensure there is no shortage if the cases surge. “Today [Tuesday], Dr. Suresh and his team have started Delhi’s second plasma bank at the Lok Nayak Hospital. Delhi is the first State to have launched India’s first plasma bank at the ILBS Hospital. Plasma has been proven to be helpful in the treatment of COVID-19 infected patients and saving their lives until a vaccine comes,” he said. “We are not claiming that 100% of lives will be saved through the plasma, but it has been effective in treating people. Plasma has also played an important role in declining the death rate in Delhi. The Lok Nayak Hospital is located in central Delhi, so it will be convenient for people to reach here and donate plasma,” he also said. Mr. Kejriwal said the spread of pandemic in Delhi is gradually reducing and the recovery rate of patients is increasing. Earlier, 35 out of 100 people tested would be diagnosed with the virus whereas only seven or eight people out of 100 are found positive now . The number of fatalities due to COVID-19 had also come down from about 101 per day in mid-June to around 40 now, he pointed out. More than 200 people have taken plasma from ILBS so far. “We do not want to store plasma in the bank forever, but no one should suffer for lack of plasma either. Many people are coming for plasma, they are getting it and no one is denied plasma. Everyone is now getting plasma easily,” he said. He also credited the Delhi government’s “strong fight” against the virus to all institutions and support from the Central government and other agencies. “I am happy that the Prime Minister has also praised the model of Delhi and everyone’s cooperation in it,” the CM added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/after-ilbs-delhi-gets-its-second-plasma-bank-at-lok-nayak-hospital/article32085640.ece
15 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||May impose curfew in 4 Haryana districts: Vij||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said the government was considering to impose curfew in the State’s four districts sharing border with the Delhi and seal them to contain the spread of COVID-19. To stop spread virus In a press statement, Mr. Vij said the infection was spreading fast in four districts of Haryana because of Delhi and imposing curfew was the only way out to stop it since every individual crossing the border could not be tested. He said the four districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonipat — had 80 % of the State’s cases and it was in this view that we were considering to impose curfew and seal them. Sources in Gurugram’s local administration, however, said no such proposal was under consideration so far. Though the four districts bordering Delhi put together contribute the majority of the over 17,000 cases in the State, the number of active cases in Gurugram and Faridabad has declined sharply over the past two weeks. Gurugram now just 1,084 active cases, while Faridabad has 893. Interestingly, Rohtak, though does not share border with Delhi, has 1,028 cumulative cases, which is almost double the 530 cases in Jhajjar. Similarly, Palwal and Mahindergarh, both not sharing border with Delhi, have 529 and 512 cases respectively. As per the latest State health bulletin, the cases in Haryana double every 21 days and the fatality rate is 1.38%. Similarly, the recovery rate is 75.53% and the positivity rate is 5.90%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/may-impose-curfew-in-4-haryana-districts-vij/article32085645.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP accuses Delhi govt. of being anti-labour||The BJP Opposition on Tuesday accused the Delhi government of being anti-labour and demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe of the accounts of the Delhi Building & Other Construction workers welfare board for the last 5 years. CAG report According to a recent CAG report, the funds of the Board were to be used for the upliftment of poor laborers but the government, Mr. Gupta alleged, recruited “karyakartas of AAP” and distributed the fund among them. “Laborers could not get their rights due to misappropriation of the fund, by not depositing tax on time and by using that fund as salary for the employees of the labour department while this fund should have been spent for welfare of labourers,” Mr. Gupta said, adding a report submitted by the CAG to the HCsaid in the middle of 2016-18, there was alleged misappropriation of fund of about Rs. 3,200 crores of Construction workers welfare board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-accuses-delhi-govt-of-being-anti-labour/article32085646.ece
15 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||9 more dead in Assam||Nine people drowned in Assam on Saturday, taking the floods-related death tally to 59. The flood situation continued to worsen, affecting 32.94 lakh people across 28 of the State’s 33 districts. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority said nine people died across five districts — three of them in Dibrugarh — during the last 24 hours. “So far, 59 people have lost their lives. Another 26 people lost their lives in rain-induced landslides,” an ASDMA spokesperson said. A person each was reported missing in Golaghat and Morigaon districts. Officials said efforts were on to trace them. Among the affected people across 3,371 villages and localities, 44,108 have taken shelter across 198 relief camps in 18 districts. An official estimate said crop on 1.28 lakh hectares has been affected. “Heavy rainfall in adjoining Arunachal Pradesh is adding to Assam’s woes. The Brahmaputra and nine of its tributaries are flowing above the danger mark,” the spokesperson said. Barpeta continued to be the worst affected district with 5.5 lakh people moving to makeshift shelters on higher grounds followed by Dhubri (4.11 lakh), Morigaon (4.08 lakh), Goalpara (2.5 lakh) and South Salmara (2.25 lakh).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/9-more-dead-in-assam/article32085652.ece
15 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Grandma clears Class 12||A 50-year-old grandmother in Meghalaya has cleared her Class 12 humanities examination 32 years after dropping out of Class 10. It was particularly satisfying for Lakyntiew Syiemlieh, who began teaching basics of the Khasi language at a community-run school in 2008, three years after her husband abandoned her. She had her inherited house in Shillong, but the rent was barely enough to raise her four children. Teaching children for Rs. 3,000 a month gave her a sense of satisfaction besides “that much more to sustain my family”. But what rankled in her more than a failed marriage was her educational status. “I loved literature enough to write poems in the Khasi language. But my inability to fathom mathematics and science made me leave school in Shillong in 1988,” Ms. Syiemlieh told The Hin du on Tuesday. She shifted to Umsning Lumumpih two years later. The opportunity to complete her Class 10 came when the National Institute of Open Schooling set up a centre at Umsning. She cleared Class 10 in 2017. In 2018, she enrolled at a missionary college at Umsning for higher secondary. “For Class 12, I took a year’s leave from the school,” Ms. Syiemlieh said. She has now set her eyes on a Bachelor’s degree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/grandma-clears-class-12/article32085656.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||TRAI told to act against unregistered telemarketers||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) to start taking action against unregistered telemarketers who are engaged in the activity of unsolicited commercial communications. The court said it was posting the case for further hearing on August 28 to allow TRAI to show progress in the number of individuals and entities who have a registered “header” for the purpose of sending commercial communications. “Header” is an alphanumeric string of maximum eleven characters or numbers assigned to an individual, business or legal entity to send commercial communications under the Telecom Commercial Communications Customer Preferences Regulations (TCCCPR). “Ensure that there is more registration as per the regulations. Show some interest that you are interested in execution of the law,” the Bench told TRAI. The court made the remarks after senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Paytm, stated that out of nine lakh people and entities, only 20,000 have registered. Paytm, in its petition, has alleged that telecom operators are not blocking those who are defrauding its customers by “phishing” activities over various networks. Mr. Dave stated that as per the regulation, every access provider has to ensure that any commercial communication using its network only takes place using registered header assigned to the sender for the purpose of commercial communication. The senior advocate claimed that due to the large number of unregistered players, Paytm was experiencing fraud of its customers to the tune of Rs. 1-2 crore each month. “The moment everyone is registered, the matter is over,” Mr. Dave said. “Are you [TRAI] so powerless that you can’t do anything. Have you taken action against a single person. You are waiting for what, the fraud to be committed,” the Bench asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/trai-told-to-act-against-unregistered-telemarketers/article32085634.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. act of demolishing houses inhuman: Congress||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday accused the Delhi government of acting in an inhuman and insensitive manner by allegedly demolishing nearly 100 houses at the East Laxmi market in east Delhi, which have been in existence since 1982. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said at a time when the government was asking people to stay at home to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the same government was throwing the poor out on the streets by carrying out demolition drives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-act-of-demolishing-houses-inhuman-congress/article32085647.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Disburse funds to colleges: DU teachers||Delhi University teacher’s group Academics for Action and Development (AAD) wrote to Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday calling for immediate disbursal of funds to the 12 colleges under the Delhi government. Thousands of teachers and staff of these colleges, which are fully funded by the government have not received their salaries from May, the group of academic and executive council members of the university said. “This irregular and insufficient release of funds is aggravating the pandemic situation for them,” the group wrote. It said that the non-release of funds was impacting teachers and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/disburse-funds-to-colleges-du-teachers/article32085615.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Outfit demands release of arrested activists||Maulana Mahmood Madani, general secretary of the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, said that it is a matter of grave concern that at a time when the entire country is in the grip of a pandemic, the Delhi police are on a spree to arrest youths and activists who were in the forefront of anti-CAA agitation. Mr. Madani was speaking at a meeting of the orgnisation’s Central Working Committee at Deoband in Uttar Pradesh. “We condemn in the strongest terms Delhi Police’s continuous hounding of activists and urge the Centre to put a stop on these unlawful spree of arrests forthwith and release all those who have been arrested in this connection,” Mr. Madani said. The Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind also demanded that the Centre withdraw sections of the UAPA slapped on the arrested activists and that it should give due compensation to those who died due to police atrocities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/outfit-demands-release-of-arrested-activists/article32085622.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||Husband held for trying to kill transgender woman||A 24-year-old taxi driver has been arrested for allegedly trying to kill his wife over suspicion of infidelity in south-east Delhi’s Amar Colony, the police said on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Gyanender Shukla, a resident of Timarpur. On Saturday, Amar Colony police station received an information regarding the incident. The injured was shifted to AIIMS Trauma Centre, they said. The father of the 25-year-old victim said that his daughter’s throat was slit. During investigation, it was revealed that the injured was a transgender. After slitting her throat, the accused assumed she was dead and fled, a senior police officer said. When Shukla left, she made a video of the injury on her throat and shared it with her father, who later called the police, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/husband-held-for-trying-to-kill-transgender-woman/article32085623.ece
15 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Missing teen reunited with family||A 15-year-old girl, who had fled from her residence in south Delhi’s Govindpuri, was counselled and reunited with her family, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said a WhatsApp message from a local named Roopa was received stating that a woman was in her area. When asked, the girl said she was from Kanpur and that there is no one in her family. Two women officers then counselled the girl and took her in confidence to share details of her family. Next, the girl said her mother used to scold her often due to which she left the house in Govindpuri. It was then revealed that she was also reported missing from the area and a case on charges of kidnapping had been registered. Mr. Thakur said Ms. Roopa has been rewarded with Rs. 2,000 for informing the police. “She has been rewarded to encourage the public to come forward to help without any hesitation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/missing-teen-reunited-with-family/article32085635.ece
15 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC allows abortion at 23 weeks||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday allowed a woman’s plea seeking termination of her over 23-week pregnancy after All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) endorsed the procedure in view of the complications associated with the birth of the baby. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said in view of the report submitted by a team of medical experts at AIIMS, it was allowing the woman’s plea seeking termination of her pregnancy due to certain abnormalities in the foetus. The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act stipulates a ceiling of 20 weeks for termination of pregnancy beyond which abortion of a foetus is statutorily impermissible. The counsel for the petitioner had stated that the abnormalities in the foetus was detected only after the 20th week of the pregnancy. The counsel said the foetus suffered from “spina bifida and Arnold Chiari Syndrome defect”, which results in the spinal cord being outside the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-allows-abortion-at-23-weeks/article32085633.ece
