17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. throws open defence production and coal sectors||Steps to indigenise defence production by banning the import of some weapons and platforms while hiking foreign direct investment into the sector were among the highlights of the fourth tranche of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package, which seemed to focus more on industry reforms than any sort of economic stimulus. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman also announced measures to introduce commercial mining in the coal sector, liberalise the mineral sector, ease airspace restrictions and encourage private involvement in space and atomic energy projects. Boost for growth “Many sectors need policy simplification. Once we decongest sectors, we can also provide the necessary boost for growth and employment,” Ms. Sitharaman said, noting that structural reforms were the focus of Saturday’s announcements. “These sectors with these reforms are going to be the new horizon for growth and, therefore, we see great potential in more investments which can be drawn with the reforms that we are announcing today. More production can be clearly marked, and certainly it will lead to a lot more employment possibilities,” she said. Most industry groups welcomed the package, although some in the space sector said the measures to boost private participation had to go beyond mere intent. However, labour unions across the ideological spectrum, including the RSS-based Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, slammed the reform measures. “This was less of a stimulus and more of industrial reforms, which could have been announced at any time. They have used this crisis time to utilise the ordinance route or other ways to fast-track industrial reforms, which would have faced resistance otherwise,” said Ernst and Young’s chief policy adviser D.K. Srivastava, who is also a member of the Advisory Council to the 15th Finance Commission. “The sectors covered are of strategic importance but these policies will be rolled out over a 3-6 month period, and any implication for supporting or reviving the economy as it comes out of lockdown is missing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-throws-open-defence-production-and-coal-sectors/article31605077.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||28 test COVID positive from same apartment complex||Twenty-eight persons, including three children, have tested positive for COVID-19 in the same apartment complex at Madannapet area adding bulk to the ever increasing number of coronavirus cases from GHMC area. Shared on social media platforms, the news is spreading shock waves across Madannapet and surrounding areas, and has had the entire city in the grip of fear psychosis. Of the 28, twenty-three belonged to the same apartment complex, while five others from other areas stayed here as visitors. According to information shared by sources, one person who approached a corporate hospital in Jubilee Hills with COVID-19 symptoms, has tested positive for the virus. Subsequently, his daughter too tested positive. Following this, residents of the apartment, most of whom are educated and employed, volunteered for testing. A total of 55 samples were collected and sent for testing, of which 28 have turned out positive for coronavirus. An 11-month-old baby is the youngest among the three children who tested positive. Most of the patients are asymptomatic, informed officials who are unable to determine the infection trail. The index case is that of a software engineer, who stayed indoors during the lockdown, they say. However, relatives and friends from other apartment complexes in Malakpet might have carried it here, they surmise. Samples have been collected and sent for testing from those complexes too, while Health teams are conducting fever survey in all surrounding areas. Sources in the Telangana Health department said that the Madannapet apartment cases need further investigation to know the source of infection. “Teams headed by officials spoke to the patients from the apartments and were asked to give details about all the places they visited, time spent there, without hiding anything. However, there might not be too many places they visited because of the lockdown. Though the team got some leads, it is early to conclude that all of them got infected from single source. Health condition of all residents of the apartments is being monitored,” sources said. In one more textbook case of the COVID spread, the virus has travelled to two areas in city located in opposite corners, from a hospital’s dialysis unit. The index case here is a person residing in Alwal, who visited his ailing mother at the hospital and stayed overnight. After returning from there, he reported sick with fever and other symptoms, and tested positive for COVID. Subsequently, his wife and two children too tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/28-test-covid-positive-from-same-apartment-complex/article31605304.ece
17 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State reports one death, 48 fresh cases||The State has witnessed one more COVID-19 death and 48 fresh cases during the past 24 hours after 9,628 samples were tested. On the brighter side, 101 patients have recovered. Koyambedu wholesale market links continue to push the State figures, as 31 of the 48 cases are linked to the hotspot in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. The new cases have been reported in eight districts. Kurnool and Nellore districts reported nine fresh cases each and all of them are linked to Koyambedu. Also, all the eight fresh cases in Chittoor are linked to Koyambedu; while in Visakhapatnam, two of the four fresh cases are linked to Koyambedu, and only fresh cases in Kadapa and West Godavari are also linked to the wholesale market. Krishna district reported seven fresh cases. The tally has gone up to 2,355 and the toll mounted to 49 with the death of a patient in the worst-hit district Kurnool. Of the total cases, 150 are of migrant workers who had returned to the State in the recent past. Most of the recovered patients are from Kurnool (47) and Anantapur (37) districts. Remaining are from Krishna (5), East Godavari (3), Prakasam (3), West Godavari (3), Kadapa (2) and Visakhapatnam (1). So far 1,353 patients have recovered from COVID and the number is way higher than the active cases, 953. Excluding the migrant workers’ cases, the number of active cases are only 803. The district tallies excluding migrant cases are as follows: Kurnool (608), Guntur (413), Krishna (367), Chittoor (173), Nellore (149), Anantapur (122), Kadapa (102), Visakhapatnam (72), West Godavari (70), Prakasam (63), East Godavari (52), , Srikakulam (7) and Vizianagaram (7).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-one-death-48-fresh-cases/article31605069.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,||State expected to open more services from tomorrow||With lockdown 3.0 scheduled to end on Sunday, the State government is all set to open more businesses and services to the public, based on the Centre’s guidelines to be spelt out on Sunday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is hoping that the Centre will ease restrictions while prescribing some strict rules to be followed, particularly in containment zones. Hotels, autorickshaws and cab services are expected to be opened to the public. Sources said that KSRTC is expected to run its operations to some key destinations with limited passengers from Monday. A limited number of BMTC buses is also expected to operate to enable government employees to attend office. Awaiting the Centre’s guidelines, both KSRTC and BMTC have made arrangements to operate services. The Centre is expected to continue lockdown curbs till the end of the month and will not allow malls, cinemas, metro rail services and colleges to resume from Monday, sources said. The Centre is expected to release new guidelines on Sunday. The government has already opened BengaluruOne centres, KarnatakaOne centres in districts to enable citizens to pay their bills to service providers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-expected-to-open-more-services-from-tomorrow/article31605117.ece
17 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,||44 more positive cases in Tirunelveli district||With people returning to this district from other States, including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana increasing, the district’s COVID-19 positive patients’ tally touched 180 with addition of 44 more cases, the biggest ever jump in a day. All of them are from Maharashtra. They managed to cross all check-posts en route but were intercepted at Gangaikondan and tested positive. As most of them returned from other States to Nanguneri, Thisaiyanvilai and Radhapuram taluks, the district administration made arrangements for isolating them in schools until their sample results are declared. In Thoothukudi district, eight more cases tested positive: 1 from Gujarat and 6 from Maharashtra and 1 in a primary health centre to take the district’s total number of cases to 56. When a family coming from Gujarat to its native place of Ramalingapuram near Kayathar was tested, a four-year-old girl tested positive. Since her mother is pregnant, her father took her to the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. Similarly, two labourers from Mumbai tested positive even as they were coming to their native places of Pudukottai and Koththaali near Kayathar during a medical screening at Thottilovanpatti. When a conservancy worker working in isolation ward of Kovilpatti Government Hospital was found to have contracted the virus, she was sent to the medical college hospital. In Tenkasi, the total touched 61 with the addition of five more cases of which four are from Maharashtra. In Kanniyakumari, two more positive cases were identified to take the tally to 37. Meanwhile, nine patients, all from Puliyangudi, were discharged from Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. In Thoothukudi, two patients were discharged. Madurai Four people tested positive here on Saturday taking the case count to 147 in the district. Of those who tested positive, one was a returnee from Mumbai’s Malad area. The 54-year-old man was at Avaniyapuram. Besides, a 50-year-old woman from Karisalkulam, a 47-year-old man and a three-month-old baby from Mahatma Gandhi Nagar tested positive. They were all contacts of COVID-19 positive victims. Two persons were discharged. Virudhunagar district recorded one more positive case. An old man from Mugavur near Rajapalayam who was going to Tirunelveli district for dialysis tested positive. “His family members have tested negative. It is not known from where he has contracted the infection,” Collector R. Kannan said. The number of positive cases in the district rose to 47 with 13 active cases. “All those coming from other States are kept under quarantine facility for a week and sent home only if they test negative,” he said. Meanwhile, the first batch of migrant workers from Virudhunagar district would be sent to Bihar on Sunday. A total of 450 persons are being sent by a special train originating from Nagercoil. “While most of migrant workers who are here for a longer period are convinced that they can stay back in the district if industrial and construction units resume work, those who are new to the district want to go home,” he said. In Theni, a single person, who tested positive, had come from Maharashtra. The patient was shifted from the quarantine centre near the check post to the Government Medical College Hospital after a test. In Dindigul district, out of seven cases which tested positive on Saturday, five were from Gujarat. In Sivaganga district, all the nine fresh cases were from Maharashtra. On arrival three days ago, they were kept at the Karaikudi TB Hospital for screening purpose. The tests confirmed they were positive following which they were shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital. No case was reported in Ramanathapuram district, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/44-more-positive-cases-in-tirunelveli-district/article31605421.ece
17 May 2020||Vijayawada,||Police cane migrants near Vijayawada||The police on Saturday used force on migrant labourers who were walking to their home States. A few workers suffered injuries in the lathi-charge. More than 500 labourers, who were walking on the National Highway, were provided shelter at the Vijayawada Club. When they came to Kanakadurgamma Varadhi in Guntur district on Saturday, the police asked them to go back. When the workers tried to continue their journey, they were caned. The labourers from Bihar, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and other States had migrated to Tamil Nadu a few months ago. The COVID-19 pandemic put them out of work, forcing them to return to their home States. On the directions of Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, they were shifted to shelter homes and provided food. On Friday, they were shifted to Vijayawada Club. ‘Never return to A.P.’ “We will never return to Andhra Pradesh. Hundreds of workers are walking on roads for more than a month, and the officials did not even offer us a packet of biscuit. Instead of helping the poor labourers, the police are beating us mercilessly,” a woman labourer said. Earlier, incidents of police beating up the migrant workers had been reported from Mangalagiri, Kovvur, Polavaram and other places in the State during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-cane-migrant-workers-in-ap/article31605058.ece
17 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||24 migrants die in U.P. road accident||Twenty four migrant workers were killed and several injured when a trailer truck they were travelling on rammed a lorry near Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh early on Saturday, police said. The larger trailer truck, laden with bags of supply material, was coming from Rajasthan. The supply truck, which was going from Delhi to Madhya Pradesh, had stopped near a dhaba on the side of the highway near Chiruhali, when the trailer, which was allegedly carrying over 50 persons, rammed it from the rear. Both vehicles overturned, police said. Auraiya District Magistrate Abhishek Singh said the incident took place around 3.30 a.m. “A big truck with Rajasthan number plate, laden with cement bags, rammed into it from behind,” said the DM. “Maybe the driver fell asleep,” he added. An injured woman said they had stopped the vehicle so that they could refresh themselves. Most from Jharkhand Of the deceased, 12 were from Jharkhand, four from West Bengal and two each from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Many of the injured were from Madhya Pradesh. Fifteen of the seriously injured were shifted to the Saifai Medical College. Chief Medical Officer, Auraiya, Archana Srivastava said 24 persons were declared brought dead to hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/24-migrants-die-in-up-road-accident/article31605079.ece
17 May 2020||ERODE,||Over 12,000 centres to hold Class 10 exams, says Minister||Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan has said that over 12,000 examination centres would be established for Class 10 board exams, scheduled to be held from June 1. Addressing mediapersons in Gobichettipalayam on Saturday, he said that the number of centres would be increased from the present 5,037 centres to over 12,000. “All high schools and higher secondary schools will serve as exam centres,” he said. To enforce physical distancing among students in examination halls, only 10 students will be permitted to write their exam in each hall, he added. The Minister said that private school teachers will be posted as invigilators in government and government-aided schools, while government teachers will be posted for duty in private schools. Asked about hostel students who are away from their schools, he said that transportation will be arranged for those students and they will be brought to their schools before May 29 and they will be allowed to stay in their school hostels and write their exams. He said that all the teachers should come to their schools on May 21 and ensure their students’ availability for the exams. The Minister said that hall tickets will be issued online and Collectors have been asked to ensure disinfection of all the centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-12000-centres-to-hold-class-10-exams-says-minister/article31605167.ece
17 May 2020||Dadri (Uttar Pradesh),||Complaint last thing on minds of migrants heading home||Anxiety and confusion were writ large on the faces of the passengers waiting for the Shramik Special train, bound for Bihar’s Aurangabad, to depart from the Dadri railway station on the outskirts of Noida on Saturday. The train was scheduled to start at 11 a.m. but pulled out of the station a little after 1 p.m. A handful of passengers could be seen stocking up water being provided by helpful residents of homes along the railway tracks for what would be at least a 14-hour journey, as the mercury rose in step with the sun. However, not even one of the 1,500-odd passengers aboard could be heard muttering a single complaint. The two-hour delay in the journey, according to the passengers, was “nothing” compared to the almost two months of hardship, uncertainty and endless wait that they had to face away from their families and amid a pandemic. It was the first of the four special trains to depart during the day with migrant workers who were stranded in Gautam Buddha Nagar due to the nationwide lockdown. Two such trains each were scheduled to depart from the Dadri and Dankaur railway stations between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. on Saturday. “I was waiting for this train since the lockdown came into effect; it is okay if it is departing later than it was supposed to. I am happy I will get to see my family after this journey ends,” said Krishna Rai, a resident of Bishanpur, who worked as an office assistant at a private company in Noida. Mintu Shah from Chhapra said he was stranded in Dadri since arriving here on March 19 with his sister Nirmala to attend a court hearing in a compensation case involving their father Ramesh, a painter who died in a road accident. “We were stuck here for two months. It was difficult to arrange food for us and my two nieces who accompanied my sister. We had no idea everything would be shut,” he said. Mahendra Prajapati, who is employed at a printing press in Aurangabad, said he was visiting his relatives in Dadri and was scheduled to leave around the time the lockdown was announced. “Not only my relatives but a number of others from my village were stuck here because of the lockdown. We were all staying at the Chhalera village in Noida. This train is a relief which has come a little late but I am glad it has come, after all,” he said. Mr. Prajapati’s relative, Umesh, a welder employed at a private company in Noida’s Sector 5, said the lockdown had made it seem like “everything had ended”. Though his company had reopened, his longing to see his two children was stronger than the urge to join back work. “At least I’m going home now to my family. I don’t know whether or when I will be back. I don’t feel like staying here because of the novel coronavirus threat and what contracting the infection could do to me and my family,” he said. Shailender Kumar Singh, an office assistant who stayed in Greater Noida, said he had to subsist on money from home. “The company I worked at was shut during the lockdown. They paid me only for the days I had worked in March. I had to call home and ask for money. I’m going home with a debt I to owe my family,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/complaint-last-thing-on-minds-of-migrants-heading-home/article31605253.ece
17 May 2020||Kolkata,||Amid lockdown, BJP launches virtual campaign against Mamata||In West Bengal, where Assembly elections are due in a year from now, the prolonged lockdown has seen the emergence of a new political adversary for Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee: the IT cell of the BJP. In a situation when exchanging barbs and trading allegations may look unbecoming of seasoned leaders — with COVID-19 killing a few dozen people across the country every day — and when political rallies and show of public support look unlikely in the near future, the party has fielded its IT cell to take on the Trinamool Congress chief on social media. The campaign is led by none other than the man heading the BJP IT cell, Amit Malviya, who, during the past several weeks, has singled out Ms. Banerjee for a relentless attack on Twitter, accusing her of mishandling the pandemic situation in the State. Backed by Centre It was Mr. Malviya who first went national with an issue that was only spoken about in hushed tones within the State: the alleged underplaying of COVID-19 deaths. The noise made by him resulted in a Central team visiting West Bengal and the State government eventually conceding — though in not so many words — that many deaths were not included in the COVID-19 tally. Mr. Malviya has kept up the tirade ever since, directly attacking Ms. Banerjee under different hashtags: #BengalBurning, #SaveBengal, #BhoyePeyecheMamata (Mamata is scared) and #MamataDahaFail. The pandemic couldn’t have come at a worse time for Ms. Banerjee, who was all set to launch her poll cam-paign. Barely had hoardings declaring her as ‘Bengal’s pride’ sprung up across Kolkata when the lockdown was imposed, rendering all the publicity material useless.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-lockdown-bjp-launches-virtual-campaign-against-mamata/article31605255.ece
17 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||More belt-tightening steps likely||The State government may opt for more belt-tightening measures to cushion the impact of COVID-19 on its revenue sources and to meet the expenditure surge in health and allied sectors. Disbursal of salary, pension and debt servicing, the prime recurring commitments, may come up for review. Already a series of austerity measures have been initiated, but if the virus threat does not blow over in three or four months, the government may be forced to explore more options. The Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation Studies (GIFT), which studied the COVID impact on State finances, has mooted additional revenue mobilisation proposals. It has proposed to defer the disbursal of a component from those drawing pension above Rs. 20,000. Since the gap between the number of pensioners and employees is fast narrowing, a decision to defer a fixed tranche from 5.38 lakh pensioners is expected to offer relief to the government. Finance Department sources said the government had not taken a call on the GIFT proposal, but if the crisis prolonged indefinitely, reducing the tax revenue to a trickle, such measures would become imperative. Creation of posts Well before the virus outbreak the creation of posts in aided educational institutions had come under the scanner. Since about 15,000 posts are created annually without properly gauging its financial implications, a proposal for amending the Kerala Education Rules was formulated and the Law Department is vetting it now. In the wake of GIFT’s recommendation to create posts on the basis of the actual workload, the proposal might be implemented, sources said. The institute has mooted a debt swap scheme for reducing the yearly interest burden. Availing short-term loans is not a feasible option and the government could only consider long-term loans without any severe conditions. Hence, it may only tread cautiously on this score, sources said. The proposals for reviewing non-Plan expenditure, streamlining capital expenditure, and redeployment of excess staff may be taken up soon, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-belt-tightening-steps-likely/article31605362.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi/Ahmedabad,||Gujarat ‘super-spreaders’ spike national tally||India recorded its highest-ever single day increase of 4,820 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, with Gujarat accounting for 1,057 of them. The Gujarat numbers spiked after its Health Department announced that 709 “super-spreaders” were found positive, besides the 348 infections recorded in the past 24 hours. Over 6,500 samples of “super-spreaders,” including vegetable vendors and grocery shop owners were tested. According to data from the State Health Departments, India has 90,582 cumulative cases, and 54,531 active ones. The death toll stood at 2,874. With 30 municipal areas accounting for almost 80% of the country’s COVID-19 cases, the Union Health Ministry on Saturday asked States and Union Territories to focus not just on containment zones but also buffer zones around them to break the chain of transmission. Health secretary Preeti Sudan held a high level review with the principal health secretaries, municipal commissioners and other officials from these areas. “These 30 municipal areas are from States/UTs including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Odisha,” a Health Ministry release said. Maintaining high vigilance and monitoring areas of old cities, urban slums and other high density pockets along with the camps for migrant workers are crucial, the release said. The Ministry noted that in densely populated urban areas further challenges need to be considered like poor socio-economic conditions, limited health infrastructure, lack of social distancing, issues faced by women among others factors. In its release, the Ministry added that in the last 24 hours, 2,233 patients were declared as cured, taking the total recovery rate to 35.09%. The average number of new cases everyday since May 9 has gone up to 3,754, while the average number of fatalities per day for the period is 110. Admitting that health care personnel working in hospitals are at increased risk of acquiring the COVID-19 disease, if there is a breach in the personal protection while managing patients, the Health Ministry has now issued a revised advisory for healthcare workers in COVID and Non-COVID areas of hospitals, which directs use of buddy system, use of appropriate PPE at all times while on duty and immediately informing about any breach in preventive measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujarat-super-spreaders-spike-national-tally/article31605064.ece
17 May 2020||Vijayawada,||State ordered to mitigate migrants’ woes||The High Court ordered the State government to take supplemental measures to mitigate the suffering of migrant workers who are held up in shelters during the lockdown and those trekking back to their native villages. A two-Judge Bench comprising Justices D.V.S.S. Somayajulu and K. Lalitha Kumari directed the government to submit a compliance report by May 22. Delivering their verdict on the PIL filed by CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Saturday, Justices Somayajulu and Lalitha Kumari said though the Central and State governments were making efforts, more needs to be done and said the situation is alarming. The bench said that patrol vehicles of the NHAI and the Police Department should pick up and transport migrant labourers who are facing difficulty in walking to the nearest shelters. This is in addition to the buses deployed by the State government. The court further ordered that efforts be made to convince the migrant workers to stop walking and take the transportation being provided by the State government. Adequate quantities of food, drinking water, oral rehydration salts and glucose packets should be stocked in the outposts/centres or tents. Besides, doctors and trained paramedical volunteers and ambulances are to be provided. Temporary toilets and other facilities are to be made available for women and sanitary pad dispensing machines arranged at every alternate centre. These measures should be taken till the inter and intra-State transportation of migrant workers is completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-ordered-to-mitigate-migrants-woes/article31605071.ece
17 May 2020||Kolkata,||BJP IT cell launches virtual campaign against Mamata||In West Bengal, where Assembly elections are due in a year from now, the prolonged lockdown has seen the emergence of a new political adversary for West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee: the IT cell of the BJP. In a situation when exchanging barbs and trading allegations may look unbecoming of seasoned leaders — with COVID-19 killing a few dozen people across the country every day — and when political rallies and show of public support look unlikely in the near future, the party has fielded its IT cell to take on the Trinamool Congress chief on social media. The campaign is led by none other than the man heading the IT cell, Amit Malviya, who, during the past several weeks, has singled out Ms. Banerjee for a relentless attack on Twitter, accusing her of mishandling the pandemic situation in the State.  Backed up by Centre It was Mr. Malviya who first went national with an issue that was only spoken about in hushed tones within West Bengal: about the alleged underplaying of COVID-19 deaths in the State. The noise made by him resulted in a Central team visiting West Bengal and the State Government eventually conceding — though in not so many words — that many deaths were not included in the COVID-19 tally. Mr. Malviya has kept up the tirade ever since, directly attacking Ms. Banerjee regularly under different hashtags: #BengalBurning, #SaveBengal, #BhoyePeyecheMamata (Mamata is scared) and #MamataDahaFail. The pandemic couldn’t have come at a worse time for Ms Banerjee, who was all set to launch her election campaign when the virus struck. Barely had hoardings declaring her as ‘Bengal’s pride’ sprung up across Kolkata when the lockdown was imposed, rendering all the publicity material useless. The idea behind the hoardings was to establish a contest between a face and the faceless, considering that the BJP in West Bengal neither has a chief ministerial candidate nor a leader of Ms. Banerjee’s stature. The party’s local leaders, particularly its Bengal president Dilip Ghosh, only end up making outrageous statements while defending their party and attacking their political opponents. Mr. Malviya’s attack, on the other hand, is sharp and savage and has managed to bring West Bengal in the limelight nationally.  Weak counter Ms. Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress, whose social media machinery neither has the network nor the reach of the BJP’s IT cell, is now banking on the popularity of its actors-turned-MPs to return Mr. Malviya’s fire. For example the Twitter timeline of actor-MP Nusrat Jahan, who has close to 74 lakh followers, is, of late, packed with rebuttals of Mr. Malviya’s tweets. “People of WB will be taken care of by their Chief Minister @MamataOfficial. @amitmalviya you better concentrate of saving your career,” the actor-MP recently tweeted. Another actor-MP Mimi Chakraborty, with some 80 lakh followers, has also taken to rebutting Mr. Malviya, even though most of her tweets are not political. Many may like to argue that these bitter exchanges on social media will hardly count in the Assembly elections and that they cannot replace the campaign on the ground level. But the truth is that in the given scenario — with the virus likely to stay a while and social distancing becoming the new normal — the election campaign, particularly in urban areas, could well be confined to social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-lockdown-bjp-launches-virtual-campaign-against-mamata/article31605114.ece
17 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||11 more test positive, all imported cases||Kerala reported 11 positive cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, all of which are imported cases of infection. Seven of these are expatriates who came home recently and the remaining, Non-Resident Keralites from Chennai and Maharashtra. Thrissur accounted for four cases, Kozhikode three, and Malappuram and Palakkad two cases each. Four test negative Four COVID-19 patients who tested negative were also declared as having recovered from the disease. Of the 587 cases reported by Kerala so far, only 87 are remaining in treatment in various hospitals, while 497 have recovered from the disease. So far, 55,045 people had reached the State from abroad and other parts of the country, by flights, road, rail, and through sea port. The State currently has 56,981 people in its surveillance, of whom, 56,362 are in home quarantine while 619 are isolated in hospitals. Till date the State has tested samples from 43,669 persons, of which 41,814 returned a negative result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/11-more-test-positive-all-imported-cases/article31605364.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Suspended doctor taken into custody||A doctor from the Narsipatnam area hospital, Sudhakar Rao, who was suspended after he alleged that N95 masks were not being provided to the doctors on COVID-19 duty last month, was taken into custody on Saturday on the charge of causing nuisance on the road near the port hospital under the IV Town Police Station limits. A senior police officer said that a few persons dialled 100 and complained that a person was moving on road and creating nuisance. Based on the complaint, the police reached the spot. Initially, they were unable to recognise him, but later found that he was the doctor who was placed under suspension. “Sudhakar was drunk and shirtless. He was also trying to stop the lorries that were plying on NH-16 near the port hospital. Moreover, he broke the mobile phone of the traffic constable who tried to stop him. Since he was running, we had to use force and tie his hands to his back with a rope, and shift him to the police station,” said the police officer. Soon after the incident, videos of the doctor being taken into custody with his hands tied to his back and police beating him went viral in the social media. Constable suspended Commissioner of Police R.K Meena told The Hindu that a police constable was suspended for manhandling the doctor. “We have shifted the doctor to the King George Hospital to conduct alcohol tests. As of now, we have booked a case against him under Section 353 of the IPC. We will see what needs to be done if he is mentally unstable,” Mr. Meena said. Later in a release, Mr. Meena said the doctor was referred to the Government Hospital for Mental Care for further assessment. Naidu flays police action TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and party leader N. Lokesh condemned the police behaviour against Sudhakar Rao. Mr. Naidu demanded that the government book a case against the police under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and provide proper treatment to the doctor. Mr. Lokesh alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was humiliating dalits. Leaders of the CPI(M), Greater Visakha City Committee, also condemned the police action against a dalit doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/suspended-doctor-taken-into-custody/article31605073.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Preparations get under way despite concerns||School Education Department officials in several districts in Tamil Nadu have started preparing teachers and school heads for conducting the Class 10 board exams, scheduled to begin from June 1. On Friday, chief educational officials (CEOs) of all districts participated in a meeting via video-conferencing with directors in the School Education Department on conducting the Class 10 exams. Based on this, CEOs have started sending out circulars as well as messages to their teachers with instructions. “As a first step, heads of schools have been asked to ensure that teachers are available in the same district as their schools by May 18. From May 20, teachers and heads of schools are expected to start going to the school and help getting exam centres ready,” said a government schoolteacher from Chennai. School headmasters have further been asked to collate details regarding the number of students taking up the exam, classrooms as well as furniture available since not more than 10 students will be taking up the exam in a classroom. In a few districts, CEOs have informed schools that students can take up exams in their own schools and based on this, new hall tickets are expected to be given to the students. Following the School Education Minister’s announcement about providing students with bus facilities to travel to the exam centres, Schools have been asked to collate information about students who will need transport to the exam centres. For students who have been staying in other districts or States ever since the lockdown began, teachers have been asked to facilitate the process of applying for an e-pass to travel and ensure that they reach home by May 25 to take up the exams. Issue of transportation “It will be tough for teachers to get this done given the application process, and even if we do get passes for them, not all families can rent private transport for travel. There is still no word on public transport,” said Patric Raymond, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers’ Federation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/preparations-get-under-way-despite-concerns/article31605168.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rescued toddler tests positive||In an instance evoking poignancy, an 18-month-old toddler who had been kidnapped and rescued, has tested positive for COVID in Malakpet. Son of an alms seeker, the boy was kidnapped recently by an auto-driver who was childless and wanted to raise the boy as his own. He was rescued, and presented before the Child Welfare Committee, who directed for a medical test before he is sent to the children’s home. After the child tested positive, three officers from the Cyberabad East Zone Task Force, who had participated in the rescue operation, have been sent for home quarantine, along with a few more cops from the Chaderghat police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rescued-toddler-tests-positive/article31605305.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Homeward bound||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/homeward-bound/article31605116.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,||SSLC exam dates to be announced next week||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, after meeting with officials on Saturday, said that the dates for the SSLC examination will be announced next week. Over eight lakh students had registered for the exam that was originally scheduled to be held on March 27. To help students prepare, the department has also begun conducting refresher classes on Doordarshan. The department will also take a decision on all the precautionary measures to be observed in examination halls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-exam-dates-to-be-announced-next-week/article31605123.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A ticket home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-ticket-home/article31605251.ece
17 May 2020||KAIKALUR (KRISHNA DT.),||Five taken ill after inhaling ammonia gas at shrimp unit||Five workers suffered giddiness after inhaling ammonia gas in a shrimp processing and storage plant near Alapadu village in the district on Saturday. The gas leaked from the processing unit. About six persons of the 32 employees present in the plant suffered giddiness, it was learnt. Condition stable The affected persons were rushed to Gudivada Government Hospital and their condition was stated to be stable, said Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. Medical check-up Gudivada Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Satyanandam said that instructions had been given to conduct medical check-up for the remaining workers in the plant. A case has been registered and investigation is on, the DSP who visited the spot immediately after the incident said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-taken-ill-after-inhaling-ammonia-gas-at-shrimp-unit/article31605075.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||Put money in the hands of people: Rahul||The Union government should not act as a sahukar (money lender) giving loans to people; instead it should help them with direct cash transfer, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said on Saturday. He appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to rethink on the economic stimulus package. Interacting with journalists of regional media via videoconference, Mr. Gandhi said that as an Opposition leader, he was trying to put pressure on the government to directly transfer money into people’s hands, and warned that an “economic storm” was on its way. ‘Govt. should rethink’ He reiterated that exiting the lockdown was not an event or an on-off switch. The government must get out of it “intelligently” so that the economy as well as the vulnerable sections were protected. “I don’t want to make a political statement but I have a serious reservation about the nature of the package that the government has given and I would like it to reconsider,” Mr. Gandhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/put-money-in-the-hands-of-people-rahul/article31605078.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,||In T.N., 477 test positive, 939 discharged||Tamil Nadu reported 477 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday even as 939 persons were discharged from hospitals across the State after making a full recovery. The number of patients discharged was the highest on a single day in T.N., according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. The 477 new cases took the total number of positive cases in the State to 10,585. Chennai, with 332 fresh cases, crossed the 6,000-mark. Three more persons died in the city, taking the toll in the State to 74. The number of samples tested during the day stood at 10,535. Nearly 20% of those who tested positive on Saturday returned from other States and abroad, posing a challenge, the Minister said. Four of them had returned from Dhaka, 81 from Maharashtra, seven from Gujarat and one from Andhra Pradesh, Dr. Vijayabaskar said. Listing out districts that have not reported new COVID-19 cases in a while, the Minister said that Erode had no positive cases for 31 days, while Tiruppur had not reported new cases for 15 days. The discharge of 939 persons in the State takes the total number of persons who have recovered so far to 3,538.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-tn-477-test-positive-939-discharged/article31605160.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,||No institutional quarantine for HCWs in complete PPE||In a move that has healthcare workers (HCWs) worried, the Health and Family Welfare Department on Saturday issued an order stating that there is no need of a 14-day institutional quarantine for HCWs, who work in complete personal protective equipment (PPE) without any breach, while treating COVID-19 patients. HCWs refer to doctors, residents, nurses, technicians, and group ‘D’ workers. “HCWs who always use PPE without any breach for the treatment of COVID-19 positive patients is considered as low risk and there is no need for a 14-day quarantine,” stated the order, issued by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education). It will suffice if they self monitor, it added. HCWs, who are managing COVID-19 patients, are currently working for 6-7 days and are being institutionally quarantined for 14 days. Recently, a nurse under quarantine after duty in a COVID-19 ward tested positive in Victoria Hospital. “All HCWs are provided with adequate PPE. Those who are involved in the treatment of COVID-19 patients are well aware of the protocols,” the order said. The order is based on the Interim Guidance Document of WHO, Risk assessment and management of exposure of HCW in the context of COVID-19, and the Government of India’s advisory for “Managing Health Care Workers working in COVID and Non-COVID areas of the Hospital.” Resident doctors at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute have urged their Dean and Director C.R. Jayanthi to intervene in the matter and get the order revoked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-institutional-quarantine-for-hcws-in-complete-ppe/article31605118.ece
17 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder extends lockdown till May 31||With COVID-19 cases declining in the past four days, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the lockdown would continue till May 31, but the curfew restrictions would go. He indicated that limited public transport would resume from May 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amarinder-extends-lockdown-till-may-31/article31605248.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 cases cross 9,000 mark in Delhi||Delhi reported 438 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 9,333, said the government health bulletin. Six more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 129.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-cross-9000-mark-in-delhi/article31605247.ece
17 May 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal to pay for return of migrants: Mamata||The West Bengal government will bear the entire cost of movement of the State’s migrant workers by special trains to enable their return from other States, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-to-pay-for-return-of-migrants-mamata/article31605249.ece
17 May 2020||Hyderabad,||May-16-Nearby-2||In a significant move in the ongoing row over Krishna water diversion by AP, Union Minister for Water Resources Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is reported to have directed the KRMB to convene a meeting immediately with the member States to discuss the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/may-16-nearby-2/article31605311.ece
17 May 2020||Hyderabad,||May-16-Nearby-1||Sudden gusts of stormy rain and winds around 2 p.m. on Saturday resulted in massive destruction of greenery in a few areas of the city on Saturday. Scores of trees were uprooted in Banjara Hills and Jubilee Hills, while branches falling on roads caused obstruction to vehicles. Several motorists complained of poor visibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/may-16-nearby-1/article31605310.ece
17 May 2020||Belagavi,||‘Rs. 20 lakh crore financial package is another jumla’||“The Rs. 20 lakh crore financial package announced by the Prime Minister is another ‘jumla’ [an empty promise],” former Minister Satish Jarkiholi said in Gokak on Saturday. He said there was no chance of the package being misused as it would never be implemented at all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-20-lakh-crore-financial-package-is-another-jumla/article31605289.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka reports 36 new COVID-19 cases||A day after recording the biggest spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases on a single day and crossing the 1,000 mark, the State on Saturday reported 36 new cases, taking the tally to 1,092.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-reports-36-new-covid-19-cases/article31605122.ece
17 May 2020||MANGALURU,||Some 3,000 labourers depart from DK||Around 3,000 migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand left for their home towns in the two Shramik Special trains, while 193 passengers boarded the Thiruvanathapuram-New Delhi Special train on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/some-3000-labourers-depart-from-dk/article31605288.ece
17 May 2020||MYSURU,||1,520 migrant workers leave for Uttar Pradesh||The first Shramik Special train chugged out of Mysuru to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday carrying 1,520 migrant workers nurturing mixed emotions: a sense of relief over reunion with their families overshadowed by apprehension over their livelihood options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1520-migrant-workers-leave-for-uttar-pradesh/article31605120.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Pandemic has raised anxiety among students’||The COVID-19 crisis has taken a toll on the mental health of students and professionals preparing for competitive examinations. Anxiety levels are at an all-time high as students are not only worried about the pandemic but also about the uncertainty of their careers, said teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pandemic-has-raised-anxiety-among-students/article31605121.ece
17 May 2020||Chennai,||Govt. to intensify monitoring of returnees||With at least 154 persons who returned from other States testing positive for COVID-19 in various districts of Tamil Nadu, the Health Department is now intensifying its surveillance, including at checkposts and even in lesser-affected districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-dept-to-intensify-scrutiny-of-returnees/article31605158.ece
17 May 2020||Chennai,||Govt. relaxes rules for industries in urban areas||The Tamil Nadu government has allowed industrial units located in urban areas to function with 50% of workers on shifts. Earlier, 33% of workers were allowed to work in the units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-relaxes-rules-for-industries-in-urban-areas/article31605157.ece
17 May 2020||Chennai,||Liquor shops reopen across the State||There was far better monitoring and relative order, unlike the chaos and free-for-all the last time around, when over 3,600 Tasmac shops reopened on Saturday across the State. In Cuddalore region, a few people were arrested for selling photocopies of tokens for buying liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/liquor-shops-reopen-across-the-state/article31605159.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Domestic defence procurement gets separate budget provision||The government would make a separate budgetary provision for domestic defence procurements and bring out a negative import list for weapons and military platforms, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Saturday as part of efforts to promote indigenous manufacturing and reduce the defence import bill. “We shall notify a list of weapons and platforms not allowed for import. They will have to be bought in India. Every year, this list will be increased as the capacity to make weapons that meet the necessary standards grows. Indigenisation of some imported spares will also be given priority,” she said, while stressing that ‘Make in India’ was absolutely necessary for self-reliance, especially in critical sectors such as defence production. While some of the state of the art weapons required by the Services would be met through imports, some that were produced in the country and met the standards have to be procured locally only. The negative list would be worked out in consultation with the Department of Military Affairs headed by the Chief of the Defence Staff. Ms. Sitharaman said the separate budget provision for domestic capital procurement would help reduce the defence import bill and encourage domestic manufacture.  The limit for Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in defence through the automatic route had also been raised from 49% to 74%. Earlier, 100% FDI was allowed on a case by case basis. However, two industry observers said the real impact of the increased FDI limit had to be analysed. Corporatisation of OFB Ms. Sitharaman also announced a long pending proposal of corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) for autonomy, efficiency and accountability. While clarifying that it would not be privatised, she said the ordnance factories would eventually be listed on the stock market to improve transparency. Late last year, the Defence Ministry set up a high-level committee to examine the aspects of corporatisation of the OFB and work out the modalities. The Kolkata-headquartered OFB, with 41 factories spread across the country, functions as a department under the Department of Defence Production. The Finance Minister said a time-bound defence procurement process and faster decision-making would be brought in by setting up a Project Management Unit (PMU) to support contract management, “realistic setting” of General Staff Qualitative Requirements (GSQRs) of weapons and platforms and overhauling the trial and testing procedures. Stressing on realistic GSQRs, Ms. Sitharaman said “sometimes unrealistic quality requirements are established” and quite a lot of time was spent on searching for suppliers who met all those requirements and the whole process repeated after a single vendor situation, which was not allowed. Separately, a revision of the Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP) was on and a draft put in public domain for feedback before finalisation. Much needed step The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) called the measures a much needed step for reducing imports and building self-reliance in defence. “The stress laid on domestic manufacturing is very encouraging as India today is among the largest importers in the world of defence equipment. The list of non-importable items and corporatisation of OFB are some landmark steps and will boost the confidence of domestic manufacturers,” CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee said in a statement. The increase in FDI limit to 74% would attract foreign funds into this sector, along with technology infusion, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/domestic-defence-procurement-gets-separate-budget-provision/article31605002.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Navy to aid Northern theatre command’||The proposed Northern theatre command along the border with China should also have a small Navy element in it as some of the naval systems are useful there, said Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat. He also said the naval fighter aircraft can be deployed in the Western sector in the desert areas when not required at sea to effectively utilise existing resources. “Theatre commands (land) will mainly be between the Army and the IAF. While it is the northern border there should also be a small Navy element,” Gen. Rawat told a small group of journalists during the week. Referring to the Navy’s ifghter jets, he said, “Can we not bring some of the naval assets to the land borders?” Saying the naval fighter jets can operate in deserts and the IAF jets there can move to the other borders, Gen. Rawat said, “There is not much of difference between sea flying and desert flying.” Gen. Rawat had in the past said the capabilities of the Navy’s P-8I long range maritime surveillance aircraft were used for observing the Chinese movements during the Doklam stand-off in 2017. The first of the integrated commands in the works is the integrated Air Defence (AD) command headed by the IAF followed by a maritime command and then the land based theatre commands. Separately, Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane said at an event they have carried out a few brainstorming sessions but the specifics of the theatre commands have not been firmed up at — like whether the entire western front can be one theatre or the northern front can be one theatre. “Soon we will have a presentation by the IAF with the representatives from Army and Navy and we will flush out the contours of the AD command,” Gen. Naravane said. “We will do it as per the Indian operational requirements and with Indian characteristics.” Gen. Rawat said the study on the AD command is under way and he already had the first presentation and the standing instructions should be issued by year end. In 2-3 years it should take shape, he said. Gen. Rawat said the idea is that all air defence resources of the three Services should be under one Commander and ensure that there is no fratricide. “The command and control instructions should come from one person.” “In three years, operational instructions will be issued on the theatre commands,” Gen. Rawat said adding it will take shape after that. The Navy has already started a study on the maritime command. The next step in the integration is having common communications which presently the three Services have their respective set up and also common training establishments and equipment where possible. Basically with integration, maintenance and logistics elements go down and bring in a lot of savings, he said. NSS draft to be finalised Asked about the proposed National Security Strategy (NSS) that is being being formulated by the Defence Planning Committee headed by the National Security Adviser (NSA), Gen. Rawat said the draft is being finalised but did not give a timeframe for its completion. “The draft was ready. But with the CDS coming in, it needs some changes. That is being done,” he said. He said without the NSS too, the three Services have their operational directives and India has a Union war book which integrates everything in terms of war or calamities.  Theatre commands will mainly be between the Army and the IAF. While it is the northern border there should also be a small Navy element  Gen. Bipin Rawat Chief of Defence Staff||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navy-to-aid-northern-theatre-command/article31605016.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||M.P. overwhelmed by migrant rush||Apart from a late start in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic due to political developments, Madhya Pradesh is also besieged by lakhs of inter-State migrant labour, en route on foot from States such as Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, towards Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Responding to this, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has asked his counterparts of the States from where the labourers are starting and their home States, to coordinate with him in order to ensure that “nobody needs to go on foot.” “Madhya Pradesh is en route to anyone wishing to go from Maharashtra or southeastern States to further north, and we have had a build-up of lakhs of people crossing over towards U.P. and Bihar. My government has deployed over 1,000 buses everyday to ferry them to the borders of the States ...We are also providing food, water, temporary shelter and even footwear for our brothers and sisters making this difficult journey,” he said in a video presser from Bhopal on Saturday. ‘Better arrangements’ “I have called up the Chief Ministers of both the States where these groups of people are walking from to the destination State as well. If the States can inform us in advance as to how many people to expect, we will be better prepared to help, and the States where they are headed will also be able to make arrangements when they reach their borders,” he said. “Our government has managed the return of over 3.84 lakh of its own people from various States, and we feel no one, from any State, should be forced to into this arduous on-foot journey. They are all our people.”  “Everyone wants to go home in times of trouble, we cannot hold it against our brothers and sisters,” he said. According to an estimate, almost 70% of all inter-State labour from Maharashtra was headed towards M.P., with most of them to walk further to U.P., Bihar and other States. Mr. Chouhan acknowledged that the State’s finances were a worry but his government was trying to do some off-budget borrowing for specific projects. He added that like other States, he had also asked that suitable amendments be made to the Fiscal Responsibility and Budgetary Management Act, wherein the limit for borrowing for the States be raised from 3.5% to 5.5%. “We will be able to raise Rs. 15,000-16,000 crore through this and it will give us some breathing space fiscally.” Relief for farmers The Chief Minister said he expected farmers to profit from the amendments made to the Mandi Act, where the farmers and private organisations have been allowed to directly deal with each other. He also expected the changes made to labour laws would help kick-start the economy and said he would announce a cash package for those engaged in professions such as washermen and barbers, who cannot hope to return to work very soon. “Till now, Madhya Pradesh has seen an enrolment of upto 19 lakh people under the Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Act,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-overwhelmed-by-migrant-rush/article31605040.ece
17 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan farmers to get loans at 3% interest||As part of the measures to prevent distress sale of crops during the lockdown, the Rajasthan government has approved a proposal for loans to farmers at the subsidised interest rate of 3% with their produce mortgaged. It will also facilitate marketing and decentralised procurement of agricultural produce. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said here on Saturday that the government would bear 7% interest on loans from the farmers’ welfare fund, while helping the farmers keep their yield intact. Rs. 50 crore grant A grant of Rs. 50 crore will be given every year from the fund to the cooperative farmers’ welfare scheme. The State was earlier bearing 2% interest. Under the scheme, farmers will be assessed on the basis of the market value or support price of their produce, whichever is less, and 70% of the assessed amount will be made available as a mortgage loan. The loan amount has been capped at Rs. 1.50 lakh for small and marginal farmers and Rs. 3 lakh for big farmers. Mr. Gehlot said the farmers would get the loans for a period of 90 days, which might be extended to six months in special circumstances. They would get the interest subsidy if they repaid the loan within the stipulated time. The scheme would be put into operation through the village cooperative societies that were running in profit and had surplus resources, with their non-performing asset level being less than 10%. The State also decided to restore the allotment of land plots on lease in mandi samitis after the cancellation because of failure to construct the buildings. Besides, private warehouses were exempted from the payment of security deposit of Rs. 15 lakh for functioning as mandi sub-yards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-farmers-to-get-loans-at-3-interest/article31605031.ece
17 May 2020||PATNA,||More than virus, migrants back in Bihar fear rejection||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar meets officials every day and directs them to help migrant workers returning to the State. But some workers allege “inhuman treatment” by officials in their own State and others praise the Uttar Pradesh government for lending them a hand in their arduous journey back home. Driven by desperation, thousands of migrants have been returning to their home districts, crossing inter-State highways, fleeing not only the virus but also poverty, hunger and death. “You fear the disease but we fear poverty and hunger more than corona,” said a young emaciated migrant in a video released on social media. “More than corona, the pain is of rejection by our own government,” others chip in. Praise for U.P. In the video, they say that after they entered Bihar, the government did not give them anything, not even a bottle of water. “The policemen and even villagers shooed us away as if they would contract the virus by speaking to us...,” said one. But they took out biscuit packets, snacks and water bottles from a bag and placed them on the road to say, “Look, these have been provided by the Uttar Pradesh government... The Yogi Adityanath government has done a lot for us..., but we got only pain and rejection by our own government.” Asked whether they received Rs. 1,000 after the Bihar government said it had deposited the sum in 19 lakh bank accounts, they said, “ Kuch nahi mila hai [Nothing has been received yet].” Whereas, they said, they had to pay Rs. 3,000- Rs. 5,000 to truck owners. Stories of pain have come from quarantine centres, too. On Friday, migrants in Madhubani, Araria, Vaishali and Jamui complained about lack of amenities and worm-infested food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-than-virus-migrants-back-in-bihar-fear-rejection/article31605260.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unions hit out against FM’s ‘privatisation’ announcements||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcements on Saturday of measures to boost several sectors through liberalisation of norms and increased privatisation were met with criticism from trade unions, including the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh. Ms. Sitharaman made the announcements as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan — the Rs. 20 lakh crore economic package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 12. Stating that they “objected” to the Minister’s announcements, the BMS said in a statement there was a need to find novel ways to revive the economy, “not failed ideas”. “The fourth day of announcements by the FM is a sad day for the nation,” the BMS said, after having welcomed the first three sets of announcements. “Eight sectors [coal, minerals, defence production, airspace management, airports, power distribution, space and atomic energy] are in focus, but the government saying it has no option except privatisation is a show of dearth of ideas on economic revival in times of crisis,” the BMS said. Stating that the trade unions were already agitating against plans to privatise in most of the sectors, the BMS said: “Now the government machinery will involve themselves with privatisation and in communicating with corporates and will not find time to give attention to social sectors like labour, agriculture and MSMEs.” All-India Trade Union Congress’ general secretary Amarjeet Kaur said the announcements “had nothing to do with COVID-19 relief measures”. “The government is using the COVID-19 crisis as an opportunity to implement its political agenda. Unions in the mining sector and ordnance factories were already opposing the moves to privatise and the government had deferred the decisions. If unions go on strike, the government will portray them as a hindrance to the COVID-19 economic measures,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unions-hit-out-against-fms-privatisation-announcements/article31605000.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Talk of space exploration a cruel joke amid migrant crisis’||The Congress on Saturday asked if opening up defence and aerospace to foreign companies is the Narendra Modi government’s idea of Atmanirbhar Bharat or self-reliant India. It is a “cruel joke” to talk about space exploration ventures when millions of migrant workers are trying to reach their native places on foot, the party said in response to the fourth tranche of announcements made by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. ‘National debate’ “My question to PM Shri @NarendraModi is: whether opening up of defence, Airspace and Aerospace to foreign companies will make a Aatm Nirbhar Bharat? Let there be a national debate,” deputy leader of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma said on Twitter. Mr. Sharma said the government cannot use the coronavirus [COVID-19] pandemic to bypass Parliament and announce a “grand clearance sale of national assets”. “Taking sensitive and strategic policy decisions that have a direct bearing on national security and self reliance without a broader national consensus raises fundamental questions. Does the govt. have a mandate to take arbitrary decisions that will have far reaching implications?” he asked. Addressing a joint online press conference, Congress spokesperson, Professor Gourav Vallabh and Praveen Chakravarty, the Data Analytics and Technology wing chief said: “We have few questions for Narendra Modi ji after today’s announcement. Has any migrant worker got a single paisa as relief? Has any farmer got any benefit in any form? Is there anything specific for our seven crore shop keepers?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/talk-of-space-exploration-a-cruel-joke-amid-migrant-crisis/article31605007.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘8 lakh MT more grains allocated to States’||The Union government had issued orders for the allocation of nearly 8 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of additional food grains to the States and Union Territories, which would distribute it to 8 crore migrant workers and their families, Union Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Minister Ram Vilas Paswan said on Saturday. The government was sensitive to the plight of migrant workers, who have been left without any income since March in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, he said. Mr. Paswan’s statement came even as lakhs of migrant workers are still on the road, trying to make their way back to their native villages from cities across the country. Additional grains Addressing a press briefing through videoconference, he said: “If the number of migrants exceeds the current estimation of 8 crore, the Centre is ready to provide additional grains for free supply but the identified person should be genuine which State governments have to validate.” The allocation of additional grains was done on the basis of 10% of the total number of the beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act in each State or UT. The Centre would bear the entire cost of the distribution, including transportation within the State and dealers’ margin, while the States and UTs would be responsible for the identification of the migrant workers and distribution of grains to them. Of the 7.99 lakh MT allocated to the States and UTs for two months, 26,823 MT was for Andhra Pradesh, 25,152.92 for Assam, 86,449.69 MT for Bihar, 7,273.32 MT for Delhi, 20,077 MT for Chhattisgarh, 38,253.58 MT for Gujarat, 40,193 MT for Karnataka, 15,480.012 MT for Kerala, 54,642 MT Maharashtra, 44,662 MT for Rajasthan, 35,733.71 MT for Tamil Nadu, 1,42,032.65 MT for Uttar Pradesh and 60,183.77 MT for West Bengal. The distribution of free grains was a part of the economic package announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday. When asked how the government had arrived at the figure of 8 crore migrant workers who would be covered under the initiative, she said it was the number provided by the States by factoring in the workers staying at various camps. Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said Karnataka had started lifting the grain. Madhya Pradesh would do so from May 18, while Kerala had responded to take the grain from godowns. ( With inputs from PTI )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/8-lakh-mt-more-grains-allocated-to-states/article31605009.ece
17 May 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra records 1,606 fresh cases, toll rises to 1,135||Despite the lockdown, Maharashtra reported the highest number of deaths on Saturday. As many as 67 people lost their lives to the novel coronavirus taking the State’s cumulative death toll to 1,135. It also recorded 1,606 new cases, the second-highest single-day jump, pushing the tally to 30,706. However, State health officials said that only 22 of the 67 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours while the remaining deaths were from April 14 to May 14. Mumbai recorded 884 cases and 41 deaths on Saturday. The Mira-Bhayandar region recorded one death, Thane and Pune seven deaths each, Aurangabad five, Jalgaon three and Nashik and Solapur one each. Health officials said that of the 67 patients who died, 47 were men and 20 were women, and 44 of them had suffered from such co-morbid conditions as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. While four patients were below the age of 40, 25 were in the age group of 40-59 and 38 were above 60. Nearly 66% of the total number of cases in the State have been recorded this month alone. On Saturday, 524 patients were discharged. Health Minister Rajesh Tope said this was the third consecutive day when the State had discharged over 500 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-records-1606-fresh-cases-toll-rises-to-1135/article31605018.ece
17 May 2020||Johariya (Datia district),||For these migrants, partition plays out on their never-ending journey back home||Crossing three States, mostly plodding in the furious heat 13 days on, Vikramjeet Verma believes the longest journey of his life, to get back home, is more about never returning to Ahmedabad, some 1,300 km away. With every step on the highway, hauling feet heavy with crushed dreams, his resolve only fortifies: “ Ab kabhi vaapis nahi jana hai udhar [I don’t have to go there ever again].” On Saturday, he reached the Madhya Pradesh-Uttar Pradesh border along with two friends. “This whole period feels like Gadar is playing out,” quipped Mr. Verma, 21, a carpenter who made Rs. 400 a day, referring to the film set in the 1947 Partition. “Borders are created within the country; people are moving like cattle; there are checkpoints everywhere. And all is uncertain now, like at the time of Independence.” For eight days at least, they reached the Ahmedabad railway station every morning. “We stood in the queue to board a train,” said his friend Ajay Verma. As the lockdown kicked in — and has continued since — hunger and draining cash has felt like a curse for leaving home. And the government’s tardy response to their plea for returning home sapped all security. Now, only home, its warm embrace, could lend them succour. So they set out towards Gonda district of Uttar Pradesh. “We will work as agricultural labourers for Rs. 250 a day,” he said. With Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh finally agreeing to set aside differences over the passage of returning workers, an overwhelming wave has struck the Johariya border in Datia district of Madhya Pradesh, the busiest border point Uttar Pradesh is scrambling to manage. Around 50,000 workers returning from Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra are crossing over every day, said Rahul Srivastav, Additional Superintendent of Police (City), Jhansi, overseeing arrangements at the border. Faced with the uncertainty caused by the lockdown, workers are making a desperate attempt to return home, packed inside lorries, riding two-wheelers, perched atop goods trucks and huddled up in buses. Around 100 government-run buses from Madhya Pradesh’s Bijasan border with Maharashtra are arriving at Johariya every day, from where workers are sent by the Uttar Pradesh government buses onward. Those on bicycles are loaded in trucks. At the checkpoint of Madhya Pradesh, an official from the Education Department, requesting anonymity, said, “Given the volume of traffic, it’s difficult to check for documents from each of them. So we are letting everyone pass. We have to ensure they reach home first.” Six car mechanics in Pune are riding on motorcycles arranged by their contractor. “You don’t know who’s carrying the novel coronavirus in a truck when people are forced to travel like sheep and goats. Then, they may take it to their villages. Why can’t the government run all trains when the damage is already done,” wondered Tanveer Ansari, 34, lying supine in an abandoned dhaba. Adjusting a spare tyre around the handles of his motorcycle, Amin Ahmed, 22, the youngest in the group, points to a mini-bicycle strapped to its rear. “That belongs to my nephew, who is six. He went along with my sister in a truck to Kanpur. He cried a lot, saying he wouldn’t go anywhere without the bicycle,” said Mr. Ahmed, listing the essentials he carried. “We have left behind utensils and the LPG cylinder, and will return next year.” For those riding auto-rickshaws from Mumbai and Surat and two wheelers, the searing heat along highways in the arid Gwalior-Chambal region became unbearable on Friday afternoon. Workers slumped in almost any patch of shade around trees, under flyovers, and next to bushes lining medians. A group of 50 villagers from Mamoni Khurd in Shivpuri district, clutching red flags, took a break under the shade of shuttered shops along the highway on their 100-km pilgrimage to the temple of a local deity. “I have been told by the Ratangarh Mata to bring all villagers to her abode so that the lockdown won’t affect us,” said Mallu Adivasi, who claimed she experiences the spirit, as trucks loaded with migrant workers whizzed past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-these-migrants-partition-plays-out-on-their-never-ending-journey-back-home/article31605033.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||Centre tells States to upload details of migrants online||The Centre has asked the States to upload the details of migrants on an online dashboard that would help in speedy communication among them and aid in contact tracing. A unique ID will be generated for the migrants and their mobile numbers could be used for “contact tracing and movement monitoring during COVID-19.” Other details such as Aadhaar card number, train or bus details will be collected and fed into the system. The dashboard — National Migrant Information System (NMIS) — has been developed by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to all the States on Saturday asking them to utilise the system as the “portal will maintain a central repository” and help the States and districts sending as well as receiving the migrants to seek and receive approval in an online format seamlessly. “This system will help in speedy communication between States without creating additional work at the level of the field officers,” Mr. Bhalla said. The letter said the Central nodal Ministries can also monitor the movement though this portal. An explainer provided by the MHA said: “Further to provide facility of contact tracing, both individual particulars and spatial identifiers [origin, destination address] need to be captured ...many of the workers may undertake reverse journeys in the near future. A ready database can be of help...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-tells-states-to-upload-details-of-migrants-online/article31605036.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Private sector in space was part of 2017 Bill||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement on Saturday of the government’s intention to encourage greater participation of the private sector in a host of space activities already finds mention in a draft Bill by the Department of Space in 2017. This however hasn’t yet made it to Parliament for discussion. “...There is a need for national space legislation for supporting the overall growth of the space activities in India. This would encourage enhanced participation of non-governmental/private sector agencies in space activities in India, in compliance with international treaty obligations, which is becoming very relevant today,” says the draft Space Activities Bill, 2017. On Saturday, Ms. Sitharaman said: “The government will provide predictable policy and regulatory environment and allow private sector to use ISRO facilities. Future projects for travel in outer space or exploration of new planets will be open to the private sector. The government will ease geo-spatial data policy to make such remote-sensing data more widely available to tech entrepreneurs, with safeguards put in place.” The thrust of the 2017 Bill was to evolve a mechanism by which companies or individuals who wanted to be involved in a wide-range of space development activities — satellite development, GIS, telemetry — could approach the government for a licence. Legislation apart, Ms. Sitharaman in her July 2019 Budget speech had mentioned the creation of a public sector company by ISRO called New Space India Limited. This was similar to its existing company, Antrix, and allows small satellite technology to be transferred to private industry and outsource the development of ISRO’s workhorse Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle to the private sector. Critics of the Bill have pointed out that it doesn’t have provisions for the creation of an independent space regulator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/private-sector-in-space-was-part-of-2017-bill/article31605004.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Informal settlements marked ‘vulnerable’ zones||Informal settlements within cities have been identified by the Union Health Ministry as among the vulnerable urban settlements for the spread of the COVID-19. Stating that a substantial percentage of the population here are migrant workers employed in industrial and other informal sectors, the Ministry said these areas are characterised by poor structural quality of housing, inadequate access to safe water, poor sanitation and insecure residential status. There are gaps in health and healthcare services. “In the context of COVID [or any other respiratory infectious disease for that matter] implementing strategic interventions such as surveillance, physical distancing, isolation, quarantine and communicating the risk to the dwellers could be challenging,’’ notes the Ministry. In a note — Preparedness and response to COVID-19 in Urban Settlements — issued on Saturday evening, the Ministry notes that these localities are often overcrowded, with many people crammed into very small living spaces, thus posing a major challenge for following social distancing. Local bodies It said in these areas local bodies should cover the management of COVID-19 and focus on challenges unique to such populations. “An incident-response system should be put in place depending upon the geographic extent of the settlements and its population size,’’ says the Ministry. It said enough quantity of hydroxychloroquine will be stocked in civil dispensaries, health posts, health & family welfare centres for chemo-prophylaxis of healthcare workers and high risk contacts of confirmed cases of the COVID-19.   It has directed for a contingency plan to be put in place to move the high-risk population to alternate or temporary sites.  The latest advisory also advocates for passive surveillance stating that in addition to the government health facilities serving these population, surveillance network linkages need to be established with private medical practitioners working in such localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/informal-settlements-marked-vulnerable-zones/article31605028.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Super-spreaders’ from Gujarat spike tally||Health secretary Preeti Sudan held a high level review with the principal health secretaries, municipal commissioners and other officials from these areas. “These 30 municipal areas are from States/UTs including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Odisha,” a Health Ministry release said. Maintaining high vigilance and monitoring areas of old cities, urban slums and other high density pockets along with the camps for migrant workers are crucial, the release said. The Ministry noted that in densely populated urban areas further challenges need to be considered like poor socio-economic conditions, limited health infrastructure, lack of social distancing, issues faced by women among others factors. In its release, the Ministry added that in the last 24 hours, 2,233 patients were declared as cured, taking the total recovery rate to 35.09 %. The average number of new cases everyday since May 9 has gone up to 3,754, while the average number of fatalities per day for the period is 110. Cover for healthworkers Admitting that health care personnel working in hospitals are at increased risk of acquiring the COVID-19 disease, if there is a breach in the personal protection while managing patients, the Health Ministry has now issued a revised advisory for healthcare workers in COVID and Non-COVID areas of hospitals, which directs use of buddy system, use of appropriate PPE at all times while on duty and immediately informing about any breach in preventive measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/super-spreaders-from-gujarat-spike-tally/article31604996.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. throws open defence, coal sectors||Mr. Srivastava noted that the only direct budgetary cost in this tranche was the Rs. 8,100 crore to be provided as a hiked 30% viability gap funding to boost private investment in social sector infrastructure. In a bid to enhance self-reliance in defence production, Ms. Sitharaman said the Centre would notify a list of weapons and platforms that could not be imported, and widen it every year as domestic capacities grew. A separate budget provision for domestic capital procurement would help reduce the defence import bill, she said, adding that indigenisation of imported spare parts would also be given priority. The FDI limit in defence manufacturing under automatic route will be raised from 49% to 74%. In another major policy change, the Minister announced that Ordnance Factory Boards would be corporatised and eventually listed on the stock market to improve autonomy, efficiency and accountability, emphasising, however, that they would not be privatised. The government monopoly on coal would be removed with the introduction of commercial mining, said Ms. Sitharaman, allowing any private player to bid for a coal block and sell it in the open market. Earlier, only captive consumers with end-use ownership could bid for coal blocks. Almost 50 blocks will be offered immediately, with no eligibility conditions for bidding, apart from upfront payment with a ceiling. With regard to civil aviation, Ms. Sitharaman said six more airports are up for auction on private public partnership mode, while additional private investment will be invited at 12 airports in a move expected to net Rs. 13,000 crore for the Airports Authority of India. Ms. Sitharaman also promised to create a level playing field for private players in the space sector, allowing them to use ISRO facilities and participate in future projects on space travel and planetary exploration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-throws-open-defence-coal-sectors/article31605010.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||24 migrants die in Uttar Pradesh road accident||ADGP Jai Narayan Singh said it would be investigated how so many people were on the truck. Witnesses told local media that the trailer hit the supply truck in high speed, following which both fell into a nearby ditch. Many of the migrants were sleeping on the trailer. Two station in charge officers under whose jurisdiction the accident took place have been suspended. Adityanath’s directive Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed the police to file cases against the owners of the two vehicles and seize the vehicles. He appealed to migrant workers not to risk their lives by walking back home or boarding illegal and unsafe means of transportation. In a high-level meeting, he instructed officials in border districts to not allow any migrant worker to walk back or board any truck or motorcycle. Such vehicles running unlawfully would be immediately seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/24-migrants-die-in-uttar-pradesh-road-accident/article31605011.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Put money in the hands of people, says Rahul||“I would like to appeal to the Government of India that you can surely offer loans but Mother India cannot act like a sahukar to her children. Mother India should directly transfer money into the hands of her children. The migrant labourer walking on the street needs money, not debt. The farmer who is suffering needs money, not debt...If we do not, this will become a catastrophic problem,” he observed. Mr. Gandhi, who had conceived the nyuntam aay yojana [NYAY] or minimum income guarantee before the 2019 Lok Sabha election, once again pitched for it for helping the poor. “Do NYAY temporarily if you don’t want to do it permanently. But please start putting money into the small businesses, farmers, migrants’ bank accounts because if we do not, then we will have a catastrophic result.” It would cost the government Rs. 65,000-Rs. 70,000 crore. He said that though they had suggested doubling of work days to 200 under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), it won’t help the migrant workers in urban areas. So, he argued, the Congress had suggested a monthly cash transfer of Rs. 7,500 for these workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/put-money-in-the-hands-of-people-says-rahul/article31605012.ece
17 May 2020||Srinagar,||CAT chief slams J&K CJ’s public sharing of letter||Days after J&K High Court Chief Justice Gita Mittal had publicly shared the contents of a letter asking the Centre to establish special benches of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) in Srinagar and Jammu, CAT Chairman Justice L. Narasimha Reddy on Saturday not only denied having received any formal communication on the subject but also took strong objection to the manner in which the correspondence had been made public. “I contacted Union Minister of State Dr. Jitendra Singh about the subject but he has not received the letter either in the form of a hard copy or through e-mail,” Justice Reddy said in a statement issued in New Delhi. “The letter happens to be the communication between its author and the addressee and it is not made public particularly when it is between highly placed dignitaries,” he added . In a statement issued through the J&K information department recently, Justice Mittal had revealed that she had written to Dr. Singh and sought the establishment of a CAT with multiple benches, with permanent seats at Jammu and Srinagar. Justice Reddy said, “It appears that the Chief Justice expressed concern over the ability of the tribunal to handle the service matters of the Union Territory as and when transferred.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cat-chief-slams-jk-cjs-public-sharing-of-letter/article31605020.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India opposes rejoining RCEP over China concerns||As the deadline for a response to a fresh proposal of India rejoining negotiations on the ASEAN-led trade Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) ran out on Friday, a senior Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) official indicated that global post-COVID-19 concerns over China had strengthened India’s opposition to the grouping. “If anything the COVID-19 experience and the experience of countries that have been overly dependent on imports from China or one country would have reinforced and revalidated the decision to stay out of the RCEP,” said Ashok Malik, policy adviser in the MEA. The letter sent by the RCEP’s Trade Negotiating Committee (TNC) Chairperson last month, had an offer to reconsider India’s objections to giving market access for a “limited number of products”, if it would rejoin the talks. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced India’s decision to quit the grouping, which includes the 10 ASEAN nations, Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea in November, citing lack of protection for country’s agricultural sector among others. After pulling out of the grouping, India skipped at least two separate meetings it was invited to, including one in Bali in February, and a virtual meeting in April. At the April RCEP-TNC meeting , negotiators who ironed out legal issues with the pact committed to signing the agreement by the end of 2020. “The RCEP will provide a more stable and predictable economic environment to support the much-needed recovery of trade and investment in the region, which has been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic,” said a statement issued on April 30, which added that “Against this backdrop, the 15 [countries] reaffirmed their commitment to continue working with India to address its outstanding issues…[and] would welcome India’s return to the RCEP negotiations.”  However, Mr. Malik said India’s experience of trade pacts in the past was that they had “hollowed out” manufacturing in the country, and would hamper the government’s renewed commitment to the ‘Make in India’ policy. “At a time when our ‘Make in India’ programme is moving from Level 1 to Level 2, and it has to go to Level 10, I think it was a good decision [to leave RCEP],” he said, speaking at a web seminar organised by the Carnegie India Foundation. Significantly, Australian High Commissioner-Designate Barry O’Farrell cited the ‘Make in India’ policy as the reason for India to join. Australia and Japan have been at the forefront of efforts to convince India to rejoin the RCEP as a possible counterweight to China in the grouping that would represent a third of global trade. “If India did want to rejoin the [RCEP] negotiations, there would be no better time than now, because it would send a signal to the world that not only is India an attractive place to invest, but also, its potential of being a global manufacturing hub as envisaged by the government’s ‘Make in India’ policy was realisable” Mr. O’Farrell said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-opposes-rejoining-rcep-over-china-concerns/article31605025.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Real estate hit hard by COVID-19, says Minister||Real estate projects have been delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic as migrant workers left cities and supply of construction material stopped, Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri said on Saturday. Mr. Puri was speaking to representatives of the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) of various States and other stakeholders in a web conference to mark the third anniversary of the implementation of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, which came into effect on May 1, 2017. “COVID-19 has had a debilitating effect on the real estate sector, which has become a cause for project delays,” Mr. Puri said. “Lakhs of migrant workers left cities and workplaces for their native villages and many more are waiting to leave; supply of essential construction material has stopped; site engineers and other support staff are not available, and construction has come to a standstill,” he stated. The government had allowed the resumption of some construction activity from April 20 after reviewing the situation, he pointed out. “The Ministry of Home Affairs has subsequently laid down a detailed protocol for the movement of persons, including migrant workers. It is a fine balance between life and livelihood and the government is fully conscious of that and hence, it is adopting a carefully calibrated approach while monitoring the situation by the hour.” Construction activity would resume in all parts of the country in a phased manner, according to a statement from the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/real-estate-hit-hard-by-covid-19-says-minister/article31605029.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||BJP IT cell launches virtual campaign against Mamata||The idea behind the hoardings was to establish a contest between a face and the faceless, considering that the BJP in West Bengal neither has a chief ministerial candidate nor a leader of Ms. Banerjee’s stature. The party’s local leaders, particularly its Bengal president Dilip Ghosh, only end up making outrageous statements while defending their party and attacking their political opponents. Mr. Malviya’s attack, on the other hand, is sharp and savage and has managed to bring Bengal into the limelight nationally.  Weak counter Ms. Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress, whose social media machinery neither has the network nor the reach of the BJP’s IT cell, is now banking on the popularity of its actors-turned-MPs to return Mr. Malviya’s fire. For example, the Twitter timeline of actor-MP Nusrat Jahan, who has close to 74 lakh followers, is, of late, packed with rebuttals of Mr. Malviya’s tweets. “People of WB will be taken care of by their Chief Minister @MamataOfficial. @amitmalviya you better concentrate of saving your career,” the actor-MP recently tweeted. Another actor-MP Mimi Chakraborty, with some 80 lakh followers, has also taken to rebutting Mr. Malviya, even though most of her tweets are not political. Many may like to argue that these bitter exchanges on social media will hardly count in the Assembly elections and that they cannot replace the campaign on the ground level, but the truth is that in the given scenario — with the virus likely to stay a while and social distancing becoming the new normal — the election campaign, particularly in urban areas, could well be confined to social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-it-cell-launches-virtual-campaign-against-mamata/article31605256.ece
17 May 2020||Kolkata,||Seven more virus deaths in West Bengal||Seven persons died and 115 new cases of COVID-19 infections were recorded in West Bengal in the past 24 hours. The number of total cases in the State increased to 2,576 while active infections remained at 1,452. Of the seven deaths recorded in the past 24 hours, three were from Kolkata, three from Howrah and one from North 24 Parganas. The number of deaths in the State have increased to 232, of which 72 are due to “co-morbidities”. So far, the State government has discharged 892 persons. West Bengal Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said the discharge rate, at 34.63%, is on a par with the national level. He said that the number of testing labs in the State has increased to 22 and the number of samples tested in the past 24 hours stands at 7,745.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seven-more-virus-deaths-in-west-bengal/article31605261.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Important for nations to work together’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said in times of global health crisis caused by the COVID-19 outbreak, it is important for nations to work together and do as much as possible to make the world healthier and free of it. The Prime Minister was responding to a tweet by U.S. President Donald Trump announcing the decision to donate ventilators to India, and the cooperation between the two countries in developing a vaccine to treat SARS-CoV-2. “Thank you @POTUS @realDonaldTrump. This pandemic is being fought collectively by all of us,” the Prime Minister tweeted. “It’s always important for nations to work together and do as much as possible to make our world healthier and free from COVID-19,” he said. “More power to India-U.S. friendship,” said Mr. Modi. On Friday, Mr. Trump had tweeted about the cooperation between India and the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/important-for-nations-to-work-together/article31604995.ece
17 May 2020||Bhopal,||Eight migrants killed in road accidents||Eight migrants, including four women, were killed in three separate road accidents in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday, the police said. At least 29 others were injured in these accidents. Six persons were killed in an accident when a truck carrying them overturned near Sagar, said Superintendent of Police Amit Sanghi. In Guna district, a person was killed when the tempo in which he was travelling overturned near Bhadora.  In another accident in Barwani, Aniket Thakur, 22, was killed when another vehicle rammed the truck he was travelling in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-migrants-killed-in-road-accidents/article31605026.ece
17 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab govt. extends lockdown||With COVID-19 cases declining in the past four days, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the lockdown would continue till May 31, but the curfew restrictions would go. He indicated that limited public transport would resume and curbs would be eased further in the non-containment zones from May 18. The State reported 14 fresh cases, taking the total to 1,946, the Health Department said. Mr. Amarinder Singh said the containment zones would be sealed for shops and small businesses to reopen in the non-containment areas. The government would announce details of relaxations by Monday, factoring in the Centre’s guidelines for Lockdown 4.0. However, he said educational institutes would remain closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-govt-extends-lockdown/article31605034.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Reaching out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reaching-out/article31605038.ece
17 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab orders crackdown on liquor smuggling||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday directed the police to crack down on all kinds of liquor smuggling, bootlegging and illicit distillation of liquor to protect the State from incurring any revenue losses. DGP Dinkar Gupta issued directives to identify liquor smugglers-suppliers-bootleggers district-wise and police station-wise by May 23. He warned that in case of failure to do so, the concerned SHO will be shifted out and departmental action taken against him as well as the defaulters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-orders-crackdown-on-liquor-smuggling/article31605259.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE exam announcement delayed to Monday||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will announce the schedule for the pending Class 12 and Class 10 examinations on Monday, Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Saturday. The announcement was expected at 5 p.m. on Saturday. Just before the expected announcement, Mr. Pokhriyal said the CBSE was still finalising the dates and will announce them on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-exam-announcement-delayed-to-monday/article31604998.ece
17 May 2020||Srinagar,||Policeman killed in Kulgam militant attack||One policeman was killed in an attack by militants in south Kashmir’s Kulgam on Saturday, according to the J&K police. A police spokesperson said militants had fired indiscriminately at a joint checkpoint of the police and the CRPF deployed at the Main Khowk Fressil in Yaripora. “Head Constable Mohammad Amin Bagat succumbed to his injuries,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/policeman-killed-in-kulgam-militant-attack/article31605005.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||in brief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-brief/article31605258.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City now has over 700 containment zones||The Chennai Corporation has reported a rise in COVID-19 containment zones in the city, with the number crossing 700 on Saturday. The hotspot clusters in zones such as Kodambakkam continue to report a number of COVID-19 cases every day. For example, ward 127 in Kodambakkam zone has 152 COVID-19 cases and continues to add 35 to 45 new cases every day. As a result, the Chennai Corporation has decided to start distribution of a special herbal concoction to residents of such hotspots, in addition to nilavembu kudineer and kabasura kudineer . The civic body is planning to expand the distribution of the special herbal concoction to all residents in the 15 zones of the city after assessing the results after 10 days. Launching it, Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J. Radhakrishnan said the distribution of the special herbal concoction is part of the area based strategy adopted for COVID-19 containment. “We have distributed the special herbal concoction to 6,000 residents in the five hotspots on the first day. We will distribute the concoction to at least 20,000 residents every day. The idea is to reduce the number of COVID-19 positive cases to zero in the five hotspots in a week,” said K. Veerababu, a doctor of Indian medicine. Better facilities The Corporation has also intensified its efforts to develop safe COVID-19 care facilities in its hospitals. It has developed COVID-19 wards in Communicable Diseases Hospital in Tondiarpet in the ground floor, first floor and the second floor, making suitable changes in the building to create comfortable spaces for COVID-19 care. At least 91 special COVID-19 wards have been created in the Communicable Diseases Hospital for treatment of COVID-19 positive cases. The patients who had been housed in the COVID-19 care centres reported that they were unable to bear the heat during summer in those COVID-19 care centres. As a result the Chennai Corporation is developing better facilities in its hospitals for COVID-19 treatment. The civic body is also planning to spend Rs. 500 per patient for nutritious food daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-now-has-over-700-containment-zones/article31605163.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘20% of the 477 new patients are returnees’||Nearly 20% of the 477 persons who tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday were people who had returned from other States and abroad, posing a new challenge for the State government, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. Four of them had returned from Dhaka, 81 from Maharashtra, seven from Gujarat and one from Andhra Pradesh, he said. Listing out districts that have not reported new COVID-19 cases in a while, he said that Erode had no positive cases for 31 days, while Tiruppur had not reported new cases for 15 days. There has been no positive cases in Coimbatore for 13 days, Salem and Tiruvarur for 10 days, Namakkal and Nilgiris for seven days, Krishnagiri and Tirupattur for six days, Tiruchi for four days, Ariyalur for three days, and Karur and Ramanathapuram for two days. “Specifically, districts such as Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Salem and Tiruvarur have managed well by tracing, testing and admitting patients and their contacts, and putting in place effective containment measures,” he said. Referring to the case trend, he said that there was a peak in the number of cases on Monday when the State reported 798 cases, and it started to decline over the next few days, tapering to 384 (cases within Tamil Nadu) on Saturday. “Now, we are receiving people from abroad. Till now, nine flights have landed in Chennai and one in Tiruchi. A total of 13 persons who had returned in three flights have tested positive so far,” he said. Samples were lifted from 849 persons who had arrived in a train from Delhi, and their results are awaited, he said. Chennai added 332 new cases, taking its tally to 6,271. There were 13 new cases in Chengalpattu, 10 in Tiruvallur, seven in Tiruvannamalai, four in Kancheepuram, three each in Kallakurichi and Madurai, two each in Dindigul, Nagapattinam and Villupuram, and one each in Kanniyakumari, Ranipet, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi, Vellore and Virudhunagar. In addition, seven persons who returned from Gujarat tested positive in Dindigul, Ranipet and Thoothukudi. Among those who returned from Maharashtra, 44 tested positive in Tirunelveli, 14 in Kallakurichi, nine in Sivaganga, six in Thoothukudi, four in Tenkasi, and one each in Kanyakumari, Madurai, Ranipet and Theni. One person tested positive in Thanjavur after returning from Andhra Pradesh. All of them were screened at checkposts. Three deaths Three more persons who tested positive for COVID-19 died in the city. A 65-year-old woman from Chennai was admitted at a private hospital on May 5 and died on May 11 due to community acquired pneumonia and respiratory illness. The second patient — a 55-year-old man — died at a private hospital on May 15. He had old pulmonary tuberculosis and diabetes. A 78-year-old man with diabetes and systemic hypertension died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, on May 15. With 939 persons being discharged from across the State, the total number of persons who have recovered so far stands at 3,538.  One more testing facility in the government sector — the Government District Headquarters Hospital, Tiruvallur, and two more in the private sector — Royal Care Super Specialty Hospital, Coimbatore, and Sundaram Medical Foundation, Chennai — have been approved. With this, there are a total of 61 testing facilities in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-of-the-477-new-patients-are-returnees/article31605194.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industries in urban areas can function with 50% staff||In good news for industries, the Tamil Nadu government has allowed units located in urban areas to function with 50% of workers in shifts. Earlier, 33% of workers were allowed to work in such units. According to a G.O. issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on May 15, the relaxation will not be applicable in areas under the jurisdiction of the Chennai City Police. It may be noted that industrial units located within SEZs, EOUs, industrial estates and industrial townships — both in rural and urban areas — were allowed to function with 50% workers from May 3. “There are several industrial units in urban areas outside these SEZs, EOUs and industrial estates. This order will benefit them,” a senior official told The Hindu . The State government's decision was based on a note received from the Additional Chief Secretary in the Finance Department, who is also the chairperson of the Expert Committee constituted to work out a phased exit strategy from the lockdown. The G.O states that 50% of workers have been allowed to work in shifts on the condition that they duly observe standard operating procedures (SOPs). “All industrial activities shall be allowed in village and town panchayat areas, including textile industries,” it said. The State government has also allowed export-oriented units with 50% strength in all areas across the State, excluding Chennai City Police Commissionerate jurisdiction. “The proportion of persons employed in MGNREGS in rural areas shall be increased from 33% to 50%,” the G.O. stated. On lockdown There was no clarity till late evening on May 16 whether there would be further extension of the COVID-19 lockdown. When contacted, a senior IAS officer told The Hindu : “We are awaiting the notification from the Government of India. A formal announcement will be made on Sunday.” Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government-constituted Special Investment Promotion Task Force, meant to attract countries that are likely to shift to India for their supply chains in the wake of the global COVID-19 pandemic, met here on Saturday. A participant said: “Invitees specified certain areas, where foreign companies are looking to invest. These companies are looking at Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia and Malaysia, besides India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-in-urban-areas-can-function-with-50-staff/article31605187.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Scrutiny of people returning from other States intensified||In the last three days, a number of persons returning to Tamil Nadu from other States have tested positive for COVID-19 — so far, 154 persons who returned from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have tested positive in various districts of the State. While the State government has issued guidelines for quarantine and testing of incoming persons, the Health Department is now intensifying its surveillance, including at checkposts and even in lesser-affected districts. Since Thursday, 143 persons who returned from Maharashtra, nine from Gujarat, and one each from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have tested positive in Tamil Nadu. An official of the Health Department said that persons arriving by trains from other States were being shifted to quarantine facilities such as colleges. “Health teams of the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Directorate of Public and Preventive Medicine screened passengers who arrived in a train and lifted nearly 850 samples. They are being quarantined for seven days, and if anyone tests positive for COVID-19, they will be sent to a hospital or COVID-19 care centre, according to their health conditions,” he said. He added that persons travelling from one district to another in the State were being kept under home quarantine, and tested if they were symptomatic. Officials said that people were returning in other modes of transport to the State, and those entering were being screened at checkposts and swabs were being lifted. Vigil continues Lesser-affected districts continue to be on the vigil, officials said. Districts such as Erode that have not reported new cases for sometime now continue to exercise caution. Another official said, “Erode had no new case for the 32nd day on Saturday. However, we are very careful and have intensified all our measures. We have increased the number of samples lifted a day.” Many persons who had gone for work are returning from States such as Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh and it is important to screen them, officials added. Official sources in a district said that though the government had said that persons travelling from one district to another need not be tested, they were testing persons arriving from hotspots such as Chennai. Those from non-hotspot districts were being kept under strict home quarantine, with stickers posted outside their homes, added the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scrutiny-of-people-returning-from-other-states-intensified/article31605189.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Liquor shops open to serve a more disciplined clientele||When liquor shops reopened across Tamil Nadu on Saturday, there was far better monitoring and order, unlike the chaos the last time around. Customers queued up, maintaining physical distancing near counters, though, at some places, they did crowd token distribution points. Over 3,700 liquor shops opened across the State — except in Chennai, Tiruvallur and COVID-19 containment zones — following a Supreme Court stay on a Madras High Court order directing closure of Tasmac outlets during the lockdown. Tasmac sold liquor worth over Rs. 160 crore on Saturday. “They (customers) maintained social distancing in front of the shops. But when the tokens were being distributed, they were seen pushing each other to grab their tokens. We also had cases where few people came back again and got a token the second time and purchased liquor,” said a salesman of a shop in Madurai. In Cuddalore region, a few people were arrested for selling photocopies of colour-coded tokens. The person in charge of a liquor shop in Pudukottai town said that 468 tokens were given until evening. “We clocked sales of Rs. 6 lakh. The sales happened smoothly at our outlet since police personnel were strict with the crowd. Those who walked in bought 4-5 bottles each on an average,” he said. A Tasmac employee at an outlet in Karaikudi said that 470 tokens were distributed. “The crowd was less when compared to May 7 and 8. We sold liquor worth Rs. 3.80 lakh. On May 7, the sales was Rs. 7.36 lakh and the following day it was only Rs. 2 lakh,” he said. He added that people were well behaved at outlets as the supervisor told them that any flouting of norms would end up in closure of the shop. A salesman in Vellore said that his outlet was forced to give 100 tokens per hour as people refused to listen. “People got angry with us when we said that there is a restriction on tokens,” he said. The outlet recorded sales of Rs. 7.5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-shops-open-to-serve-a-more-disciplined-clientele/article31605192.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM urges migrant workers not to walk back home||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday urged migrant workers against walking all the way back home or making their own vehicle arrangements to their native States, as the Tamil Nadu government was arranging trains for them. “Since the Tamil Nadu government is bearing the travel expenses and making all arrangements to send migrant workers to their States with the concurrence of respective States, I appeal to them not to walk or make vehicle arrangements to go back. I appeal to them to remain in their camps till then,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a statement. Between May 6 and 15, 55,473 migrant workers were sent to Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and the northeastern States on 43 trains, with the concurrence of the respective State governments, he said. Plans are being made to send about 10,000 migrant workers to their home States, daily, Mr. Palaniswami said. He also said that the State government was coordinating all efforts to send migrant workers to their native States based on their requests.  In another statement, Mr. Palaniswami condoled the killing of over 20 persons in an accident in Auriya district in Uttar Pradesh, where a truck carrying migrant workers collided with a vehicle. In a statement, he also wished a speedy recovery to those injured in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-urges-migrant-workers-not-to-walk-back-home/article31605180.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Herd masking — another way to tackle the pandemic||Herd immunity is no longer an alien phrase consigned to public health textbooks. Due to COVID-19, more people than ever before understand the term to mean the protection a community gets when a large percentage of the population has immunity to a disease. But the latest term that’s being bandied about is ‘herd masking’, which refers to the immunity against the disease that wearing masks gives a community. “We settled on this term, based on discussions with some doctors. Herd masking, as a concept, should be promoted aggressively because, along with handwashing and physical distancing, this is going to make a huge difference,” said J. Radhakrishnan, Chennai Corporation’s special nodal officer for COVID-19 control operations. “The Chief Minister has also instructed us to supply free cloth masks to the poor. Based on this, we are readying three sets of washable cloth masks each to be distributed to about 26 lakh poor people in Chennai,” Dr. Radhakrishnan said. Several Corporations and Municipalities have started distributing masks for free. He recalled that an international group of scientists and researchers had recently endorsed the use of simple face-covering materials as masks. Since COVID-19 is spread through respiratory droplets, there is sufficient evidence to show that the use of masks to cover the nose and face, particularly in public places, would go a long way in helping to prevent the spread of the infection. K. Kolandaswamy, former Director of Public Health, said masks were a key intervention in cutting the transmission of the novel coronavirus. But mask hygiene is also very important, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/herd-masking-another-way-to-tackle-the-pandemic/article31605184.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amid pandemic, T.N. prepares to face monsoon||The Tamil Nadu government is preparing to face the onset of southwest monsoon, even as it grapples with increasing number of COVID-19 positive cases. “It is important that the district administration initiates timely cyclone preparation and mitigation measures while ensuring COVID-19 precautions,” a communication from Commissioner of Revenue Administration J. Radhakrishnan to District Collectors on Friday stated. Though suitable instructions were sent to authorities on Wednesday last week, “the preparations in response to the India Meteorological Department alerts need to be suitably modified”, it stated. The advisory instructed District Collectors to suitably modify the District Disaster Management Plans (DDMPs) in the light of COVID-19 measures. Adequate stock of PPE for first responders and volunteers had to be ensured and they should be briefed to observe COVID-19 precautions while carrying out their and tasks. Physical distancing norms and the wearing of masks should also be adhered to. Additional shelters and relief camps were to be identified to accommodate people as the number of existing shelters/relief camps may not be sufficient due to observing physical distancing norms. Regular medical check-ups in shelters and relief camps would help in identifying and isolating people with COVID-19 symptoms, which would eventually help in curbing the spread of the pandemic. Additional arrangements for regular disinfection and sanitisation of the premises were to be ensured. “Any quarantine/isolation facilities located in the cyclone-prone area may need to be relocated or secured against a cyclone,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amid-pandemic-tn-prepares-to-face-monsoon/article31605170.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two flights to bring nearly 200 persons from Dubai||Nearly 200 Indians, including several workers from Dubai, will arrive in the city in two flights on Sunday and Tuesday. They will be taken to a quarantine facility at the Air Force Station at Tambaram after landing at the Chennai airport, sources said. In a high-level meeting held by the State government on Friday, it was decided that the passengers would be taken to a quarantine facility at Tambaram where swab samples would be taken. Till now, swab samples were taken for passengers returning in repatriation flights at the airport itself. ‘Facilities ready’ On Sunday and Tuesday, the flights will arrive in Chennai at 10.55 a.m. “All the facilities and measures for handling these passengers are ready at the airport,” an official said.  Meanwhile, sources in the government said, there are plans to shift some of the flight operations and divert arrival of flights to Tiruchi instead of Chennai. When asked about why State government has been mulling this move, a source said, “We want to use our manpower for containment.” Another source said, this may be only for passengers heading to places in the Central districts. However, Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials said they are unaware of any such move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-flights-to-bring-nearly-200-persons-from-dubai/article31605176.ece
17 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||K. Varadarajan no more||Senior CPI(M) leader and former member of the party’s Polit Bureau K. Varadarajan died in Karur on Saturday. He was 73 and is survived by his son and a daughter. “He was not keeping well for sometime and died at the house of his son in Karur,” said CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan. Born in Srirangam, Varadarajan worked in the Public Works Department (PWD) before joining the CPI(M) as a full-time member. He had represented the Polit Bureau two times. Varadarajan was closely associated with the farmers association of the party. Mr Balakrishnan said K. Varadarajan’s last rites would be held in Srirangam. “Party flags will fly at half mast for three days as a mark of respect,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/k-varadarajan-no-more/article31605435.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC calls for report on deaths of labourers||“One cannot control his/her tears after seeing the pathetic condition of migrant labourers being shown in the media for the past one month. It is nothing but a human tragedy,” the Madras High Court said and called for a report from the Centre on the number of migrant labourers who have died on their way to their home States during the nationwide lockdown. Justices N. Kirubakaran and R. Hemalatha also wanted to know whether the Centre maintained data regarding the number of migrant workers in every State and whether it was aware of the number of stranded persons in each State. The judges also wanted to know the nature of assistance provided to such labourers by the Centre as well as the State governments. The details were called for while passing interim orders on a writ of habeas corpus petition filed by advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam for rescuing about 400 Tamil labourers reportedly detained illegally by their employer in Kupwad in Sangli district in Maharashtra. The Division Bench suo motu included the Centre as well as the Tamil Nadu government as respondents to the case. The court wanted to know whether migrant workers were allowed to cross State borders and whether they were provided basic amenities by host States if they were prevented from crossing borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-calls-for-report-on-deaths-of-labourers/article31605178.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Non-registered barbers to get Rs. 2,000 as dole||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced that barbers, even if not registered with the Labour Welfare Board, would be given a cash assistance of Rs. 2,000, in two instalments. The State government’s decision followed representations by persons not registered as members with the Labour Welfare Board. They appealed to the government to extend assistance to them, as their livelihood was severely affected by the COVID-19 lockdown, an official release stated. A cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 was distributed to 14,667 barbers, who were registered as members of the Labour Welfare Board, twice earlier. To avail financial assistance, barbers have to approach authorities concerned in the Local Administration Department. Detailed instructions in this regard should be communicated to authorities concerned by the Commissioner of Revenue Administration, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/non-registered-barbers-to-get-rs-2000-as-dole/article31605182.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 320 policemen test positive||As many as 320 police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 across the State so far, with Chennai topping with 276 cases. A senior police officer said, “Compared to other districts, Chennai has recorded the maximum number of cases among police personnel too. Most of them get exposed to the virus as they are involved in prevention, identification and other bandobust duties. Some of them who were not doing field work also had COVID-19 and they were asymptomatic initially.” Police personnel with symptoms have been asked to approach the nearest test centre or a city hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-320-policemen-test-positive/article31605183.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No party can match DMK when it comes to public service during pandemic’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday claimed that no political party could match the DMK when it came to serving the people during the COVID-19 pandemic. The government acted irresponsibly by opening Tasmac shops, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-party-can-match-dmk-when-it-comes-to-public-service-during-pandemic/article31605174.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Total prohibition will take time, says Minister||Total prohibition cannot be implemented in one go. It will take some time since this is a social problem, AIADMK leader and Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said. Addressing the media on Saturday, he recalled former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s statement that the AIADMK was for a phased implementation of prohibition. “Our policy is complete prohibition,” he said, and recalled Jayalalithaa’s announcement and the subsequent closure of liquor shops by her as well as current Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/total-prohibition-will-take-time-says-minister/article31605173.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin shedding crocodile tears on COVID-19 situation: Minister||Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture K. Pandiarajan on Saturday said DMK president M.K. Stalin was desperately trying to come into power by exploiting the COVID-19 situation. “He is shedding crocodile tears,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-shedding-crocodile-tears-on-covid-19-situation-minister/article31605172.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senior CPI(M) leader K. Varadarajan is no more||Senior CPI(M) leader and former member of the party’s Polit Bureau K. Varadarajan died in Karur on Saturday. He was 73 and is survived by his son and a daughter. “He was unwell and died at his son’s house,” said party State secretary K. Balakrishnan. Born in Srirangam, Varadarajan worked in the Public Works Department (PWD) before joining the CPI(M) as a full-time member. He had functioned as the Tiruchi district secretary of the party unit and was elected to the party's state committee and secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-cpim-leader-k-varadarajan-is-no-more/article31605171.ece
17 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Man kills aunt after a quarrel in Kolathur||A 27-year-old man allegedly killed his aunt after a quarrel in Kolathur on Friday. The police said Gunasundari, 38, and her husband Mani, 40, were living near Puzhal. Gunasundari visited her nephew Ganesh, a painter, in Kolathur on Friday night and warned him against having a sexual relationship with a relative. This led to a quarrel and Ganesh reportedly stabbed her to death with a kitchen knife. The police are on the lookout for Ganesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-kills-aunt-after-a-quarrel-in-kolathur/article31605161.ece
17 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three evaluation centres for Class XII in Coimbatore district||With evaluation of Class XII public examination answer scripts to commence from Wednesday, Coimbatore district plans three evaluation centres and will look at additional centres too. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer (CEO) P. Usha said on Saturday that one evaluation centre had been set up for each of the three educational districts – Coimbatore city, Pollachi and S.S. Kulam. However, with the Class X public examinations to begin on June 1, some evaluation centres would also function as examination centres, she said. Hence, permission for additional evaluation centres had been sought from the Department of School Education. “We are expecting to get the confirmation from Chennai in another two days,” Ms. Usha said. All COVID-19 precautionary measures would be undertaken in these centres. According to the guidelines issued by Director of Government Examinations C. Usharani, only eight teachers would be allowed per room to ensure personal distancing. Six assistant examiners, one scrutiny officer and one chief examiner would be present in a room. The mark verification officer must ensure personal distancing while receiving the answer scripts from the evaluators. All the teachers must wear masks and availability of soaps and hand sanitisers must be ensured in these evaluation centres, according to the circular.  Online revision classes Meanwhile, the online revision classes for Class X students in government schools of Coimbatore district began on Friday. Ms. Usha said the one-hour online class was arranged for the students of 20 government and government-aided schools from the district. “We will add 20 more schools,” she said. The classes can be accessed through laptops or smart phones, the CEO noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-evaluation-centres-for-class-xii-in-coimbatore-district/article31605203.ece
17 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘More clarification on functioning of self-financing colleges by Monday’||Following the State government’s order on six working days a week starting May 18, Bharathiar University on Friday issued a circular that it would work for six days a week and asked its departments, affiliated and constituent colleges to adhere to the rules strictly. The circular also said the University would make the necessary transport arrangements. But the circular had led to some confusion in self-financing affiliating colleges, the managements of which wanted to know if it bound them or not. The managements argued that while the circular, based on the Government Order would apply to the University, government and government-aided colleges and that it did not bind them. They also wanted to know the logic behind the University asking them to reopen the colleges for the faculty as the academic year was at least a month away. They also cited the lack of public transportation for the faculty to reach colleges and had sought clarification for faculty travelling from one district to another. Sources in the University agreed that there were some grey areas in the order and also the circular that followed it. The University had sought some clarification from the Department of Higher Education and a clearer position was expected on Monday. Meanwhile, Anna University had asked its affiliated colleges to function starting Monday by asking the managements of self-financing engineering colleges to adopt a rotational system of work. It had asked one set of faculty (50%) to work on Mondays and Tuesdays followed by the second set to work on Wednesdays and Thursdays and again the first set to work the next two days. In the second week, the second set of faculty would get to work the first two days and the two sets would take turns thereafter in similar fashion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-clarification-on-functioning-of-self-financing-colleges-by-monday/article31605206.ece
17 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AMMK workers held||The Vadavalli police arrested seven persons, including two functionaries of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), on charges of forming public assembly in violation of lockdown regulations on Friday. The arrested have been identified as N. Appadurai (70) of Sanganoor Road near Ganapathy, district secretary of AMMK, and M. Tamilvanan (37) of Ananda Nagar near Vadavalli, secretary of Coimbatore central district youth federation of AMMK, and five others. The police said the accused gathered in a residential area near Navavoor on Friday on the pretext of distributing COVID-19 relief materials to people. The arrested were released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-workers-held/article31605207.ece
17 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Civic body to test densely populated areas and vulnerable sections||In the past few days, after there was no active COVID-19 active case in the district, the Coimbatore Corporation has been conducting test but with a different strategy. The civic body is at present focussing on areas that are thickly populated – urban slums and areas that have a concentration of workers - and concentrating on people who are vulnerable to the disease, say sources. The vulnerable sections include doctors, paramedical staff, police personnel and other people engaged in combating the spread of COVID-19. The sources say that the change in strategy is based on the evolving guidelines that the State government gives from time to time and the ground situation in the city. Earlier, the Corporation took swab samples from people within five-km radius of the affected person’s house. It then narrowed it down to three km and then one and finally, a few days ago, focussed only on the street and immediate neighbourhood of the affected person. And as days passed by the Corporation did not lift swab samples from all people within the containment zone but from a few (random samples ), those will illness and vulnerable to COVID-19. It then concentrated on pregnant women and feeding mothers. It also focussed on people visiting hospitals with influenza like illness, severe acute respiratory infection or fever. Now, given the new strategy the Corporation is lifting close to 200 samples a day from areas within the city. It is also conducting health camps for the vulnerable sections of the population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-to-test-densely-populated-areas-and-vulnerable-sections/article31605209.ece
17 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mask for persons with hearing impairment||With masks becoming mandatory, Coimbatore-based organisation No Food Waste has designed and developed masks that will meet the requirements of those with hearing impairment. Padmanabhan Gopalan, founder of No Food Waste, told The Hindu that the product was developed in the last one week or so and tried by about 10 persons here. It was a cloth mask with Polypropylene sheet stitched to it. The masks could be washed (dip wash) and reused 20 times. A pack of six masks would be distributed to each beneficiary so that they and their immediate family members or friends of those with hearing impairment could wear them. With the Polypropylene sheet, speech reading and communication would become easier. “The basic idea is to help in better communication and understanding,” he said. The masks, known under the name “Clear Mask”, is supplied to the Department for the Welfare of Disabled Persons, which will distribute each pack to about 1,000 people across the State. “We tried the masks in Chennai, Tiruppur, and Coimbatore and are now supplying a bulk quantity. Based on the feedback from the users, the product will be improved,” he added. The production and transportation cost for each pack worked out to nearly Rs. 90. Mr. Padmanabhan said that the work would be taken up by a start-up and there were plans to develop these masks and with changes supply it to shopfloor workers in industries so that they could hear each other better when the machines were operated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mask-for-persons-with-hearing-impairment/article31605201.ece
17 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco resumes monthly shutdown||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has resumed shutdown of sub-stations in the region for maintenance works. According to an official, there was no shutdown for maintenance works for almost three months now. With Class X examinations starting on June 1, it will not be possible to disrupt power supply then for maintenance works. Hence, it has been decided to take up maintenance works wherever necessary for the next few days. It is risky if maintenance works are not carried out for a long time. So, there will be power shutdowns for the next 10 to 15 days in areas where it is essential to take up the works, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-resumes-monthly-shutdown/article31605212.ece
17 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Shopkeepers, individuals fined||Coimbatore Corporation has started imposing fines on shopkeepers for not enforcing personal distancing norm within and outside their shops and on individuals for not wearing masks on streets and in public places. Sources in the Corporation said that zonal sanitary officers have been imposing fine at Rs. 100 a person for not wearing mask. On an average, they fine anywhere between 100 to 200 persons a day and act against at least 50 shopkeepers. In the past week, the Corporation had collected Rs. 67,500 in fine from over 670 persons. A sanitary officer said he had asked the owners of a few shops to down shutter as the government had not permitted those. Another officer said he had ordered the owners of a home appliance shop and two grocery stores to close the shop as no personal distancing was followed. Another officer said that he had instructed the sanitary inspectors to handover masks after imposing fine.The sources said that the sanitary inspectors were enforcing the wearing of the masks even as they went about supervising solid waste management and street cleaning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shopkeepers-individuals-fined/article31605218.ece
17 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cargo flight to be operated for Coimbatore||SpiceXpress Cargo, the cargo arm of SpiceJet, has announced operation of 26 cargo flights on May 18, 20, 22 and 24. Of these, a flight will be operated from Chennai to Coimbatore on May 20 and one from Coimbatore to Madurai on the same day. The flight from Chennai will reach Coimbatore at 11.05 a.m. and leave Coimbatore for Madurai at 12.35 p.m. From Madurai, it will go to Bengaluru. Capacity According to sources here, the cargo capacity of this flight is nearly 18 tonnes. With better awareness, outbound cargo movement from the region can increase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cargo-flight-to-be-operated-for-coimbatore/article31605202.ece
17 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Chain snatched||Two-wheeler-borne miscreants snatched the chain of a 60-year-old woman near Vadavalli on Thursday. The police said the incident happened when the woman R. Anuradha, a resident ofr Navavoor junction, was walking from her apartment to her mother’s house nearby. The Vadavalli police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chain-snatched/article31605217.ece
17 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply in the following places on May 18 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. due to shutdown of Othakalmandapam sub-station for maintenance works: Part of MM Patti, Elur Pirivu, part of Arisipalayam, Othakalmandapam, Okkilipalayam, Premier Nagar, Myleripalayam, Mampally, Periyakuilai, Orrattukkuppai, Thegani, Chettipalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article31605211.ece
17 May 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Death of nurse in road accident triggers protest||Following the death of a senior nurse in a road accident late Friday night, nurses at the government medical college hospital staged a protest on Saturday demanding essential facilities for them round the clock. The nurse, Kumudha, deputed in the NICU ward of the government medical college hospital, was returning home late after duty on her two-wheeler, when she met with an accident. Initially, what was suspected to have been a hit and run near Kaveripattinam in Krishangiri turned out to be an accident caused perhaps by a dog. On Saturday, nurses gathered outside the hospital flagging issues such as lack of basic facilities like hostel accommodation for late night duty nurses and also lack of transport for them after duty. The protesters said that the transport facilities were far and few and the few buses only plied to select areas. The existing hostel for nurses was allotted for other use. In the absence of a proper accommodation in the form of a hostel, the nurses were forced to head back home in their own mode of transport, irrespective of the time of the day. Kumudha would not have suffered a fatal accident had there been amenities at the hospital, they said. Officials including the dean of the government medical college hospital held talks with the nurses and assured them of intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-of-nurse-in-road-accident-triggers-protest/article31605199.ece
17 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for smuggling sandalwood||Two persons, who were involved in smuggling sandalwood from the forest area in Bargur Forest Range, were arrested and they were fined Rs. 75,000. Based on a tip-off, forest personnel inspected the area at Kovilnathan and found E. Veerabadran (45) and R. Basuvaraj (37), both native of Velampatti in Bargur, in possession of seven logs of sandalwood. A case was registered and the sandalwood was seized from them. Both were arrested. Later, each was fined Rs. 37,500. Officials said the accused were planning to sell the sandalwood in black market as they felt there was a good demand for sandalwood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-smuggling-sandalwood/article31605198.ece
17 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bleak future for tour guides||Tourism industry will take a long time to revive, say local tour guides in Madurai. They say that the lockdown has hit them badly and they are finding it difficult to sustain their families with no source of income. Even if the lockdown was lifted, the guides fear that they may have no source of income for at least the next six months. S. Kaniraj, a tourist guide for the past 25 years, says that Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, Thirumalai Nayak Palace, Gandhi Memorial Museum, Alagarkoil’s Sundararaja Perumal Temple and Tirupparankundram Hills are among the major tourist attractions in the district. “It was from March 18 that public entry to all popular tourism destinations in Madurai was banned. Usually, summer is the peak season when we have many customers and earn decent earnings. But, due to the current crisis, we have not had any income for the past two months,” he says. Mr. Kaniraj adds that there are around 70 tour guides in Madurai who have registered themselves with the tourism department. For these guides, money paid by tourists are their only source of income. “Though registered guides can travel throughout the State, most of them earn their livelihood by explaining the history of famed Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple and Thirumalai Nayak Palace to tourists,” he says. “Though we have been dipping into our savings, the delay in revival of the industry will make it difficult for us manage financially in the coming months”, says L. Selva Nagendran, another guide. “It may take at least six months for tourists from other parts of the country to come to Madurai. In case of foreign tourists, it may take even more than a year for normalcy to return,” he says. So, the government must provide some financial assistance to the guides so that they can withstand this crisis, says Mr. Kaniraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bleak-future-for-tour-guides/article31605430.ece
17 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile medical units bring healthcare to the doorsteps||Mobile medical units in Madurai have been bringing healthcare closer to people during the lockdown by conducting 223 medical camps in villages since May 1. Deputy Director of Health Services (DDHS) Priya Raj said routine check-ups were conducted for 719 antenatal mothers between May 1 and May 12. “The aim is to hold 546 camps in villages across the district in a month,” she said. On May 1, Revenue Minister flagged off 13 mobile medical units - one for each block - to ensure that pregnant women, diabetic patients and those with high blood pressure get easy access to medicines and check-ups. He said although villagers can visit nearest primary health centre, the units will provide healthcare at the doorstep. Each unit comprises a doctor, staff nurse and paramedical worker. “Our aim is to ensure that pregnant women who are part of the high risk category are taken care of. They should not have to visit PHCs or government hospitals unless essential,” she says. During two weeks, 249 high-risk antenatal mothers were screened and 21 were referred to government hospitals as they displayed either complications in their pregnancy or displayed COVID-19 symptoms. According to a report submitted by the health department, 104 postnatal mothers were screened and 101 newborns screened for neonatal complications. “Apart from providing counselling and contraceptives to mothers, we also provided masks to antenatal and postnatal mothers,” she says. The DDHS says they had also screened 1,167 migrant labourers at work-sites to ensure that they did not display any signs of COVID-19. “We did not want to turn it as a general camp as it may have an impact on pregnant mothers. We provided medicines needed for two months to 1,644 hypertensive patients and 1,231 diabetic patients. We aim to cover the entire district by the end of the month,” she says. On an average, doctors cover over two villages a day. She said nearly 5,000 packets of Kabasura Kudineer were distributed as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-medical-units-bring-healthcare-to-the-doorsteps/article31605436.ece
17 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac shops reopen with better crowd regulation||The sale of liquor in Tasmac shops resumed on Saturday aftera Supreme Court stayof a Madras High Court order. Sales were regulated, as a token system was followed to ensure there was a check on the number of customers. A team of five policemen and home guards were posted at each of the shops to regulate the crowd. This time, Tasmac authorities issued tokens to allow people on a first-come-first-serve basis. The authorities are issuing seven different colours of tokens for the seven different days of a week. “The tokens are given about 50 feet away from the shop, and only those who produce the tokens can stand in the queue in front of the shops,” a Tasmac supervisor said. A maximum of 70 tokens are being issued every hour. While the local shops in the city did not see huge crowds, longer queues were reported at elite bars. This time around however, authorities did not insist on the buyers producing their Aadhar cards as was done the last time the liquor shops. In Madurai city, out of the 125 Tasmac shops in total, 118 have been allowed to open. “The rest were in containment zones,” a police officer said. “We did not have much trouble this time,” an Inspector of Police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-shops-reopen-with-better-crowd-regulation/article31605428.ece
17 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Four MLAs nominated to MKU senate||Four Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs) have been nominated to the Madurai Kamaraj University's senate. As per the university regulations, a total of four MLAs from the region must be part of the senate. Currently, S. T. K. Jakkaiyan from Cumbum constituency, K. Manickam from Sholavandan, R. Sakkarapani from Oddanchatram and P. T. R. Palanivel Thiagarajan from Madurai Central have been nominated. The nomination follows the expiry of the tenure of four other MLAs of the region who were part of the senate. MLAs P. Neethipathi from Usilampatti, P. Moorthy from Madurai East, S. Thangapandian from Rajapalayam and former MLA K. Kathirkamu from Periyakulam were earlier part of the senate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-mlas-nominated-to-mku-senate/article31605434.ece
17 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Body of infant exhumed||The body of a four-day-old female infant that was buried by its parents along the Vaigai in Sholavandan on Thursday was exhumed for post-mortem on Saturday after local people raised suspicion over the death of the infant which is the fourth female child of the couple. The Sholavandan police registered a case under Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure for death under suspicious manner based on a complaint lodged by the Village Administrative Officer Samayan. The body was exhumed in the presence of Vadipatti Tahsildar R. Krishnakumar, Samayanallur Deputy Superintendent of Police Ananda Arokkiyaraj and member of Child Welfare Committee B. Pandiyarajan. A team of doctors from Madurai Medical College conducted the post-mortem on the spot. “The doctors have taken the vicera samples for the test. The report will be ready in a week,” the Tahsildar said. Meanwhile, the father of the infant told the authorities that the local village health nurse was informed about the infant developing sudden illness and she was also alerted about the death on the same day. Suspicion grew after the parents had buried the body along the Vaigai near the old police quarters in Sholavandan without the knowledge of local people. The mother had delivered a healthy baby at the Melakkal Primary Health Centre on May 10. “We have registered only a case of suspicious death. Based on the PM report further course of investigation would be taken,” said S. Vanitha, Additional Superintendent of Police (Crime against Children and Women).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-infant-exhumed/article31605431.ece
17 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Smuggling of PDS rice during pandemic will not be condoned, says HC||Dismissing a plea that sought the release of a lorry, seized for allegedly transporting Public Distribution System (PDS) rice illegally, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that smuggling of such rice cannot be condoned by the court when there was shortage of essential commodities, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The court was hearing the petition filed by M. Ramar from Madurai who sought a direction to the District Administration to release his lorry, seized for illegally transporting PDS rice. The petitioner said that he was a transport contractor for the Thiruparankundram Cooperative Credit Society and had the permission to transport essential commodities. It was said that while unloading the essential commodities, the police had seized the vehicle along with 15 kgs of rice on the allegation that the driver had illegally transported PDS rice. It was said that at the time of seizure, the driver, without the knowledge of the petitioner, had been transporting PDS rice. The State maintained that the rice was being smuggled. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan observed that people were facing an extraordinary situation in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and there was a necessity for the government to distribute rice and other essential commodities through fair price shops. Transporting rice whether after getting it back from card holders or by smuggling the rice that was to be supplied to the common man cannot be condoned by the court, when every grain of rice was important, in view of the extraordinary situation. The lorry was seized by due process of law and the court was not inclined to grant any order directing the return of the same, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smuggling-of-pds-rice-during-pandemic-will-not-be-condoned-says-hc/article31605438.ece
17 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Textile shops to be closed today||As a precautionary measure to contain COVID-19, Collector T. G. Vinay said textile shops would be closed on Sunday. Textile shops were allowed to be open on May 11 after the relaxations across the State. Shops are not allowed to open in containment zones. The administration banned the sale of meat every Sunday as it has caused severe breach of physical distancing in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-shops-to-be-closed-today/article31605426.ece
17 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||S. Kannammal, 87, was killed when she fell from a car after its rear door accidentally opened. A family from Surveyor Colony in the city was going in an SUV to attend a marriage function on Friday. When they were travelling on Rajapalayam Road near T. Kunnathur, the rear door of the car suddenly opened, said complainant V. Shanmugavel, 20. The old woman fell along with Suban, 15, and his mother Tamilselvi, 41. All the three were rushed to the Government Hospital in Tirumangalam where the doctor declared Kannammal dead. The injured have been admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital. The police have arrested driver P. Rajendran of Sellur.     K. Pothiraja, 32, of Valayapatti was electrocuted to death in a motor room in his farm near Tirumangalam. The police said he, along with his wife, Sudha, 28, had gone to their farm. When Pothiraja attempted to switch on the motor pump he suffered an electric shock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article31605432.ece
17 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||School teachers help students||Teachers of the Panchayat Union primary school in Chithalangudi, Vadipatti, on Saturday contributed essential commodities to 100 students of the school. They distributed 5 kgs of rice, 5 kgs of wheat flour and vegetables to the families. The teachers also distributed packages to sanitary workers in Chithalangudi. Vadipatti Union Councillor M. Dhanapalan and Head Mistress of the school Lourde Amalarani presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-teachers-help-students/article31605437.ece
17 May 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Kudimaramathu scheme: desilting work begins in Nagapattinam, Karur, Tiruvarur districts||About Rs. 36 crore has been allotted to Nagapattinam district to execute 131 desilting works under the kudimaramathu scheme this year, O.S. Manian, Minister for Handlooms and Textiles, said here on Saturday. Inaugurating repair works under the scheme at Puthakaram reservoir on the Mudukondan and desilting of Malliyanaru, Mr. Manian said the kudimaramathu works would be executed through 106 registered societies of ayacutdars. Besides, Rs. 16.71 crore had been allotted for the district for desilting works. Desilting and renovation of water bodies would also be taken up through the Rural Development Department under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Mr. Manian said the Malliyanaru would be desilted using machines for a nine-km stretch at a cost of Rs. 42 lakh. The river irrigated about 1,217 acres in the district. Collector Praveen P .Nair and other officials were present. In Karur district, three canals and seven drainage channels in Kulithalai taluk would be desilted for a total length of about 42.6 km at a cost of Rs. 1.38 crore under Chief Minister’s Special Desilting Scheme. Inaugurating the scheme on Nangam Kattu Vari, Transport Minister M.R.Vijayabhaskar said the desilting of the canals would meet a long-felt demand of farmers and stabilise irrigation for 11,750 acres in 13 villages. The network of canals and drainage channels served both as irrigation source and drainages and many of them had silted up over the years, obstructing water flow. During monsoon, breaches were also reported and farmers had been demanding their desilting. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had ordered the completion of works before the release of water in the Cauvery for irrigation from Mettur. Apart from these works, 10 other projects would be executed at a cost of Rs. 2.43 crore under the kudimaramathu scheme in Karur district benefiting farmers in an area of over 7,000 acres, he said and pointed out that work on renovation of Kattalai High Level Canal, sanctioned at a cost of Rs. 335.50 crore, was also underway. Collector T. Anbalagan was present. In Tiruvarur district, Food Minister R. Kamaraj inaugurated the Chief Minister’s Special Desilting Scheme to clear the beds of irrigation channels to ensure smooth flow of water to be released from Stanley Reservoir for cultivation. A total of 106 works at a cost of Rs. 22.56 crore would be taken up under the scheme this year where the beds of rivers, irrigation channels, water bodies and drain channels would be cleared of wild growth, he said while inaugurating the desilting of the Odambokki at Ammaiyappan village panchayat in Koradachery Panchayat Union on Saturday. A distance of 6 km of the river would be cleared of weeds at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh. He also inaugurated a special medical camp held for PDS staff at the primary health centre at Kulikkarai in Koradacherry panchayat union on Saturday. Medical camp Inaugurating the camp, Mr. Kamaraj said special medical camps would be held in panchayat unions in the district to cover all 500 persons employed in PDS outlets in the district. Later, he inspected the quality of food served at Amma Canteen near Old Bus Stand at Tiruvarur and interacted with beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kudimaramathu-scheme-desilting-work-begins-in-nagapattinam-karur-tiruvarur-districts/article31605446.ece
17 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||No power disconnections till May 22: Minister||Power connections would not be disconnected in the State till May 22 due to lockdown, Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani told mediapersons here on Saturday. Mr. Thangamani and Collector K. Megraj inspected Amma canteens in Pallipalayam and Komarapalayam here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-power-disconnections-till-may-22-minister/article31605222.ece
17 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Boy dies due to use of drugs||A 17-year-old boy died allegedly due to use of addictive drugs near Annadhanapatti. The police said Ajith Kumar of Anadhanapatti was working at a silver workshop here. He was addicted to use of sleeping pills, paint thinners and other addictive elements for a high, along with his friends. On Thursday, he and his friends dissolved some addictive tablets in water and took an injection of it. Ajith became unconscious and his friends dropped him off at his home. Though Ajith’s parents called for ambulance, he reportedly died before the ambulance reached the house, the police said. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-dies-due-to-use-of-drugs/article31605205.ece
17 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corporation collects over Rs. 14 lakh in fines||The Salem Corporation has collected a fine of Rs. 14.01 lakh from persons who ventured out without wearing masks. The corporation had mandated use of masks in public places here and special teams were formed to monitor this. According to a release, between April 16 and May 15, the corporation has collected the fine from 14,494 persons. It has also advised businesses here not to sell products without wearing masks and gloves and also not to sell products to public coming without masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corporation-collects-over-rs-14-lakh-in-fines/article31605215.ece
17 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for attacking woman||The Salem District Police remanded three persons on Friday for attacking a woman near Kolathur for being in an illicit relationship with a relative of the accused. According to the police, Marappan and his sons Chellappan and Kumar from Palamalai here allegedly attacked Kala near Palamalai for having an illicit relationship with Marappan’s son-in-law Chinnaswami. The victim was admitted to Mettur Government Hospital and based on her complaint, the Kolathur police arrested the accused on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-attacking-woman/article31605204.ece
17 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||It is political rhetoric, says Mutharasan||CPI State secretary R.Mutharasan on Saturday termed the package announced by the Centre to revive the economy as political rhetoric. Talking to reporters in Kumbakonam, he said the package presented by Union Finance Minister, Nirmala Seetharaman had nothing substantial to address the present crisis. Already, the economy had become sick and was sinking in view of the neo-liberal policies pursued by the Centre. Further, thousands of migrant workers faced unprecedented hardships due to loss of livelihood and lack of food, money to reach their homes and support to their families. Accusing the government of ignoring the plight and misery of migrant workers, Mr. Mutharasan said people should not be allowed to feel helpless and live in despair. The CPI would stage protests on May 19 condemning the indifferent attitude of the government towards migrant workers and poor people at more than 3,000 places all over Tamil Nadu. The party cadre had been asked to stage protests by wearing black stripes and holding placards and black flags in places where lockdown restrictions existed and in front of labour or revenue offices in other places by following norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-political-rhetoric-says-mutharasan/article31605450.ece
17 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Five held for harassing girl||The Kulaththoor police arrested five persons, including a boy who allegedly sexually harassed a 17-year-old girl, who attempted to commit suicide recently by setting herself ablaze as she was unable to bear with the trauma caused by them over the past few months. Police said V. Saravanan alias Saravanakumar, 27, M. Velsamy, 29, K. Udhayakumar, 19, V. Karuppasamy, 19 and a 17-year-old boy, all from a village under the Kulaththoor police station limits, were sexually harassing the girl by calling her over the mobile phone. When she refused to attend their calls and switched off the phone at one point as she was unable to bear their torture, the tormentors went to her house on May 8 even as she was alone and threatened her of dire consequences if she refused to attend their phone calls. Upset over this, the girl allegedly immolated herself and was admitted to the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. Though her mother filed a complaint with the Kulaththoor police, no immediate action was taken to arrest the tormentors, who reportedly escaped on a lorry. On coming to know about the incident, Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan formed four special teams that nabbed all the five accused. While the 17-year-old boy was lodged in the juvenile home in Palayamkottai, Saravanakumar, Velsamy, Karuppasamy and Udhayakumar were lodged in the Peroorani jail. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-for-harassing-girl/article31605422.ece
17 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Liquor sale hits usual high in central districts||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC) on Saturday resumed sale of liquor in Tiruchi, Karur, Ariyalur and other districts in the central region of the State. Out of 183 outlets, 150 resumed business in Tiruchi district. The rest of the outlets remained closed as they were located in containment zones. In scenes reminiscent of May 7, when liquor outlets reopened after lockdown, tipplers could be seen in long queues on Saturday. Many of them reached the nearest outlet even before 8 a.m. They were issued tokens on first-come, first-served basis. Liquor was sold only to those who had tokens. Heavy crowds were witnessed in front of most of the Tasmac outlets. Many braved the scorching sun and seemed unmindful of the hour-long wait to reach the sales counter. Sanitiser was applied on their hands. Although circles were drawn at a distance of six feet between customers in front of each shop to ensure personal distancing, many were seen standing close to each other at various places. Police personnel stepped in frequently to check violation of the social distancing norm. Some workers took time off from their work as the outlets were opened up to 5 p.m. Since there was no restriction on sale, many customers bought more than two full bottles (750 ML each). Some outlets had double counters to ensure quick disposal. “The hot weather is a dampener, but I braved the heat. Otherwise, the arrangements were good,” said M. Bala of Puthur, who waited for about 90 minutes at an outlet in Puthur. “If the outlets had not opened, I would not have come to buy liquor, saving Rs. 300. Now, I could not resist the temptation,” said M. Perumal of Thennur. S. Durai Murugan, manager, Tasmac, Tiruchi, told The Hindu that liquor was sold only to first 500 persons in each shop. Others were given token for Sunday. Liquor was sold only to those who followed social distancing norms, he said. Tiruchi district registered sales to the tune of Rs. 12.3 crore after resumption of liquor sale last week. In Karur district, sale of liquor resumed in 94 of the 95 Tasmac outlets on Saturday. Most of them witnessed heavy rush. Special arrangements were in place to regulate the crowd. In Ariyalur district, only 21 outlets out of 53 resumed business. The remaining were not opened as they were located in containment zones. In Pudukottai, customers were asked to carry umbrellas to ensure personal distancing between them while queuing up to buy liqour in some of the shops in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-sale-hits-usual-high-in-central-districts/article31605449.ece
17 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||3 test positive, 35 discharged in delta region||Three people tested positive for coronavirus, while 35 patients were discharged from various hospitals and care centres in the central region on Saturday. Of the three patients who tested positive, two belonged to Nagapattinam and the third hailed from Thanjavur district. The men from Nagapattinam, aged 50 and 51, returned from Chennai after the Koyambedu market was shut down. They travelled via Karaikal and were stopped by police personnel near Nagore and tested. They were admitted to a quarantine facility in the district and shifted to Nagapattinam Government Headquarters Hospital after testing positive. The duo were asymptomatic and responding well to treatment, officials said. The sole patient who tested positive in Thanjavur returned to the district from Andhra Pradesh. The 35-year-old man was intercepted by officials at a checkpost and taken for testing. The patient was admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital for treatment. Of the 35 patients who were discharged on Saturday, 25 hailed from Perambalur and 10 from Ariyalur and were sent home after recovering from the infection. So far, 337 of 348 positve patients had fully recovered in Ariyalur, while 109 of 139, who tested positive in Perambalur, were discharged from Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital. R. Geetha Rani, Deputy Director of Health Services, Perambalur, said all 25 patients were given fruit platters and a warm send-off by hospital staff. The patients were sent to their homes on 108 ambulance vans and asked to stay in home quarantine for 14 days. Many migrant workers, who were stranded in various parts of the districts, were sent home after COVID-19 test samples returned negative. Nine patients hailing from Maharashtra, who were found walking to their hometown and admitted to a quarantine facility in the district in April, were all sent home after 14 days. District officials said arrangements had been made to ensure their return home. Dr. Geetha Rani said officials in Maharashtra were contacted and after their approval, the workers, including four children, were sent to Maharashtra. Meanwhile, 330 migrant workers hailing from Bihar submitted a petition to Ariyalur Collector requesting her permission to board a train to their hometown. Special train A special Shramik train was arranged from Villupuram to Bihar. With the Collector’s approval, the workers were taken in vehicles arranged by the district administration from Ariyalur to Villupuram from where they would board the train scheduled to depart at 8 p.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-test-positive-35-discharged-in-delta-region/article31605452.ece
17 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ordering groceries, online style||Gone are the days when neighbourhood grocery shops did business the old-fashioned way — face to face. Thanks to lockdown, online — contactless — transaction is the ‘new normal’ across the city. Take, for instance, Saraswathi Stores in Ponmalaipatti that celebrated its 50th anniversary three years ago. The shop launched a website to mark the milestone. “Also, most of our customers were from Golden Rock Railway Workshop. When they retired, they moved to other parts of the city. We thought a website would help us to stay connected,” R. Vignesh, co-owner of the store, recalled. Surprisingly, the shop found itself doing business with a whole new generation of patrons. “We receive a majority of orders on our website from abroad, from sons and daughters of the retirees, who want us to deliver groceries to their parents in Tiruchi,” he says. While there has been a leap in the number of online orders, the family-run store remains a priority. “We have introduced an app called ‘SS Farm Fresh’ for customers who wish to buy fruits and vegetables along with groceries,” adds Mr. Vignesh. “So far, we have been able to fulfill our promise to deliver the same day for orders placed by noon.” The store accepts only online payment since the announcement of the lockdown. Without a doubt, ordering groceries online has become a way of life for residents. So much so that many of the shops are seeing their websites crash due to increased volume in business. When Kovai Pazhamudhircholai , a fresh produce store  in No.1 Toll Gate, opened its website three years ago, there was hardly any traffic. It is a different story now. “The demand became so overwhelming during the initial days of the lockdown that we had to temporarily shut down our online service,” says its proprietor R. Bhaskar. The shop reopened its website last week. The fruits and vegetables cost a little more due to limited manpower to make the home delivery. The store also insists on a minimum order of Rs. 500 to meet the costs of fuel and labour. Mr. Bhaskar too considers the online service as ancillary to the main business. “Customers are most welcome to visit our store in person, where we sell goods with the right safeguards in place,” he says. At Sri Balamurugan Supermarket, a 31-year-old establishment in Thuvakudimalai, the new business platform is WhatsApp. The store launched its website last year, but the online service has been discontinued because of flutuations in stock and price. “We receive around 50 WhatsApp orders daily that we deliver maintaining a safe distance from customers. As per government rules, we do home delivery only to nearby residential areas,” says a store official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ordering-groceries-online-style/article31605454.ece
17 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Trains leave for Bihar, UP||Two special trains were operated from Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi on Saturday to take migrant labourers from these two districts to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar respectively. When two trains were operated from Tirunelveli Junction to Bihar and Jharkhand recently, migrant labourers from these two States, who were working in various places of Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts, were sent back. In the third train operated from Thoothukudi to Muzaffarpur in Bihar with 24 coaches at Saturday 2.25 p.m., 1,389 migrant labourers from Bihar were sent back after comprehensive medical screening. They will reach their destination around 3.30 p.m. on May 18. As 196 persons from Kovilpatti, also left for Bihar in the special train, they were screened by the medical teams at the Kovilpatti Old Bus Stand and also at Kayathar taluk office, from where they were taken to Thoothukudi Railway Station in 7 buses. In the fourth special train that left Tirunelveli Junction for Basti in Uttar Pradesh at 7 p.m., 1,440 stranded migrant labourers from the State, who were working in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Tenkasi districts and also in Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project, were sent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trains-leave-for-bihar-up/article31605425.ece
17 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Sixth stray panther caged||One more panther was caged successfully on Friday night as the predator that strayed into the habitation close to the Western Ghats near Papanasam. Sources in the Kalakkad – Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve said the cage was placed repeatedly at Koraiyaarikulam, Chettimedu and Vembaiahpuram, all under the Aladiyoor beat after the locals complained about the invasion of a predator into their village to hunt down the domestic animals and the pet dogs. Though panthers that strayed into these villages were caged on five occasions in the past 50 days, the sixth one was caged at Vembaiahpuram on Friday night. Around 10.20 p.m., an 18-month-old female that entered the hamlet got lured by the bait in the cage and was trapped. The animal was taken to Upper Gothaiyar where it was released on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sixth-stray-panther-caged/article31605423.ece
17 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two held with ganja||Kuniyamuthur police arrested R. Thahir Hussain of GM Nagar Ukkadam and Mohammed Ashik of Vijayalakshmi Mills near Kuniyamuthur, for possessing 1.25 kg of ganja on Friday. The police seized Rs. 7,200 and a superbike from the accused. They were remanded in judicial custody.     Police on Friday arrested three men on charges of smuggling ganja in a water tanker and a two-wheeler. Police said that K. Sundaramahalingam, A. Mohammed Yasin and G. Pandiprabhu allegedly smuggled 5.25 kg of ganja in the two vehicles. Police seized the vehicles and cash Rs. 3,000 from the accused, who were booked under provisions of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and were remanded in judicial custody at Coimbatore Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-with-ganja/article31605221.ece
17 May 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Leopard found unwell near Botanical Garden||A six-year-old male leopard was found unwell and unable to move freely near the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam on Saturday. Forest department officials said that they initially suspected that it had an injury on it's rear leg. Local residents spotted the animal and informed the forest department which dispatched a team of Rapid Response Team personnel. They captured the animal and took it to the local veterinary hospital for treatment. K. Saravanakumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests, Nilgiris division, said that the animal is being assessed at the veterinary hospital. Officials said that the animal was suffering seizures and added that they are trying to ascertain the cause of the illness. District forest officer, Nilgiris division, D. Guruswamy, said that the extent of the animal’s illness will be ascertained. “If we can treat it for its injuries and its ailments, we can hold it till it fully recovers and think of re-release. But for now we are still trying to ensure it survives so that veterinarians can ensure it’s full recovery,” said the DFO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-found-unwell-near-botanical-garden/article31605220.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||288 Tasmac outlets reopened in Coimbatore district||Liquor buyers thronged in front of Tasmac outlets in the district as 288 outlets were reopened for the second time during the national lockdown following court direction on Saturday. Every shop followed token system for the sale of liquor to regulate the crowd and maintain physical distancing, according to Tasmac officials. Buyers stood in queues at Tasmac outlets from 9.15 a.m. though the shops were opened at 10 a.m. Tokens were given to buyers before they were allowed to stand in queue towards the counter. Of the 295 Tasmac outlets in the district, 288 opened on Saturday. While 156 liquor outlets functioned in Coimbatore north division, 132 shops functioned in Coimbatore south division. Seven shops that remained closed fell in containment zone area and a mall. Officials said that each outlet issued 500 tokens between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Every shop had the presence of police to manage the crowd. Tasmac employees also arranged public addressing system at each liquor store to give directions to buyers. A senior police officer said that customers were asked to wear mask and to maintain of physical distancing norms. Senior officials of Tasmac said that no untoward incidents were reported at any of the liquor outlets in the district during the reopening on Saturday. 228 reopened in Tiruppur Out of the 238 Tasmac outlets in Tiruppur district, 228 were reopened. The rest of the shops were present in containment zones, district administration officials said. No untoward incidents were reported in either Tiruppur city or in other parts of the district, police said, adding that personal distancing among the customers was monitored at all the outlets. 143 outlets reopened in Erode In Erode, as many as 143 Tasmac outlets were reopened in the district. Five policemen, including home guards, were posted at each shop to regulate the crowd as 70 tokens were issued to customers every hour. Customers with umbrella and wearing masks were given tokens as long queues were seen from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Officials said that only 500 token were issued on Saturday and the same quantity of tokens will be issued every day in the coming days. “We did not insist on producing their Aadhaar card by the customers”, they added. Police personnel ensured that personal distancing is maintained in the queue and persons without masks and umbrellas were sent back. Long queues in Salem In Salem, long queues were witnessed in front of Tasmac outlets and police personnel had a tough time managing tipplers. Tipplers started queuing in front of the outlets to be early birds to get tokens and return home early. Social distancing went for a toss and handkerchiefs were used as masks by tipplers. According to officials, 186 outlets were opened. The entire stretch between Pal Market and Mullvadi level crossing was marked by queue of tipplers since multiple shops were operating in the stretch and a similar scene was noticed near New bus stand were two outlets were operating close to each other. In Namakkal, 173 outlets were opened. Exhaustion of coloured coupons It was a mixed bag for alcohol lovers in Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri. In Dharmapuri, the outlets saw early arrivals and enforced physical distancing at the outlets. However, there were reports of many outlets giving a go by to physical distancing norms due to overcrowding. Police pickets were placed in most outlets. A few outlets also witnessed alcoholics complaining of exhaustion of the coloured coupons. In Hosur, Shoolagiri and Denkanikottai in Krishnagiri district, some outlets witnessed lukewarm response. Especially, outlets in Denkanikottai and Hosur with borders with Karnataka was already seen to be sourcing supplies from outlets located on the fringes of the inter-State border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/288-tasmac-outlets-reopened-in-coimbatore-district/article31605224.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Distribute tabs: teachers||Government and government-aided college teachers, who apprehend a decline in admissions next year, are calling on the State government to act with alacrity and facilitate digital teaching-learning to maintain its top position in gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education. Ranked third behind Sikkim (53.9%) and Chandigarh (50.6), the State with 49% GER can easily slip if it fails to ensure that students from needy families have access to digital resources and connectivity. The students need to be provided with tablets free of cost as an incentive to continue higher studies, they point out. The State government ought to pursue in earnest with the Ministry of Human Resource Development a proposal it made a few years ago to provide Aakash tablets at subsidised cost to students through their institutions, a computer science teacher recalled. The National Mission on Education consists of 48 different components structured around building content, enabling access and developing low-cost access cum computing devices. Hence, the Mission through Information and Communication Technology (NME-ICT) also envisages providing connectivity alongside providing access to content on Sakshat portal and other educational websites. Further, it pays for fiber connectivity to each university to connect to the nearest National Knowledge Network node. The Central University of Tamil Nadu, Tiruvarur, and Tamil Nadu Open University are among the 11 institutions in the State connected to National Knowledge Network, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribute-tabs-teachers/article31605447.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Wear masks or pay penalty’||Face masks have been made compulsory for all residents in Perambalur district and Nagapattinam municipal limits. Perambalur Collector V. Santha has warned of legal action under the Public Health Act against violators, while Nagapattinam Municipality has announced a penalty of Rs. 100. Various steps have been taken to check the spread of COVID-19 in Perambalur district. The emphasis is on maintaining hand hygiene, personal distancing and wearing face masks to prevent the spread of infection through respiratory droplets, Ms. Santha said in a statement. Face masks have been made compulsory for all those venturing out of their homes and violators will be prosecuted and penalised under the Public Health Act. Also, only one person will be allowed to ride on a two-wheeler and violations will attract penalty. Similarly, people gathering unnecessarily in public places will also face legal action, she warned. Nagapattinam Municipality, in a press release, has warned a fine of Rs. 100 for failure to don face masks. They are mandatory to check the spread of the virus. It has warned residents against resorting to illegal tapping of drinking water using motor pumpsets and having illegal underground drainage connections without paying deposit to the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wear-masks-or-pay-penalty/article31605457.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers from Bihar seek assistance||Migrant labourers gathered in front of the District Collectorate here on Saturday requesting the administration to take necessary steps for their return to native places during lockdown. Over 30 labourers from Bihar, who have been working at hotels and saw mills, requested officials for necessary assistance to return to their villages. They said that they have lost their jobs due to lockdown and have been struggling for food. Sentu Kumar, one of labourers said, “we have been working here for over one year at saw mills and hotels at different places in the city. We have been requesting officials to arrange for our return but we have not received any communication in this regard. We are even ready to walk the distance if we are provided with passes since we are struggling for food here. We haven’t had proper food during the lockdown neither have we received any rations. Our employers aren’t also picking up our calls.” Later, police and revenue officials arrived at the spot and pacified them. They were assured that they would be informed once a train is arranged and necessary arrangements would be made for their food. Following assurance from officials, they dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-from-bihar-seek-assistance/article31605214.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special trains for migrant workers continue||Operations of Shramik special trains for migrant workers continued on Saturday, with one train leaving from Coimbatore and Tiruppur each. From Coimbatore, the train left for Basti in Uttar Pradesh with 1,464 passengers at around 8.45 p.m. This was the 15th Shramik special train operated from Coimbatore Junction, railway officials said. So far, six trains were operated to Bihar, three to Odisha and Uttar Pradesh each, two to Jharkhand and one train was operated to Assam. In Tiruppur, the fifth Shramik special train was bound for Muzaffarpur, Bihar on Saturday. The train left Tiruppur Junction with 1,464 passengers at 3.30 p.m., officials said. As of Saturday, three trains were operated to Bihar and one train was operated to Odisha and Uttar Pradesh each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-for-migrant-workers-continue/article31605213.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers who flocked railway station sent back||The 39 migrant workers hailing from Bastar in Chattisgarh, who were found stranded at the railway station in Hosur were sent back to the granite quarry that had employed them. The workers had left the quarry in Kelamangalam after the quarry owner had asked them to leave on the ground that trains were plying on Friday night. However, the workers upon arrival at the railway station in Hosur having walked around 25 km found the station empty, before Hosur police drove them away. Collector S. Prabhakar was alerted of the workers’ plight and the officials intervened. However, the workers were sent back to the quarry on assurance from the quarry owner that they could stay. When contacted, Hosur Sub-Collector T. Kumaresan said the workers have applied for epass and all the passes were approved. “Now, we will send a list to the government and based on the availability of trains, workers will be ferried from here to Chennai or Katpadi. It is likely to take a week. In the meantime, the owner of the quarry has been directed to provide all the necessities to the workers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-who-flocked-railway-station-sent-back/article31605210.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Former professor passes away||Eugene D’Vaz, former professor of English at St. Joseph’s College and a prolific artist in his later years, died after a brief illness on May 15 at the age of 75. He is survived by his wife Joan and daughter Joanna D’Vaz. Remembered fondly by generations of his college students as a cheerful and energetic teacher in the classroom, D’Vaz worked in St. Joseph's College from the 1970s for 40 years. He had a natural talent for art from an early age and was self-taught. His poems and short stories have been published in journals and magazines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-professor-passes-away/article31605445.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||As on May 16     No. of persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No fresh case on Saturday) No. of persons recovered: 145 No. of persons died: 1 No. of active cases: 0      House quarantined: 1,666 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on May 16) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article31605225.ece
17 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rs. 20 lakh crore financial package is another ‘jumla’: Satish Jarkiholi||“The Rs. 20 lakh crore financial package announced by the Prime Minister is another ‘jumla’ [an empty promise],” former Minister and Congress leader Satish Jarkiholi said in Gokak on Saturday. He told journalists that there was no chance of the package being misused as it would never be implemented at all. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not given anything substantial for the people. It is just like the Rs. 15 lakh per head that his party promised before the 2014 elections,” he said. “Banks and financial agencies have already announced similar schemes. The package is nothing but another of his many speeches. There is nothing new about it. Also, there is nothing specific for farmers in the package,” Mr. Satish jarkiholi said. “First of all, the government is not giving anything to the people directly. It is directing the banks and other agencies to give loans to businessman and industries. The Rs. 3 lakh crore package for small and medium industries is nothing but fresh loans with a bank guarantee. How will that help a sector that is suffering from lack of demand and other problems? Also, how can the reimbursement of income tax qualify as part of a relief package? It is an additional burden on the people who are already suffering from the lockdown,” he said. Mr. Satish Jarkiholi said that the Centre has been blind to the sufferings of the migrant labourers and other poor who have been the hardest hit in the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-20-lakh-crore-financial-package-is-another-jumla-satish-jarkiholi/article31605301.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru sees 14 cases, all contacts of a patient||A day after recording the biggest spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases on a single day and crossing the 1,000 mark, the State on Saturday reported 36 new cases, taking the tally to 1,092. With 14 new cases in a single day, Bengaluru reported a majority of the new cases. All the 14 are contacts of P-653, a housekeeping staff of a hotel at Shivajinagar. P-653 has now become a “super-spreader”, having infected 29 people in the last one week, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, who is the COVID spokesperson for Karnataka. One more passenger in Udupi, who returned from Dubai, and 11 inter-State travellers who returned from Mumbai and Ahmedabad have tested positive. Of the new cases, eight cases have been reported from Kalaburagi, four from Hassan, three from Shivamogga, and one each from Udupi, Mandya, Dharwad, Davangere, Ballari, Bagalkot, and Vijayapura. While all the four and three cases in Hassan and Shivamogga, respectively, and one each in Kalaburagi, Dharwad, and Bagalkot have a travel history to Mumbai, the lone case reported in Ballari has a travel history to Ahmedabad. Action against lab The State government will write to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to initiate action against Lal Path Labs in Bengaluru for discrepancy in COVID-19 testing of a pregnant woman recently. While the report from the private lab said the woman had tested positive, a repeat test done in a government lab showed she was negative. The private lab is only an ICMR-approved collection centre in Bengaluru. In Delhi When pointed out that following similar discrepancies in Delhi, the Delhi government has now ordered a probe, the Minister said the Karnataka government would write to the ICMR seeking action against the Bengaluru lab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-sees-14-cases-all-contacts-of-a-patient/article31605146.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man kills wife, hides body at home||A 38-year-old man who had allegedly killed his wife a few days ago, jumped from the third floor of his residence to his death on Saturday after relatives dropped in to enquire about the couple’s well-being and found the victim’s body. According to the police, the man, Manish Kumar, and his wife, Sandhya hail, from Gurugram. They relocated to Bengaluru in 2016 and rented a flat in AFCL Layout in Kudlu, Parappana Agrahara Manish used to work as a quality manager in a garment factory. Police suspect he strangled his wife during a fight three days ago. “He wrapped her body in a bedsheet and kept it on a cot. Due to the lockdown, he was unable to move the body out of the house and cover his tracks,” said a police officer. He stopped contacting his family in Gurugram. After not hearing from him for two days, Manish’s brother asked some relatives in Bengaluru to check on the couple. When the relatives reached the house, they found the door locked from inside. “When they looked through the window, they saw blood stains on the floor and forced open the door. Manish was hiding in the bathroom,” said the police officer. On discovering the body, the relatives alerted the police. However, by then Manish had jumped to his death. “We are questioning the house-owner and neighbours. Many people saw Manish come out of the house and buy bread from a grocery shop in the area. We have registered a case of murder and suicide case,” said the Parappana Agrahara police  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-kills-wife-hides-body-at-home/article31605136.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Maxi cab drivers not eligible for Rs. 5,000 compensation||Maxi cab drivers will not be eligible for the Rs. 5,000 compensation that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had recently announced as part of the relief package for people in various sectors in Karnataka. According to transport officials, the package applies to auto and taxi drivers, but not those driving commercial passenger vehicles with a seating capacity of 7+1 to 12+1. The State government has come out with various conditions for drivers to avail financial assistance, based on which the Transport Department issued a press release on Saturday. The decision to exclude maxi cabs has come as a disappointment to many drivers who were banking on the Rs. 5,000 assistance to meet some of their expenses. President of Namma Chalkara Trade Union Somashekar K. said compensation should be made available to all categories of drivers. “All those driving commercial vehicles, including maxi cabs, goods vehicles and others, have suffered a lot because of the COVID-19 lockdown. It is disappointing that the government has chosen to exclude them,” he said. Mr. Somashekar also criticised the “many flaws in the conditions” laid out by the government. “Earlier, the State government had maintained that DL and badges were sufficient; now they are asking for vehicle details as well. Most of the drivers do not own their vehicles and work under multiple vehicle owners. They will not be in a position to get financial relief,” he said. All eligible auto and taxi drivers must apply for compensation on the Seva Sindhu portal. Applicants must provide details of DL, fitness certificate of vehicle, and Aadhaar card. The State government has directed the Transport Department to make sure that there is no duplication of claims or double payment. Applicants must provide self-attested certificates stating that their finances were affected by the lockdown. However, infrastructure to facilitate submission of online applications on the Seva Sindhu portal is still not ready. Transport Commissioner N. Shivkumar told The Hindu the portal would be ready by Tuesday or Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maxi-cab-drivers-not-eligible-for-rs-5000-compensation/article31605137.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Criminal action against P-764 for violating containment zone norms||The State Health Department will initiate criminal action against P-764, a 45-year-old male resident of Tumakuru, who stayed in Padarayanapura and went to Sira in Tumakuru (after Padarayanapura was declared a containment zone) and tested positive there. Asked how he could travel from a containment zone and whether action would be initiated against him, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, who is the COVID spokesperson for Karnataka, said criminal action would be initiated against him. The person worked as a cook at Padarayanapura. Stating that the police and BBMP officials were surprised as to how he escaped from the containment zone, the Minister said, “It is unfortunate that people are not serious about following containment zone norms.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/criminal-action-against-p-764-for-violating-containment-zone-norms/article31605142.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Courts closed till June 6||The closure of the High Court, district judiciary, family courts, labour courts, and the industrial tribunal in the State has been extended till June 6, according to anotification issued by the High Court. However, specially constituted division benches and single-judge benches of the HC will hear urgent matters through videoconference facility every day between May 18 and 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/courts-closed-till-june-6/article31605150.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. draws flak for decision to shut down Santhwana Kendras||The government order to shut down the Santhwana Kendras in the State has drawn flak from various quarters, including leaders of the Opposition. The centres were introduced back in 2002 for women in distress who are victims of domestic violence and marital discord. The centres also provided counselling to such women. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has written to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa condemning the move and demanded that the centres be reopened. Janata Dal (Secular) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy criticised the move in a series of tweets. Former Governor and Union Minister Margaret Alva too has written to the Chief Minister to reconsider the decision as many women were having serious problems of domestic violence and physical as well as mental abuse during the COVID-19 lockdown. She also questioned why such a pivotal programme for women was being cut. The decision to shut the centres was taken by the State government reportedly after one-stop centres to address similar issues were started by the Union government. However, senior officials in the department said that Santhwana centres had remained open during the lockdown, but women in distress were unable to reach them because of the restrictions on movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-draws-flak-for-decision-to-shut-down-santhwana-kendras/article31605151.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to test all incoming passengers||BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar on Saturday announced that preparations are being made to test people who have come to Bengaluru from other States. “We will test them on or after the tenth day of their quarantine and take necessary action based on the reports,” he said. As part of the BBMP door-to-door survey, Mr. Anil Kumar and S. Special Commissioner (Revenue and IT) Basavaraju visited Raj Bhavan and gathered information on Governor Vajubhai R. Vala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-test-all-incoming-passengers/article31605130.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Action against hotels||Following several complaints over poor quality food and unhygienic accommodation being provided in private quarantine hotels in the city, Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Saturday said he told the police to inspect the hotels and take action. When pointed out that one of the quarantined guests in a private hotel was served food that allegedly had a cockroach in it, Mr. Suresh Kumar said, “In such cases, the BBMP should go to the extent of cancelling the licence of the hotel. I will speak to the BBMP Commissioner in this regard and ask him to initiate immediate action.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-against-hotels/article31605143.ece
17 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||In Brief City||BWSSB will waive off interest for those who have not paid the water bill for March and April 2020, in view of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-brief-city/article31605131.ece
17 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Additional swab collection centres in Dharwad||To step up the COVID-19 testing process, the district administration has taken steps to set up additional swab collection centres at different parts of the district. Following an instruction by the Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa, the Department of Health and Family Welfare officials have established additional swab collection centres at taluk hospitals in Kundagol, Navalgund and Kalghatagi. These centres will help cover larger sections of the rural masses. Besides, swab collection centres have also been set up at the University of Agricultural Sciences - Dharwad (USA-D) and at Gabbur check post near Hubballi to test the inter-State commuters. These are in addition to centres at the district civil hospital and SDM Medical College Hospital in Dharwad, and Railway Hospital and Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi. A total of ten swab collection centres are functioning as on date. Another mango trader tests positive Meanwhile, the number of COVID-19 positive cases recorded in Dharwad district rose to 22 on Saturday with a 34-year-old mango trader from Om Nagar in Dharwad testing positive. The man (P-1,060) is the second mango trader cum driver from Dharwad city to test positive. He has a history of frequent travel to Mumbai and Pune to sell mangoes during the second and third phase of the lockdown. He also travelled to Bengaluru and mangroves in Dharwad taluk and stayed at a farmhouse at Tegur for few days. The district administration has begun identifying his primary and secondary contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/additional-swab-collection-centres-in-dharwad/article31605300.ece
17 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Shramik Special to run today, tomorrow from Hubballi||Following a request by the State government, South Western Railway will operate two Shramik Special Trains on Sunday and Monday (May 17, 18) to Uttar Pradesh for stranded people including workers, tourists, students and others. As per the tentative schedule, Shramik Special Train to Basti via Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh will leave Hubballi Railway Station at 9 a.m. on May 17 and 18. Cancelled Although a Shramik Special train was scheduled to run to Katihar in Bihar on Sunday (at 5 p.m.), it has been cancelled and the new date will be announced later. Meanwhile, Principal Revenue Secretary N. Manjunath Prasad has written to the Divisional Railway Manager of SWR to operate three trains to Uttar Pradesh on May 20 to 22. He has requested the railway authorities to run Shramik Special to Basti in Uttar Pradesh via Lucknow on May 20 and 22 and run another special via Lucknow to Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh on May 21. Those who wish to travel to these destinations are requested to register and buy tickets at the New KSRTC Bus Station in Hubballi. Nodal Officer N.R. Purshottam has said that a special counter has been set up at the new bus station for stranded passengers, and so far 952 had registered for the travel.  Quarantine As institutional quarantine has been made mandatory for those coming into Karnataka from other States, the Dharwad district administration has set up institutional quarantine in the district and has also fixed tariffs. Dharwad DC Deepa Cholan after discussion with hoteliers has fixed the tariff for the hotel accommodation and food. Accordingly, those opting for hotel quarantine will have to pay Rs. 700 each for Non-AC rooms for single occupancy and Rs. 1,000 for double occupancy. The tariff for AC rooms is Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 1,500 respectively. The tariff includes charges for breakfast, lunch and dinner. For the budget hotels, the tariff is Rs. 500 for single occupancy and Rs. 700 for double occupancy.  Exempted Meanwhile, as per the circular issued by Additional Principal Secretary Javed Akthar, although health check-up is mandatory for all coming into the Sstate, pregnant women, children below the age of 10, senior citizens above the age of 80 and those who require regular medical attention, who test negative after the COVID-19 test, are exempted from institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shramik-special-to-run-today-tomorrow-from-hubballi/article31605292.ece
17 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||1,453 migrant workers leave for their native places in Bihar||As many as 1,453 migrant labourers left Ballari through a Shramik Express train for their native places in Bihar on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul, Superintendent of Police C.K. Baba, ZP CEO K. Nitish and other senior officers were in Ballari Railway Station to see off the workers. The workers, who were engaged in manual labour at the different parts of the district including Toranagallu, had undergone a medical examination at City Central Bus Station since Friday and obtained fitness certificates from the Health Department. They were then given railway tickets and safely transported to the railway station in buses. Each worker was provided with sufficient food packets, water bottles and other essentials. “The train would take 34 hours to reach Saharsa Junction railway station in Bihar. To ensure that none would suffer from hunger and thirst, we have provided them with enough food packets and water. All the workers had to undergo medical examination before being declared fit. Two more Shramik Express trains would leave Hospet and Ballari railway stations respectively for Uttar Pradesh carrying the workers,” Mr. Nakul said at the railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1453-migrant-workers-leave-for-their-native-places-in-bihar/article31605294.ece
17 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Eight new cases in Kalaburagi||Eight more cases of COVID-19 were reported from Kalaburagi on Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 94 - including seven deaths and 47 discharges upon recovery. As per the media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, six new cases had a single source of infection – contact with P-848, a 35-year-old man who was admitted for ILI a few days ago. One case, P-1,084, had a history of travelling to Mumbai and another, P-1,085, was a contact of P-927 (a 60-year-old man who succumbed to COVID-19 on May 13). The new cases included three minor girls and a senior citizen. The new cases are: P-1,080, a woman, 33; P-1,081, a girl, 15; P-1,082, a girl, 14; P-1,083, a man, 55; P-1,084, a woman, 30; P-1,085, a woman, 50; P-1,086, a man, 60; and P-1,087, a 10-year-old girl. Kalaburagi jumped from fifth to the third position with 94 cases after Bengaluru (216) and Belagavi (114) in terms of the total number of positive cases reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-new-cases-in-kalaburagi/article31605295.ece
17 May 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Leopard kills woman||A 68-year-old woman was killed by a leopard in Tavarekere police station limits on Saturday morning. Officials have advised people to stay indoors as this is the second such case in 10 days. Forest officials and the police suspect that the victim, Gangamma from Kottaganahalli, had left her house early in the morning to relieve herself when she was attacked by the leopard. Her body, which was discovered some distance from her house, was shifted to the government hospital at Nelamangala. Officials have launched an operation to trap the leopard, believed to be an adult. On May 9, a three-year-old boy was killed by a leopard near Kadaraiahna Palya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-kills-woman/article31605135.ece
17 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Some 3,000 labourers depart from DK||Around 3,000 migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand left for their home towns in the two Shramik Special trains, while 193 passengers boarded the Thiruvanathapuram-New Delhi Special train on Saturday. The 1,520 migrant labourers left from Kabaka Puttur Railway Station in the Shramik Special train bound to Lucknow on Saturday morning. According to a release by the South Western Railway, Mysuru Division, the train comprised of 18 sleeper coaches and two general second class compartments. The train is likely to reach Lucknow at 6.30 a.m. on May 18, the release said. Around 1,500 labourers boarded the another Shramik Special train to Bokaro in Jharkhand. This departed from Mangaluru Junction Railway station on Saturday night. T The Thiruvananthapuram-New Delhi Special train departed from Mangaluru Junction around 8 a.m. on Saturday. While 99 passengers got down, 193 boarded the train, according to a release by the Southern Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-3000-labourers-depart-from-dk/article31605297.ece
17 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||1,520 migrant workers leave for UP||The first Shramik Special train chugged out of Mysuru to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday carrying 1,520 migrant workers nurturing mixed emotions: a sense of relief over imminent reunion with their families overshadowed by apprehension over their livelihood options. The Ashokapuram railway station on the outskirts of the city saw a steady march of migrant workers from different parts of the region converging at the open grounds opposite the station. From carpenters to construction workers, the roadside panipuri vendors to the staff who keep the hospitality sector running, boarded their respective coaches. For some, it is a one-way trip as they have vowed not to leave their homes again. “We left our homes in Maharajganj adjoining Gorakhpur four months ago. The lockdown began even before we could settle down and scout for a job. We are leaving with bitter memories of getting stranded in an alien city,” said Ramkishore who said he would work in their fields and never leave their village again. Shabbir Ali, a migrant worker from Gorakhpur, and who works in a hotel in Mysuru, on being asked if he was happy to go back, said, “I know my future is here, yet I’m heading back as at present the prospects appear hazy. The hotel owner was providing us food but it was insufficient and there were days when I slept eating a few biscuits,” he said, in a choked voice. But Yogesh Kumar of Firozabad took a pragmatic view and said economic conditions and lack of job opportunities will force people to migrate again. “I have worked in Mysuru for 15 years and my identity is tied to this city. I will definitely return though my family may stay back,” he said. Another migrant Mohammad from Kasauli near Gorakpur, who was employed in a resort at Srirangapatna, said, “I’m not thinking of my future now. My only wish now is to reach my village and be with my parents for some time. I don’t think it’s difficult to get two square meals at my home.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1520-migrant-workers-leave-for-up/article31605134.ece
17 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||3 test positive in Shivamogga||Three more persons including a four-year-old girl tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Saturday. All have travel history to Mumbai. The swab samples of a 42-year-old from Chandaladimba village in Baalur gram panchayat limits of Hosanagar taluk, who was working in a hotel in Mumbai, and his four-year-old daughter were positive. Following relaxation of travel restrictions, he had returned to the district with his wife and two daughters. On their arrival on May 14, they were sent to a government quarantine facility near their village. After the swabs of the father and the elder daughter tested positive, both were sent to the designated hospital in Shivamogga city for treatment. The swab samples of a 38-year-old woman, a resident of Sagar town with travel history to Mumbai, also tested positive for COVID-19. Immediately after her arrival in Sagar, she was sent to the quarantine facility. She was shifted to the designated hospital in Shivamogga city on Saturday for treatment. With this, the number of positive cases in Shivamogga district has risen to 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-test-positive-in-shivamogga/article31605290.ece
17 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Man who died of cardiac issue tests positive for COVID-19||A 54-year-old man with cardiac problems, who died at the Kasturba Hospital in Manipal on May 14, later tested positive for COVID-19; and following the receipt of the report on Saturday, eight persons including three hospital staff have been put under quarantine. G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, said here on Saturday that the man had come from Mumbai and was put in a quarantine centre in Kundapur. He suffered a heart attack and was admitted to the Taluk Hospital in Kundapur. He was shifted to the Kasturba Hospital on May 13, and later an operation was performed on him. But he died at the hospital May 14 owing to a severe heart attack, he said. Since he had come from Maharashtra, his throat swab was collected and sent for examination. As per the report of the swab received on Monday, the man had tested positive for COVID-19, he said. Three staff of Kasturba Hospital, who had come in contact with the man without safety measures, and five persons who travelled with them are quarantined. The doctors and other staff who had operated on him had worn Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) as had the doctors and staff at the Taluk Hospital, Mr. Jagadeesha said. Since the man had stayed at the quarantine centre, the administration had identified 57 persons as his primary contacts. It had also identified 38 persons as his secondary contacts, Mr. Jagadeesha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-who-died-of-cardiac-issue-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article31605298.ece
17 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||One-year-old tests positive||A one-year-old girl tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi, while 20 persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals in the district on Saturday. A press release issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare here said that the child had been admitted to the designated hospital here for treatment. Of the 20 admitted, seven were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection, while six were suffering from Influenza Like Illness (ILI). Of the 20 persons, 10 were men, and the remaining were women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-year-old-tests-positive/article31605299.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Farm labourers were the worst hit in April||“I allowed my pumpkin crop to rot on three acres of land as harvesting and transportation were not possible during the lockdown,” a farmer from Davangere district lamented. His was one of the 71% of households adversely affected in rural Karnataka during the COVID-19 lockdown on account of loss of employment, business, and inability to harvest or sell agricultural produce. This was revealed in a telephonic study conducted in Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, and Kalaburagi districts during April-May 2020 by the Centre for Decentralisation and Development, Institute of Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru. COVID-19 affected a large proportion of households in Belagavi in particular. Kalaburagi was affected to a lesser degree because farmers did not have any standing crop and dependence on farm wage work was in any case low during the agriculturally slack season. None of the households reported COVID-19-related symptoms. Of those affected, 92% (two persons per household on an average) reported income loss during April. Income loss was measured for one month in case of workersand micro-enterprises, while it was for the entire crop season for cultivators. The extent of loss was low among labourers and high among cultivators as the latter often lost their entire crop. Wage labourers The largest affected category was agricultural wage labourers (51%), who reported an average income loss of Rs. 6,700 in April. The next category was non-agricultural workers involved in construction and rolling of beedis. Comprising 19% of the workers, they reported an average income loss of Rs. 12,586 in April. Salaried employees in the informal sector — the third largest category making up 11% — were asked to stay at home to maintain social distancing. Though the government called for compassion in paying full salaries to informal workers, 10% of the employees, engaged in transport (truck and JCB drivers), factories, companies and hotels, were not paid the April salary ranging from Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 22,000. The next significant category was cultivators, accounting for 9% of the affected. They incurred income loss because of two reasons. For one, they were unable to harvest owing to non-availability of labour and reported an average income loss of Rs. 1.01 lakh in the crop season. For instance, a farmer from Chamarajanagar district allowed vegetables worth Rs. 80,000 to rot in the field. Secondly, many could not sell harvested or standing crops because of transport disruption, high transportation costs, non-availability of market, and sharp decline in prices. Such farmers reported an average income loss of Rs. 59,300. For instance, a farmer from Davangere district could not transport harvested brinjal worth Rs. 1 lakh because of non-availability of trucks. Another farmer from Belagavi district allowed his chillies to rot as prices plummeted. Micro-enterprises The last category was owners of micro-enterprises such as photo shops, hotels, ice cream vending shops, and mechanic shops. Consisting of 9% of the worker force, they reported an average income loss of Rs. 24,000 in April as they were forced to shut shop. A tent house owner from Davangere district closed his shop as public meetings and weddings were banned. He thereby incurred a loss of Rs. 40,000. A flower decorator from Dakshina Kannada district lamented that most of his annual income, amounting to Rs. 1 lakh, was lost as weddings and other functions were banned. Different policies suitable to different categories of the affected are needed to revive the livelihoods of the rural poor. The first public policy is to provide work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act on a large scale to wage labourers in the agricultural and non-agricultural sectors, together with the ongoing food and cash support from the government. Secondly, credit support to micro, small and medium enterprises is needed for their revival, thereby paving the way for the employment of informal sector workers.  The authors of this study areProfessor and Assistant Professor, respectively, at the Centre for Decentralisation and Development, Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru. This is the first of a three-part series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-labourers-were-the-worst-hit-in-april/article31605149.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Studying at home hampers prep for competitive exams’||The COVID-19 crisis has taken a toll on the mental health of students and professionals preparing for competitive examinations. Anxiety levels are at an all-time high as students are not only worried about the pandemic but also about the uncertainty of their careers while trying to prepare for the examinations with limited resources, said teachers. “I don’t have study materials and even when I try to study, I’m finding it difficult to concentrate because I’m anxious all the time. I’ve also not been getting the newspapers regularly and I depend on them to update myself on current affairs,” said Lokeshwari S., a civil service aspirant. With classes, libraries and study centres closed, people have no recourse but to study at home, which is not always conducive to productivity. “Earlier, I used to go to the library to prep. At home, I am easily distracted, and I am unable to focus. While I use online tools for tests and quizzes, I feel that it’s not the same,” said Nischith M., another civil service aspirant. Others like Narayan Bhargava, who is preparing for various competitive exams, said that the uncertainty and lack of clear answers from the government have made him lazy. “I have lost track of what I’m doing as so many of the examinations I was preparing for have been postponed. I used to study at Central Library, Cubbon Park, which has been closed for almost two months now,” he said. According to Vinay Kumar G.B., founder, InsightsIAS, one of the reasons for the lack of focus is the fact that everyone is preparing from home in isolation. “The competitive and conducive atmosphere that is available in classrooms or reading rooms is missing. Hence, students are not able to prepare to their full potential.” He added that user traffic for their online classes and materials has increased, and that it was a challenge to keep students motivated and busy the whole day. “We give them online answer writing exercises and quizzes,” he said. Chetan Arya from VR4U Study Centre in Chandra Layout expects the number of students, who would come back to study centres after easing of the lockdown, to drop by around 55%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/studying-at-home-hampers-prep-for-competitive-exams/article31605127.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||506 persons in 2nd train from Delhi||The second special passenger train from New Delhi carrying 506 passengers arrived at Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna City Railway Station on Saturday around 6.40 a.m. Having learned from its past mistake, the government ensured that everyone on board was aware of the mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine. Ashok Kumar Verma, Division Railway Manager, Bengaluru, said, “All the passengers who boarded the train at Delhi station were fully aware of the quarantine protocols needed to be followed here in the State." South Western Railways (SWR) had set up 10 receiving booths per coach to screen passengers. Officials from SWR, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, and police personnel were deployed in large numbers to escort passengers to the screening facilities.  However, while the process went off relatively smoothly on arrival, that was not the case at Ashoknagar in Srinivasa Nagar near Banashankari. Residents gathered in front of Government Medical and Engineering Hostel, Ashoknagar, after news spread that the civic body was planning to quarantine some of the passengers from Delhi at the facility. They demanded that the hostel not be used as a quarantine centre given that it is in the middle of a residential area. BBMP officials refused to comment, and protesters dispersed by evening after no one was brought to the hostel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/506-persons-in-2nd-train-from-delhi/article31605129.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||It’s an attempt to dilute State’s intervention in agriculture||The Karnataka government’s step of amending the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act is an effort to dilute the spirit of the State’s intervention in safeguarding the interests of farmers. The legislation of 1964 had undergone several modifications over the years to protect farmers against abuse and exploitations by middlemen at the time of price discovery, weighing and measurement of produces or while making payment after the transaction. Far-reaching changes were incorporated into the APMC Act such as creation of a revolving fund to implement the Floor Price Scheme to protect the interests of farmers, allowing contract farming companies to procure directly from farmers with a predetermined agreed price and so on. e-marketing initiative of the State Department of Agriculture Marketing is considered as a novel one and emulated by several States. A democratically elected committee, the APMC, comprising of farmers, traders, and stakeholders, is assigned the responsibility of managing all these activities. This institutional arrangement comprising of 162 APMCs along with around 50,000 intermediaries is supposed to protect the interests of almost 78 lakh farmers who produce around 170 lakh tonnes of foodgrains, 68 lakh tonnes of vegetables, and 55 lakh tonnes of fruits annually in Karnataka. Centre’s argument The governing dispensation at the Centre, on the other hand, feels that the existing regulatory framework does not support a free flow of agricultural produce and hence is inconsistent with the ethos of a liberalised, globalised market atmosphere. In this backdrop, the Union government’s Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare prepared a Model Agriculture Produce and Livestock Marketing (Facilitation & Promotion) Act in 2017 and placed it before all States and Union Territories for adoption. Karnataka has already adopted many reforms, except a crucial alteration to limit the regulation of the APMCs to “physical premises of mandi/yard” so as to allow private buyers to procure directly from farmers anywhere. The Centre has given a strict instruction to the State government to follow an Ordinance route to incorporate this crucial change, with a claim that this would help farmers affected by COVID-19 lockdown. Not only does this amendment make the existing APMC system redundant, but also puts an end to farmers’ hope of getting a fair price through government intervention, leaving them at the mercy of free-market forces. It is not clear whether the Centre’s much-touted unified integrated market e-NAM will materialise if uncontrolled private traders start procuring directly at the field and farm gates. The State government has made huge investment to construct roads, warehouses, godowns, and other infrastructure besides agri commodity technology parks. And with this move to privatise the agri commodity marketing, revenue generation through market cess, users fee, and GST will be in jeopardy. Above all, the APMCs have huge land area as well as real estate properties at prime locations in taluks. There is apprehension of big companies and corporates capturing these prime land. Need for correction At present, hardly 30 to 40% of the farm produce is being brought and sold in the regulated APMC yards in the country. However, there is no guarantee that the market functionaries can deliver justice to farmers under a totally deregulated atmosphere. Hence, the present system needs corrections so as to make it more competitive, transparent and farmer friendly. So the need of the hour is to take the agri commodity market as near to the farmers as possible with a strong government intervention by creating roads, village warehouses, and processing industries in the rural areas. Legal recourse is required for the prevention of purchases and sales of farm produces below the minimum support prices. In the current situation, the government is compelled to take care of the health of poor and vulnerable sections for which it must undertake procurement and distribution of food and nutritious commodities such as milk, millets, and vegetables on a massive scale. Under the current unprecedented catastrophic situation caused by COVID-19 pandemic, it will be imprudent to dismantle a government-sponsored marketing mechanism for food and agricultural commodities and diluting the very spirit of State intervention that exists strongly behind that institutional arrangement.  (The author is agri-economist and former chairman of the Karnataka Agricultural Prices Commission)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/its-an-attempt-to-dilute-states-intervention-in-agriculture/article31605140.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No institutional quarantine for HCWs with complete PPE||The order is based on the Interim Guidance Document of WHO, Risk assessment and management of exposure of HCW in the context of COVID-19, and the Government of India’s advisory for “Managing Health Care Workers working in COVID and Non-COVID areas of the Hospital.” Resident doctors at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute have urged their Dean and Director C.R. Jayanthi to intervene in the matter and get the order revoked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-institutional-quarantine-for-hcws-with-complete-ppe/article31605138.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Freeing footpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/freeing-footpath/article31605133.ece
17 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||No fresh cases in Alappuzha today||A day after two persons tested positive for COVID-19, the district heaved a sigh of relief with no fresh case of the disease reported on Saturday. Officials said two persons, a young man from Purakkad and a pregnant woman from Thrikkunnapuzha, who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday were being treated at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha. Both had a travel history. The youth reached the district from Navi Mumbai and the woman travelled from Dammam in Saudi Arabia. Meanwhile, six people have been hospitalised with symptoms of the disease. “Fourteen people are currently under observation at hospitals including 13 in the MCH and one in General Hospital, Alappuzha. Besides, 2,653 people are in quarantine,” said an official. The district has so far witnessed seven cases of COVID-19, of which five have made full recovery. A total of 2,246 people have so far reached the district from other States, including 144 on Saturday. Expats The number of expatriates who reached the district since the launch of the Vande Bharat Mission and Operation Samudra Setu to repatriate Indians from foreign countries stood at 219. District Police Chief James Joseph has warned of action against people who violate quarantine norms. “A lot of people have reached the district from foreign countries and other States. They need to serve the mandatory quarantine period. Besides registering cases, violators will be shifted to COVID-19 care centres,” he said. The public can pass on information regarding quarantine violations in their respective places to authorities. Contact numbers: 9497910100, 9497910222. On Saturday, the police registered 52 cases and arrested 87 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. They were booked under the Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance, 2020. Authorities also seized 17 vehicles. District Collector M. Anjana has urged the people to cooperate with the total lockdown on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-fresh-cases-in-alappuzha-today/article31605401.ece
17 May 2020||Chennai,KERALA||Returnees to be under scrutiny||At least 154 persons who returned from other States Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have tested positive for COVID-19 in various districts of the State. While the State government has issued guidelines for quarantine and testing of incoming persons, the Health Department is now intensifying its surveillance, including at check-posts and even in lesser-affected districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/returnees-to-be-under-scrutiny/article31605382.ece
17 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Malankara shutters to be raised today||With the water level increasing steadily, the Malankara dam will be opened on Sunday. The water level went up in the dam with the rise in generation level at the Idukki dam upstream and the increased inflow due to heavy rain in the catchment areas on Friday and Saturday. The water level in the dam was 41.64 metres on Saturday as compared to the maximum storage level of 42 metres. An official said the decision to open the dam was taken considering the chances of heavy inflow. The three shutters would be raised to 30 cm in a phased manner from 6 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malankara-shutters-to-be-raised-today/article31605402.ece
17 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Vulnerable students to get academic support||The Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK), with financial assistance from UNICEF, has launched an academic support programme for vulnerable sections of students in coastal areas and mountainous regions, where access to e-learning resources is limited. “Students can access online academic resources on VICTERS channel and Samagra portal for exam preparation during the lockdown, but those from the marginalised sections, including students in remote hamlets and coastal areas, are far away from such resources, A.P. Kuttikrishnan, State project director, SSK, told The Hindu . “The programme is to support such students who are preparing for SSLC, higher secondary, and vocational higher secondary examinations postponed owing to the lockdown,” he said. The programme has been launched at 200 centres, including local resource centres (Pradeshika Prathibha Kendras) and Ooru Vidya Kendras of the SSK, and it will cater for 20,000 students across the State. Additional learning aids and model question papers will be made available through the centres. The programme will be conducted in compliance with government guidelines, S.S. Sindhu, State programme officer, SSK, said. Model examinations in three subjects for the students in Classes 10, four papers for students in higher secondary schools, and five papers for students in vocational higher secondary schools will be conducted, she added. Details can be had by contacting 0471 2320703. Of the 200 centres being arranged, maximum numbers of centres have been allocated to Wayanad and Idukki districts, Ms. Sindhu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/support-initiative-for-vulnerable-students-launched/article31605374.ece
17 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Despite lockdown, Periyar gasps for breath||A field study by researchers at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) has revealed that the lack of industrial activity and reduced human interference during the lockdown period have not contributed to improvement of water quality on the Pathalam-Eloor stretch of the Periyar. Data collected by the team representing the department of marine biology, microbiology and biochemistry, Cusat, showed that the water quality had deteriorated despite expectations that the sanitary standards of the Periyar would improve during the lockdown period. The study was done on April 30 and May 1. “The dissolved(DO) level was zero at the Pathalam bund, while the biological oxygen demand (BOD) went up to 40.59 mg/litre. At FACT, the corresponding figures were 1.63 mg/litre and 20.26 mg/litre. The primary productivity in the region also collapsed. The lockdown period has not improved the water quality of the river in the downstream zone,” said Dr. S. Bijoy Nandan, professor and head of the department of marine biology, microbiology and biochemistry. “The spike in BOD value recorded at the three stations is an indication of high organic pollution on the stretch from various sources, including sewage waste. The increase in organic load naturally reduces the DO content in the waterbody leading to fish kill and algae boom. An isotopic analysis can determine the source and age of industrial effluents already documented in the accumulated sludge,” he observed. Suggesting the immediate intervention of the government and the Pollution Control Board to restore the river to its original state, Dr. Nandan called for steps to de-silt and de-sludge waste and other settled matter from the upstream and downstream regions of the Pathalam bund. Bio-remediation measures can be taken up to check fish kills and depleting levels of oxygen, he said. A study on fish kills on the Eloor-Edayar stretch conducted by the research team in 2015 had suggested the setting up of common treatment facilities for scientific disposal of industrial effluents and sewage generated at the level of local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/despite-lockdown-periyar-gasps-for-breath/article31605378.ece
17 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kerala HC to reopen tomorrow||The Kerala High Court will reopen on May 18 after the summer vacation. As many as eight courts will hold sittings at the High Court, some of which will conduct sitting through videoconferencing. The sittings of the vacation courts were held via videoconferencing. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will operate buses on designated routes to facilitate the conveyance of High Court staff, according to a press release from the High Court on Saturday. Guidelines The fresh guidelines issued by High Court Registrar General K. Haripaal said only six lawyers would be allowed at a time inside court halls excluding government pleaders or public prosecutors. Only 10 seats would be provided inside each court hall and the rest will be arranged on the veranda outside the court halls, ensuring social distancing. No more than two lawyers for a party having their matter listed in any court will be allowed entry. As per the guidelines, lawyers and clerks after filing petitions should immediately leave the court premises and not wait for the scrutiny of petitions to be completed. Lawyers’ clerks shall not remain on the court premises unnecessarily and shall leave immediately after their work is over. Rooms occupied by the Kerala High Court Advocates’ Clerks Association will not be opened for the time being. The entry of the public to the High Court would be restricted. Meanwhile, the court issued a fresh advisory for subordinate courts. As per the advisory, district courts have been asked to hear bail applications thorough videoconferencing as far as possible. Besides, crowding should not be allowed in court halls or on the court premises. Presiding officers have been directed to ensure that only 10 members, including the presiding officer, are present inside the court halls. The court in red zones and hotspots should follow the procedures prescribed during the lockdown period. The remand extension of undertrials, except where police custody is to be given or presence of the accused is essential for trials, shall be done through video linkage. Moreover, criminal courts should not insist on the personal appearance of the accused /parties except in cases where their presence is essential for examination of witnesses or unavoidable for proceeding further with the case. Criminal courts have been directed to make necessary arrangements for maintaining physical distancing between the accused while in the dock when more than one accused are produced in a case. No coercive steps The advisory orders that no coercive steps shall be taken or ex parte orders passed against any party or witnesses if the court is convinced that the person or his/her counsel is unable to attend the court owing to travel restrictions imposed by the government or its agencies for containment of COVID-19. Civil courts have also been directed not to insist on personal appearance of parties at court or for deciding whether a case should be referred to alternative disputes redressal mechanisms. The question could be decided on submissions of the counsel. The Principal Judge may suspend the functioning of a court if there is any problem in implementing the advisory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-hc-to-reopen-tomorrow/article31605380.ece
17 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy gets portable WISKs||Naval hospital Sanjivani, based at the Southern Naval Command in Kochi, received Walk-in Sample Kiosks (WISK) of the kind introduced by Government Medical College, Ernakulam, for safe collection of swabs from suspected COVID-19 patients on Friday. WISK was customised by the Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory (NPOL), the only DRDO lab in Kerala, to suit naval requirements under the supervision of a team of doctors at the medical college and the Health authorities. The kiosks were handed over to Surgeon Commodore Arti Sarin, Command Medical Officer (CMO), Southern Naval Command, by NPOL scientist Sameer Abdul Azeez and his team. WISK provides physical and psychological support to Health staff during swab collection and more importantly saves PPE consumption. The Navy’s suggestion of WISKs being portable for compatibility in ambulance and helicopters was also incorporated in its design. The cost-effective design, using low-cost materials, configures the product as “knock-down kits”, which are easy to transport as multiple units, requiring lower transit space envelopes. The product is easy to assemble at site, has better internal air circulation, and can be installed outdoors also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-gets-portable-wisks/article31605371.ece
17 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||From locked down spaces, stories of survival||Eight stories told in 50-odd minutes make up Rahul Riji Nair’s anthology film Survival Stories , shot during the lockdown and released on YouTube on May 8. Mr. Nair sees the film, made at a time when the film industry wrestles with uncertainty, as a means of keeping the art alive and as a form of resistance. “We have time at hand and access to technology that offers infinite possibilities. Let’s not get bogged down,” he says. Each segment of the anthology is about surviving and beating the odds, themed around the central idea of survival. “Especially relevant now when it is all about surviving,” he adds. With him directing remotely, the film was shot sticking to lockdown protocols on mobile phone cameras either by the actors or family members. The cast mostly comprises independent actors. “The focus is on story-telling than the gimmickry associated with filming under the circumstance. The feedback also conveyed as much – that storytelling is most important,” says Mr. Nair. The segments of the film span a range of human experiences – humour, loneliness, fear, beliefs, love, death and grief. While Mr. Nair wrote and directed seven segments, one is by director Jeo Baby. Mr. Nair had won the Kerala State award for the best film in 2017 for Ottamuri Velicham.  Of releasing the film now and in the format , he says, “There were suggestions that I could have withheld release and opted for the festival circuit, and also that I could have released each segment as a short. I did not want to do either. The segments were conceived as part of an anthology and if I released it later, post-lockdown, it will not resonate as it does now.” The technicians who collaborated with Rahul are Appu Bhattathiri (editing), Sidhartha Pradeep (music) and Vishnu P.C. and Arun S. Mani (sound design/mixing).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/from-locked-down-spaces-stories-of-survival/article31605369.ece
17 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Lift curbs on church ceremonies: Alencherry||Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church, has written to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan requesting that some of the restrictions on holding church ceremonies, including celebration of the Mass, weddings and burials, be lifted. The Cardinal has sought lifting of the restrictions in proportion to the success achieved by the State in fighting COVID-19. The Cardinal, also head of the council of Catholic bishops in the State, has sought more freedom as has been allowed in others spheres of social activities, sources said here on Saturday.The restrictions in place now are applicable to the daily Mass and holding of burial and wedding ceremonies. Only five people are allowed to gather for any prayers or ceremonies inside a place of worship. The number is inclusive of the person solemnising the ceremony. The police allow webcasting of the ceremonies for those who want to participate in the ceremonies. The restrictions that were imposed in the run-up to the Holy Week and Easter observances early this year had resulted in all public ceremonies being cancelled. No public were allowed at ceremonies starting Palm Sunday through Good Friday and Easter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lift-curbs-on-church-ceremonies-alencherry/article31605384.ece
17 May 2020||KOCHI/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||181 expatriates land in Kochi||Vande Bharat Phase II mission to repatriate Non-Resident Indians stranded in 31 countries commenced on Saturday with the Air India Express flying in 177 and four infants from Dubai to Kochi. Of the passengers, 73 were pregnant women. The AIE flight is the first in the second phase of of evacuation efforts. The first phase of evacuation by air ended on May 13. Two flights delayed The second flight to the State is from Abu Dhabi to the Thiruvananthapuram international airport. The flight (IX 538), scheduled to arrive in the capital at 10.40 p.m., has been delayed. As The Hindu goes to press, it is on the way to the destination. There are 182 passengers, including five infants, on the flight. The third flight is from Abu Dhabi to Kozhikode. The flight (IX 348), scheduled to land at Karipur airport at 11.30 p.m., has been delayed. It has 182 passengers, including five infants, and is expected to reach at 2 a.m. on Sunday, airline sources added. There will be 19 flights in the second phase, which will continue till June 3. Both the AIE and Air India will operate flights. Stopover flights There will also be stopover flights (via Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru) from San Francisco, Melbourne, Paris, Rome, Dublin, Yerevan (Armenia), Kiev (Ukraine) and Manila (the Philippines) along with flights from Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Muscat, Doha and Kuala Lumpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/181-expatriates-land-in-kochi/article31605386.ece
17 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Farming in 1,210 ha of fallow land in Kollam||As part of comprehensive efforts to make the State self-reliant in food production, the district administration will start cultivation in 1,210 hectares of fallow land. The Agriculture Department will implement different projects in coordination with local bodies. In the initial phase, all fallow lands in the district will be identified and a study conducted to find ideal crop allocation. New projects will be devised by restructuring panchayat-level projects to disperse the crops in both farm and fallow land. Ward-level and panchayat-level committees will be formed to ensure the proper implementation of the project. Each local body will identify crops most suited for them and the fallow land will be segregated on the basis of that. Interested landowners, farmers, self-help groups, voluntary organisations, Kudumbashree units, youth organisations, expatriates and institutions in both the public and private sector can register with the Agriculture Department, which will allocate them fallow plots. Through local bodies The department will also ensure all technological assistance and availability of farm equipment with the help of panchayat representatives. After getting the details of all farmer collectives in the district, all services will be provided to them through local bodies. Meanwhile, various public sector institutions in the district have started cultivation in connection with the Subhiksha Keralam project. Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. (KMML) has launched integrated paddy farming in 2.5 acres of land. While rice will be the main crop, vegetables will be cultivated in some parts and there is also provision for aquaculture. Along with Onam, a seed variety developed by Onattukara Regional Agricultural Research Station, marigold will be planted as a trap crop to avoid the use of pesticides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farming-in-1210-ha-of-fallow-land-in-kollam/article31605403.ece
17 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Bike brigades to catch quarantine violators||To make sure that people in home quarantine strictly adhere to the guidelines of the Health Department, the district police have strengthened operations of the motorcycle brigade in Kottayam. According to District Police Chief G Jaidev, 96 motorcycle units have been deployed across the district to check the areas where people are undergoing home isolation. “The motorcycle brigades started intensive surveillance activities on Saturday and these will continue on Sunday as well. More than 2,000 people are in home quarantine in the district and the brigades will roam these areas multiple times. Cases will be registered if anyone is found violating the quarantine directives,” he said. The action is in view of the frantic calls received by the health authorities from different parts of the district over violation of quarantine norms by people. Driver, youths arrested The police on Saturday booked cases against a bus driver hailing from Ernakulam and two youths who had arrived from Bengaluru for violating the quarantine guidelines. According to the police, a contract carrier bus, which had brought 25 Keralites from Bengaluru to Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts, dropped the youths, hailing from Adoor and Nedumudi, in Kottayam town on Friday evening. The youths then approached the Kottayam East police station and the office of the DPC, seeking passes to go to their native districts. On a direction by the DPC, the police registered a case and shifted them to an isolation centre in Athirampuzha. Intensifying surveillance, the district health officials will start collecting serum samples those who have returned from abroad from Sunday. According to authorities, 261 persons have landed in the district under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 7. The authorities will commence the sample testing since the first few batches have completed the incubation period of infection. Before letting them go home, it has to be ensured that they are not infected. Earlier, a 29-year-old woman and her child who had returned from Kuwait tested positive and are undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bike-brigades-to-catch-quarantine-violators/article31605406.ece
17 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Knanaya panel rejects Patriarch’s decision||A controversy engulfs the Malankara Syrian Knanaya Archdiocese at Chingavanam, Kottayam, after the managing committee of the Church has come out in the open against a decision of the Patriarch of Antioch to withdraw the titles of Archbishop and Chief Metropolitan of the Knanaya Archdiocese in India awarded to Kuriakose Mar Severios. In a letter on May 14, Ignatius Aphrem II, Patriarch of the Syriac Orthodox Church, had conveyed his decision to withdraw the title, awarded by his predecessor in January 10, 2007, to Mar Severios and decreed that he would henceforth be known as Metropolitan of the Knanaya Archdiocese in India. The Patriarch noted that Mar Severios ‘‘acted against the directions of the Patriarchate with regard to the transfer of some priests despite repeated verbal and written instructions and warnings.’’ However, the Knanaya managing committee has decided to retain the titles awarded to Mar Severios as per the opinion of the majority. In an online meeting of the body convened by trustee Skaria Thomas and secretary Abraham Thottathil here on Friday, it was also decided to convey to the Patriarch its protest against the decision to withdraw the titles. Noting that the action against Mar Severios followed a complaint lodged by auxiliary Metropolitan Kurikose Mar Ivanios, the committee withdrew the division of the community into four zones. Accordingly, the only person in charge of the entire Church will be the Chief Metropolitan while the auxiliary Metropolitans are relieved of their charges of different zones. Not recognise It was also decided not to recognise the Archbishop title of Metropolitan Ayub Mar Silvanos, currently the assistant Metropolitan of the Knanaya Archdiocese in charge of America, Canada, and Europe, and to boycott all auxiliary Metropolitans from all churches and functions of the community members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/knanaya-panel-rejects-patriarchs-decision/article31605388.ece
17 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Online market for Poonjar farmers||Representing a constituency that is predominantly an agrarian economy, P.C. George, MLA, has been witness to the difficulties experienced by local farmers in connecting with their markets during the lockdown. Despite an increased demand for the agricultural products in the region, trading hardly takes place as people are keen on avoiding the potential perils of market places. To bridge the gap, he has come up with an online interactive platform that seeks to bring together the entire farming community across the nine panchayats and one municipality in his constituency. Poonjar Karshika Vipani, a Facebook page opened by the local MLA, is an attempt to ensure that the farmers keep selling their produce even while the COVID-19 measures are in place. Local vendors in and around Poonjar too have been encouraged to join the fold. Besides getting their products to the local market, the initiative also intends to introduce the farmers to the latest farming techniques and enhance the distribution of high-quality seeds and fertilizers. ‘‘We have so much produce but accessing customers is difficult. So it just makes sense to pool our resources and ensure a level of interaction between the farmers and traders while also limiting any delay in service,” he said. Launched only two days ago, nearly 3,000 farmers have joined the group as members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-market-for-poonjar-farmers/article31605404.ece
17 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Workers in unorganised sector living in uncertainty||With lockdown norms being relaxed and the commercial sector limping back to normalcy, labourers in the unorganised sector are expecting to return to their workplaces soon. However, many are unsure if they will still have their jobs. Though shops on S.M. Street have opened, many employees are yet to join work. “When I asked, my employer told me to wait till May 17 and that they needed me back only once the business picked up pace,” said a worker. With the unusual timing of shops, which were opened mainly for Ramzan shoppers, business is slow to pick up. “The shops need to be closed by 5 p.m. However, during this season, we get business only after iftar , at night,” said P. Viji, State secretary of Asanghatitha Meghala Thozhilali Union. With Eid falling within a week, there was hardly any time for business to gather pace, she added. In some shops, employees are being engaged on rotation basis. However, they get paid only for the days they are on duty. Some workers are also unable to rejoin work because their advanced age makes them more vulnerable to infections. Asha P.V., a laundry worker at Muthalakkulam, started getting work only on Saturday. She collects dirty clothes from lodges and beauty parlours, washes and return them, to earn a living. She secured some orders when some beauty parlours were being cleaned up. “I will be back to normal work only if the six beauty parlours I work for are opened,” she said. “The condition of labourers in the unorganised sector is pathetic. Most of them have no savings or no other means of livelihood. They have rents and bills to pay. Some are in heavy debt and on the verge of suicide,” said Ms. Viji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/workers-in-unorganised-sector-living-in-uncertainty/article31605366.ece
17 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||12 luxury cars destroyed in fire at workshop||As many as 12 Mercedes-Benz cars kept for service at a workshop near Kunnamangalam here were destroyed in a fire on Saturday morning. The flames were brought under control after a three-hour effort by five Fire and Rescue Service squads with the support of local police and residents. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. The workshop, offering service exclusively for premium cars, is owned by a Vellimadukunnu resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12-luxury-cars-destroyed-in-fire-at-workshop/article31605367.ece
17 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,KERALA||Two Keralites killed in Telangana road accident||The death of three, including a man and his 18-month-old daughter, in Telangana’s Nizamabad district came as a shock for the people of Chembukadavu in Kozhikode on Saturday. Aneesh Thomas, 33, his daughter Analia, and their driver Stalin, 21, died after the SUV they were travelling in hit a stationary tipper lorry from the rear on NH-44 at Naka Tanda of Mentrajpally village under the Dichpally police station limits around 3 a.m. Aneesh’s wife Divya Aneesh and elder daughter Ajilia Aneesh who sustained injuries are reportedly out of danger. The three died while undergoing treatment at the Government General Hospital, Nizamabad. They were en route to their ancestral home in Kozhikode from Bihar. There were also Aneesh’s elder and younger brothers and their family members in separate vehicles on the same route. Aneesh along with his two brothers and their families were running an English medium school in Nawada district of Bihar. Aneesh and his family members were shifted to the GGH in the two vehicles that were following them. It is suspected that the accident occurred as the driver of the SUV dozed off at the wheel. The three families were going to Kerala in three separate vehicles after the relaxation of lockdown guidelines. Dichpally Circle Inspector Venkateswarlu and Subinspector Suresh Kumar inspected the spot and launched an investigation. Their parents here were eagerly awaiting the return of the families. “The early morning accident shook the elderly parents who had been knocking at all doors for facilitating the quick return of their sons,” said Omana Varkey, one of their neighbours and a former panchayat member of Chembukadavu. The panchayat authorities said efforts were on to bring the bodies to Kozhikode by Sunday afternoon. Post-mortem procedures had already been completed without much delay, they said. As per reports, the driver of the vehicle hails from Mangaluru. (With inputs from Kozhikode Bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-keralites-killed-in-telangana-road-accident/article31605379.ece
17 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,KERALA||2 killed in Telangana accident||Three persons, including a Kozhikode native and his 18-month-old daughter, were killed in an accident here on Saturday. Aneesh Thomas, 33, his daughter Analia, and their driver Stalin, 21, died after the SUV they were travelling in hit a stationary tipper lorry on NH-44 at Naka Tanda around 3 a.m. Aneesh’s wife Divya and elder daughter Ajilia are reportedly out of danger. They were en route to Kozhikode from Bihar. Aneesh’s brothers and their families too were travelling in separate vehicles on the same route. The brothers are running a school in Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-killed-in-telangana-accident/article31605416.ece
17 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Ten more admitted to isolation wards||With 10 new admissions, the total number of quarantined people under observation at the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district went up to 14 on Saturday. According to an official bulletin released by the district administration here on Saturday, three persons, including two COVID-19 patients, are at the isolation wards of Pathanamthitta General Hospital, two at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, four persons at the General Hospital in Adoor, and five others at various private hospitals in the district. However, no new COVID-19 case was reported from any part of the district on Saturday. The medical bulletin also said here that a total of 205 persons, which included 17 persons cured of the disease, got discharged from the isolation wards of various hospitals in Pathanamthitta as on Saturday evening.  2,043 in quarantine District Collector P.B. Noohu said a total of 2,043 persons had been placed under quarantine in different parts of the district. As many as 1,862 of them came from various other States and 170 persons came from abroad. The 2,043 also included 11 primary contacts of the infected persons, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ten-more-admitted-to-isolation-wards/article31605408.ece
17 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Yellow alert: emergency centres established||District emergency operations centres have started functioning in the district after the Meteorology Department announced yellow alert for the district from May 16 to 18 in view of heavy summer rain forecast. The contact numbers of the centres are Collectorate (Phone: 0468-2322515, 2222515), Adoor Taluk Office (04734-224826), Kozhencherry Taluk Office (0468-2222221), Konni Taluk Office (0468-2240087). Ranni Taluk Office (04735-227442), Mallappally Taluk Office (0469-2682293), and Thiruvalla Taluk Office (0469-2601303).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-emergency-centres-established/article31605407.ece
17 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ward panels to track returnees||The city Corporation will be forming ward-level monitoring committees, as stipulated by the State government, for keeping track of the large number of people who will be returning home from abroad and other states. Under each ward-level committee, five area-level committees will also be formed for close monitoring of those in home quarantine. The ward-level committees will be formed before May 18 and the area-level committees, before May 20. All these committees are required to hold at least one meeting by May 20, to prepare their plan of action. The ward-level monitoring committee will be headed by the ward councillor, with a Junior Health Inspector or a Junior Public Health Nurse as convenor. The members include representatives of residents’ associations, Janamaithri police, village officer, Kudumbashree member, volunteers, anganwadi teacher/worker, health worker from the National Health Mission, SC/ST promoter, ASHA worker, government employees, and representatives of political parties. Stickers The committee has to ensure that those in quarantine are staying inside their rooms. Those in houses without room quarantine facilities should be shifted to an institutional quarantine facility, after getting in touch with the Corporation’s helpline (9496434409, 9496434410). Stickers to be fixed Stickers will be fixed in front of the houses in which people in quarantine are staying, with the dates of the beginning and end of quarantine clearly marked on it. The quarantine monitoring will be carried out using the mobile application ‘COME’. One person in each area committee will have login access to the application. Information about those breaking quarantine will be immediately handed over to the police officials, and the offender will be shifted to an institutional facility. The committee has to ensure that visitors are not allowed into the houses having persons in quarantine. A caretaker has to be ensured for the person in quarantine. The biodegradable waste from the room should be buried at a considerable depth, while the non-biodegradable waste has to disinfected and collected. The health inspector has to ensure that each of the monitoring committees under the respective circle is functioning efficiently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ward-panels-to-track-returnees/article31605412.ece
17 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bus fare hike imminent||The Cabinet is set to take a call on the Transport Department’s proposal to increase the bus fare to offset the loss suffered by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation and private buses in view of the social distancing norms to be enforced on public transport buses. The department is of the view that a temporary fare hike is inevitable mainly on four counts. The restrictions in the number of passengers, curbs on standing, and less patronage. Besides, only intradistrict services will be operating. The decision of States such as Odisha to hike bus fares, demand from the KSRTC, and pressure by private bus operators by submitting a nine-point charter of demands have forced the Transport Department to act. The KSRTC has pointed out that it will be incurring a loss of Rs. 11.65 per km by enforcing social distancing norms and has demanded the fare revision to offset the loss by fixing Rs. 60.35 for a km. The KSRTC has burnt its fingers by operating special bus services for Secretariat staff in the capital district. To wipe out operational loss, the department has recommended doubling the fare in ordinary services that are depended heavily for commuting in mofussil and rural areas. The proposal is to increase the existing minimum fare for 5 km from Rs. 8 to Rs. 16, and from Rs. 10 to Rs. 20, Rs. 12 to Rs. 24, Rs. 13 to Rs. 26, Rs. 15 to Rs. 30, and Rs. 17 to Rs. 34 in the subsequent fare stages. The department did not toe the line of the KSRTC in working out the fares and submitting the proposal to Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran on Friday. The proposed hike will be temporary till the public transport mode is back to normality in the State, official sources said. The department has played it safe by avoiding student tickets from the hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-fare-hike-imminent/article31605391.ece
17 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rs. 2,500-cr. NABARD loan to boost food production||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has sanctioned a loan of Rs. 2,500 crore to support the government’s programme to improve food production and reduce reliance on other States for rice and perishables. A top-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday decided to make full use of the amount in a time-bound manner to turn fallow land into high-yield farms. The money would go into paddy and vegetable cultivation, fisheries and inland and marine fish farming. Farmers could avail themselves of loans via the Kerala Bank and also the Kerala Grameen Bank. They will receive the loans through their accounts in primary agriculture cooperatives. High-tech methods  Kerala Bank has earmarked Rs. 990 crore for paddy cultivation. It would also extend loans for developing fisheries and animal husbandry. Mr. Vijayan urged farmers to move away from traditional methods of cultivation and to adopt the latest precision high-tech farming methods. He encouraged youngsters to show a keen interest in farming and said the State’s egg and meat production should increase. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, Minister for Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran, Minister for Forests K. Raju, vice chairman of the State Planning Board V.K. Ramachandran, and Chief General Manager, NABARD, R. Sreenivasan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-2500-cr-nabard-loan-to-boost-food-production/article31605393.ece
17 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Package holds nothing for Kerala, says Thomas Isaac||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has lashed out at the Centre for allegedly neglecting the State’s interests in the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan economic stimulus package. Alleging that the Rs. 20-lakh-crore special financial package had little to cheer for the farming community, Dr. Isaac said the Centre had ignored the need for reducing farm distress in Kerala by supporting the production of cash crops such as rubber, tea, coffee, and pepper. “While the State government has been extending a support price of Rs. 150 a kg for rubber growers to offset the fall in natural rubber price, the Centre has yet again failed to adopt any measures to safeguard the interests of farmers. Besides, while the Union Minister for Finance [Nirmala Sitaraman] has assured that the export of tapioca from Tamil Nadu will be facilitated, there is no such guarantee made for Kerala despite the State having a higher production of the tuber crop. The State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party must explain the reason behind the scant regard shown by the Centre towards the State’s economy,” he said. ‘Hidden agenda’ Alleging that the package was driven by a hidden agenda, Dr. Isaac said it did not provide anything to boost demand while merely focussing on issues that concerned supply. “In fact, the Centre is hell bent on handing over public assets to corporate firms under the guise of fighting COVID-19. Their approach is to squeeze the public for their earnings and release resources for private players. While the Central government hopes the strategy will give a fillip to the economy, it will, in fact, lead the country on its path to destruction,” he said. Public health system He also criticised the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government for failing to draw lessons from the COVID-19 crisis and strengthening the public health system. “Instead, they have decided to allocate Rs. 8,100 crore to provide Viability Gap Funding for private players in the sector. This approach of promoting the commercial health system by virtually dismantling the public health sector will be detrimental to the interests of the public,” Dr. Isaac cautioned.  Special package has little to cheer for the farming community Kerala Finance Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/package-holds-nothing-for-kerala-says-thomas-isaac/article31605381.ece
17 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||511 put under surveillance in capital||As many as 511 people were put under surveillance in the district on Saturday as part of the steps to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Eleven persons were hospitalised in the district with disease symptoms, authorities said. At the same time, two persons were discharged. Home quarantine A total of 4,664 people were currently in home quarantine, while 381 people completed their isolation period without any symptoms. Forty-seven people were under treatment in various hospitals, according to officials. The number of those under surveillance in COVID care centres is 252. As many as 118 samples were sent for tests. The results of 103 samples that were sent for tests turned out negative. Screening Screening tests were conducted on 13,347 people at various check-posts in the district. The Collectorate control room received 185 calls, and the Disha call centre received 84. The police registered 37 cases of lockdown violation in the city on Saturday. Twenty-three vehicles were seized for unnecessary travel. Petty cases were also registered against 170 people for not wearing masks. Total lockdown today On Sunday, no private vehicles would be allowed on the road owing to total lockdown. Only two-wheeler and four-wheeler drivers with passes would be allowed to travel, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyaya said here. Private vehicles that plied on the roads of the district for purposes other than medical services would be seized, he said. But for shops stocking essential commodities, all other shops would remain closed. The police were continuing to keep a close watch on those in quarantine. The people under watch included those coming from other States, and those coming in by trains and flights. Roads under the city Corporation such as Museum Junction-Vellayambalam; Kowdiar-Raj Bhavan-Vellayambalam; and Pattom-Kuravankonam-Kowdiar would be closed to traffic from 5 a.m. to 10 a.m. Vehicles transporting essential commodities and those plying for essential needs would only be allowed.  Scene in the district Eleven persons hospitalised in the district with disease symptoms Forty-seven people under treatment in various hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/511-put-under-surveillance-in-capital/article31605409.ece
17 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Total shutdown in the State today||The State will go into total shutdown on Sunday when most activities except essential services will be prohibited. The activities that will be permitted include sale of essential items, milk and newspaper supply, movement of goods vehicles, waste disposal activities, and works undertaken by departments involved in the containment of COVID-19. Takeaway counters of hotels will be permitted to function from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. and parcel delivery till 10 p.m. While walking and cycling will be permitted throughout the day across the State, certain roads in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, and Kozhikode will be closed for motorised traffic, except movement of essential goods and emergency vehicles, from 5 a.m. to 10 a.m. Containment zones State Police Chief Loknath Behera has directed all District Police Chiefs to strictly enforce the lockdown norms. Stringent regulations will be in place in all containment zones where entry and exit will be permitted only for medical emergencies. While vigil has been intensified on the borders, narrow paths that lead from other States have been sealed following reports that migrant labourers were brought from Karnataka for laterite mining. Mr. Behera also issued orders to rein in congregations and religious ceremonies. Legal action will be initiated for violations in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/total-shutdown-in-the-state-today/article31605397.ece
17 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. shifts gear for local body polls||The political affairs committee (PAC) of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) met here on Saturday amidst concern that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) may be better poised to fight the upcoming local body elections in October. The meeting felt that the LDF’s current posturing on the handling of the COVID-19 crisis masked the fear that the people would lose patience with the government when they realised that it had failed to live up to the promise to set the State on the fast track to economic recovery. Advantage Some attendees held that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s daily news briefings had accorded the LDF a massive propaganda advantage the Congress appeared ill-prepared to counter. However, some leaders said the edge was temporary and the government would expend its goodwill when people started grappling with bread and butter issues and found they lacked the promised State support. The PAC purportedly felt Mr. Vijayan’s daily propaganda blitz had lost some of its sheen after the Opposition “revealed” that the government had allowed a U.S.-based data analytics firm, Sprinklr Inc, to “usurp” the personal health information of Keralites surveyed by State health workers. Media-savvy MLAs The forum had also met against the backdrop of unconfirmed reports of the emergence of a new group within the Congress of young social media-savvy legislators eager for radical change to the traditional order. The set had been widely credited with having countered the better entrenched social media legions of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). A “party insider” claimed the coming together of the young legislators did not entail the emergence of a new group. Congress politics in Kerala has traditionally revolved around personality cults and the MLAs were aligned with one group or another. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran avoided any mention about the “new currents” inside the Congress. He instead trained his guns on Pinarayi Vijayan and his use of the government platform to denigrate the Opposition without according it a right of reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-shifts-gear-for-local-body-polls/article31605392.ece
17 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poets gather online to resist pandemic||The Ayyappa Paniker Foundation conducted a virtual gathering of poets from all over the globe to communicate their resistance to the COVID-19 pandemic. Around 45 poets and 12 artists became part of the visual chain named ‘Voices from far and near’. Poems written in different languages were translated into English and streamed in YouTube. The poems were collected and compiled by poet Santhan from Kerala. The poets’ works touched upon themes including loneliness, the fear of the disease, the plight of the migrant workers forced to flee. The session opened with the poem ‘The Circle’ by poet K. Satchidanandan, president of the foundation. Malayalam poets K.G. Sankara Pillai, Kureepuzha Sreekumar, S. Joseph, Rosemary, Santhan, Gireesh Puliyoor, Sebastian, Sivakumar Ambalapuzha, Sreejith Pernthachan, Vinod Vaisakhi, T.K. Santosh Kumar, Sabu Kottukal, Ravunni, Kalathara Gopan, Savithri Rajeevan, D. Anil Kumar and Suresh Nooranadu took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poets-gather-online-to-resist-pandemic/article31605417.ece
17 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Yellow alert issued for eight districts||With the weather office forecasting increased thunderstorm activity over Kerala for the next five days, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has issued a yellow alert indicating isolated heavy rainfall till May 18 for eight districts: Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur and Palakkad. Malappuram district is also likely to receive isolated heavy rain on May 18. Some districts are likely to receive 64.5 mm to 115.5 mm of rainfall per day during the period. The KSDMA has warned the public to take precautions against lightning strikes during thunderstorms. The Met centre here has also forecast squally weather conditions with wind speed reaching 45-55 km/hour, gusting to 65 km/h, over the Comorin – the Maldives area and Lakshadweep area -- under the influence of the deep depression threatening to intensify into a cyclonic storm in the Bay of Bengal. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas till Sunday evening, into the central Bay of Bengal on May 17 and 18 and the north Bay of Bengal on May 19 and 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-issued-for-eight-districts/article31605383.ece
17 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Only 50% of police force for duty on a day||The COVID-19 crisis has compelled the police to forego customary roll call, shift change, parade and classes. A committee headed by State Police Chief Loknath Behera and Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham also recommended that only 50% of the force deploy for duty on a particular day. The force would rest the other 50% or hold them in reserve for emergency deployment. Rest for seven days The duty should be detailed so that officers could rest for seven days after seven days on the field. Mr. Behera also gave officers liberty to directly report to the place of duty rather than marking their presence at the police station first. Once they reached their post, officers could inform their proximity to the station concerned via mobile phone. Mr. Behera also decided to optimise police deployment and use digital force multiplier tools such as surveillance cameras and drones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-50-of-police-force-for-duty-on-a-day/article31605394.ece
17 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSEB cash counters||Cash counters at KSEB section offices will function as normal following the lifting of the restrictions imposed in the wake of the lockdown triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-cash-counters/article31605398.ece
17 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||School admissions from Monday||Admission to government, aided, and unaided schools in the State for the 2020-2021 academic year will get under way on Monday as per government guidelines on COVID-19. The government issued a circular on the admission guidelines on Friday. Applications for admission to government or aided schools can be submitted in the schools directly or online. Those reaching schools to hand over the applications should strictly follow the government guidelines on COVID-19 prevention. School authorities should take precautionary steps in this regard. Temporary admission Students submitting applications online should apply through the Sampoorna portal (sampoorna.kite.kerala.gov.in). Students unable to produce any documents at the time of admission can be given temporary admission. Students from other States or abroad too can be given admission. Directives will be issued soon on new admissions to State schools through the online mechanism (such as how to use the online medium) and admissions on the basis of transfer certificates. Steps should be taken to ensure admission for all who want to join State schools. The Sampoorna portal mechanism can be used to issue transfer certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-admissions-from-monday/article31605395.ece
17 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC valuation begins tomorrow||The valuation for SSLC examinations held in March will get under way in the State on Monday. The valuation will be held for six papers the examinations for which were conducted between March 10 and 19. The first phase valuation will be held for five days, till Friday. Of the 54 centres in all, valuations will be held only in 36 centres. Camps will not be held for subjects for which examinations remain to be conducted (Maths, Physics, and Chemistry) as well as for Arabic, Urdu, and Sanskrit. Nearly 6,000 teachers, including assistant and chief examiners, are being posted for the valuation. Posting orders have been issued. Valuation will be conducted only with teachers who can reach the the camps. Education Department officials said the camps will begin with teachers who can make it for the paper valuation. For instance, teachers from the district where the valuation centre is located can attend the camp. Similarly, teachers whose posting order is for a centre in one district but who are stranded in another district can attend the camp in the second district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-valuation-begins-tomorrow/article31605396.ece
17 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||No home quarantine for Minister: panel||Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen, who attended a meeting along with elected representatives under observation for COVID-19, need not go in home quarantine, the Medical Board has said. The board gave report to the District Medical Officer on Saturday. It said the Minister and Collector S. Shanvas had taken precautions, including wearing face mask and keeping social distancing, while attending the meeting, in which the quarantined elected representatives attended. So they would come under the secondary contact category and were in the low risk group. The board recommended those who attended the meeting to wear masks, avoid public meetings, and unnecessary travels. These restrictions should be maintained till May 26. If the primary contacts tested positive, the people in the secondary contact list should go into home quarantine, the board said. The board also looked into the cases of people who attended a meeting at Member of Parliament T.N. Prathapan’s office and the nursing day programme at General Hospital and concluded they would come under the low risk group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-home-quarantine-for-minister-panel/article31605389.ece
17 May 2020||THRISSUR,KERALA||COVID ICU opened at Thrissur Medical College||A COVID-19 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) was opened at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Saturday. MP funds The Rs. 25-lakh ICU was set up using funds allotted by T.N. Prathapan, MP. Since Mr. Prathapan was advised by the medical board to undergo home quarantine following his visit to the Walayar check-post, where a COVID-19 patient was present, the MP inaugurated the ICU through videoconferencing from his home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-icu-opened-at-thrissur-medical-college/article31605373.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Malappuram, Palakkad report two new cases each||Two persons each were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad and Malappuram districts on Saturday. Palakkad District Collector D. Balamurali said a 49-year-old man from Karakurissi and a 43-year-old man from Pattambi were confirmed to have contracted the virus. Both were shifted to the district hospital. The Karakurissi man returned from Chennai on May 8 on a Tempo Traveller along with 10 others. The other members of the group are in home quarantine, said Mr. Balamurali. The Pattambi man returned from Dubai via Karipur on flight IX-344 on May 7. His mother had died on May 5. He went home in a taxi from Karipur and was under observation at home. Mumbai returnees Malappuram District Collector Jafar Malik said two persons from Kanhiramukku, Maranchery, were tested positive on Saturday. Both middle-aged men had returned from Mumbai. They were selling tender coconut at Colaba, Mumbai. They reached Kanhiramukku on May 14. They went into home quarantine after shifting their family members to another house. In Kozhikode Two persons who returned from Kuwait and another who came back from Chennai were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to seven. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a release that the 51-year-old native of Omassery and the 55-year-old Perambra native had arrived from the Gulf on May 13. The third patient is a 43-year-old from Narippatta, who reached Walayar on May 10 morning without an entry pass. He stayed put there till evening before the police took him home in their vehicle. He had been under surveillance since May 11 and was shifted to the medical college hospital on May 13 after symptoms were noticed. In Wayanad Two more COVID-19 patients at the District Hospital, Mananthavady, recovered from the disease on Saturday. According to the hospital administration, the 82-year-old woman, who had contracted SARS-CoV-2 from her son – who had tested positive after he had returned from Koyambedu market in Chennai recently – and a 21-year-old youth, son of the co-passenger of the truck driver, recovered on Saturday. They had been at the isolation ward in the district hospital for the past 11 days. The youth was discharged from the hospital and advised to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. But the elderly woman was shifted to the pay ward of the hospital for quarantine as some of her close relatives were tested positive and undergoing treatment there. No positive cases were reported in the district on Saturday, District Collector Adeela Abdulla said. As many as 650 persons from tribal areas were placed under institutional quarantine. Special alert has been sounded in three tribal hamlets in Thirunelly grama panchayat, she said. The district medical board advised as many as 140 police officials, including the District Police Chief, for home quarantine after three civil police officers at the Mananthavady police station were tested positive for the disease four days ago, said District Medical Officer R. Renuka. As many as 2,157 persons were under surveillance in the district. Containment zones Meanwhile, the district administration declared all wards in Mananthavady municipality and Thirunelly, Edavaka and Vellamunda grama panchayats as well as 11 wards in Meenangadi grama panchayat, one ward in Thavinhal and four wards in Nenmeni grama panchayats as containment zones to prevent the spread of the disease. All roads in the containment zones, except an exit, will remain closed from Sunday, Ms. Abdulla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malappuram-palakkad-report-two-new-cases-each/article31605376.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||A new world order||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-new-world-order/article31605414.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Precarious living||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/precarious-living/article31605400.ece
17 May 2020||ADILABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||25 migrants injured as lorry skids||A lorry carrying migrant workers skid off the margins of the NH-44 Nirmal bypass road and fell sideways about one km from the Kondapur highway junction in Nirmal district in the small hours of Saturday resulting in injuries to 25 of them. Two of the injured were shifted to Hyderabad as they received serious injuries while others were being treated for bone fractures at the Nirmal government hospital, according to Superintendent of Police C. Shashidhar Raju. The SP told reporters that the lorry carrying about 70 migrant workers from Hyderabad who were bound for Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. They had boarded the lorry somewhere near Medchal in Hyderabad previous night. It is assumed that the driver lost control of the vehicle as he fell asleep at the wheel. The driver fled the spot after the accident. Police received an alert about the accident over the 100 emergency number and immediately rushed to the spot. Officials from Nirmal Rural police station and others reached the accident spot before losing any time and shifted the injured to the hospital. Mr. Raju himself was at the spot and later at the hospital supervising rescue operation and treatment of the injured persons. “The accident took place between 4 am and 4.30 am on the highway but no fatality has been reported,” he asserted. Forest Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy also visited the accident spot and hospital interacted with the injured workers and others. He asked officials to make alternative arrangements for those workers who could travel, to reach Gorakhpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/25-migrants-injured-as-lorry-skids/article31605307.ece
17 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No new cases in Anantapur, active ones down to 23||There were no new COVID-19 positive cases reported from Anantapur district on Saturday and two female patients from Hindupur were discharged from the RDT Bathalapalli Hospital, taking the total number of discharged patients to 94. Only 23 patients were still being treated in hospitals. While 122 cases from Anantapur district were reported positive, another 27 cases belonging to Gujarat, West Bengal and Karnataka were added to the count taking the total to 149. Meanwhile, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu suspended Munaf, the panchayat secretary of Vidapanakal, for his negligence in getting the sanitation work done at the quarantine facility in the AP Model School. A large number of migrants from Mumbai were housed there after their return 10 days ago by a Shramik Train to Guntakal. The inmates had raised objections about the poor maintenance and the then Joint Collector S. Dilli Rao had visited the facility on May 9 and got everything rectified. Kisan trains sought Meanwhile, Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to arrange special kisan trains to transport horticulture produce from the district to northern States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-new-cases-in-anantapur-active-ones-down-to-23/article31605080.ece
17 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||8 new cases with Koyambedu link surface in Chittoor district||Chittoor district on Saturday registered eight new COVID-19 positive cases, all linked to Koyambedu market in Chennai. Following sudden increase in the number of cases, DIG (Anantapur) Kranti Rana Tata rushed to Chittoor district and inspected the red zones in the eastern mandals, Chittoor city and local railway station. Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta and Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar joined the DIG in the inspections. Addressing a review meeting with the district police officials, Mr. Tata urged the personnel on COVID-19 duty to do strategic identification of the cases who had visited the Koyambedu market, along with the secondary contacts. Referring to the reports of seizure of illicit liquor in the district, and smuggling of liquor bottles to Tamil Nadu, the DIG directed the officials to mount vigil on the border areas. He inquired about the status of migrant workers stranded in Chittoor district, and was informed that two Shramik trains had already left from Chittoor, carrying over 2,000 of them to Odisha and Bihar, while arrangements were under way for special trains to Uttar Pradesh and other northern states. The police department had arranged shelter and food to over 500 migrant workers in Chittoor since March 25. Mild tension prevailed at V.Kota mandal headquarters which registered the maximum number of Koyambedu-linked cases in the last one week — close to 20. It is estimated that over 15% of the vegetables reaching Koyambedu market was from this region. Couple test positive Meanwhile, uneasy atmosphere prevailed at Srikalahasti with a couple testing positive to the virus, who were among the 14 new cases identified on Friday. The couple was related to a student from Guntur, who is currently under isolation, along with his family members. Srikalahasti temple town alone registered 60 positive cases during the last 40 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/8-new-cases-with-koyambedu-link-surface-in-chittoor-district/article31605084.ece
17 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five held for smuggling liquor||The Nagari Urban police seized liquor bottles along with an SUV and took five men, belonging to Tiruvallur of Tamil Nadu, into custody at Punimangadu on Saturday. Circle-Inspector (Nagari) Maddaiahchari said that acting on a tip-off that an SUV carrying liquor stocks was on its way from Nagari to Chennai, a team intercepted the vehicle and seized the liquor, which included seven full bottles, three half bottles and 120 quarter bottles. The accused reportedly took advantage of the situation to make quick money by procuring liquor from the Chittoor in view of the stalemate over opening of wine shops in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-held-for-smuggling-liquor/article31605049.ece
17 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fruit trucks smuggling liquor seized||Smuggling of liquor is on the rise in the State during the lockdown. Late on Friday night, Guntur Rural police intercepted three fruit-laden trucks carrying watermelon and seized 2,332 bottles of branded whiskey and brandy stacked beneath the fruit boxes. The trucks coming from Telangana were intercepted at the Pondugula check-post by the police. On Friday alone, the Guntur Rural police seized liquor worth Rs. 5.88 lakh in 3,160 bottles besides seizing 11 trucks. Twenty-nine persons were arrested. “Our police personnel got suspicious after seeing the trucks enter the check-post within 30 minutes. We have been strictly enforcing the ban on liquor transport and so far seized 5,482 bottles of liquor worth Rs. 9 lakh and arrested 210 persons. The district has 21 check-posts, 14 mobile parties and eight district check-posts,” said SP, Guntur Rural Ch. Vijaya Rao. Steep hike in liquor prices and non-availability of branded liquor and beer is leading to locals smuggling liquor from Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fruit-trucks-smuggling-liquor-seized/article31605085.ece
17 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||First batch of workers in Guntur leave for Bihar||The first batch of 1,602 migrant workers left for their native places in Bihar by a Shramik Special train from Mangalagiri on Saturday. The rest would be sent to their States on Sunday and Monday. The large group of workers were spotted by Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney who was returning to her residence from the CMO on Friday evening. “There are about 7,000 migrant workers yet to be ferried to different parts of the country. We are arranging for their accommodation in relief centres until the completion of all the medical protocols. We are also arranging special buses to ferry those who are stranded on the highways and at check posts,” said the Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-batch-of-workers-in-guntur-leave-for-bihar/article31605086.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre asks KRMB to stop A.P. on its Krishna diversion plans||In a significant move in the ongoing row over Krishna water diversion by Andhra Pradesh, Union Minister for Jal Shakti (Water Resources) Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is reported to have directed the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to convene a meeting immediately with the member States to discuss the issue. The directions given to KRMB were mentioned in Mr. Shekhawat’s letter in reply to Karimangar MP from BJP Bandi Sanjay who asked the former to intervene in the issue in which the interests of Telangana are at stake in violation of the riparian rights as also contravening the provisions of Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act. Mr. Sanjay wrote a letter to the Union Minister earlier this month highlighting the issue of AP’s plans to increase the capacity of Pothireddypadu (PRP) head regulator and planning of another lift scheme to draw 3 tmc ft of water a day from Srisailam reservoir. “I got the matter examined by our Ministry and I have directed that KRMB to convene a board meeting immediately to discuss the detailed project reports (DPRs) of the AP’s plans and examine them technically to see whether they are as per the provisions regarding the management of river waters in the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014. Until then, KRMB is directed to ask AP to stop proceeding further on these projects,” the Union Minister stated in his letter to the Karimnagar MP. The Union Minister is also understood to have directed the officials of the Ministry to immediately call for a meeting of the Apex Council to discuss about the issue and also other matters pertaining to the utilisation of Krishna river waters by the two member States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-asks-krmb-to-stop-aps-krishna-diversion-plans/article31605335.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||55 more test positive in Telangana||One more person with COVID-19 died in Andhra Pradesh and 48 fresh cases were reported on Saturday, after 9,628 samples were tested. Kerala reported 11 positive cases, all of them imported. Seven were expatriates who came home recently and the rest, Non-Resident Keralites from Chennai and Maharashtra. Thrissur accounted for four cases, Kozhikode three, and Malappuram and Palakkad two cases each. Four COVID-19 patients who tested negative were declared as having recovered. Karnataka announced it would have hotels inspected after several complaints were raised over poor quality of food and unhygienic accommodation provided in private quarantine in Bengaluru. Announcing Karnataka’s intention to have hotels inspected over complaints on private quarantine facilities, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar said: “In such cases, BBMP should cancel the licence of the hotel. I will speak to the BBMP commissioner and ask him to initiate immediate action.” A day after recording the biggest spike in the number of positive cases on a single day and crossing the 1,000 mark, Karnataka on Saturday reported 36 new cases, taking the total to 1,092. With 14 new cases, Bengaluru reported the majority. All the 14 were contacts of a housekeeping staffer of a hotel in Shivajinagar. The individual had become a super-spreader, having infected 29 persons in one week, said Mr. Suresh Kumar. One more passenger in Udupi, who had returned from Dubai, and 11 inter-State travellers who returned from Mumbai, Maharashtra and Ahmedabad tested positive. Of the new cases, eight were reported from Kalaburgi, four from Hassan, three from Shivamogga, and one each from Udupi, Mandya, Dharwad, Davangere, Ballari, Bagalkote and Vijayapura. All four and three cases in Hassan and Shivamogga respectively, one each from Kalaburgi, Dharwad and Bagalkote had a travel history to Mumbai, and the lone case in Ballari had travelled to Ahmedabad. The State Government would write to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to initiate action against Lal Path Labs in Bengaluru for discrepancy in COVID-19 testing of a pregnant woman. While the report from the private lab said the woman had tested positive, a repeat test in a government lab showed she was negative. The private lab was an ICMR-approved collection centre in Bengaluru. Shadow of market Chennai’s Koyambedu wholesale market contacts continued to push the figures in Andhra Pradesh, as 31 of 48 cases were linked to the hotspot. Also, 101 patients recovered in the State. Among new cases linked to the market, Kurnool and Nellore districts reported nine each. Eight fresh cases in Chittoor, two of four fresh cases in Visakhapatnam, cases in Kadapa and West Godavari were similarly connected. Krishna district reported seven fresh cases. The tally had risen to 2,355 and the toll mounted to 49 with the death of a patient in Kurnool. Of total cases, 150 were migrant workers who had returned in the recent past. Most of the recovered patients were from Kurnool (47) and Anantapur (37) districts. The rest were from Krishna (5), East Godavari (3), Prakasam (3), West Godavari (3), Kadapa (2) and Visakhapatnam (1). So far 1,353 patients recovered and the number was higher than active cases at 953. Excluding the migrant workers’ cases, the number of active cases were 803. District tallies (minus migrants) were: Kurnool (608), Guntur (413), Krishna (367), Chittoor (173), Nellore (149). 477 new cases in T.N. On a day when Tamil Nadu reported 477 new cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19), 939 persons were discharged after recovery from hospitals across the State. This was the highest number of patients to be discharged on a single day in Tamil Nadu, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. Out of the 477 new COVID-19 cases, 93 persons had returned from abroad and from other States. This took the total tally of positive cases in the State to 10,582. Chennai’s total number of positive cases crossed the 6,000-mark with 332 fresh cases. Three more persons died in the city, taking the total number of deaths in TN to 74. The number of samples tested during the day stood at 10,535.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Chennai and Thiruvananthapuram Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/koyambedu-link-pushes-up-cases-in-andhra-pradesh/article31605061.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Several trees uprooted as rain lashes Hyderabad||Sudden gusts of stormy rain and winds resulted in massive destruction of greenery in a few areas of the city on Saturday. The rain, which began around 2 p.m. in Khairatabad and Banjara Hills areas, was accompanied by strong winds, and soon spread to several areas of the city. Poor visibility Scores of trees were uprooted in Banjara Hills and Jubilee Hills areas, while branches falling on the roads too caused obstruction to vehicles. Several motorists complained of poor visibility. Those travelling along Road Number 3 in Banjara Hills said that they could barely see a few metres ahead. Several drivers turned on their headlights and hazard lights even as they navigated water-logged roads. "I was travelling from Balanagar to Banjara Hills. For the first time, I was afraid while driving. There was such low visibility and I thought of stopping but was afraid that a tree would fall on my car," said Ravikanth Reddy, an entrepreneur and founder of Food and Travel Club. Trees were uprooted on Banjara Hills Road Number 5 and blocked the carriageway. Several who wanted to reach homes had to take alternative routes. Trees were uprooted near the Banjara Hills police station on Road Number 3. While large cars turned around, small ones were seen navigating under collapsed branches. Several two-wheelers were seen half-submerged along Banjara Hills Road Number 1 near the Jalagam Vengal Rao Park. Tree fall instances were reported also from Minister Road and Bahadurpura areas, officials of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation said. Instant death At Mannanur village of Mahabubnagar district, unseasonal rains accompanied by gale claimed the lives of a couple. The victims, Donka Krishna (42) and his wife Donka Pushpa (38), along with other villages went near the under-construction toll gate on Jedcheral-Kalwakurthy highway to dry their paddy harvest. “When rain lashed, everyone was busy covering their harvest and suddenly due to gale, the steel structure of the toll gate collapsed on the couple. While others were taking shelter under the structure, the couple were outside of it,” Midjil SI V Ravi said. He said the incident took place around 3 p.m. and death was instant for both. The couple are survived by two daughters. A case was registered against the contractor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/several-trees-uprooted-as-heavy-rain-lashes-city/article31605330.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vande Bharat Mission: 121 Indians arrive from US||The eight ‘Vande Bharat’ flight, an Air India AI 1839 flight, carrying 121 passengers from Newark (United States) via New Delhi landed at the GMR Hyderabad International Airport at 3:14 a.m. on Saturday. All the passengers were serviced through the fully sanitised International Arrivals of the main passenger terminal, informed an official spokesperson. The airport authorities kept the international arrivals and the entire stretch right from the aerobridge to the arrivals ramp fully sanitised and fumigated. All passengers and aircraft crew were brought out from the aircraft in a batch of 20-25 persons and screened by thermal cameras positioned at the aerobridge exit under the supervision of the Airport Health officials (APHO). After the health screening of passengers, CISF personnel in their protective gear escorted the group of passengers to immigration clearance. Glass shields were provided at each manned immigration counter to avoid any personal contact between the passengers and immigration officers. Each counter had specified social distancing norms in place. The airline, its ground handling staff and airport personnel were available to guide the passengers and to enforce the social distancing norms. Every baggage was sanitised by the disinfection tunnel integrated to the baggage belt as arranged by the airport. The baggage trolleys were kept fully sanitised. Passengers were then taken for the mandatory 14-day quarantine at the designated locations in the city. Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) has so far received over 1,200 Indian nationals stranded in various countries like US, Kuwait, UAE, UK, Manila, Kuala Lampur etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/121-indians-arrive-from-us/article31605324.ece
17 May 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unlikely friendship forged by lockdown||People of Kondamitta locality of the temple town of Srikalahasti are a baffled lot on seeing a strange friendship between an old mangy dog and a cat. The duo’s 50-day acquaintance reportedly commenced with a small fight on March 24, when the lockdown was clamped. With each passing day, their friendship has only turned into the cynosure of all those passing the narrow lanes of the locality. The 16-year-old dog, Potti, belongs to a retired government employee. Ageing has made the canine a sage-like personality. On March 24, a cat from a nearby hillock temple came into the locality and settled in a small gap between two houses. Local residents said that after repeated pranks with the dog, the cat became friendly with it by evening. A week later, somebody named the cat Corona. Radha Devi, a government teacher, said she had been watching the flourishing companionship of the two since a month. “At sundown, the kid (cat) will gambol over the dog, pluck its ears and tail. But, the latter would only show its gentleness, licking its new friend and caressing it. It’s a strange sight. Watching them play helps us a great deal in shedding the lockdown boredom,” she said. Akhila, a housewife, observed that whenever Potti wanted to roam in the next lane, Corona would create a fuss. “The cat will roll before Potti, preventing it from moving further. Would suddenly pass between the legs of the weak dog, making it stumble. It will sometimes fetch a rat or two and gets ready to share it with Potti, but it doesn’t like it,” she said. It is further observed that the ageing dog has started feeling happy these days with the entry of Corona. This inseparable attachment between these contrary species also has its gloomy touch. The neighborhood feels that Potti with crumbling health might not enjoy the happiness with the childish friend for long. “Corona has now almost become Potti’s child. Their friendship is an eye-opener to the fast disappearing human relationships.” says Shiva, a government teacher in the locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unlikely-friendship-forged-by-lockdown/article31605462.ece
17 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP govt. diverted port land for industrial use’||It was the TDP government that had diverted the land belonging to the Department of Ports for industrial activity in 2016, Kakinada MLA Dwarampudi Chandrasekhar Reddy alleged on Saturday. Addressing the media here, Mr. Chandrasekhar said, “The TDP government had leased out about 80 acres of land belonging to the Department of Ports to the Container Corporation of India Limited for setting up a logistics park. This site is adjacent to the 100-acre mangrove site that is being spared for the proposed housing programme in the city.” Referring to the campaign and legal battle against diversion of the site for the housing programme, the YSRCP leader said it was aimed at forcing the government to withdraw from the site. “The government has decided to provide housing facility on the site in dispute for 4,800 poor families,” said Mr. Chandrasekhar. Joint inspection Calling upon the members of the TDP fact-finding committee to join him in conducting a joint inspection of the site, Mr. Chandrasekhar Reddy said, “The TDP committee had on Friday attempted to visit the site. But for police intervention, the housing beneficiaries would have confronted the team members.” Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would launch the housing programme in Kakinada once the legal hurdles were resolved, the MLA toldThe Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-govt-diverted-port-land-for-industrial-use/article31605469.ece
17 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Housing site far away from mangroves, says Collector||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Saturday stated that the 115-acre site levelled for housing purpose was not notified as a ‘mangrove forest’, and that it was nearly 10 kilometres away from the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary (CWS). The site belonged to the Department of Ports and was being diverted for housing purposes. Mr. Muralidhar Reddy told The Hindu: “The Department of Ports’ land levelled for housing is in no way connected to the protected mangrove that spreads in 86,000 acres including the CWS on the Kakinada coast. The site has been chosen for the housing facility as the land surrounding it has already been spared for various industrial activities.” “If this land meets the criteria of the protected forest or mangrove cover, it would have already been notified as per the existing guidelines. But that did not happen to date and on the other hand, several industries have been allowed on the very site,” Mr. Reddy added. “The land adjacent to the housing site has been leased out (in 2016) to the Container Corporation of India Limited (CONCOR) for logistics park and various companies over the years,” Mr. Reddy said. “The levelling of the housing site has been carried out without disrupting the existence of the creek, enabling the fisherfolk to anchor their boats. The site is also nearly 1.5 km away from the sea,” the District Collector toldThe Hindu. ‘Suits fisherfolk’ On the need for selecting the site, the Collector explained, “We are providing housing facility for more than 4,000 families on the site and all of them belong to the surrounding areas and depend on fishing. They cannot be offered housing far from their area as their lives are associated with the sea.” On the campaign by political parties and other sections of people on the site, the Collector said, “The digital and offline campaign on the housing site has been intensified, stating that the government is diverting the protected mangrove cover for housing facility. In reality, we did not even touch any protected site.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/housing-site-far-away-from-mangroves-says-collector/article31605471.ece
17 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dies after delivering stillborn baby||A 24-year-old woman has died with symptoms of preeclampsia after she gave birth to a stillborn baby boy at Raja Vommangi village in East Godavari district. The incident occurred on Friday and came to light on Saturday. District Public Health Nursing Officer B. Deevenamma said that it was the second pregnancy and premature delivery for Amarakanthi Devi. She died of preeclampsia on the way to hospital in Eleswaram after delivering a stillborn child at the Public Health Centre in Raja Vommangi. The doctors at the PHC-Raja Vommangi referred her to Eleswaram hospital for further treatment, but but she was declared brought dead at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-dies-after-delivering-stillborn-baby/article31605482.ece
17 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ONGC plugs leak in underground pipeline||The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) staff on Saturday evening plugged a minor gas leak reported from an underground pipeline from a well at Kessanapalli village of Malikipuram mandal in East Godavari district. A press note was issued by the ONGC on Saturday in this regard. “The minor gas leak has been reported for a minute at the well No.17 at the Kessanapalli site and it has been plugged by the crew immediately,” the note said,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongc-plugs-leak-in-underground-pipeline/article31605087.ece
17 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Highway traffic increases in anticipation of relaxation||Vehicular traffic on the National Highway No. 44 increased between Bengaluru and Hyderabad in both directions on Saturday in anticipation of a major relaxation from Monday in the Lockdown 4.0. A pair of employees set out on a scooter from Hyderabad to Bengaluru to be in time for attending their offices, which are likely to be open from Monday in view of the relaxations announced by the Karnataka government. Natives of Hyderabad, Rahul and Lavanya, set out early in the morning from Hyderabad and were at the Panchalingala check-post on Telangana-Andhra Pradesh before noon. Carrying two backpacks and some essentials, they showed their permit issued by the Telangana government and approval from the Karnataka government to the Kurnool Deputy Superintendent of Police, who assured them a trouble-free passage till Karnataka border. Medical booth A couple of doctors travelling by their own car from Bengaluru to Hyderabad got their hands stamped at the check-post after a thermal screening. The Telangana police, medical and revenue officials set up a booth on the Andhra side of the toll plaza so that they could thoroughly check everyone before physically entering Telangana. There is a continuous flow of migratory labourers in all possible modes of transport — mostly on foot and some hiring lorries. Random thermal screening of the batches of labourers was being done. District Collector G. Veerapandian asked officials to provide water and food to all persons travelling by foot and ensure they were healthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/highway-traffic-increases-in-anticipation-of-relaxation/article31605082.ece
17 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 discharged from hospitals in Kurnool||Fifteen patients were discharged from hospitals in Kurnool on Saturday after they tested negative twice for the virus. Prominent among those who were discharged were former Municipal Commissioner S. Raveendra Babu, who had tested positive 16 days ago. With the discharge on Saturday, 405 have weathered the pandemic taking the discharge percentage to 66.6. Talking to reporters, Mr. Babu said his camp clerk had tested positive for COVID-19, which prompted him also to take the test and turned out to be positive. With nine new positive cases reported on Saturday, the cumulative total number of positive cases has gone up to 608 and of them 19 persons have died, while 184 persons are still undergoing treatment in hospitals (30.2%). The new cases came from Kurnool City (4), Nandyal Town (1); Yemmiganur (1); Kosigi (2) and Kowthalam (1), District Collector G. Veerapandian said. Clusters redrawn Meanwhile, the containment clusters in the district have been redrawn according to the latest positive cases getting reported and now Kurnool has 50 of them. The buffer zones have been reduced to 200 metres, while nine of them in the rural areas are likely to be denotified on Tuesday, the Collector said. He asked people to provide information on new persons coming to the district so that a watch can be kept on them and all of them need to get medical screening done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-discharged-from-hospitals-in-kurnool/article31605088.ece
17 May 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||No let-up in cases in Nellore||Twelve more persons, nine in SPSR Nellore district and three in Prakasam district, who had visited the Koyambedu market in the recent past tested positive for coronavirus in last 24 hours. Sullurpeta, which is about 80 km from Chennai, accounted for seven of them while Nellore city reported two, taking the tally in the district to 149 in the district, health officials said.  Patients discharged After the Tablighi Jamat event-induced cases, regular visit of traders from the two districts to Koyambedu market in Chennai, to clear piled-up farm produce, contributed to the fresh bout of cases. In Ongole, three traders, aged 30, 31 and 44, contracted the disease after visiting the Chennai market. Following this, the district administration has swung into action to identify all those with history of travel to Koyambedu and subject them to testing. The number of active cases rose to 6 in Prakasam district on Saturday. As many as 60 patients in Ongole and 81 patients in Nellore were cured of the viral disease so far, health officials said. Workers stranded on Tada border A majority of patients, who had returned from Delhi or were primary contacts of the returnees, have been cured of the disease, giving hopes for early revival of economic activity. Meanwhile, hundreds of Odisha, Bihar-bound migrant workers walking from Chennai were stranded at the inter-State border in Tada as the police personnel prevented them from going ahead without screening them in the wake of spurt in cases linked to Koyambedu. Despite the tall promises, the authorities had not ensured food and accommodation for them, they complained. “We have run out of cash. We cannot stay afford to stay here,” said Vikram, who was working at a construction site in Chennai. “We are left high and dry. We now have no option but to return to our native places,” said another migrant worker Akash Kumar, while taking a break at a motel on the outskirts of Nellore. Fortunate were those who hitched a ride with the trucks transporting essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-let-up-in-cases-in-nellore/article31605090.ece
17 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hand-hold toiling masses, says PCC chief||Objecting to the way the lockdown to combat coronavirus is being implemented, the Congress party has demanded that the Union and State governments provide liberal financial aid to the common people to help them cope with the crisis. Addressing the media here after calling on the bereaved families of 10 farm workers who were electrocuted recently near Machavaram village in Prakasam district on Saturday, APCC president S. Sailajanath said the toiling masses were facing severe hardship in the wake of the “ill-planned lockdown.” He demanded that the State government pay a compensation of Rs. 1 crore each to the families of the deceased who had gone to work in a chilli farm on the lines of the gas leak victims in Visakhapatnam. “This type of discrimination is unacceptable for the Congress party,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hand-hold-toiling-masses-says-pcc-chief/article31605473.ece
17 May 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVRAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe sought into wetland acquisition||The TDP fact-finding team led by Peddapuram MLA N. Chinarajappa and Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu on Saturday sought an inquiry into the acquisition of Burugupudi Ava land (wetland) in Korukonda mandal for housing purpose. Mr. Chinarajappa alleged that a package higher than the actual was offered for the land gathered for the purpose. “The Burugupudi Ava land is prone to floods and many villages will suffer if the State Government allows a housing facility on the land,” said the TDP leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-sought-into-wetland-acquisition/article31605470.ece
17 May 2020||RAMPACHODAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram rehab deadline extended||Polavaram project administrator O. Anand on Saturday extended the deadline for completion of the rehabilitation works here by two months as they were severely hit because of the prevailing nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19. During a meeting with the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Rampachodavaram in-charge Project Officer Praveen Adithya and ITDA-Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana here, Mr. Anand said that the validity of the tenders pertaining to housing work was extended by two more months against the previous deadline. The contractors of the rehabilitation project were directed to complete the construction of the houses before the floods in the Godavari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polavaram-rehab-deadline-extended/article31605472.ece
17 May 2020||Santosh Patnaik,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hotel identified as quarantine centre for seafarers||Indian seafarers seeking signing out after their ship’s anchorage in the port city will now have a choice with the authorities allowing a private hotel to operate as a quarantine centre with three star amenities on payment basis. A team from quarantine committee comprising K. Padma Latha and Triveni after inspecting a hotel at Surya Bagh declared that it was fulfilling the the criteria for quarantine facility as per Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) recommended by the Union government. The management of the hotel has been recommended to strictly follow the SOPs. This is the first hotel in Visakhapatnam selected by the district authorities for use as quarantine facility on payment basis. Nodal Officer for District Quarantine Committee, COVID-19 B. Devi Madhavi told The Hindu that efforts were on to find out more such hotels in consultation with the district administration to house people returning from abroad.A similar system is also being worked out for people who are retuning by flights. “The facility will be useful for seafarers signing out after their arrival from overseas assignments. At present, Visakhapatnam Port has provided quarantine facility for 20 people for ships coming to the major port. For those heading towards Gangavaram Port, which does not have dedicated quarantine centre, the hotel will be of use as an alternative choice for those willing,” B.S. Bhargava, Deputy General Manager, J.M. Baxi & Co., said. At present, those Indians needing quarantine after their arrival in Visakhapatnam from overseas trips, need to undergo quarantine at Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases, Government ENT Hospital and Pradhma Hospital. “We have provided quarantine facility for seafarers coming to our port before they take a break from their overseas trips,” said Visakhapatnam Port Trust Deputy Chairman P.L. Haranadh. Hotel Port Managing Director Vijay Kumar Agarwal said their hotel was offering quarantine for seafarers who need it from Saturday. Initially, it will offer the facility in two floors. Capt. Bhargava said they were happy that the Port Hotel was now the first private quarantine facility in Visakhapatnam dedicated for seafarers. The guidelines issued of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for quarantine centres will be followed strictly. Cost of room, sources said will be Rs. 3,800 plus GST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hotel-identified-as-quarantine-centre-for-seafarers/article31605496.ece
17 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||An outpouring of help for migrant labourers||Many individuals in Vizianagaram district of Andhra Pradesh are collecting shoes, pain balms and food packets to be distributed among the scores of migrant labourers walking great distances to reach their villages, many of them barefoot. “Migrant labourers are walking in scorching heat on the highways, and their flip-flops hardly last for a couple of days after which they are forced to walk barefoot. It pained us to see them walking in such difficult conditions,” said Golugiri Nagireddy, president of the Vizianagaram Petroleum Dealers’ Association. “We are collecting footwear of different sizes and offering them whatever fits. We are also giving them pain balms and creams as a majority of them are suffering from acute leg pain. The kits are being donated to labourers from Odisha and Chhattisgarh at places like Rajapulova and Bhogapuram,” he added. BJP leader Perla Sambamurthy, who contested the Srikakulam Parliament seat in the last elections, is providing shelter and food for migrants at his theater complex in Srikakulam. “Many of them are facing multiple health problems after walking continuously in the heat. Proper rest will help them regain their health,” he said. Balaga Foundation president Balaga Prakash provided transport to some labourers to reach their destination. “Apart from food, they also needed transport. The government authorities are urged to allow their shifting within the district limits so the burden of walking would be reduced at least to some extent,” Mr. Prakash said. CITU leaders D. Govinda Rao and P. Tejeswara Rao arranged for their mobile phones to be recharged, after which they were able to talk to their relatives. Mr. Govinda Rao urged the government to ensure transport for the migrant labourers since they were an essential part of nation-building. “It is inhuman to allow them to walk for hundreds of kilometres. At least now, the government should take corrective measures by allowing local transport for them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-soothing-balm-for-barefoot-migrants-trekking-home/article31605051.ece
17 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to source weather inputs from private agencies||Kerala has decided to source weather inputs from four private agencies in addition to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) during the coming monsoon season. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority has decided to access inputs provided by Skymet Weather Services, Windy, IBM Weather Company and Earth Networks ‘on a nomination basis as a pilot for one year’, according to an order issued by the Disaster Management Department. The government has granted the department permission to spend 10% of the funds from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for the services. Land transferred The KSDMA has pointed out that the IMD has only 15 automated weather stations in the State. The KSDMA had transferred land for establishing 73 more and the IMD has promised to set up 15 stations before the 2020 monsoon season. But they have not yet materialised. Moreover, ‘‘near-time data streaming is minimal to nil. Just about five stations are providing live data in the State.’’ With such an unreliable network, the State will be unable to issue localised alerts. The IMD is not issuing alerts even at the taluk level, according to the department. In a letter on October 6, 2018 (shortly after the devastating floods of that year), the Disaster Management Department had conveyed its readiness to provide 188 10m x 10m parcels of land for establishing more stations and requested the IMD to provide ‘‘hyper local, village-level rainfall and temperature warnings to the State by utilising high-end ensemble nested models customised for the State and data from the proposed dense network of observatories exclusively for the State.’’ Moreover, Kerala has been demanding the IMD to establish one more doppler radar on the Kozhikode-Wayanad district boundary. The IMD has only one such radar in the State and the second one, operated by the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) in Thiruvananthapuram, operates only on demand, the letter said. But none of the requirements has been satisfied despite the State bearing the brunt of two devastating floods, KSDMA officials said adding there is nothing extraordinary in the State government deciding to source inputs from the private weather agencies. At least nine States are pursuing such programmes, they said. In its latest order, the government has asked the KSDMA to derive a protocol for issuing warnings and alerts based on these inputs in consultation with the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), which has been utilising inputs from private weather services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-to-source-weather-inputs-from-private-agencies/article31605053.ece
17 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decks cleared for financial aid to industries hit by lockdown||The government issued a G.O. on Friday night facilitating the delivery of financial incentives to the lockdown-hit industries, especially Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). The major component of this stimulus package is pending incentives amounting to Rs. 904.89 crore payable to 11,238 MSME manufacturing and allied units. These payments will be made in two months. The other significant measures are waiver of fixed/demand charges (electricity) against Contracted Maximum Demand (CMD) for three months (April-June), provision of working capital loans (Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh at 6-8% interest rate repayable in three years, including the moratorium period of six months) and a mandate to all government entities to procure at least 25% of their annual requirement of goods and services from eligible Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) comprising a sub-target of 4% from Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes-owned MSEs and another 3% from women-owned MSEs. Power bill relief For large and mega units, fixed /demand charges (electricity) against the CMD are being deferred for three months (April-June) without interest or penal charges. It was stated in the G.O RT. No.103 dated May 15 that MSMEs have been contributing approximately 8% of the national GDP, 45% of manufacturing output and 40% of exports. Product range The MSME sector in Andhra Pradesh manufactures a variety of products with a high concentration of MSEs in food, mineral, building materials, drugs and pharmaceuticals, fabricated materials and trading and service sectors. The lockdown imposed to arrest the spread of coronavirus has severely impacted the viability of their operations, hence the need for bailing them out of the crisis by releasing the incentives that are pending for several years and taking other measures that would prop up the businesses. It was observed that many MSMEs became sick as the incentives were held up for a long time and they struggled to raise working capital due to the financial constraints that bogged them down from the beginning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decks-cleared-for-aid-to-lockdown-hit-industries/article31605054.ece
17 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||GGH made part of global effort to find treatment for COVID-19||The Dr. NTR Government General Hospital is now part of a global effort to find an effective treatment for COVID-19. The Vijayawada GGH has been selected as the hospital in Andhra Pradesh for the World Health Organisation (WHO) sponsored ‘Solidarity Clinical Trials’. These clinical trials are an international effort to find the best treatment for COVID-19. The GGH and the Siddhartha Medical College (SMC) Institutional Ethics Committee (IEC) chairman T.V. Narayana Rao told The Hindu that as part of the Solidarity Trials, four treatment options would be compared to assess their relative effectiveness against COVID-19. By enrolling patients in multiple countries the Solidarity Trials aim at quickly discovering whether any of the drugs were able to slow down the progression of the disease or improve the survival rate of patients. Other drugs besides the four specified could be added based on emerging evidence, Dr. Narayana Rao said. Criteria Explaining the criteria for selection of hospital for the WHO-sponsored trials, Dr. Narayana Rao said that one hospital was selected in each State. The number of cases and admissions each day, presence of a COVID hospital, an Institutional Ethics Committee and established clinical trial unit, were taken into consideration, he explained. While stating the global effort to find an effective treatment for the viral disease, WHO cautioned against physicians and medical associations recommending or administering these unproven treatments to patients with COVID-19 or people self-medicating with them. The organisation said that it was concerned by reports of individuals self-medicating with chloroquine and causing themselves serious harm. The WHO, in association with ICMR, would closely monitor the trials and analyse the results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ggh-made-part-of-global-effort-to-find-treatment-for-covid-19/article31605465.ece
17 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC looks for new avenues to stay afloat||The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown has further dented the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation’s (APSRTC) already fragile finances. In an effort to find new ways to generate revenue and keep the public sector transport giant afloat, the Corporation is approaching various departments in the government sector offering its services for their transport needs. “For instance, we have asked the Civil Supplies Department to use our transport facility for end-to-end service. We will transport rice from the rice mill to the FCI warehouses and from there to the mandal level stock (MLS) points and further to the village-level stock points,” Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah explained. Speaking to The Hindu , the Minister said that the departments hiring APSRTC’s services could pay 1 paise less per km than what they are paying to private operators. Focus on cargo Cargo sector is yet another focus area. “We really want to strengthen the cargo sector,” the Minister said. The APSRTC has already modified some buses to transport cargo and it also proposes to hire lorries at its bus depots to expand the cargo sector. “If the Chief Minister agrees, we want to introduce closed body goods trucks, the ones used by the Transport Corporation of India for freight services,” said Mr. Venkataramaiah, adding that the whole exercise was aimed at generating revenue and avoiding bus fare hike post COVID-19. Physical distancing The pandemic has changed all spheres of life and public transport is no exception. To cater to the physical distance protocol, the APSRTC has designed and sent for the Chief Minister’s approval the blueprint of a prototype of a 26-seater bus. “We are waiting for the Chief Minister’s nod to press into service these newly-designed super luxury buses in which the seating capacity has been reduced to 26 from 36 with a passenger occupancy ratio of about 70%. This will enable physical distance while travelling,” said the Minister. Minister refutes reports The Minister said reports that the APSRTC had removed outsourced/contract staff were not true. He said the Corporation had decided to first utilise the services of regular employees who were covered under insurance. “We do not want the outsourced workers to get exposed to any health threat since they do not have health insurance. Nobody has been removed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-looks-for-new-avenues-to-stay-afloat/article31605475.ece
17 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home is still a long walk away||“We have been walking for the last seven days. Nobody is offering us water to quench our thirst in the villages. We will reach our native places at any cost,” says Shalini, a migrant worker from Odisha. With children in tow, one can see thousands of workers like her walking to their respective States on the national highways carrying huge luggage on their shoulders. More than one lakh workers had come to Andhra Pradesh to work in the paddy, chilli, sugarcane, maize and other farms, aqua ponds, processing and packing units, spinning mills, brick kilns, granite companies, hotels, construction sites, cement companies, warehouses, and various industries. The workers have been stranded in the State ever since imposition of lockdown by the Centre on March 23 to check the spread of COVID-19. While the government provided accommodation to 76,000 workers in shelter homes, many others stayed put in the industrial units in which they were working. But with the Centre extending the lockdown period in phases, the managements of a few industries had expressed their inability to provide food to the workers and asked them to leave the sites, forcing them to come on to the streets. ‘No water, food’ “We are not asking for any help. Please don’t halt our journey back home on foot,” the migrant workers told Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney when she stopped on the highway and interacted with them on Friday. “We never thought of facing such a trouble in life. There is no water and food, and many of us are running temperature and suffering from dehydration as we have been walking for more than 50-km daily. Instead of helping us reach out destinations, the police are treating us like criminals and beating us,” said Kunal, another migrant from Odisha. “During the crisis, the governments should be humane. But some policemen are behaving mercilessly,” bemoaned Shiva Yadav, a worker from Bihar. ‘Children crying for us’ “We have spent our savings in the last 40 days and now our pockets are empty. How can we afford thousands of rupees towards train and bus charges? The government is arranging flights and special trains for the rich, but ignoring the workers,” observed Mr. Yadav, who started his walkathon in Chennai. “Our children are crying for us in our native places. How can we concentrate on work now? We don’t want food and shelter in any State. Even if the police thrash us, we will reach our places and die there,” said Shoba, another migrant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-is-still-a-long-walk-away/article31605481.ece
17 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM wants SOPs in place for gradual easing of lockdown||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to evolve Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for preventing, containing and minimising the spread of coronavirus, especially at congested public places, and to create awareness on safety as Andhra Pradesh braces for a careful, cautious exit from the lockdown. Addressing a high-level review meeting on the COVID-19 situation on Saturday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that a proper mechanism should be put in place for social distancing and other containment measures while the lockdown is further eased in the coming weeks. Recoveries rise Officials told the Chief Minister that the number of recoveries was gradually increasing and 101 persons were discharged in 24 hours. On Friday, 48 new cases were recorded and 31 of them had Koyambedu links. The testing capacity in Kurnool and Krishna districts was being scaled up further. ‘Need to fight stigma’ Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy stressed the need for allaying fears of the public over COVID-19, as a social stigma has come to be associated with the pandemic, with reports coming in of people mistreating others suspected of carrying the virus. He exhorted people to voluntarily come forward for testing to help the government in curbing the menace. He said that migrant workers should be transported back to their native places. Ministers Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Medical and Health) and K. Kanna Babu (Agriculture), Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP Gautam Sawang and Special Chief Secretary K.S. Jawahar Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-wants-sops-in-place-for-gradual-easing-of-lockdown/article31605468.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shramik Special leaves for Rajasthan||Serpentine queues were seen outside the Gnanapuram-entry of Visakhapatnam Railway Station on Saturday as around 1,000 people, hailing from Rajasthan, who mostly work in marble shops, businesses owned by Rajasthani community in the city, industrial workers, petty vendors and at tea stalls, left along with their families by the Shramik Special train. They formed long queues, as they stood in the hot sun with their luggage, outside the railway station.  No work The officials checked their identity, the travel authorisation issued by the district authorities and health status before allowing them into the station. They have no work for the past two months in view of the lockdown and some of them were supported by their employers to make both ends meet. “Though some of the businesses are beginning to open up slowly, most of them eager to meet elders and other family members in Rajasthan and spend time with them before returning to work in the city,” said Kishore Kumar, a member of Rajasthani Sanskritic Mandal of Visakhapatnam. “Most of the workers are not even in a position to pay their room rent. Some more members of the community are expected to join at Anakapalle and Elamanchili stations. The District Collector was helpful in arranging the special train for the workers from our home State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shramik-special-leaves-for-rajasthan/article31605487.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Manipuris elated as arrangements made to send them home||About 80 people comprising students and working professionals from Manipur are an elated lot, as the district authorities have made arrangements for them to return home. They were seen in a happy mood at APSRTC complex on Saturday, as couple of buses were being readied to take them to Vijayawada. From Vijayawada, we will board a train to Manipur, said Sara, a student of B.Sc., nursing, at a private university. There were about 60 students, who have been in the city since 2019, studying Intermediate to various other professional courses and the remaining were working professionals. “We have been waiting for this day, ever since lockdown was declared in March this year. Finally, the Andhra Pradesh government in coordination with Manipur government and railways, have made some arrangement,” said another person who works for a private firm in the city. According to Ms. Sara, all the persons had gone through a preliminary screening and have been declared fit to travel. Ever since lockdown, the students were accommodated in hostels with food and working professionals were staying at home. “We were not allowed to come out of the hostels or private accommodations and were provided food and other requirements by the college management and company officials and there was no issues,” said Ms. Sara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/manipuris-elated-as-arrangements-made-to-send-them-home/article31605484.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Excise Dept. to witness major reforms||The Excise and Prohibition Department will be witnessing major reforms following the government’s decision to prohibit liquor and also tackling major issues. Officials have sent a proposed list of liquor outlets which can be closed in the district, after the State government’s decision to reduce 13% liquor outlets in the State as part of a phased prohibition. The State government has already reduced nearly 20% of wine shops last year. Very recently, the government has decided not only to increase prices, but also to reduce 13% more liquor shops. “Earlier, there were nearly 400 wine shops in the district. In the first phase, nearly 80 wine shops have been removed. At present, there are nearly 320 wine shops, in which around 40 to 45 shops will be closed as per the State government’s directives,” said a senior official from the Excise Department. He said that the government is yet to give its nod to the proposal. If everything goes as per plan, around 40 shops will be closed by the end of May or the first week of June, the officer added. The personnel from the Excise and Prohibition Department will be distributed to the newly department — Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) for every district. Rahul Dev Singh has been transferred to Visakhapatnam (Rural) and posted as Additional Superintendent of Police, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB). ASP (Admin) Visakhapatnam Rural, Ajitha Vejendla was posted as ASP (SEB) Visakhapatnam City. Mr. Vineet Brijlal has been appointed as Commissioner, SEB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/excise-dept-to-witness-major-reforms/article31605490.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC to procure 40 lakh more masks||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana said that efforts would be made to procure 40 lakh more face masks in the coming week for the distribution to people in the city. She said that there is a requirement of nearly 63 lakh masks in the corporation limits, in which the government was able to distribute nearly 20 lakh masks. It may be recalled that the government has decided to distribute nearly 16 crore face masks to residents of the State to prevent spread of COVID-19. The GVMC Commissioner interacted with citizens live in officials social media handles of GVMC in a programme — ‘eSpandana’ —here on Saturday. Ms Srijana said that due to COVID-19 crisis, they are facing issues like cloth availability and lack of tailors. “As of now, we are working with nearly 2,000 tailors. There is a need of about 5,000 tailors,” she said. She said that a number of civil works including laying of roads and drains have been stopped due to the lockdown. She said there is a shortage of labour. Complaints pour in During the live interaction which went for an hour, people complained about street lights, drainage, pig menace, bad roads, garbage clearance and a few others. A few also brought the issue of irregularity of ward volunteers in their duties to the notice of the Commissioner. A few enquired their doubts related to pension, housing schemes, tax payments and other works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-to-procure-40-lakh-more-masks/article31605489.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Simhachalam officials gear up for ‘darshan’ arrangements||The Simhachalam Devasthanam is making arrangements, including setting up disinfectant chambers and queue system in tandem with physical distancing norms, for the darshan of the presiding deity Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy, once the COVID-19 lockdown norms are relaxed. “After deliberations on the directions issued an action plan has been sent to the government giving top priority to health and protective measures of devotees for implementation with guidelines expected from the government any time after the lockdown is relaxed,” says Executive Officer M. Venkateswara Rao.  ‘Laghu darshan’ However, he made it clear that only ‘laghu darshan’ will be allowed without entry to the sanctum sanctorum. There will be individual ‘pujas’ in the name of devotees, ‘teeertham’ and ‘sathagopam.’ Guidelines are being worked out for tonsuring for devotees and barbers, if allowed. However, devotees must wear masks and follow physical distancing. Disinfection chambers will be set up and sanitisers provided to devotees at five or six designated places. A decision also has to be taken on whether to allot time-slots for ‘darshan’ or to issue online tickets, free ‘darshan’ and whether tickets could be sold at the temple and on the number devotees for the deity’s ‘kalyanotsavam’ if allowed. Decision on ‘prasadam’ and free meal is also yet to be taken. A trial run implementing physical distancing of three feet indicated that around 200 devotees could worship in an hour, Mr. Venkateswara Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/simhachalam-officials-gear-up-for-darshan-arrangements/article31605485.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag MP’s appeal to Lok Sabha Speaker||Member of Parliament M.V.V. Satyanarayana on Saturday appealed to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to come to the rescue of the 27 fishermen from A.P. stranded at a project at Kopar in Mumbai. Mr. Satyanarayana said the fishermen hailed from Annavaram in Bhimili Assembly constituency. Mr. Satyanarayana’s appeal comes in the wake of a representation submitted to him by members of the Visakha Fishing Harbour Fish Traders’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-mps-appeal-to-lok-sabha-speaker/article31605477.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four new cases in the district take the tally to 72||Four new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Visakhapatnam district, as per the State Health Bulletin released on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases reported in the district will be 72 as on date. While the total number of active cases is 45, the number of persons discharged is 26. It may be recalled that the district also reported one death from Chengalraopeta area. Among the four new cases, it was learnt that two cases are from Bylapudi village from Cheedikada mandal, while one case has been reported from Dibidi village from Butchayyapeta mandal. Apart from the three, a personnel from a police wing from the city limits was also tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-new-cases-in-the-district-take-the-tally-to-72/article31605491.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Services of parcel trains extended||The Waltair division of the East Coast Railway (ECoR) extended the services of parcel trains from Vizianagaram to New Delhi. A parcel special train 00851 Vizianagaram-Adarsh Nagar (Delhi) is scheduled to leave Vizianagaram on May 18,19 and 21 at 7.30 a.m. and will reach Adarsh Nagar the next day at 2 p.m. In the return direction, train 00852 Adarsh Nagar-Vizianagaram will leave Adarsh Nagar on May 20, 21 and 23 at 1 a.m. to arrive in Vizianagaram at 8.30 a.m. the next day, G. Suneel Kumar, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager said. More than 2,500 tonnes of mangoes have already been transported from Vizianagaram to Adarsh Nagar (Delhi) during the lockdown period. These train services can also be used for transportation of various essential commodities, Mr. Kumar added. These parcel special trains have stoppages at Bobbili, Parvatipuram, Rayagada, Titlagarh, Raipur, Uslapur, Katni Murwara, Damoh, Saugor, Jhansi, Gwalior., Agra Cantt and New Delhi. Merchants and supplier parties can contact the parcel officers or the station managers to utilise the services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/services-of-parcel-trains-extended/article31605466.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navy on high alert||As the depression over South Eastern Bay of Bengal, presently at about 1,000 km south of Paradip, is likely to intensify rapidly into a cyclonic storm in the next 12 hours and further into a severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours, the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) has assumed a high degree of readiness to render necessary humanitarian assistance. Indian Naval ships at Visakhapatnam are on standby to proceed to the most-affected areas to undertake Humanitarian Aid Distress Relief (HADR), evacuation, logistic support, including providing medical aid. Additionally, 20 rescue teams with Gemini boats and medical teams are also kept ready for augmenting rescue and relief efforts in Odisha and West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navy-on-high-alert/article31605055.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Depression may intensify into cyclonic storm||The depression over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood moved northwestwards with a speed of 5 km/hr in the past six hours, intensified into a deep depression and lay centered over the same region at about 1,040 km south of Paradip in Odisha on Saturday afternoon. It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours and further into a severe cyclonic storm during subsequent 24 hours and rapidly intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm by May 18 morning. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards initially till May 17 and then re-curve north northeastwards across northwest Bay of Bengal towards West Bengal and adjoining Odisha coasts from May 18 to 20, according to V. Vizaya Bhaskar, Director, Cyclone Warning Centre, Visakhapatnam. Rainfall Rain or thundershowers are very likely to occur at a few places over coastal A.P. and Yanam during the next 24 hours. Heavy rainfall is likely at one or two places over North coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam during next 24 hours. Advisory for fishermen The sea condition will be rough to very rough over south and adjoining central Bay of Bengal and Andaman Sea. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into south Bay of Bengal on May 16 and 17, to central Bay of Bengal on May 17 and 18 and north Bay of Bengal on May 19 and 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/depression-may-intensify-into-cyclonic-storm/article31605476.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 arrested on charge of gambling||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) conducted raids at two places and arrested 11 persons on the charge of gambling here on Friday. Based on credible information, teams of CTF under supervision of Assistant Commissioner of Police (CTF) A Trinad Rao, conducted raid at Gollaveedhi under Airport Police Station limits and Isukathota under MVP police station limits. An amount of Rs. 39,950 was seized from them. The arrested have been handed over to the police stations concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-arrested-on-charge-of-gambling/article31605488.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTPC contributes Rs. 22.50 lakh to GVMC||NTPC Simhadri Super Thermal Power Station under its CSR activity has contributed Rs. 22.50 lakh to the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). A letter confirming the amount transfer r, was handed over by K. Prakasa Rao, an official of the company to GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntpc-contributes-rs-2250-lakh-to-gvmc/article31605497.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Army jawan||Floral tributes were paid to the mortal remains of Sapper/ OPEM Sapala Shanmukha Rao on arrival to Visakhapatnam at INS Dega by AN32 Aircraft of Indian Air Force on Saturday. Shanmukha Rao of 3 Engineer Regiment while on a patrolling-cum-snow clearance party came under avalanche in North Sikkim, was trapped under ice and lost his live. Wreath laying ceremony with military honours was conducted at INS Dega with a ceremonial guard of the Navy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-army-jawan/article31605494.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Send migrant workers at SEZ home: BMS||BMS national vice-president M. Jagadeswara Rao and district president S.R.K. Pratap have demanded that the State government fulfil its responsibility by making arrangements to send migrant workers at the SEZ at Achyutapuram to their home States. The two, who visited the area along with other BMS leaders on Saturday, said though it is one week since the registration with the local authorities no steps were initiated for their journey home. Mr. Raodemanded that a special train be run from Anakapalle .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/send-migrant-workers-at-sez-home-bms/article31605493.ece
17 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC workers stage protest||RTC workers of Maddilapalem and Visakhapatnam- I Depot on Saturday protested the management's decision to do away with the services of contact and outsourcing workers. Addressing the protest, CITU city president R.K.S.V. Kumar said the move rendered 6,257 persons jobless all over the State. The erstwhile TDP government neglected them. But with RTC being taken over by the government, they hoped they would get job security through the outsourcing corporation. Their hopes were belied now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-workers-stage-protest/article31605492.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caught off guard||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/caught-off-guard/article31605500.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tightrope walk||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tightrope-walk/article31605063.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Going it alone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/going-it-alone/article31605479.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hungry simians||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hungry-simians/article31605094.ece
17 May 2020||CHIRAGPALLY (SANGAREDDY),TELANGANA||No work, high incidence of COVID in Mumbai, force migrants to return||A. Narasimhulu (35), his wife Bhagya Lakshmi (32) and children Gurucharan and Yaswanth, are among 25 people who managed to reach Telangana from Mumbai in a bus on Friday afternoon. They are natives of a village at Mriddoddi mandal of Siddipet district. They left for Mumbai in March to visit Bhagya Lakshmi’s parents and got stuck there after the lockdown was imposed. However, they managed to pool in some money over the days and started from Mumbai late on Thursday night. They reached Bonguru in Karnataka that has check-posts by both Telangana and Karnataka. This is just a few kilometres from Chiragpally, the border village of Telangana. Many others who came back to the State from Mumbai had migrated there several years back for jobs as maids, masons, electricians and plumbers. But the high incidence of coronavirus in the capital of Maharashtra and no work forced them to return, with no other option. Each of them paid about Rs. 5,000 for the bus ride to their native places. Many of them claimed that obtaining permission from the authorities to go back home was taking more than two weeks. “We struggled to survive for the last two months. We were dependent on rice distributed by some elected representatives. Rise in the number of COVID cases in Mumbai was another cause for worry. This forced us to return,” said Ch. Bhavani, a woman from the group. “When we called the helpline, we came to know that migrants from Maharashtra were not welcome to Telangana. Even the Maharashtra police told us that the Telangana government is not according enough passes for people to return. There are thousands of people like us stuck in Maharashtra. If the Telangana government does not take care of us, then who will?” asked Ms. Bhavani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-work-high-incidence-of-covid-in-mumbai-force-migrants-to-return/article31605351.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||55 more test positive for COVID||The COVID surge in Telangana continued with 55 more people testing for the virus on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the State to 1509. Twelve people were discharged. Of the new cases, 44 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, two from Sangareddy, one from Rangareddy, and eight were categorised under ‘migrants’ section. Till Friday, Sangareddy was among the 26 districts with zero positive cases in the past 14 days. Of the total 1509 cases, 504 are active cases, 971 were discharged and 34 people died. Till date, 52 migrants have tested positive for coronavirus. Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender held a meeting on Saturday with nodal officers, doctors who are working in Hyderabad where active cases are reported. He said cases are increasing as many people from different families are testing positive. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao gave details about the number of families from each district, affected by COVID. As per details, the highest of 168 families affected were from Hyderabad, followed by 59 in Rangareddy, 39 in Medchal and 30 in Nizamabad. Two fresh cases were reported from Indresham village in Patancheru mandal of Sangareddy on Saturday. According to sources, three persons of a family from the village approached doctors at Patancheru area hospital a few days ago with complaint of sore throat and fever. The hospital staff sent all the family members to Chest Hospital for testing. Both father and son tested positive and mother’s results are awaited. Both of them were shifted to Gandhi Hospital and the mother is still at the Chest Hospital. The whole neighbourhood was sanitised and officials trying trace the primary contacts and send them to isolation centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/55-more-test-positive-for-covid/article31605315.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tech way to check violations||Taking usage of analytics in policing to another level, Telangana police are now identifying localities witnessing physical distance violations. Running analytics software on video footage of surveillance cameras installed in different parts of the State capital, police are spotting people not following physical distance rule. The video footage being recorded by surveillance cameras is sent to the police command centre server in real time. “Using machine learning algorithms, people not maintaining minimum one metre distance are identified. Red rectangles surface on the video footage showing such persons,” a police officer explained. These alerts of physical distance violations automatically pop up on computer screens of all command centres to which the surveillance cameras are connected. Making note of the area and precise location, the details are passed onto local police stations and patrolling teams. Police personnel would rush there and ask people to follow physical distance rule. “No cases would be booked against any individuals. But those violating the rule would be persuaded to follow it and check spread of coronavirus,” say the police officials. Presently, the video analytics are being run on footage of 300 surveillance cameras in the police commissionerates of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tech-way-to-check-violations/article31605321.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ERC gives relief to HT consumers||In a relief to the high-tension (HT) power consumers during the COVID-19 lockdown period, the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) has dismissed a review petition filed by the two distribution companies (discoms) against relaxation of a clause in the general terms and conditions of supply (GTCS). The Commission passed a suo-motu order on April 29 relaxing a clause of GTCS and a clause of Schedule-I of Regulation No. 5 of 2016 under which the HT consumers are allowed to seek reduction of contracted maximum demand (CMD) due to shutdown of their industrial activity following imposition of lockdown in the country, bringing all industrial activity to a grinding halt. It stated that Government of India had imposed lockdown from March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus and Telangana had imposed it from March 22 with exception to essential services. It was extended twice by the Centre and Telangana later to May 17 and 29, respectively. Force Majeure In representations to the regulatory body the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry and All India Induction Furnaces Association (South Central Region) explained that it was difficult for power-intensive industries to maintain their existing CMD or termination of agreement in respect of HT supply as the cost of maintenance was uneconomical and requested for relaxation of clause of GTCS under Force Majeure situation. In the order, Commission Chairman T. Sriranga Rao and members M.D. Manohar Raju and Bandaru Krishnaiah acknowledged the prevalent situation. “Recognising the gravity and unprecedented nature of the current situation, the Commission considers it necessary and appropriate to address the hardships being faced by HT consumers — about non-availing of entire load contracted for and the hardship in payment of demand charges,” the order noted. The Commission was of the view that due to lockdown, the supply conditions do have onerous impact on HT electricity consumers. Since they may not be availing the entire load contracted for during the lockdown, it may be appropriate to allow reduction of load temporarily by relaxing the provisions of GTCS and SoP Regulations. In its May 13 order dismissing the review petition filed by the discoms against the relaxation, the Commission observed that the discoms’ submission was devoid of any merit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/erc-gives-relief-to-ht-consumers/article31605334.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS to adopt revised norms for home isolation, death audit||The number of COVID-19 patients admitted at Gandhi Hospital is expected to drop in the coming days as Telangana government is set to implement revised guidelines issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Revised guidelines for recording deaths and discharging patients will be adopted too. It was published in these columns that the State Health department has started to implement ‘Revised Discharge Policy for COVID-19’. Besides, ‘Revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild or pre-symptomatic COVID-19 cases’ was issued by the Union Ministry on May 10. According to that, very mild or pre-symptomatic patients who have requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation will have the option to do so. Till a few days ago, even asymptomatic patients were admitted at Gandhi Hospital. Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that the State government will implement the revised guidelines for discharging patients, home isolation and recording deaths. This marks a shift in the government’s decision as Mr Rajender on April 28 said that they will not isolate patients at home to avoid the risk of transmission of virus. Back then, the Minister had said that they will not adopt the discharge policy as some patients from poor families might not have a separate room for home isolation which could spread the virus. The revised guidelines list out eligibility criteria for home isolation. A few of the conditions are very mild, and pre-symptomatic cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts. A care-giver should be available to provide care on 24x7 basis. “Those who are under such home isolation will be checked twice a day by medical teams. GHMC would provide them with necessary resources,” Mr Rajender said. Death records Officials will also implement ‘Guidance for appropriate recording of COVID-19 related deaths in India’, issued by ICMR and National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research. The document details how to record cause and underlying cause of death. Citing this, the Health Minister said that though a person tests positive for coronavirus, and dies of heart diseases, cancer or other ailments, cause of death will be attributed to long term diseases. A committee will analyse causes of death. Deaths will be declared based on their death audit report. This is significant as a majority of the COVID-19 patients who died had co-morbid conditions such as hypertension and diabetes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-to-adopt-revised-norms-for-home-isolation-death-audit/article31605312.ece
17 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dripping with sweat in PPE, doctors and nurses seek air coolers, cold water||Imagine being wrapped in a non-porous sheet for two hours or more in sweltering heat. Going through this harsh experience are healthcare professionals in the front lines of COVID-19 management who have to wear Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) as precaution. By the time their shift ends, they are drenched in sweat. What’s more, they also experience dehydration, hypoxia due to decreased supply of oxygen as well as skin rashes. Junior doctors and nurses in city government hospitals like Gandhi Hospital and Niloufer Hospital said that neither air coolers nor cold water is provided to them. They have requested authorities to make the provisions to help them recover from profusely sweating in a PPE. A junior doctor on the condition of anonymity said the challenges and difficulties of donning the equipment from head to toe and staying in it for hours involve not drinking water or going to the washroom. They also have to wear N95 masks and face shields. “The flip side of the protective gear is that it does not allow flow of air. At times, we feel as if we are about to faint,” the junior doctor said. Photos of PPE-donning health staff drenched in sweat are also being circulated on doctors’ groups on WhatsApp. A nurse who attends COVID patients at Gandhi Hospital said almost all front lines health staff are going through this experience. “Spare a thought for menstruating women who have to work for hours in a PPE. Our uniforms are soaked in sweat in just two hours We will be partly relieved if air coolers and cold water are provided to us,” she added. President of Telangana Junior Doctors Association K.U.N. Vishnu said they have already placed the request with officials of the State Health department. Another junior doctor said that water bottles are provided at Gandhi Hospital and Niloufer Hospital: “But the water in it is warm or at room temperature”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dripping-with-sweat-in-ppe-doctors-and-nurses-seek-air-coolers-cold-water/article31605317.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power supply hit in many areas||Power supply in several areas in the city was disrupted on Saturday evening following heavy winds and rain. Electrical conductor was snapped after tree branches fell on it at several places. Poles damaged According to officials of the Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSSPDCL), the falling of tree branches has damaged 50 electric poles and seven distribution transformers went out of order due to the heavy rain/winds. Chairman and Managing Director of the Discom G. Raghuma Reddy said power supply was disrupted in the areas under 27 11-KV feeders including Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills, Greenlands, Begumpet, Ameerpet, Erragadda, S.R. Nagar and Mehdipatnam areas. About 100 personnel of the disaster management teams of the distribution companies (discoms) were pressed into service immediately to restore power supply.  Emergency numbers The discom officials asked people to contact on emergency phone numbers 1912 and 100 or the local fuse off call offices to complain about problems, if any, in power supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-supply-hit-in-many-areas/article31605323.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR, Jagan have secret pact over water sharing: Bandi Sanjay||State BJP president Bandi Sanjay on Saturday accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of having entered into a ‘secret pact’ on sharing of river water and other issues. This understanding is the main cause of the neighbouring State going ahead with the project to increase the capacity of the Pothireddypadu head regulator to 80,000 cusecs to draw water from Srisailam reservoir, he claimed. Addressing a digital press conference, the BJP president said that both the CMs have their own vested political interests in instigating regional differences and questioned why Mr. KCR had not raised the issue in the last meeting at Pragathi Bhavan. Mr. Sanjay also alleged that KCR had failed to protect the interests of Telangana in making sufficient water available through Krishna river for irrigation projects, at the various meetings of the apex council and the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB). “The CM did not even release funds for setting up telemetric devices that could have exposed AP ‘illegally’ drawing excess water over the years,” he said. He also thanked Union Minister for Water Resources Gajendra Singh Shekhawat for ordering AP to halt the construction work on the head regulator, for seeking project detail plans and for calling an urgent meeting of KRMB. “The Minister has promptly responded to our representation made on this aspect and this is a victory for the people of Telangana,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-jagan-have-secret-pact-over-water-sharing-bandi-sanjay/article31605342.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Free food to be provided to building workers at worksites||The State government on Saturday issued an order providing free food for building workers at worksites in the city under the Annapurna scheme of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation during the lockdown. The entire per-meal cost of Rs. 24 will be reimbursed to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation as subsidy from the Telangana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, the order issued by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said. The order noted that the board was empowered by a legislation to formulate a scheme to grant a subsidy to the local bodies in support of any welfare activity approved by the State government for workers. Therefore, the Labour Commissioner had said that the board, at its meeting on March 31, resolved to formulate a scheme to grant subsidy to GHMC for providing food at building worksites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-food-to-be-provided-to-building-workers-at-worksites/article31605326.ece
17 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Homemaker found dead||A 28-year-old woman committed suicide at Rajendranagar on Saturday morning as her husband had not taken her to her parents’ house owing to lockdown, police said. The victim, Shaheda Begum, a homemaker and mother of four, hanged herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Suleman Nagar in the area, Rajendranagar police said. Rajendranagar Sub-Inspector Sridhar said a case of suspicious death was registered.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homemaker-found-dead/article31605325.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||One more NGO enters fruit marketing||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has said that it is the responsibility of all to come to the rescue of the farming community that feeds the world during the trying times of coronavirus pandemic when the supply chains are affected badly by the lockdown. Speaking after launching a web portalwww.cropmandi.com, by Lakshyam foundation, an NGO started in 2012, to bring horticulture produce, particularly fruits, to indivdual consumers, in association with the Telangana State Agros Corporation (TS-Agros), the Minister said that along with government departments and organisations, several NGOs and farmer producer organisations (FPOs) were working to market the fruits and helping farmers facing marketing problems because of the lockdown. Portal organiser L. Srinivas said they were partnering with Telangana Circle of India Post to deliver fruits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-more-ngo-enters-fruit-marketing/article31605322.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Automobile shops remain closed||Automobile and spare part shops remained closed in Hyderabad on Saturday though the State government permitted their reopening the previous day after a 54-day shutdown. The auto dealers gathered near their shops at Ramkote, the hub of the business, in the morning, to explore resumption of business but the police counselled them restraint because they did not get official communication. The dealers were asked to clean up their shops and resume business on Monday by which time the Government Order would be hopefully issued. Telangana Auto Dealers Association general secretary Praveen Pandya Jain said they discussed how to get started on Monday and a couple of decisions that were taken included employing only 50% salesmen at counters daily on rotation basis. It was also decided not to entertain customers without mask and close shops by 5 p.m. GHMC corporators Mamata Santosh Gupta (Gunfoundry) and Hemalatha (Narayanguda) offered to arrange spraying of sanitiser on the main road where the shops were located at Ramkote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/automobile-shops-remain-closed/article31605328.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call for report on sops for regulated farming||A meeting held here on Saturday for preparing a draft on the comprehensive agriculture policy planned to be unveiled by the State government soon has asked the officials concerned to prepare a report on incentives needed by farmers to raise the suggested crops. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, chairman of Rythu Bandhu Samithi Palla Rajeshwar Reddy and agriculture secretary B. Janardhan Reddy said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s idea behind regulated farming practices was to build capacities among the farming community and make them competitive for the ultimate goal of making agriculture profitable. Shortcomings They wanted the officials to point out the hindrances that were making the country and the State in particular, which has all the resources, unable to compete with the United States and China in terms of production and marketing. Stating that cultivation of paddy beyond a certain extent would again push farmers into problems, they stressed the need for crop diversification, particularly in the wake of increasing irrigation potential. Highlighting the need to increase the cultivation of oilseeds, palm oil, groundnut and pulses, they also wanted suggestions from officials on other alternative crops that are suitable for the soil and weather conditions in Telangana keeping in mind the market demands. Cropping patterns in other States should also be studied. Vice-Chancellor of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) V. Praveen Rao, commissioner of horticulture L. Venkatrami Reddy, director of marketing G. Lakshmi Bai, and Managing Director of Seed Development Corporation K. Keshavulu also interacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-for-report-on-sops-for-regulated-farming/article31605338.ece
17 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress for more choice of questions||The Telangana Congress has urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to waive the normal requirement of attendance for degree and PG college students and prepare question papers based more on the syllabus covered before the lockdown and less on syllabus covered through online classes. In a letter to the Governor, chairman of TPCC Task Force on COVID Marri Shashidhar Reddy said that rural students, who face connectivity issues during lockdown, should not be in a disadvantageous position and any evaluation system should ensure they don’t lose out. The letter was signed by former Deputy CM Damodar Rajanarasimha, TPCC vice president and Manthani MLA D. Sridhar Babu and senior leaders A. Shyam Mohan and G. Niranjan. The Congress leaders urged that care should be taken to give choice of answering any 50% of questions to ensure more parity. These measures will help students who missed online classes in the immediate context of appearing for exams. A special drive should be undertaken to reach out the course material, lectures to candidates appearing for the final semester examinations both at UG and PG level. Mr. Reddy added that the party had held talks and conferences with eminent people in the education field, including former Union Minister for HRD Pallam Raju, former vice-chancellors, educationists, psychologists and other experts to elicit their views on strategies required in the wake of the pandemic. These suggestions were based on those interactions. The experience of online classes revealed that attendance was 50-60% in private and aided colleges and 20 to 30% in government colleges that was mainly due to poor connectivity in rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-for-more-choice-of-questions/article31605344.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Announce package for STUs’||A trade union of the Telangana Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has appealed to the Centre to offset losses accrued by State Transport Undertakings (STUs), including that of the corporation, by announcing a package that would keep them afloat. TSRTC Employees Union general secretary K. Raji Reddy, who was one of the co-conveners of the Joint Action Committee, during the workers’ agitation, said that on account of the COVID–19 outbreak and the subsequent suspension of bus services, the transport juggernaut has incurred heavy losses. It is likely that upon resumption of services, physical distancing norms will come into play, thus seeing a reduction in passengers and continuation of losses, he said. The TSRTC EU urged the Centre to earmark a support package of a total of Rs. 50,000 crore for all STUs across the country. This, the TSRTC EU reasoned, would keep the STUs afloat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/announce-package-for-stus/article31605340.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Poultry ryots to get maize at subsidised price||The State government has decided to supply maize to poultry farmers at a subsidised rate of Rs. 1,525 per quintal against the minimum support price of Rs. 1,760 at which the government is procuring the crop from farmers now. According to an order issued by Secretary (Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries) Anita Rajendra on Saturday, the decision has been taken following a request made by the Telangana State Poultry Federation (TSPF) to supply maize, a principal ingredient of poultry feed, on subsidy to overcome the losses suffered by poultry farmers during the COVID-19 conditions. In the guidelines issued on the subject, the government has asked the TSPF and Telangana Poultry Breeders Association to identify poultry farmers and the farmers who get the supply were required to make the payment within two months through equated weekly instalments after allocation of maize to them against bank guarantee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/poultry-ryots-to-get-maize-at-subsidised-price/article31605339.ece
17 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR responsible for cases against me, says V. Hanmanth Rao||Congress leader and former MP V. Hanmanth Rao questioned the cases registered against him for helping the migrants in Sircilla to move to their home States and said IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao was responsible for it. At a press meet here, he alleged that Mr. Rao stopped his efforts to move out the migrant labourers from Sircilla and asked how they could be stopped if they wish to go back home after being permitted by the Central and State governments. This was despite after obtaining permission from the concerned officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-responsible-for-cases-against-me-says-v-hanmanth-rao/article31605345.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR develops robot to assist railway doctors||South Central Railway (SCR) has developed a robotic device Rail-BOT or R-BOT to assist in hospital management functions towards patient care. Developed by additional divisional railway manager of Hyderabad Hem Singh Banoth, R-BOT underwent extensive trials and demonstration before being deployed for use in Central Railway Hospital, Lallaguda, to provide medicines, medical accessories and to serve food to patients without any need for physical contact. The R-BOT is operated through a mobile app and sensor-based features to read the body temperature of patients and display on the phone. It is capable of raising an alarm in case of any abnormal high in temperature readings to alert medics attending patients. It has real-time video camera with pan and tilt functions, and two way audio-video communication facility. The robot can function with single charge for six hours and has a speed of 11 kmph with a carrying capacity of 80 kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-develops-robot-to-assist-railway-doctors/article31605319.ece
17 May 2020||KAMAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two found dead||Eeram Balnarsu, 38, and Errolla Premalath, 35, who were allegedly in illicit relationship, hanged themselves to a banyan tree in Machareddy mandal headquarters in the small hours of Saturday. They took the extreme decision on being detested by family members. According to Sub-Inspector of Police, Srinivas Reddy, they went to the spot on the motorbike and took the extreme step. Balnarsu is survived by wife and two sons while Premalatha is survived by husband and one son. (Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-found-dead/article31605346.ece
17 May 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||NTPC distributes seed to farmers||NTPC-Ramagundam under its CSR activities distributed 12 varieties of vegetable seed to 225 farmers of nearby six villages viz., Gunturpalli, Penchakalpet, Jangaon, Meddpalli, Malayalapalli and Rupikunta. 1,100 cotton masks were also distributed among them, besides 100 to local reporters. Executive Director - Ramagundam & Telangana, Raj Kumar, distributed the seed and masks. Head of HR A K Jadli highlighted NTPC’s diversified efforts for the overall development of nearby villagers. CSR team led by AGM (HR-CSR) Rafiqul Islam and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ntpc-distributes-seed-to-farmers/article31605347.ece
17 May 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Ponnam stopped from visiting PPCs||The Mustabad police prevented TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar from visiting the paddy procurement centres (PPCs) in various mandals of Rajanna-Sircilla district on Saturday. Mr. Prabhakar planned to visit various procurement centres in Mustabad, Veernapalli, Yellareddypet, Gambhiraopet mandals following complaints of non-procurement of paddy from farmers on the pretext of chaff etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ponnam-stopped-from-visiting-ppcs/article31605348.ece
17 May 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||HRC asks CP to report on police atrocity in Yadagirigutta||The State Human Rights Commission (HRC) on Friday asked Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh Bhagwat to file a report regarding an alleged police atrocity in the Commissionerate limits. The HRC decided to order its own inquiry into the allegations of the aggrieved. According to the petition filed with the HRC, one Makkala Durgaiah, a resident of Ramajipeta village in Yadagirigutta mandal, a police driver pulled out the spark plug of the motorcycle parked in front of his home and when his action was questioned by Durgaiah’s wife, constable Narayan Reddy and sub-inspector of police Raju assaulted Mr. Durgaiah and his family members, apart from abusing them in filthy language. The complainant filed in his petition, a copy of which is available with The Hindu , that his house is adjacent to the Pedacheruvu in the village and on April 29 there was a large gathering of people to buy the fish at the tank. The police, led by sub-inspector Raju, tried to disperse the crowd. In the process they had an altercation with Mr. Durgaiah and his family and the police not only assaulted the family members but also damaged the cellphone of another member of the family who was recording the incident. Yadagirigutta inspector Pandu Ranga Reddy reached the spot and forced an injured Mr. Durgaiah into a police jeep and took him to Aler hospital for sutures, instead of allowing him to be taken by the 108 ambulance. The police arrested Mr. Durgaiah’s father and wife and all were taken to the police station. Station bail was given to Mr. Durgaiah’s father and wife. The police inspector hit Mr. Durgaiah, his brother and nephew on their feet with a rubber belt and destroyed the hospital receipts. Later they were taken to the magistrate’s residence at Aler and threatened with dire consequences against revealing the truth to the judge, Mr. Durgaiah said in the petition. Following a remand order, the three of them were lodged at Nalgonda jail till May 14. The HRC, based on the petitioner’s four-page complaint and prima facie evidence, opined that the police driver, constable, sub-inspector and the inspector acted high-handedly and beyond the official duty, and all of it would amount to violation of human rights. It also added that, “If the allegations are true, the officers certainly deserve a suitable punishment. It is a fit case where an inquiry by the Commission itself is very much required.” The Commission directed its officials to submit a comprehensive and impartial report within one month from May 27. HRC has asked Rachakonda Police Commissioner also to file a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hrc-asks-cp-to-report-on-police-atrocity-in-yadagirigutta/article31605343.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||28 test COVID positive||Taking cue from his hospital visit, officials collected samples from both his parents who stayed at R.K. Puram, his brother’s family of three at Nagole, and his sister’s in Prabhathnagar of Kothapet. His parents, brother’s family and sister tested positive for the virus. Meanwhile, the virus spread continues unabated in Jiyaguda, the hotspot in the city for COVID with strong evidence of community transmission. The number of cases here has jumped from 68 to 90 within a week, with the latest being that of a constable from Kulsumpura police station who had been on COVID surveillance duty at Jiyaguda. A resident of Mansoorabad, the constable has a total of 47 primary contacts, including family members at Mansoorabad and Nalgonda, and office contacts. Samples have been collected from all to be sent for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/28-test-covid-positive/article31605333.ece
17 May 2020||chandigarh,||14 new cases in Gurugram||Haryana reported 33 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, with Gurugram alone recording 14 new infections, taking the total in the State to 887. Gurugram has reported a total of 193 cases out of which 103 are active.   The State has so far reported 13 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/14-new-cases-in-gurugram/article31605274.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 cases cross 9,000 mark||In the past 24 hours, Delhi reported 438 new COVID-19 cases and six more deaths, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases stands to 9,333 and deaths at 129. This is the first time that Delhi has recorded more than 400 cases for three consecutive days. Of the total number of cases, 3,926 people have recovered and there are 5,278 active cases. Of the total, 5,818 cases, or 62.3%, were reported in the first 16 days of May; though the first case was reported on March 2. The total number of deaths reported by the government has been less than data from hospitals. The bulletin mentioned that only cases where the “primary cause” of death is found to be COVID-19, as per the report of Death Audit Committee, will be counted as COVID-19 deaths. “All hospitals sent death reports to the Death Audit Committee. The committee goes through the reports and only the ones that fall into the criteria mentioned in the Indian Council of Medical Research [ICMR] guidelines will be certified as COVID-19 deaths,” a Delhi government official said. The government on Saturday declared two more private hospitals — Batra Hospital and Research Centre and Cygnus Orthocare Hospital — as “COVID Hospitals” in view of the “shortage” of isolation beds in private hospitals. “In view of shortage of isolation beds in private hospitals, additional private hospitals are also declared as COVID hospitals for admitting confirmed/ suspected cases of the virus on payment basis,” an official order on Saturday read. A total of 90 beds will be kept for isolation. While only a part of the Batra hospital will be made into a COVID-19 treatment facility, the whole of the other second one will be converted. A total of 110 healthcare workers of the government-run Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital have tested positive for the virus, said officials. However, there has been no case on Saturday, they said.  The Hindu  had earlier reported that apart from official figures, family members of many workers, including a two-and-a-half-year-old son of a healthcare worker, have positive. The Federation of Delhi Govt. Nurses on Saturday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and other officials, seeking action against hospital officials for their alleged negligence that led to these many healthcare workers getting infected by COVID-19. “The Federation of Delhi Govt Nurses once again approach you to look into the matter, constitute a committee to make a thorough and fair inquiry, fix the accountability those who are responsible and take the befitting action again the wrongdoers to stop the repetition of such acts in future,” the association told the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-cases-cross-9000-mark/article31605280.ece
17 May 2020||nEW dELHI,||Commuters must have Aarogya Setu app to board metro: NMRC||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Saturday issued guidelines that commuters will have to follow once operations resume. The officials said that trains will run at a frequency of 15 minutes and only those who have the Aarogya Setu app installed on their phones will be allowed to board. A statement by the NMRC read: “Stations falling in containment zones shall remain closed and trains will not stop at these stations. Such changes will be informed to the commuters through public notice, announcement and updating the NMRC website and applications.” Intensive cleaning and sanitisation of the station areas and trains are being undertaken, NMRC officials said, adding that the stations will be sanitised at intervals of two hours every day. Thermal screening of commuters on the metro network will be carried out and the screening team will be present at the concourse level before the frisking area. “Only in urgent cases, masks will be made available at the station. Sanitisers will be given to passengers at the concourse level... availability of soap solutions will be ensured. To ensure social distancing, passengers will be advised to stand in a queue at designated spaces by visible marking at 1-metre spacing at the frisking zones,” the NMRC said. Two Personal Protective Equipment suits will also be available at each station on the Aqua Line for staff deployed to handle passengers who are suspected to have COVID-19. Stations at Sector 101, 81, 142 and others with lower footfall will have only one entry or exit open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/commuters-must-have-aarogya-setu-app-to-board-metro-nmrc/article31605271.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul Gandhi meets home-bound migrant workers at Sukhdev Vihar||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit the streets and met a group of migrant workers at Delhi’s Sukhdev Vihar area. The group of 20 migrant workers, all from Madhya Pradesh, were resting during their long journey home in Jhansi from Ambala in Haryana when Mr. Gandhi stopped for an hour-long ‘impromptu’ meeting. Photographs released by the Congress showed women and children among the group of migrants. “It’s over 50 days and we have had no work. Whatever we had earned, about Rs. 1,000-Rs. 2,000, we have exhausted. We did receive some rations and food items as well,” said a migrant worker who identified himself as Mahesh in a short video clip released by the party. “Rahul Gandhi had come and inquired about us. We felt very good that someone inquired about us. He offered to drop us to the Noida border. When we asked him if he could make some arrangements to ferry us a little more distance, he said he will try,” the worker added. At Mr. Gandhi’s request, volunteers from the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee arranged 8-10 vehicles to help the group get back to their village by following all social distancing norms. Responding to rumours on social media claiming that the migrant workers Mr. Gandhi spoke to were detained by the police, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said that no one was detained. “After Mr. Gandhi left, the Congress workers wanted to drop the migrant workers at a distance. We first told them that workers are not allowed to move like this and secondly, they have to adhere to social distancing norms in vehicles, that is, two persons and a driver,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rahul-gandhi-meets-home-bound-migrant-workers-at-sukhdev-vihar/article31605278.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||15 Rohini jail inmates, one official infected||Days after an inmate of Rohini jail tested COVID-19 positive, 15 others who were lodged in his barrack, tested positive for the virus, said prison administration on Saturday. A jail staff also tested positive. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said the test of 19 inmates who shared barrack with the prisoner was conducted last week. “Fifteen out of these 19 inmates have tested positive. Samples of five staffers have been sent for testing. A Head Warder has tested positive,” he said. The officer said so far, all the persons, including those who tested positive, are asymptomatic. “The inmates, who have tested positive, are in isolation quarantine barrack. The jail staff has been sent for the home quarantine. Some of the other staff have also been sent to home quarantine,” the DG said. “The sanitisation process is being done,” the DG said. On May 10, a 28-year-old inmate of Rohini jail had visited DDU Hospital when he complained of an intestine issue. After surgery, he tested positive for the virus. The inmate, who was the first COVID-19 case in all of three Tihar complexes, didn't show any symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/15-rohini-jail-inmates-one-official-infected/article31605283.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 1 lakh raised in a day for 7 domestic helps||A group of volunteers raised funds to the tune of Rs. 1 lakh for domestic staff and handed over the money to them on Saturday. The help arrived a day after a report in The Hindu highlighted that around seven househelps were rendered jobless as their employers refused to let them enter their homes. These house helps, including Sangeeta who is eight months pregnant, were also ill-treated by their employers. Some of the domestic helps said they were using traditional stove and wood in their homes as they did not have enough money to refill gas cylinders. On Saturday, the seven women were handed Rs. 10,000 each. The money was raised online by a group of 10 to 12 persons, who work under the name ‘Kisse Kahaniyaan’.  Sanitary pads given Ankit Gupta from Bhopal, an Urdu poet, who manages the group, said he visited also also gave sanitary pads to the women. “I gave a call for a fund to help these women. Fortunately, we were able to raise Rs. 1 lakh in a day. But there are many generous people who came forward and donated to help these women. When I handed over the cash, they were really happy. It was the first-ever help they received since lockdown,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rs-1-lakh-raised-in-a-day-for-7-domestic-helps/article31605286.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Create database for migrants from W.B.’||The Delhi government on Saturday directed the police to create a database for migrant workers from West Bengal stranded in Shahpur Jat.  The Hindu had earlier reported on the embroidery workers from WB’s Paschim Medinipur district, who were stranded in the city and had appealed to the WB government to make arrangements for their return. In a letter to SHO Hauz Khas, South SDM Kapil Choudhary said, “...700 embroidery workers in Shahpur Jat are clamouring and appealing to WB government for their immediate return. In this regard, a detailed database is urgently required for shifting of migrant labourers to their hometowns.” The labourers, who have been in the city for over a decade, had said how most of their employers, the boutique owners, had refused to provide monetary relief to them, citing a lack of business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/create-database-for-migrants-from-wb/article31605272.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||Man killed at Shahdara bus terminal; one held||A 32-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing a person with a cricket bat during a feud in Shahdara, the police said on Saturday. The victim — Shyampal from U.P. — was found dead with head injury on Friday. An eyewitness said a man named Nandlal had killed the victim. “The accused was arrested near a railway track in Shahdara,” said DCP Amit Sharma. Nandlal told police that when he objected to Shyampal cleaning his face and hands inside a bus terminal, the latter abused him. Then Nandlal hit the victim with a bat, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-killed-at-shahdara-bus-terminal-one-held/article31605273.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man found dead in Narela||A 27-year-old man allegedly shot himself in Narela on Friday, the police said on Saturday. The man from Kotla Mubarakpur went to Narela to meet a woman he loved, who is married but her husband is an undertrial prisoner, the police said. He killed himself after she refused to go with him. He was undergoing treatment. The police said they received a call at 11 a.m. regarding a quarrel after which they reached the spot and found that the man had been taken to a hospital. The man was carrying a gun. A case has been lodged and an investigation is under way, the police added.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-found-dead-in-narela/article31605282.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Furnish report on alleged illegal activities in Aravallis’||Following a plea alleging non-forest activities in the Aravallis in Gurugram, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed the Haryana Forest Department to furnish a compliance report. The tribunal said adequate steps must be taken to curb the same. A Bench headed by NGT head Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said: “It is necessary to ensure that no forest activity is allowed in the forest area without following due process of law. A further compliance report may be filed by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Haryana by Sept.25.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/furnish-report-on-alleged-illegal-activities-in-aravallis/article31605269.ece
17 May 2020||NOIDA,||Noida reports 1 more death||A 65-year-old Noida resident, who was hospitalised with pneumonia and found COVID-19 positive, died on Friday, said officials. He was the fifth COVID-19 fatality in U.P.’s Gautam Buddha Nagar. The man from Noida’s Sector 8 was admitted to GIMS in Greater Noida on May 12. Earlier, four men from Gautam Buddh Nagar — two of them aged 62, one 60 and another 71 — have died due to the virus, said district officials. Meanwhile, four more people tested positive for the virus in Noida, pushing the number of cases to 247, District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. “Total 41 reports have been received in the last 24 hours, of which five [including the deceased man] were COVID-19 positive. The number of confirmed cases in Gautam Buddha Nagar now stands at 247,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/noida-reports-1-more-death/article31605276.ece
17 May 2020||Noida,||Noida sub-inspector ‘beats’ women in queue for ration, suspended||Two women standing in a queue to procure ration were allegedly assaulted by a sub-inspector in Noida on Saturday, prompting his immediate suspension by the authorities, officials said. Departmental proceedings have also been initiated against the policeman, according to the district police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/noida-sub-inspector-beats-women-in-queue-for-ration-suspended/article31605275.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Art and culture: the show must go on||In times of crises which threaten economy and livelihood of so many people, we tend to cut budgets and live lean. The first cut is applied often to spending on art and culture activities. COVID-19 has not only brought economic disaster but locked us down in our shelters. You can hardly get to venture out for gathering essential supplies, let alone satisfy the urges of appreciating art and enjoying cultural shows.  Apprehensions aplenty Being the Director of National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA), I can feel the impact it has brought on the art and culture world. It’s impossible — rather unimaginable — to ask people to visit the gallery where masterpieces of legends decorate the walls and halls. Everywhere, it’s closed museums, empty auditoriums and deserted cultural spaces. The response from the art management fraternity has been that ‘we are devastated and doomed and we don’t know what the future holds for art and culture’. Like any idea which needs to be told and propagated, art and culture needs to be promoted for it to flourish. This involves travel, touring and going to places and meeting people and exchanging ideas. Art needs to be seen and appreciated. Physically! This itself is taken away by the present crisis. And the art fraternity is right in their apprehensions.  The will to reinvent Art is the mirror of civilisation and a guide to the future generations. It has to reinvent itself and reinvent it will. Art has survived many tribulations and travails. In this lockdown period, we have enjoyed the nostalgia of reading M algudi D ays , watching Ramayan , reading bal-katha , grandmother’s stories and downloaded and relived our childhood memories through the art forms. Art has kept our morale high throughout the novel coronavirus crisis. All is not lost and would never be. Till there is life, our art forms and our traditions would keep garnishing and ornamenting the joys of life to make it liveable as there can’t be life without art. Like the life partner who, while a step behind, keeps her unconditional support going during the hard times. So, let our arts be that invisible source of strength to keep going until the tide turns... times to flourish are just around the corner.   Art will keep its morale high despite the pandemic. Technology has provided a great and apt platform to meet and share, though virtually. Every museum, every performer, every art form is accessible on your screens. Surely the flood of choices has caused confusion and distraction in the minds of art lovers, but it is transient and the pure will be distilled in due course. Every being on this planet who has access to the Internet is using this medium to touch and connect. To provide to the love of art, every museum, every artist is finding a way to make him or her visible and not lose one’s audience. This has led to a trail of webinars, self-shot performances, online classes, challenges, and others. And most of them are free. The tables have turned. This shows that the art world is transitioning and trying to reposition itself. We don’t know yet whether that is a new normal or a transient adjustment.  Ritu Sharma is Director of the National Gallery of Modern Art, Delhi. The views expressed are personal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/art-and-culture-the-show-must-go-on/article31605285.ece
17 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha gears up for cyclone||The Odisha government on Saturday said it would not to be complacent in its preparation even if initial analysis of the impending cyclone’s track suggests that the system might spare the State. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik held videoconferencing with senior officials of 12 districts to take stock of the situation. He asked the District Collectors to put extra efforts for preparedness and try to ensure zero casualty. Earlier in the day, Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy briefed Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba about the State’s preparedness. As per the predicted path of the cyclone, around seven lakh people in 649 villages along the sea coast are likely to be severely affected. Standing crops in lakhs of hectares particularly, ripe summer paddy, pulses and oil seeds, cashew, mango, coconut and vegetables are likely to be damaged, said the government. “Around 403 cyclone shelters have been identified in the area. Around 105 such shelters are presently being used as quarantine centres for COVID care. Tests of the persons accommodated in these centres are being done expeditiously so that those with negative report can be sent for home quarantine,” said Mr. Tripathy. As a contingency arrangement, alternative buildings were identified, he said. It is suspected that Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur could be hit by the cyclone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-gears-up-for-cyclone/article31605264.ece
17 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder extends lockdown till May 31||With COVID-19 cases declining in the past four days, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the lockdown would continue till May 31, but the curfew restrictions would go. He indicated that limited public transport would resume and curbs would be eased further in the non-containment zones from May 18. Details on Monday In a statement, he said the containment zones would be sealed for shops and small businesses to reopen in the non-containment areas. The government would announce details of relaxations by Monday, factoring in the Centre’s new guidelines for Lockdown 4.0. However, Mr. Singh made it clear that educational institutes would remain closed. He said that in its suggestions to the Union Home Minister, the State recommended that the nationwide lockdown be extended to May 31, though with more relaxations. Rate of doubling In a live Facebook interaction, as part of his #AskCaptain initiative, the Chief Minister said the daily number of cases had come down in the past four days after the recent surge due to the arrival of pilgrims from Nanded and students from Kota. He said the rate of doubling of cases stood at 44 days. But he warned that the number could go up as more migrant workers and non-resident Indians would enter the State. As of now, 60,000 Punjabis from other States and 20,000 from abroad had registered themselves for return. Capt. Amarinder appealed to the people to be cautious and urged the Opposition not to indulge in petty politics over the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amarinder-extends-lockdown-till-may-31/article31605266.ece
17 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||NRC blamed for PM-KISAN fund anomalies||Preparation of documents “in a hurry” by the Agriculture Department officials who were engaged in the exercise of updating the National Register of Citizens (NRC) has been blamed for anomalies in distributing funds under the Prime Minister’s Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana.  Assam Congress president Ripun Bora had on Friday accused the BJP-led government in the State of large-scale corruption and manipulation in the list of beneficiaries under the scheme. He alleged that 40% of 39 lakh beneficiaries shown by the government were bogus. Mr. Bora cited the example of central Assam’s Morigaon district where 22,000 government employees, businessmen, panchayat presidents and economically sound people have been listed as beneficiaries of the scheme. The Congress also appealed to the Central Bureau of Investigation to take cognisance of the alleged scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nrc-blamed-for-pm-kisan-fund-anomalies/article31605267.ece
17 May 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal to pay for return of migrants, says Mamata||The West Bengal government will bear the entire cost of movement of the State’s migrant workers by special trains to enable their return from other States, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday. Ms. Banerjee shared on social media a letter from State Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha to Railway Board Chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav, requesting that instructions be issued to railway officials that no costs should be claimed from those boarding the Shramik Special trains. “Saluting the toil faced by our migrant brethren, I am pleased to announce the decision of GoWB to bear the entire cost of movement for our migrant workers.... No migrant will be charged. Letter to Rly Board attached,” Ms. Banerjee poster on Twitter. The State government has announced that it will facilitate 105 trains between May 17 and June 15. State Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said that about 2.9 lakh people had sought help in the form of transport facilities to return to the State. Earlier on Saturday, the State announced a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh to the families of migrant workers from Purulia who had lost their lives in U.P.’s Auraiya district.  17 lakh stranded Mr. Bandyopadhyay said the government had prepared a database of about 17 lakh people from the State who were stranded across the country. He said this included workers, students, tourists and pilgrims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bengal-to-pay-for-return-of-migrants-says-mamata/article31605263.ece
17 May 2020||Srinagar,||Srinagar bakers prepare for Id amid COVID-19||With the festival of Id just a week away, the stringent lockdown imposed in Kashmir for over three months now will oversee a ‘sweet’ exit policy for bakery sale soon, where all the bakers will be tested for COVID-19 before they start service. With bakery and confectionery central to Id celebrations in Kashmir, Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, has launched a two-week training module programme designed for popular bakers in capital Srinagar. “More than 500 workers of around 180 bakeries in Srinagar city are being imparted training... Existence of coronavirus pandemic is a reality and people will have to learn to live with it by following all precautions,” Dr. Choudhary said. The administration has directed bakers to resume functioning but in a “professional, safe and hygienic framework”. “All bakers have been instructed to only sell packed products and to avoid loose bakery items,” he added. Tests mandatory Salim Muhammad Khan, head of the Social and Preventive Medicine department of the Srinagar’s Government Medical College, said during the training, the bakers were informed about the mandatory COVID-19 tests. “What is required now is ease-out as lockdowns can’t go indefinitely. All the bakers would be screened for health status and tested for COVID-19. They should use protective gear, maintain cough etiquette and hand hygiene. No sick person should be allowed to work,” Dr. Khan, who is also the designated nodal officer for COVID-19 cases for the GMC, told The Hindu.  Dr. Khan underlined that home delivery will be a good idea to start with.  Free PPEs  According to the Srinagar administration, all the bakers are being given free personal protective equipment (PPEs) kits for their workers, mainly involved in manufacturing and delivery of bakery. “A dedicated team of officials has been constituted by the Deputy Commissioner for facilitating stakeholders in production and delivery of items. For areas notified as red zones, a special set of measures have been put in place to ensure smooth service in this regard,” said the spokesman. The Srinagar district administration plans to train more than 10,000 service providers in selected sectors. “These programmes are being organised for a host of important service providers, including vegetable vendors, milk suppliers, hair dressers, laundry, public transport, telecommunications, housekeeping among other services,” the spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/srinagar-bakers-prepare-for-id-amid-covid-19/article31605268.ece
17 May 2020||Beijing,||Stop suppression of Huawei, says China||Beijing has urged the U.S. to stop the “unreasonable suppression of Huawei and Chinese enterprises” after Washington announced new export controls to restrict the tech giant’s access to semiconductor technology. The latest restrictions on the world’s second-largest smartphone manufacturer, which is at the centre of U.S. spying allegations, are a new escalation in the U.S.-China battle for global technological dominance. “The Chinese government will firmly uphold Chinese firms’ legitimate and legal rights and interests,” the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement Saturday. “We urge the U.S. side to immediately stop its unreasonable suppression of Huawei and Chinese enterprises.” The Ministry said the Trump administration’s actions “destroy global manufacturing, supply and value chains”. The U.S. Commerce Department said on Friday the controls would “narrowly and strategically target Huawei’s acquisition of semiconductors that are the direct product of certain U.S. software and technology.” Espionage efforts U.S. officials have repeatedly accused the Chinese technology giant of stealing American trade secrets and aiding China’s espionage efforts, ramping up tensions with the rival superpower while both sides were involved in a trade war. As a result, Huawei has increasingly relied on domestically manufactured technology, but the latest rules will also ban foreign firms that use U.S. technology from shipping semiconductors to Huawei without U.S. permission. The new restrictions will cut off Huawei’s access to one of its major suppliers, the Taiwanese chipmaker TSMC, which also manufactures chips for Apple and other tech firms. The U.S. last year banned Huawei from using U.S.-manufactured semiconductors in their products. China has threatened retaliation against the U.S, including through restrictions on U.S. firms and putting them on an “unreliable entity list”, according to a Global Times report. U.S. giants Apple, Qualcomm and Boeing are among the firms that may be targeted, the report said. U.S.-China relations are again on the rocks with Washington and Beijing trading barbs over the origins of the pandemic. Over the past week, China has also threatened retaliatory measures against the U.S. for restricting the visa stay limits of Chinese journalists, and for several lawsuits filed by U.S. lawmakers against China for the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/stop-suppression-of-huawei-says-china/article31604984.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Commonwealth collaboration has never been more important’||As the world continues to grapple with the debilitating human toll and economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, multilateral organisations are doing what they can to coordinate policy responses worldwide. The Commonwealth Secretariat, whose administrative hub in London covers 54 countries encompassing over 30% of the world’s population, has been at the forefront of this global institutional response. Its Secretary General, Baroness Patricia Scotland, spoke about the specific goals of its multi-country initiatives. Edited excerpts: You said upon announcing the postponement, in the face of the COVID-19 crisis, of the Commonwealth’s biennial Heads of Government Meeting, “Lives have been lost, economies are shrinking, and livelihoods have been shattered. It is difficult to predict what the new normal will look like.” How can Commonwealth nations reach that new normal? One of the things we must do is understand how we can collaborate even more trenchantly, because the tragedy that we are facing is that COVID-19 has touched every single part of our lives. There is going to be no turning back to how we were before. Our reality now is that this pandemic may be the first pandemic that we face and not the last. It is putting enormous strain on each of our countries, because it is not just a health pandemic. We are going be facing a climate crisis, and those two [crises] intersect in such a way that we will potentially have to face an economic tsunami. These three coming together means that Commonwealth collaboration has never been more important. If humanity is to survive, we must come up with a different construct. I believe this is going to be our new normal. How will Commonwealth nations face up to the health aspect of this challenge? In India, for example, we may be facing a shortage of critical medical equipment, including PPEs, ventilators, and testing kits. Four years ago, when I became Secretary General, the Commonwealth Health Ministers were already focusing on the reality that in order to face the increasing risk of epidemics and the possibility of a pandemic, one of the critical things that we had to have was a universal healthcare system. But the variance between the universal health systems was wide. Some were extremely expensive and were seen to be beyond the reach of a number of our small and developing states. So, we asked a different question: How do we develop a Commonwealth-identified method which could be potentially applicable to all? How do we design the essence of what will deliver a cost-effective and cost-efficient mechanism that will enable us to have universal coverage, which would enable us to respond to epidemic and pandemic health issues? The wonder of the Commonwealth is that each country was willing to say that it would give its brothers and sisters within the Commonwealth everything it knew about how to work together. India has produced so many exciting new developments. We are using the Indian ability for jugaad — to take things and make them better — as something that the whole Commonwealth can join into. This is an area of real challenge. How can Commonwealth nations, including India, balance the trade-off between nationwide lockdown as a means to enforce social distancing, and their devastating economic impact especially on migrant workers? In order to have long-term wealth, we have to have health. What is the price of a human life? I believe that India has been an exemplar because what Prime Minister Narendra Modi did was to act swiftly. If you look at the 1.3 billion population of India, the cost to India in terms of loss of life, which might have been a similar percentage to what has happened in many European countries, would have been unbearable and, thankfully, unimaginable. The COVID-19 lockdown is estimated to cost India $4.5 billion each day, but that price, which has been paid by India, has meant that the survival rate in India has been one of the best right the way across the world. Given the U.S. withdrawal from the multilateral approach to fighting climate change, what options does the Commonwealth think are feasible presently, and how is that approach impacted by the pandemic? The Commonwealth has always been at the forefront of the climate change agenda, not because of the rhetoric, but because our Member States were suffering the consequences of climate change. Whether the U.S. will choose to wake up to our reality is not a matter that we can have undermine our understanding of the reality. We must do that which we can do in order to protect our Member States and the world. Yes, the COVID-19 pandemic is radically changing what we know to be our position, but it is producing innovative solutions for our young people — 60% of our Commonwealth is under 30 years of age — leading to new jobs, industries and futures.  The Commonwealth has always been at the forefront of the climate change agenda because our Member States are suffering||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/commonwealth-collaboration-has-never-been-more-important/article31604987.ece
17 May 2020||Washington,||Stay the course on peace deal: Khalilzad||American officials scrambled on Friday to keep Afghanistan’s tenuous peace process from falling apart, blaming the Islamic State (IS) for horrific attacks that have recently killed dozens of people and further inflamed tensions between the Taliban and the government. Zalmay Khalilzad, the chief U.S. negotiator for Afghan reconciliation talks, acknowledged “challenges and difficulties” in moving ahead with plans to create a power-sharing government that were outlined more than two months ago. But he urged the Taliban and Afghan officials to resist returning to violence that could threaten efforts to strike a peace deal and to withdraw U.S. troops after more than 18 years of war. He blamed the IS’s Afghan wing for stoking horrific attacks, including this week on a maternity hospital in Kabul, as the terrorist group seeks to inflame tensions. Blame on Taliban Afghan officials have blamed the Taliban for both the hospital attack that killed at least 15 on Tuesday and a bombing, the same day and about 100 miles away, against a funeral procession of a police commander that killed at least 25. President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan has vowed to resume military offensives against the Taliban, while the Taliban has accused the Kabul government of falsely using the recent attacks as an excuse to abandon the peace agreement. Mr. Khalilzad maintained that the IS had targeted both the hospital and the funeral procession and said that he was eager to see any evidence that the Afghan government could provide that would indicate otherwise. He acknowledged that the Taliban had not fully ended its attacks. But Mr. Khalilzad said the group had not explicitly violated an earlier agreement to ease hostilities that was a condition of opening direct peace talks with the government. The U.S. military is still on track to draw down its forces in Afghanistan to roughly 8,600 troops, Jonathan Hoffman, a Pentagon spokesman, said on Friday. That benchmark was outlined in the deal with the Taliban. The current U.S. troop number in the country is just under 12,000.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/stay-the-course-on-peace-deal-khalilzad/article31604982.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump hopeful of having COVID-19 vaccine by year-end||U.S. President Donald Trump said he hopes there will be a COVID-19 vaccine by the end of the year while officially announcing a new effort to combat the pandemic, ‘Operation Warp Speed’. “Its [Operation Warp Speed’s] objective is to finish developing and then to manufacture and distribute a proven coronavirus vaccine as fast as possible. Again, we’d love to see if we could do it prior to the end of the year,” Mr. Trump said at a press conference in the Rose Garden on Friday, flanked by officials, including Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar and Defence Secretary Mark Esper. Mr. Trump said former head of vaccines at pharma company GlaxoSmithKline, Moncef Slaoui, and General Gustave Perna, who heads the U.S. Army’s Material Command, would lead the vaccine development and distribution effort. Mr. Trump said that roughly 100 vaccine candidates from around the world were evaluated of which 14 were considered promising and the list is being narrowed further. Mr Trump’s claims around the coronavirus and the U.S.’s response to it have often been at odds with the facts on the ground. Experts, including current and former members of the administration, have cast doubt on how quickly a vaccine can be ready for large scale distribution. Rick Bright, a vaccine official-turned whistleblower who had been removed from his role, recently told the U.S. Congress that even a 12-18 month framework for vaccines was optimistic. Clinical trial data However, the President’s timescale for vaccine production was echoed by Mr. Slaoui. “ I have very recently seen early data from a clinical trial with a coronavirus vaccine. And this data made me feel even more confident that we will be able to deliver a few hundred million doses of vaccine by the end of 2020,” Mr. Slaoui said. Mr. Trump also said the U.S. was working with other countries on developing the vaccine. “We want to get to the solution. We know exactly where the other countries are, and we’ll be very happy if they are able to do it. We’ll help them with delivery. We’ll help them with — in every way we can. We have no ego when it comes to this. No ego whatsoever.” In response to a request for a message to Indian Americans, Mr. Trump said India and the U.S. were working together and that many Indian Americans were working on the vaccine. “And we’re working very much with India too. And we have a tremendous Indian population in the U.S. And many of the people that you’re talking about are working on the vaccine too. Great scientists and researchers,” he said. Mr. Trump also told reporters he was sending ventilators to India, a subject he also tweeted about. “I am proud to announce that the United States will donate ventilators to our friends in India. We stand with India and @narendramodi during this pandemic. We’re also cooperating on vaccine development. Together we will beat the invisible enemy!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-hopeful-of-having-covid-19-vaccine-by-year-end/article31604989.ece
17 May 2020||Washington,||U.S. House passes $3 trillion relief Bill||Democrats have powered a massive $3 trillion coronavirus relief Bill through the House, an election-year measure designed to brace a U.S. economy in free fall and a healthcare system struggling to contain a pandemic still pummeling the country. Friday’s 208-199 vote, with all but one Republican opposed, advances what boils down to a campaign-season display of Democratic economic and healthcare priorities. It has no chance of becoming law as written, but will likely spark difficult negotiations with the White House and Senate Republicans. Any product would probably be the last major COVID-19 response Bill before November’s elections. The enormous Democratic measure would cost more than the prior four coronavirus Bills combined. It would deliver almost $1 trillion for State and local governments, another round of $1,200 direct payments to individuals and help for the unemployed, renters and homeowners, college debt holders and the struggling Postal Service. “Not to act now is not only irresponsible in a humanitarian way, it is irresponsible because it’s only going to cost more,” warned Speaker Nancy Pelosi. “More in terms of lives, livelihood, cost to the budget, cost to our democracy.” Republicans mocked the bill as a bloated Democratic wishlist that was dead on arrival in the Senate and faced a White House veto threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-house-passes-3-trillion-relief-bill/article31604992.ece
17 May 2020||Washington,||U.S. to file anti-trust charges against Google||The Justice Department is planning to file anti-trust charges against Google as early as this summer, said two people with knowledge of the situation, in what would be one of the biggest anti-trust actions by the U.S. since the late 1990s. The Justice Department is still investigating the Internet company and has been making progress on its case, said the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The regulators are focused on Google’s dominance in the online advertising industry, and the case will also involve allegations that the company abused its dominant position in online search to harm competitors, the people said. State Attorneys General are likely to file their own anti-trust lawsuits against Google or join the Justice Department case sometime this year, said a person with knowledge of the state investigation. The moves would also set a bench mark for how regulators and lawmakers proceed with investigations into other large tech companies such as Facebook and Amazon, which the Federal Trade Commission, State Attorneys General and Congress are scrutinising for their market power and corporate behaviour.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-file-anti-trust-charges-against-google/article31604991.ece
17 May 2020||Washington,||Key State Department watchdog fired||President Donald Trump has fired the State Department’s Inspector General, an Obama administration appointee whose office was critical of alleged political bias in the agency’s management. The ouster is the latest in a series of moves against independent executive branch watchdogs. A senior department official said Mr. Trump removed Steve Linick from his job on Friday but gave no reason. In a letter to Congress, Mr. Trump said Linick, who had held the job since 2013, no longer had his full confidence and that his removal would take effect in 30 days. Mr. Trump did not mention Mr. Linick by name. Democrats in Congress immediately cried foul, with the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee suggesting that Mr. Linick was fired in part in retaliation for opening an investigation into Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Mr. Linick will be replaced by Stephen Akard, a former career foreign service officer who has close ties to Vice President Mike Pence, said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/key-state-department-watchdog-fired/article31604993.ece
17 May 2020||Paris,||Rwanda genocide financier held||French police on Saturday arrested one of the last key suspects in the 1994 Rwandan genocide, describing him as its “financier”. Felicien Kabuga was living under a false identity in the Paris suburbs, the prosecutor’s office and police said in a joint statement. The operation, carried out at dawn, resulted in the arrest of a fugitive “who has been sought by the judicial authorities for 25 years”, the statement said. Mr. Kabuga is accused of creating the notorious Interahamwe militia that carried out massacres in the 1994 genocide. He also helped create the equally notorious Radio-Television Libre des Mille Collines that incited people to carry out murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rwanda-genocide-financier-held/article31604985.ece
17 May 2020||Moscow,||Record high in Russia daily toll||Russia on Saturday recorded its highest daily death toll yet from COVID-19 while new cases fell to the lowest level in two weeks. Russia is in second place in the world to the U.S. with 2,72,043 cases, with 9,200 new cases announced on Saturday, the lowest number since May 2. But the number of deaths announced on Saturday for the last 24 hours was the highest yet in Russia, at 119. The total number of officially confirmed deaths is now 2,537, lower than a number of other countries with fewer cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/record-high-in-russia-daily-toll/article31604988.ece
17 May 2020||Washington,||Pakistani doctor planning to carry out ‘lone wolf’ terror attacks in U.S. indicted||A Pakistani doctor has been indicted by a federal grand jury on pledging allegiance to the Islamic State and expressing his desire to carry out “lone wolf” terror attacks in the U.S. According to the indictment, Muhammad Masood was formerly employed as a research coordinator in Minnesota.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistani-doctor-planning-to-carry-out-lone-wolf-terror-attacks-in-us-indicted/article31604994.ece
17 May 2020||Mumbai,||Street vendor loans an uncharted turf for big banks||The recent announcement by the government to offer loans to street vendors has caught commercial banks of the country off guard. The reason is simple: hardly any such loans were extended by these banks in the past. They have virtually no experience in extending loans of that size and to this sector, who are mostly in the urban clusters. The scheme, which was announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday, proposes bank credit facility for initial working capital up to Rs. 10,000 for each vendor. There was no business for these street vendors for the last 50 days with the nationwide lockdown in place. This scheme will cover urban as well as rural vendors doing business in the adjoining urban areas. Extending a loan of Rs. 10,000 does not excite a mainstream banker. It is expected that 50 lakh street vendors (data collected from state governments) will be benefited under this scheme and a credit of Rs. 5,000 crore would flow to these sector, the finance ministry said adding that use of digital payments and timely repayments will be incentivised through monetary rewards. Only a fraction of these 50 lakh may have a credit history with commercial banks. “I do not think banks ever had a product designed for this sector,” said the chief executive of a public sector bank. “Some loans under the Mudra scheme may have been extended to such enterprises,” the person added. The question is how to do the credit appraisal for an entity without a credit history. Some bankers suggested the self help group model which are followed to extend loans in the rural areas. Under this model, a group comprising women borrowers mostly, is formed with 10-12 individuals of a neighbourhood in a rural area, where individuals of the group take responsibility for timely repayment by other members. These groups are required to show savings habit, for at least six months, before lending can start. “The problem is that it may not be feasible to form such a group in urban areas as people there are apprehensive to be a guarantor of another borrower in the group,” said another bank official. “Also, there is no time to build savings habit as the vendor requires the loan immediately,” the official added. In such a scenario, the micro-lenders and small finance banks that focus on lending to the urban poor could emerge as the key player to make the scheme a success. SFBs and micro-finance institutions have customers who belong to these community, and have expertise in extending small ticket loans. For the scheme to become acceptable for lenders, certain key aspects should be kept in mind while formulating the scheme, bankers said. “First is about the interest rate. Yes, there is a need for an interest cap for such loans, but that should be linked to the cost of funds. Ideally, it should be linked to the MCLR [marginal cost of funds based lending rate] rather than the government prescribing a particular rate,” said the chief executive of a small finance bank. Another important issue that would determine the success of the scheme is the speed at which the loan is delivered. For that, the first thing is to keep documentation short and simple. “It should be a one-page document. The purpose of this loan is speed and the convenience at which it is delivered. If you make the borrower run around for a week, he will lose interest. Customer delight is key for the scheme to be a success” the chief executive said. The other issue is with the credit guarantee part. Loans under this scheme are likely to be under the Mudra scheme. Mudra loans are guaranteed by Credit Guarantee Trust for Micro And Small Enterprises (CGTMSE). According to bankers, it is not easy to get claims for CGTMSE in case there is a default. “So many questions are asked for settling claims. They want to see the loan appraisal report. Everyone is wiser in hindsight…it is easy to say the appraisal was not proper once a loan turns non-performing,” said a banker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/street-vendor-loans-an-uncharted-turf-for-big-banks/article31604969.ece
17 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Coal, mineral reforms to help reduce imports||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s structural reform measures in the coal and mining sector are expected to give a boost to private investments in the sector and reduce India’s reliance on imports. “Our assessment is that if it is implemented at the earliest, these much needed reforms will double these sectors’ contribution to the GDP,” Ajay Kapur, CEO - Aluminium & Power Business, Vedanta Ltd., said. Saurabh Bhatnagar, partner and national leader, Metals & Mining, EY India said, “The introduction of competition, transparency and private sector participation in the coal sector will automatically build transparency of mine valuations, force rigorous mine planning and compliance, and invite investments for enhancing operational efficiency to justify the bids made at the time of mine acquisition. These were much-needed reforms in the mining sector as India is a mineral rich country and any sectoral reforms to attract investments which adds to India’s GDP through this sector and save precious foreign exchange are welcome.” According to CARE Ratings, the coal sector gets a boost as the private sector can now bid at the auctions for 50 blocks, enhancing supplies, reducing imports, which is good for the economy. The government also plans to auction Coal Bed Methane (CBM) blocks. Tirtha Biswas, programme lead at Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) said, “The Government of India’s big plan to push coal gasification to replace natural gas in the fertiliser sector would help square energy and food security objectives. However, ammonia produced from coal gasification has a carbon footprint that is 1.8 times higher than that produced from the conventional process using natural gas. This could potentially offset the emissions intensity reductions achieved through investments in renewables.” “Elimination of distinction between captive mines and non-captive will ensure a level playing field for players in the integrated metals space,” Mr. Bhatnagar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/coal-mineral-reforms-to-help-reduce-imports/article31604971.ece
17 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Privatising discoms of UTs will improve finances||The Centre’s decision to privatise power distribution companies in union territories is seen as a move that will improve government finances and bring much more efficiency to the sector. “The power sector reforms announced will bring greater sensitivity towards large outstanding dues to power gencos, thus improving the financial health of the industry,” Ajay Kapur, CEO- Aluminium & Power Business, Vedanta Ltd., told The Hindu . The government plans to introduce a tariff policy with reforms focused on consumer rights, promotion of industry and sustainability of sector.  Anish De, partner and national head, Energy and Natural Resources, KPMG in India, said, “On power, the past two decades of tepid results, despite corporatisation and regulation, have clearly indicated that the state owned enterprises have been unable to deliver efficiency, customer service and governance standards required from a modern power sector. Private ownership should bring in greater efficiency and better governance and help address some of the deep seated problems of the sector. UTs are a good place to start, though it should be propagated further into state owned discoms.” The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) said that the new tariff policy for the power sector can be expected to remove cross-subsidies that are adding to manufacturing costs and make Indian goods more competitive in the global market. “It is heartening is that the government has taken another step on the path of distribution reforms by indicating early implementation of the National Tariff Policy,” Sumant Sinha, CMD, ReNew Power, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/privatising-discoms-of-uts-will-improve-finances/article31604972.ece
17 May 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Aviation sector measures on expected lines’||The three key announcements of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman concerning the civil aviation sector have been viewed as those on expected lines, while the announcement on MRO (maintenance, repair and operations) needed more clarity on the tax incentives, industry experts said. They said the measures were a positive for the sector. “The announcements are on expected lines. MROs, more airports through PPP mode, and flexible use of airspace have been on government agenda. We may expect better implementation and execution,” said Kapil Kaul, CEO & Director, CAPA Advisory. “There is no relief likely [for the airline industry] and medium to long term downsizing of the industry is inevitable unless promoters are able to recapitalise significantly. The industry was not promised anything by the government and they will now have to look within for outcomes,” Mr. Kaul said. Commenting on the announcements, GVK Reddy, founder and chairman, GVK Group said, “The move to invite PPP in six more airports will provide AAI the resources to develop smaller airports across the country and popularise the government’s Udaan scheme.” “The plans to make India a global MRO hub will ensure savings of precious foreign exchange and enable Indian airlines to get their aircraft serviced locally,” he said. Vasudevan. S, partner, Infrastructure Government and Healthcare, KPMG in India said, “Rationalising the MRO tax structure has been a long-pending demand of the industry and it is good to see that happening finally, but more needs to be done to create a level-playing field, attract foreign investment and make it profitable. If only the FM can extend the benefit to cover input tax reduction and waivers at least for exported services, as with other industries, it will become a game changer.” “The biggest upside will be its ability to create new jobs and a strong global value chain with the civil-defence business interface, which remains constrained and under-leveraged,” he said. Sujoy Bhatia, partner and head, Corporate, Chandhiok and Mahajan law firm said, “Airport privatisation in India has a chequered history. Recently, India privatised six airports, all of which were awarded to the Adani Group via competitive bidding. The key concern in airport privatisation here is – in which cities? For an airport to be successfully privatised, it needs to have the kind of volumes necessary to ensure that the entity that wins the bid actually makes money.” “The only cities that could potentially fit the bill are Chennai and Kolkata. However, these cities were on the privatisation block back in 2014, and neither of them could move forward because of local resistance,” he said. Vishesh C. Chandiok, CEO, Grant Thornton India, said, “We need to see more details on the tax simplification, which will help in making India an MRO hub. I would have also liked to hear more relief measures for the civil aviation sector to keep it alive post-COVID-19.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/aviation-sector-measures-on-expected-lines/article31604967.ece
17 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Ordnance Factories Board is a ‘cautious bet’||The government’s decision to corporatise the Ordnance Factories Board (OFB) and look at listing it on the bourses will offer investors an opportunity to own shares in a niche company, but a lot would depend on how the government would act it in terms of funding, order flow and bureaucratic control, say market players. On Saturday, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the long-pending corporatisation of OFB had been approved and while the entity would not be privatised, the government would look at listing the entity to enhance the transparency in its operations. The OFB manages the network of ordnance factories across the country that are engaged in indigenous production of defence hardware and equipment for the Indian armed forces. “This offers savvy investors an opportunity to buy into profitable, well-managed niche companies serving only the armed forces,” said Arun Kejriwal of Kejriwal Research and Investment Services. “The government has many ordnance factories and in all probability, there would be some sort of reorganisation to classify them into different categories and then list them on the bourses with clear indication that these companies would not be privatised. Another advantage for the company could be that once it is listed, it could get exposure to overseas markets as well which may not be the case today,” he added. A section of market participants, however, feel that investors would take a cautious approach. “Defence is a lucrative niche segment, but has huge working capital requirements and government control,” said Paras Bothra, president – Equity Research, Ashika Stock Broking. “Ordnance factory would enjoy limited competition due to licensing related entry barriers, but at the same time it would be dependent on a single customer, which is the government. It will have to deal with bureaucracy and order flow could be erratic due to slow decision making. So, there would be certain impediments as well,” added Mr. Bothra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ordnance-factories-board-is-a-cautious-bet/article31604965.ece
17 May 2020||MUMBAI,||RIL rights issue to open on May 20||The rights issue of Rs. 53,000 crore by Reliance Industries Ltd. will open on May 20 and close on June 3, 2020. “RIL’s Issue Committee of the Board of Directors, in its meeting held on May 15, 2020 has approved the rights issue schedule,” the company said in a filing to the exchanges. The company will file the ‘letter of offer’, with the stock exchanges — BSE Limited, National Stock Exchange of India Limited and market regulator SEBI. “Abridged Letter of Offer, Application Form of Rights Issue, and Rights Entitlement Letter, will be sent to the eligible equity shareholders of the Company,” the company said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-rights-issue-to-open-on-may-20/article31604973.ece
17 May 2020||COIMBATORE,||Centre gives nod for export of masks||The Centre on Saturday opened up export of non-medical, non-surgical masks, which was prohibited so far. According to a notification from the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, dated May 16, all types of masks, made of cotton, silk, wool, or knitted fabric, is permitted for exports, except medical and surgical masks. Textile exporters in Tiruppur and Coimbatore, who recently ventured into production of masks and personal protection equipment on a large-scale, have welcomed the announcement. Chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council A. Sakthivel said India has the potential to export masks worth $1 billion in the next one month. The exports were prohibited for almost two months now. Textile hubs such as Tiruppur will benefit from this and the manufacturers will be able to meet the international standards. Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, said countries such as Vietnam had already exported large quantities of cloth masks. “There is a surge in demand internationally for cloth masks and brands also want to sell it as an accessory. This is big opportunity for Indian exporters,” he said. Convenor of Indian Texpreneurs Federation Prabhu Dhamodharan urged manufacturers in Tamil Nadu to tap the opportunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-gives-nod-for-export-of-masks/article31604974.ece
17 May 2020||BERLIN,||Dortmund back in style||Norwegian sensation Erling Braut Haaland stole the limelight on Saturday as the German Bundesliga became the first major European football league to return since the coronavirus lockdown, with teams playing in empty, echoing stadiums. The 19-year-old striker claimed the first goal in Germany’s top flight for over two months to set Borussia Dortmund on the way to a 4-0 win over its local rival Schalke in the ‘Ruhr Derby’. Portuguese international Raphael Guerreiro then added two goals either side of a Thorgan Hazard strike as second-placed Dortmund moved to within a point of leader Bayern Munich, which is chasing an eighth straight title and plays Union Berlin away on Sunday. Elsewhere, third-placed RB Leipzig was held to a 1-1 draw at home to Freiburg, leaving it four points off top spot. Defender Manuel Gulde gave visitors Freiburg a shock lead and celebrated by elbow-bumping teammates, before Leipzig striker Yussuf Poulsen grabbed a late equaliser.  The results: Borussia Dortmund 4 (Haaland 29, Guerreiro 45, 63, Hazard 48) bt Schalke 04 0; RB Leipzig 1 (Poulsen 77) drew with Freiburg 1 (Gulde 34); Hoffenheim 0 lost to Hertha Berlin 3 (Akpoguma 58-og, Ibisevic 60, Cunha 74); Fortuna Dusseldorf 0 drew with Paderborn 0; Augsburg 1 (Brooks 54-og) lost to VfL Wolfsburg 2 (Steffen 43, Ginczek 90+1) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dortmund-back-in-style/article31605109.ece
17 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Ghosal can enter top six: Palmer||Former world squash champion David Palmer is a successful coach based in the USA, training the likes of Mohamed ElShorbagy, currently the world’s best player, and a host of top juniors. Palmer was supposed to join the Indian senior team for the Asian Team Championships in Kuala Lumpur in March this year before the COVID-19 outbreak brought sport to a standstill. Training Indians In a video-conference on Saturday, the celebrated coach talked about his experience training Saurav Ghosal, Joshna Chinappa, Harinder Pal Sandhu, and Vikram Malhotra among others. Palmer, a former World No. 1, was confident that Ghosal, now ranked 13, has it in him to break into the top six. “They bring a lot of energy and joy [to their training]. They have sacrificed a lot to achieve their goals. Harinder was similar to me in some ways and I got him to be more aggressive on-court. “I really feel Saurav can enter the top six, he is closing the gap. He can win major [PSA] titles,” said the 43-year-old Australian, who is based in Ithaca (New York). Praising the talent of India’s top junior Veer Chotrani, whom he trains at Cornell University, Palmer said the young player is “fitter, stronger and tactically smarter now”. The former British Open champion said players had to break out of their comfort zones to be successful. “I have a plan in place [for my players], a weekly plan. It is when players go back to their home clubs, they go astray. I moved away from Australia when I was 18 as the environment was not conducive. Half of my life I was away from my family because I wanted to become a world champion and World No. 1,” he said. Secret to longevity Revealing his secret to having a long, rewarding career, Palmer, who won 27 PSA titles, said, “What made me successful was that I could win even on a bad day. I had a Plan-B which helped me progress to the next round. “It was my fitness and pure determination that kept me in the tournament.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ghosal-can-enter-top-six-palmer/article31605154.ece
17 May 2020||KOLKATA,||A god-given chance, says gymnast Patra||The forced break due to the COVID-19 pandemic has reignited international gymnast Rakesh Patra’s hopes for the Olympics. Patra, who had a surgery in January to fix a ligament tear in his left shoulder, is going through rehab at Puri in Odisha. With the Olympics rescheduled for next year, Patra — who had narrowly missed out on securing a berth to the Rio Games — is optimistic. “I had missed the Olympic qualification last time. I narrowly missed out on medals and ended up in fourth place in the Melbourne and Turkey World Cups and met with disappointment despite making it to the 2018 Commonwealth Games final (rings). But I always think that I need to work harder to break the jinx. “God has given me a chance. I am not losing any time because of my surgery and can make a new start like any other gymnast around the world,” Patra, a specialist in rings, told The Hindu . “I interacted with (pommel horse World champion and double gold medallist in Rio Olympics) Max Whitlock’s coach Scot Han. There is a strong chance that the remaining quota places will be filled by following the new code of point in the qualifying event. If the difficulty score rises (in rings and parallel bars), my chances become brighter.” Patra, who needs to continue with his rehab for two-and-a-half months more before resuming gymnastics training, is privileged to have a gym in front of his home. “I also want to carry on as long as I can and achieve my dream,” said 28-year-old Patra, who has won several gold medals in the Nationals, National Games and the Hong Kong International.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-god-given-chance-says-gymnast-patra/article31605227.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lifting spirits with positive vibes||Happiness increases multi-fold when shared. In an attempt to cut the overwhelming negativity and spread positive vibes, Amit Bhalla of Manav Rachna University, initiated the “Happy Times” series, with an interaction of three women shooters Ray Bassil, Shagun Chowdhary and Heena Sidhu, well-anchored on the web by Ritika Singh. All of them Olympians, with considerable expertise and accomplishments in the international arena, gave an insight into their world, and how they kept themselves happy.  “We want to create an environment of happiness with people who know how to be happy and share happiness,” said Amit, as the show began with music and songs. Shagun had already won appreciation with her photo in the media, operating a tractor in her all-women project of organic farming. “I was in my farm and got this idea during the lockdown and spoke to my parents. We have employed only women as we understand the importance of their financial independence,” said Shagun. Ray, an Asian trap shooting champion, said that she was missing the “travel for the sport”, but revealed about her foundation that was helping fishermen and others. Heena and Shagun were excited to enter the kitchen and experience the joy of cooking their favourite meal, while Ray said that she was always happy to talk everything with her husband over coffee. The trio were unanimous in saying that the best memories were that of being pampered by the grand parents during the vacation. “Every moment is a memory. Take advantage of it and be happy with people,” said Ray. She expressed gratitude to her dad and coach, who saw a “world champion shooter” in her when she, as a child, she was more inclined towards swimming and basketball. In the rapid-fire section, Ray said “believe in your dreams’’ as her favourite phrase, while Heena confessed that her husband “being on the phone all the time” was something she did not approve. Heena, a qualified dentist, stunned everyone when she said that she remembered people by their teeth and can identify most of the shooters she had met just by seeing a photo of their teeth!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lifting-spirits-with-positive-vibes/article31605230.ece
17 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,||‘Chess is attracting new audience during lockdown’||Praveen Thipsay hasn’t stepped out of his apartment at Khar, Mumbai, since March 18. He doesn’t intend to, for another month. He says the situation is a bit frightening in the city, which has become COVID-19’s epicentre in India. “From my flat I can watch the street, and it is empty, totally,” Thipsay tells The Hindu over phone. “It is a very busy area normally, even at night there would be lot of noise.” Now all you could hear is silence. Difficult “I think it would at least be August when Mumbai can hope to return to some normalcy,” he says. “The government is doing the best it could, but when eight or 10 people are living in a room and are using a single toilet — as is the case in Mumbai’s worst-hit areas — it is not easy to contain this virus.” Chess, though, lifts Thipsay’s spirits. India’s third Grandmaster spends many hours on teaching chess online. For the first time in his life, he has also started playing tournaments online. “I have enjoyed playing online,” he says. “I have played five tournaments so far and it felt nice posting wins against some strong foreign Grandmasters.” Anand of old He has also been following a lot of online chess. “I was delighted to see Viswananthan Anand crushing Ian Nepomniachtchi in the Nations Cup,” he says. “His victory against Teimour Radjabov was brilliant too. It was like watching Anand of the old.” With Anand, Carlsen and many other top players competing in online tournaments regularly, chess is probably the only sport that is covered regularly in the media during the lockdown. “That, of course, helps chess reaching out to more people,” says Thipsay. “There is no doubt that chess has attracted a new audience. It is up to the officials to make use of it.” He feels the lockdown should have been an ideal opportunity for the All India Chess Federation (AICF) to conduct online tournaments. But, infighting has ensured that is for all the wrong reasons that it is making headlines these days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chess-is-attracting-new-audience-during-lockdown/article31605354.ece
17 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Chetan Anand’s suggestion: single host for multiple events||Former National badminton champion and World No. 10 B. Chetan Anand says the consequences of the current crisis continuing beyond this year will be quite serious. Fears compounded “I am not sure how the BWF is planning to resume the circuit. With WHO declaring that one has to live with COVID-19, the fears have only compounded,” the three-time South Asian Games champion says. “One of the safer options would be to have two or three tournaments at one place in a country where the COVID-19 threat is less,” Chetan suggested. “Forget about crowds, even the players will be scared to travel, given the circumstances,” he says. Chetan suggests, BAI, meanwhile, could conduct domestic tournaments with entry restricted to players, coaches and officials after thorough screening, sanitising and ensuring social distancing. “This will ensure at least some badminton activity,” he says. Hard-hit Chetan, who is spending more time with his kids now, says his badminton academies in Madhapur and Bachupally, will be hard-hit as shuttles used are mostly imported from Chinese Taipei and a couple of other South-East Asian countries. “Maintain minimum fitness levels, stay positive,” signs off Chetan, who is busy with daily online coaching classes for his over 100 trainees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chetan-anands-suggestion-single-host-for-multiple-events/article31605303.ece
17 May 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI facing a challenging time||The pandemic appears to have multiplied the woes of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), which has had to deal with a spate of resignations. This has resulted in key stakeholders in the domestic structure being left in the lurch during the COVID-19 outbreak. Despite a new set of office-bearers — led by former India captain Sourav Ganguly as president and Jay Shah as secretary — taking charge in October last year, ending the three-year regime of the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators, the BCCI has been confronted by a variety of internal and external issues. Growing uncertainty While the BCCI has filed an appeal in the Supreme Court to further dilute the administrative reforms recommended by the Lodha committee, this has resulted in growing uncertainty over the tenures of Ganguly and Shah. High-profile resignations have added to the challenges the Board faces. The IPL corruption scandal had resulted in the BCCI appointing a chief executive officer and chief financial officer for the first time. While Santosh Rangnekar, the CFO, quit immediately after Ganguly and Co. took over, CEO Rahul Johri tendered his resignation earlier this year. Johri’s last day was supposed to have been April 30. However, the BCCI apex council, during its meeting on May 6, noted that his resignation has been rejected and Johri would remain on board at least until March 2021. Apex council affcected Vice-president Mahim Verma also resigned recently. Although he held a largely ceremonial post, his exit has reduced the apex council from nine to eight members. All these developments have coincided with the lockdown, contributing to a perception of instability within the Board. They have also played a role — direct or indirect — in delaying payments to domestic players and officials. BCCI treasurer Arun Dhumal stressed, however, that the Board was a stable organisation. “There is no instability as such. People come and go but an institution never stops running. It’s not that we have been incapacitated by any of these factors,” he told The Hindu . “I have been given to understand that the delay in payments is primarily due to the lockdown. But payments are being released and whatever little backlog has been created will be cleared at the earliest.” While some domestic cricketers are yet to receive their match-fees for the recently concluded cricket season, many umpires and scorers have not been paid for their services since January. The players and officials have been understanding so far, but those who don’t have other sources of income are running out of time during the prolonged lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-facing-internal-and-external-issues/article31605096.ece
17 May 2020||PARIS,||‘I can win the most Slams’||Novak Djokovic said he is confident he will end his career as the greatest Grand Slam title winner of all time and break the record for weeks in the World No. 1 spot. The Serb has 17 Majors, three behind Roger Federer’s record 20 and two behind Rafael Nadal. “I think that I still have things to do in this sport. I believe that I can win the most Slams and break the record for most weeks at No. 1. Those are definitely my clear goals,” Djokovic told in a TV show. Play till 40 Djokovic, who who will celebrate his 33rd birthday on May 22, sees himself still playing at 40. “I don’t believe in limits. I definitely want to go for a long time,” he said. “I will not be able to play at this intensity, with this many tournaments and this much travelling, for a long time. There will probably be a focus on the biggest tournaments and the tournaments that mean the most to me.” Djokovic has been on top of the rankings for a combined total of 282 weeks. Federer leads the way on 310 with the long-retired Pete Sampras on 286.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-can-win-the-most-slams-djokovic/article31605110.ece
17 May 2020||Coimbatore,||COVID-19 took us by surprise: TNSA secretary Ravi Krishnan||Even as the Tamil Nadu Shooting Association (TNSA) was busy preparing to host the State shooting championship in Chennai this summer, the pandemic rattled its plans. “We were in consultation with major clubs regarding their availability, but COVID-19 arrived faster than those bullets and took us by surprise,” TNSA secretary R. Ravi Krishnan told The Hindu on Saturday. He said the State championship attracts the biggest crowd. “There are about 1500 shooters taking part, of which 1200 figure in the pistol and air rifle events. Also, 80 per cent of them are school and college goers, and they come with their families for the championship that is spread for over a week to ten days.” “There is a great deal of hard work and planning that goes in to organising this. None of us expected to be trapped in a situation like this,” he added. So, has the TNSA dropped the plan to host the championship? “We are keeping our fingers crossed but, the way the pandemic is spreading, I believe it may not happen before September,” said Ravi Krishnan. He also revealed that even if it begins after September, the shooters may have to start from scratch. “It may take 10 to 15 days for them to get back to form. Also, most weapons (rifles & shotguns) are built to suit a particular person. So, if a shooter has added or lost weight, the whole setting of the weapon has to be changed. That may take a day or two as well.” However, he insisted the TNSA is prepared. “Chennai will be ready to host it even tomorrow. I believe it will happen this year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/covid-19-took-us-by-surprise-tnsa-secretary-ravi-krishnan/article31605197.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||David unclear about path ahead||With the Tokyo Olympics rescheduled to 2021, Hockey India (HI) High Performance Director David John said on Saturday it is still unclear how things would move forward. “Maybe there will be more distancing on the bench during games, training in smaller groups and testing everyone regularly, all 10,000 athletes and all officials, administrators will be tested and cleared and then allowed in, or get a health passport... if everyone is clear, it may be possible. The problem is, what if a player tests positive? What will be the protocol for that? Will all teams be put into quarantine and the matches stopped? No one knows. We are moving ahead one day at a time,” said David.  David helmed an exclusive four-hour long session for journalists under HI’s Coaching Education Pathway — equivalent of Level 0 for the coaches — which saw the participation of 11 mediapersons who got an idea about the behind-the-scenes working of the coaching staff with the National team and how the federation was engaged in developing a common coaching system in tune with modern hockey.  Maybe there will be more distancing on the bench during games, training in smaller groups and testing everyone regularly...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/david-unclear-about-path-ahead/article31605228.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||Bala Devi is an inspiration: Patel||All India Football Federation president Praful Patel has asked the country’s women footballers to take inspiration from Bala Devi, who excelled at Scottish Premier League club Rangers. The first   The national team striker from Manipur is on a professional contract with Rangers, the first Indian woman footballer to do so. During a virtual interaction with national team players across all age-groups, Patel told Bala Devi: “We are extremely proud of your achievements. You have shown the road ahead to the budding footballers. You have proved that our women footballers are in no way inferior to anyone. Bala Devi, who is currently in Glasgow, said that the exposure stints with the national team made her confident as a player. “In 2018-19 we were constantly playing, or camping. It made me more confident of my abilities as a player, and made me believe in myself. “We played against so many countries including many matches in Europe,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bala-devi-is-an-inspiration-patel/article31605195.ece
17 May 2020||Bengaluru,||EB snaps up Eugeneson||Mid-fielder Eugeneson Lyngdoh is set to join Kolkata giant East Bengal ahead of the 2020-21 football season. The 33-year-old will be a free agent by end of May and with Bengaluru FC having decided against renewing his contract, East Bengal officials confirmed that they had moved to snap him up. A fan favourite at Bengaluru, who enjoyed a glorious three year-spell from 2014 to 2016, Eugeneson endured a disappointing 2019-20 campaign, playing just 72 minutes of football. In fact, after two difficult, injury-ravaged seasons at ATK, he had returned to BFC last year hoping to resurrect a dipping career. But such was the competition at BFC that he didn't start a single game. He will now hope for better luck in Kolkata in what will be his second stint in the City of Joy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eb-snaps-up-eugeneson/article31605101.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready to roll||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ready-to-roll/article31605112.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||It’s Superkids vs Gurukul||Superkids pipped top seed Chess Gurukul at the post to head the points table after the two rating favourites in the Sukooon Resorts Indian Chess.com League made Sunday’s Superfinal in style on Saturday. The suspense over the finalists virtually ended in the eighth round after Chess Pathshala stunned the third seed and close contender Desi Boys 4.5-0.5.   Important results:   Ninth round: Superkids bt Chess Gyaan 3.5-1.5; Chess Gurukul bt Five Fighters 3-2; Cheeky Cheetahs lost to Desi Boys 1.5-3.5; United India bt Undercover Agents 3-2; Chess Pathshala lost to Chess Thulir 1.5-3.5.   Eighth round: Undercover Agents lost to Chess Gurukul 1.5-3.5; Five Fighters lost to Superkids 2-3; Desi Boys lost to Chess Pathshala 0.4-4.5; Chess Thulir lost to United India 1-4; Chess Gyaan drew with Cheeky Cheetahs 2.5-2.5.   Seventh round: Chess Gurukul bt United India 3.5-1.5; Superkids bt Undercover Agents 4-1; Desi Boys bt Chess Thulir 4.5-0.5; Cheeky Cheetahs lost to Five Fighters 3.5; Chess Pathshala lost to Chess Gyaan 1-4.   Sixth round: Chess Thulir drew with Chess Gurukul 2.5-2.5; Superkids bt United India 4.5-0.5; Undercover Agents drew with Cheeky Cheetahs 2.5-2.5; Chess Gyaan drew with Desi Boys 2.5-2.5; Five Fighters bt Chess Pathshala 3-2.   Standings (after nine rounds):   1. Superkids (29 game-points), 2. Chess Gurukul (28.5), 3. Desi Boys (25.5), 4. United India (22.5), 5-6. Undercover Agents, Five Fighters (22 each), 7. Chess Gyaan (21), 8. Chess Pathshala (19), 9. Cheeky Cheetahs (18), 10. Chess Thulir (17.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-superkids-vs-chess-gurukul-in-superfinal/article31605097.ece
17 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Balbir ‘stabilising’ but still on ventilator||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr didn’t suffer any more ‘cardiac events’ and his condition “is stabilising” though he is still on ventilator support, his grandson Kabir said on Saturday. He said his grandfather had not still regained consciousness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/balbir-stabilising-but-still-on-ventilator/article31605102.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 08:10 IST,||Sudoku - May 17, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-17-2020/article31605695.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Advantage 2021||Sandra Babu is a long jump and triple jump athlete from Kerala’s Kannur district. She was training hard for the World U20 Athletics Championship that was to be held in Nairobi this July when the pandemic struck. The championship was postponed. Babu should have been crestfallen, but she has instead just upped the ante. The feisty 18-year-old is now determined to make it to the Tokyo Olympics, also postponed to July 2021. She could not have made it to Tokyo this time, but now she gets an entire year to prepare for qualifying. The postponement of the Olympics, for the first time in its 124-year history, was a deeply disappointing setback for many sporstpeople, but many others have just been spurred to think bigger. They are determined to use this grace time to make an extra effort and catch that flight to Tokyo. Athletes who did not make the cut when the qualification doors were opened earlier now get time from December 1 this year to June 29, 2021 to make the grade. Raring to go Kerala’s 18-year-old long jumper, Ancy Sojan, and West Bengal’s 22-year-old middle distance runner, Lili Das, are among those who are raring to take a serious shot at qualifying. Stars like javelin throwers Neeraj Chopra and Annu Rani, and long jumper M. Sreeshankar, all stand to gain from the delayed Olympics. “Both Chopra and Sreeshankar were actually in very good shape already; they could have come up with good results this year. But they might be able to do even better in 2021,” says Volker Herrmann, the Athletics Federation of India’s High Performance Director. “I would say it [the postponement] is an advantage for us. We have a very young team, which I think is a huge opportunity for us because these athletes now get another year to train.” In her town Kelakam, Babu goes about her fitness drill and strength-building workouts with extra vigour. She is aware that she has to jump 14.32 m to make the cut — 21 cm more than any Indian has ever done. Mayookha Johny, with 14.11 m set in 2011, holds the national record. This does not rattle Babu’s seasoned coach, T.P. Ouseph. He is busy monitoring her progress online, from Perumbavoor in Ernakulam, 270 km away. “If everything goes well, she will qualify for the Olympics. Her chances are good; I would say 80%,” says Ouseph. “As far as the triple jump is concerned, it is easy to reach that range.” The 73-year-old Ouseph, a former Air Force long jump and triple jump champion, has coached some of the country’s finest female jumpers — including long jumper Anju Bobby George, the country’s lone medallist in the World Championships, and Bobby Aloysius, former Asian champion high jumper, in their early years. He is confident he can work magic with Babu too. He expects her to touch 14.40 m within a year. “She is capable of doing it if she does not have any injuries or other issues,” he says. “My target for Sandra is medals in the Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and the Olympics.”  Go for gold Neeraj Chopra, world No. 4 in javelin throw, is the candidate most likely to bag India’s first-ever Olympic medal in athletics. The delay increases his odds because many of the world’s top throwers, including top-ranked Magnus Kirt, Andreas Hofmann and Olympic champion Thomas Rohler, will be entering their 30s next year. Chopra, 22, is an Asian Games and Commonwealth Games champion. He was also the 2016 Junior Worlds gold medallist. He had to miss an entire year because of an elbow injury and surgery, but his 87.86 m effort in January this year in South Africa, which helped him qualify for Tokyo, is a sign of what he could throw next year. Annu Rani, Chopra’s female counterpart, is the 27-year-old national record holder who became the first Indian woman to enter the javelin throw final at the Doha World Championships last year. She is someone else who is rather thankful for the postponement. “The rescheduling is very good for me,” she says, confident of qualifying as soon as the Indian season opens and travel restrictions are lifted. “Since I don’t have competition here, it helps me to go abroad where there are throwers close to 68 m. There will be a great improvement when I train and compete with them over the next year, she says. And the others Outside track and field, 2019 has been a fantastic year for Indian shooting as well — a sport that has given the country its lone Olympic gold medallist in Abhinav Bindra, in Beijing 2008. Youngsters such as Manu Bhaker, Elavenil Valarivan, Divyansh Singh Panwar and Saurabh Chaudhary are in brilliant form, and would have cherished an Olympics this year with the dreams of multiple medals it carried for them. Bhaker, 18, will still be one of the stars to look out for in Tokyo, but as she pointed out recently, she was at her peak this year, just before the pandemic. Shooting is a strange sport, a bit like golf, where you suddenly find your swing going awry after playing like a champion, possibly because a lot of it is in the mind. Bhaker and the others seem worried about the long break and what it will do to their focus. It will be interesting to see how composed they are at Tokyo 2021. As for Magnificent Mary Kom, the woman with the most medals in World Boxing Championship history, she had planned to quit after the 2016 Olympics, but decided to continue when she failed to qualify for Rio. Now, with another delay, Kom will be 38 in Tokyo, up against opponents who are more than 10 years younger. The bronze medallist in the 2012 London Olympics, when women’s boxing made its debut, competes in the 51kg flyweight category in the Olympics, but has been more comfortable in the 48kg class where she won the last of her six World Championship golds in 2018. Britain’s Nicola Adams, the two-time Olympic champion who beat Kom in London, retired last year, but there will be many others in Tokyo who’ve beaten Kom in the last year or so. China’s Yuan Chang, the 2018 Asian Games gold medallist, who beat her in the Asia-Oceania Olympic qualifiers semifinal in Jordan in March, has qualified, while Turkey’s Busenaz Çakıroglu, who beat her in the 2019 Worlds semifinals, is expected to make the cut through the European qualifiers, which will begin as soon as the global lockdown ends. There could be two World champions at her heels too: Taipei’s Huang Hsiao-Wen, the 54kg champ, who has slimmed down to make it to the 51kg category in Tokyo; and Russia’s Liliya Aetbaeva, the 51kg champion who is expected to pick up one of the European berths. In badminton, Saina Nehwal — the first Indian shuttler to win an Olympic medal with a bronze at London 2012 — is anxious. The player who made Indian women believe they could beat the all-conquering Chinese is not so sure she can make it to Tokyo in 2021. She is 30 and might have pulled it off this year, but it gets tougher now. Nehwal has exited in the first round in three of five international tournaments this year, and her last major victory came last January in the Indonesia Masters after an injury forced Carolina Marin to quit early in the final. After becoming World No. 1 for the first time in March 2015, a year when she also won the World Championship silver, Nehwal was expected to win her second Olympic medal at Rio in 2016, but made a shocking early exit. She had a knee surgery soon after, but came back to win the bronze at the World Championships in 2017 and the Commonwealth gold the next year, beating P.V. Sindhu in the final. With all competitions closed and her world ranking slipping to 20, it will be a rather anxious Nehwal who tries for a 2021 berth. The postponement is thus quite a mixed bag, opening some doors but threatening to close others. All the athletes are nonetheless chafing at the bit, waiting impatiently for the lockdown to end and to hit their training strides again.  Neeraj Chopra (above), world No. 4 in javelin throw, is the candidate most likely to bag India’s first-ever Olympic medal in athletics. The delay increases his odds. He threw 87.86 m in January this year in South Africa||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/advantage-2021/article31604915.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Strong is as strong does||The current scenario offers us an important lesson about the idea of strong leadership and the contradictory meanings of the phrase, ‘a strong leader’. As we have seen different responses to the COVID-19 challenge across the world, we’ve begun to sort political leaders into different piles, into trays labelled ‘effective’, ‘adequate’, ‘confused but well-meaning’, ‘incompetent’ and ‘criminally dangerous self-serving buffoons’. Traits on display Memes point out that countries led by women have dealt much better with the crisis than states run by men who need to show their machismo more than they need to ensure the safety of their citizens. There have been detailed analyses of how geography, size of population, economy, culture and other factors have all contributed towards worsening or alleviating the damage from the pandemic. For instance, to randomly take three political units ruled by elected women, it’s a no-brainer to see that containing the virus in Iceland (population 3.64 lakh, area 103,000 sq. km) is a very different proposition from doing so in Germany (roughly 80 million people in 360,000 sq. km) or West Bengal (population roughly 98 million, area 89,000 sq. km). However, whether the leader is male or female, the political unit big or small, located near a polar ice-cap or near the Equator, certain positive attributes and sometimes negative, even terrifying, traits of leaders have quickly risen to the surface over the last three months. On the positive side, the first crucial thing is that leaders be absolutely honest in what they say to their people. Often the initial message has been stark: this is a grave crisis; we have a good health system (or a not so great one) but it is not designed to handle something like this; this is what we the government are doing about it; this is what you, the people, will need to do. The second thing is that the truthful message has been followed by substantial action, with separate wards and systems for testing and quarantine organised; necessary equipment and clothing sourced; alternative plans based on rationality and medical logic kept ready, and so on. Where’s the team? The third thing we’ve seen, wherever the battle has been effectively waged, is that those leaders have all left their politics, religious beliefs and irrationalities at home. The fourth thing is that it is never just one person leading the fight but a team ; there may be one Prime Minister or Chancellor who leads, but the other ministers with their specific responsibilities are also crucial; and all the politicians readily accept that they need to defer substantially to doctors and epidemiologists about what exactly needs to be done. The test of genuine leadership is exactly this — that a leader is not insecure about ‘looking bad’ or panicky about losing power; and will therefore take decisions without worrying about the ‘optics’, without adding the masala of spectacle to what are often unspectacular choices that can only have incremental effects. Wherever we’ve seen the COVID-19 crisis brought under some kind of control, these four things have been evident. Examples of the opposite kind of ‘leadership’ have been far more common over these last few weeks. One telltale sign of a supposed strongman who is actually weak and hollow is that a lot of the decisions are about the person themselves rather than what the country, State or city needs. In order to protect themselves these leaders will lie — constantly — to the public that has elected them. Their stories will change, they will do 180 degree turns on previously held positions, they will reach for distractions, find groups or countries to blame, claim undue credit and try and slide the responsibility for the crisis and their own ineffective or foolish responses on to others. In their speeches they will put the onus of action on you, the ordinary citizen, while never saying what exactly it is that they themselves will deliver. As they continue to talk and posture, covering up their own inaction and incompetence, the suffering spreads in waves, engulfing more and more people, with the poor and under-privileged catching the brunt of it. Previously this kind of fake, play-acting leadership managed to trick a lot of people. The problem with this nasty COVID-19 virus is that it doesn’t fall for demagoguery, for the tamasha politics of thali-banging or the carpet-bombing by rose petals; the pandemic is not affected in the least by servile TV channels or the troll army riding their Twitter buttons. The virus will only be brought under control by honesty, relentless hard work, and by science. In the meantime, it will gnaw through and hollow out many a so-called ‘strong leader’, adding the husk of their delusions to the bin marked ‘Hazardous Waste’.  One telltale sign of a supposed strongman who is actually weak and hollow is that a lot of the decisions are about the person themselves rather than what the country, State or city needs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/strong-is-as-strong-does/article31604951.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||May’s missing maushis||Ever since I can remember, synaesthesia has played a particularly important role in my life. Numbers for me have genders. Days of the week have a definite hierarchy, with Sundays leading the pack. And all my months are neatly divvied up to form a rainbow of colours. May’s colour has always been somewhere on the spectrum between a buttery yellow and an earthy burnt Sienna. No big surprise there. Think bright summer suns, freshly baked lemon chiffon cakes and yes, the indescribable hue of a ripe Alphonso. But there are two more shades in the family that truly define the month and, by default, summer for me. One, the almost-neon tangerine shade of freshly pounded East Indian bottle masala, and two, the amber-coloured beer bottles that it is always stored in for longer shelf-life. Thus, the name — bottle masala. While I am not an East Indian by birth, I have always been a big fan of their culture and, most pertinently, their cuisine. I’ve lived most of my life here in Dadar West, Mumbai, surrounded by a close-knit, strongly matriarchal community of East Indian families led by genial aunties who made it their mission to indulge the budding foodie in me with their yummy curries and succulent roasts. Almost all jazzed up with the ubiquitous East Indian bottle masala. From the coconut milk-enhanced mutton lonvas to a spicy chicken moile , the bottle masala reigns supreme. Just like the 36-ingredient Moroccan ras-el-hanout spice blend or the Ethiopian berbere mix, East Indian bottle masala is made up of a bewildering variety of spices, from the more obvious Kashmiri chillies to the ‘Google-it-now’ nagkesar . The latter — I learnt just for the purposes of this piece — is also called Indian rose chestnut or cobra saffron, by the way! Besides this, the complex dry spice blend has several iterations, each with varying measurements and ratios of spices. More the merrier I would not be exaggerating if I said that every East Indian family uses a different recipe for bottle masala — some use 20 spices, some 30, while the most elaborate of the lot use up to 40. But try asking any self-respecting East Indian cook to part with the recipe and they will sooner part with their lives. Such is the almost militant level of secrecy that shrouds the hallowed recipe. In fact, I remember an old neighbourhood aunty once telling me that East Indian mothers never teach their daughters how to make bottle masala for fear of them taking the prized recipe out of the family after getting married. They have no such compunctions, I was informed, for incoming daughters-in-law. I rest my case. This leads me to a vital link, not just to the whole bottle masala supply chain, but also to my very synaesthetically-heightened month of May — the masalawaali maushis . It is the rhythmic thumping sound that these singing, itinerant spice-grinding ladies make while pounding the aromatic, roasted spices for bottle masala that I associate most with summer as well. That May music has been missing this year. Thanks to the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, my backyard will not be infiltrated this season by the pungent fumes and lilting melodies wafting from neighbourhood gardens. The maushis will not be coming this year. Travelling troupes Mainly drawn from the local Maharashtrian Agri community, these women are generally always much in demand and need to be booked months in advance. They are always armed with their wooden pounding vessel, the ukli , and its cohort, the mussal, a mace-like tool with a metal base to hit the ingredients. These groups of ladies travel from house to house from early March to the end of May to grind the annual supply of bottle masala according to each family’s specifications, making sure to finish this important task before monsoon sets in. Interestingly, though the maushis are experts in the sifting, roasting and final pounding of the spices, they will never fully know the final recipe. Not only will the house matriarch weigh each ingredient separately and hand it over to the maushis just before pounding, but as per tradition she will also withhold one vital ingredient that she will pound herself and add later to the final mix. One of the most enduring and endearing traditions of the maushis is the singing of ovis (which literally means ‘strung together’) while they pound the spices. More specifically, they sing jatyavarchi ovi , specialised Marathi grinding songs that are used as poetic metre for rhythmic prose. One such ovi by Bahinabai, an unlettered 19th century peasant-poet from the Khandesh region of Maharashtra, comes to mind and seems a perfect way to sum it up in times like these. It says:  Get up at midnight, neatly set   out the grain   Begin working the grinding   stone   Be patient, don’t talk back, hold   your tongue   Let the memories of your old life   comfort you.  The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.    I would not be exaggerating if I said that every East Indian family uses a different recipe for bottle masala — some use 20 spices, some 30, while the most elaborate of the lot use up to 40||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mays-missing-maushis/article31604896.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Sudoku, virus and us||A few years ago, my brother posed me a question: “If humans evolved from apes, why do apes and monkeys still exist?” He is not an evolution denier, he was simply being curious. The question stemmed from the assumption that if something superior arrives, the redundant must surely leave the scene. I remembered my brother’s question again when I realised how strongly it is related to the irksome Instagram and WhatsApp posts of the past few weeks that talk of how a “primitive” or “insignificant” coronavirus has brought the “mighty” human race to its knees. In biological or evolutionary discourse, “primitive” is a word generally prefixed to organisms that evolved several millennia before the macro-organisms we are more familiar with. The word sticks in the minds of school students, and so most people lead lives with a sense of their superiority over all other organisms. This confidence may be misplaced. Every living thing is essentially formed of atoms and molecules governed by the laws of physics. The atoms and electrons composing cellular structures come with physics rules applicable to all living beings at their most fundamental level. So, is the cell the most basic entity we know to be living? Well, we have viruses, which do not resemble cellular structures at all. They are simply conscient molecules, for want of a better phrase. A few molecules of an acid (ribonucleic acid or RNA) encased within oil (lipid layer) is how any hetero-virus can be briefly introduced. Even though evolution led to speciation, or the formation of new species, the “primitive” ones continued to exist mainly for one reason: they were successful in their niche. The concept of the niche is better understood when we look at it from the ‘competitive exclusion principle’, which states that no two species can have the same niche, that is, compete for the same resources within the same space at the same time. On a long enough timeline, one species will out-compete the other and obliterate it. Resource partitioning For instance, when several fish species live in the same river, some fish will prefer faster flowing sections as they may have features such as a sucker-disc that allows them to hold on to rocks as water gushes around their streamlined bodies. Other, larger fish may prefer deeper, slower sections, while some move to parts with overhanging vegetation so they can feed on falling leaf litter or insects. This is known as resource partitioning, which allows extremely similar organisms to coexist in the same habitat. In ecology, a niche is generally attributed to an entire species. But we must remember that speciation is possible only because of differences among individuals within the population. The differences between individuals of the same species are also because of the differences at the genetic or molecular level. So, genetic differences are responsible not just for differences between species, but also for variations within them. Molecules (of DNA) that form genes have constantly ‘tried’ to mix and match and push for a greater diversity of genetic information. It is wrong to consider any of these genes obsolete or primitive. Parasites are one of the best examples of organisms that consistently seem archaic in terms of somatic (body-related) complexity, but are the most up-to-date. The simpler the organism, the easier it is for the gene to transform and produce starkly different varieties within its population. Subtle variations So, when we look at complex genomes such as that of humans, where approximately 90% of the genetic material is junk, profound differences amongst individuals are rare. Instead, what we see are “subtle” variations in mental capabilities or eye colour. Of course, a lot of the variety between individuals owes also to environmental factors and life experiences, compounded by meta-thinking, at least for humans. Finally, to answer my brother’s question: evolution is not directional. There are several species that came into being with associated functions (niches). In fact, if one were to plot all, or some, of the species on a graph for reproductive success and affluence, we would get a scatter graph that would show no relation to the evolutionary timescale. In other words, the organisms that rank higher in terms of reproductive success, genetic diversity, and abundance of required resources need not have necessarily evolved later than the ones that rank lower on the same parameters. Viruses and bacteria have long been considered “primitive” creatures. Their genetic information was never complex, and this is one of the primary reasons they continue to successfully infect humans and other ‘highly evolved’ organisms. They can mutate easily, providing for various genetic combinations (recombinants), which can in turn be selected through natural processes. This enables them to be a step ahead of the defence systems of host organisms. An analogy to understand this could be to compare two phone games, say sudoku and a car racing game. Yes, the car game is much more complex but Sudoku is not obsolete. In fact, Sudoku will need fewer ‘bug’ fixes and can work even without the internet. So, in the context of COVID-19, statements such as “a primitive creature showing humans their place on the planet” don’t really mean much because we were never beyond the coronaviruses’ reach. We have never been ‘superior’. We are just more complex and thus possibly more susceptible. The writer teaches at a Delhi University college.  Organisms that rank higher in terms of reproductive success, genetic diversity, and abundance of required resources need not have necessarily evolved later than the ones that rank lower on the same parameters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sudoku-virus-and-us/article31604897.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The passion of David||Clad in skyblue pyjamas, the patients from the children’s ward of the city hospital of Estrella gather around ten-year-old David, to be regaled with symbolic tales revolving round Don Quixote — the only book he has read . David, battling a rare degenerative disease, tells his enthralled audience that “nothing bad happens to Don Quixote”. David’s magnetic capacity to attract an audience even as the threat of an untimely death looms over him leaves most readers hunting for some profound communication in the third instalment of J.M. Coetzee’s Jesus trilogy, The Death of Jesus.  Alone in the world The book continues the allegorical journey of its protagonist that started in The Childhood of Jesus (2013), followed by The Schooldays of Jesus (2016) . The novel opens, rather unassumingly, with David’s brilliant display of skills in a friendly football match. This endears him to Dr. Julio Fabricante, the owner of the orphanage, Las Manos. The narrative suggests that David’s dancing lessons have given him the decisive edge on the football field, as they help him combine “good balance” with sporting skills. Dr. Fabricante’s inaugural conversation with David’s adoptive father, Simon, sets the tone for the novel, pinpointing the fundamental question regarding the identity of an orphan: “What does it mean to be an orphan? Does it simply mean that you are without visible parents? No. To be an orphan, at the deepest level, is to be alone in the world. So in a sense we are all orphans, for we are all, at the deepest level, alone in the world.” David will subsequently question his own identity as an orphan, much to the resentment of his adoptive parents, Simon and Ines. He eventually abandons them, taking refuge in Dr. Fabricante’s orphanage. David’s estrangement with Simon and Ines ends when he sustains a debilitating injury on the football field. It triggers off a mysterious illness, causing him to be admitted to the city hospital under the care of Dr. Ribeiro. Talking to Dr. Ribeiro, David recounts his fall on the football field and his earlier unreported “falls”: “I feel nice. It is like being drunk. I hear sounds.” The sounds that David claims to hear are: “Singing. And chimes that go clink in the wind.” Is David a traumatised child or is he just being precocious? Dr. Ribeiro’s diagnosis of David’s fictional Saporta syndrome — “a neuropathy of the adynamic variety” — is believed to be genetic. As David continues to deteriorate and struggle, confined for the rest of his short life in the city hospital, he repeatedly asks his adoptive parents: “Why am I here?” Elusive message David is racked with horrific seizures as his condition worsens, leading to the inevitable. Following his demise, the little quests of his friends and near ones to decipher the elusive ‘message’ he left behind take up the rest of the novel. Here the narrative sinks into an abyss of metaphysical speculations on life, death, and the continuity of life after death. Readers are obviously lured to correlate David’s death to the title of the story. Miracles don’t abound in the novel, though occasional ones are hinted at. It is at David’s intervention that Bolivar the dog and Jeremiah the lamb are at peace with each other, much in tune with the biblical proclamation: “The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; and a little child shall lead them” (Isaiah 11:6 ).  Beyond the apparent and the occasionally far-fetched religious parallelisms, the answer to the allegorical matrix of Coetzee’s tale perhaps lies in David’s obsession with Cervantes’ Don Quixote , which is all about the eternal human quest at betterment, notwithstanding the impracticality of this adventure. Coetzee raises fundamental questions of existence: the perennial conflict between romantic entrapment and harsh reality; the call of the individual self and the pressure of societal conformity; the various incompatible systems of morality; the problematic notion of sanity; and, finally, the universal relevance of great literature in human civilisation. In all this, one cannot get rid of the uncomfortable feeling that Coetzee is playing with the gullible reader. If the post-modernist reality is a ‘game’, then Coetzee proves himself to be the star gamer. The reviewer is Dean of Arts at St. Xavier’s College, Kolkata.  The Death of Jesus  J.M. Coetzee Penguin Random House  Rs. 799    Talking to Dr. Ribeiro, David recounts his fall on the football field and his earlier unreported “falls”: “I feel nice. It is like being drunk. I hear sounds.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-passion-of-david/article31604918.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Twists in a common history||Several years ago, I had two of my closest friends staying with me at my home. They had not previously met but, in the way that friends often do, they knew about each other from me. In the normal course this would have been an occasion for joyful feminist banter, serious discussion, and immediate bonding. But that was not what happened. For the few days they were there, my home turned into a place of great tension and bitterness. One of my friends was from Pakistan — at the time visas were granted sometimes — and the other from Bangladesh. It was a decade and a half after the 1971 war of liberation. Anger between friends In South Asian feminist circles, solidarity and empathy between women of the different countries of our region is common and taken for granted. I had thus not bargained for the enmity and anger that was so palpable between my friends. At the time, I was deep into the study of Partition and it was becoming clear to me that the history of that moment was looked at very differently by Pakistanis and Indians. In hindsight I realise that before throwing my two friends together so blithely, their histories were something I should have thought of. That moment came back to me powerfully as I read Anam Zakaria’s important book, 1971, in which Zakaria, a Pakistani, with her considerable experience in oral history, makes the journey to Bangladesh to explore the history of 1971 through the stories of people. The two dates: 1947 and 1971, in her telling, inextricably link the stories of Bangladesh, India and Pakistan, and her journey then takes her to each of these places to seek out witnesses, survivors, their children, academics, military men and others. Complex undertones As the stories unravel, you discover the differing narratives of the three States: for Bangladesh, Pakistan’s arrogance and ill-treatment; for Pakistan, Bangladesh’s disloyalty and attachment to a ‘Hindu’ language and culture, for India, playing the ‘caring’ big brother, rising to the defence of the defenceless. You find too that for the two enemies of old — India and Pakistan, the war becomes about themselves, the India-Pakistan war, and somewhere Bangladesh’s independence is incidental. Underneath these narratives lie the more complex, and much more complicated stories of people: a Pakistan armyman who fell in love with Bangladesh, a Bengali fisherman who moved to Pakistan after Bangladesh became independent and who today cannot be a citizen of the nation he chose (shades of present day India are hard to ignore), of Biharis in Bangladesh who still live in camps, of people who killed and those who saved, and of how this common history is twisted and turned and inconvenient truths and faultlines obliterated in the pursuit of some kind of ‘nation building’. This is evident enough in the telling of the stories, but Zakaria takes the reader not only into how the histories are constructed in oral narratives but also in how ‘knowledge’ is passed on. She notes how textbooks in the three countries tell the history only from their point of view, remarking on what they conceal and what they reveal and as memory fades, it is these tellings that acquire the status of truth, especially for generations who have no history or memory of that time. And even that manufactured ‘truth’ is not permanent for as regimes change, so do their truths. Act of solidarity In many ways Zakaria’s book is an important act of solidarity on the part of a Pakistani. For many years Bangladeshis have been demanding that Pakistan should formally apologise for the atrocities of 1971 but such apologies are not easily given, particularly not by states. Citizens, however, have that option. Many years ago, in a women’s meeting in Lahore, Pakistani women’s groups exercised this option when, over a day of moving music and intense conversation, they offered a formal apology to their Bangladeshi sisters. Zakaria’s book follows this distinguished heritage. No X factor If I have one complaint about this book, it is about how little attention Zakaria pays to women. It is not that they are absent, and there are some significant interviews with women. But just as the question of punishing men seen as collaborators has been a very troubled one, so also has that of the rape of women, and the status accorded to them as birangonas (brave women heroes) — this complex history intersects at so many points with the larger narrative of the war that it seems like an opportunity lost that it is not explored in more detail. The reviewer is a writer, historian, publisher.  1971 Aman Zakaria Penguin Random House  Rs. 699    Zakaria notes how textbooks in the three countries tell the history only from their point of view, remarking on what they conceal and reveal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/twists-in-a-common-history/article31604939.ece
25 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Wah ! Taj in my living room||Recently, when the Archbishop of Canterbury gave his Easter sermon, the cathedral’s visual splendour and its unusual acoustic timbre were unfortunately missing from the occasion — the archbishop spoke to a home audience from the dining room of his London flat. At St. Peter’s in Rome, Pope Francis broke with centuries of tradition and livestreamed his Easter address to an audience of 1.3 million Catholics from the lonely magnificence of the largest dome in the world, with just television crews and trusted church elders present. Is this the future of religion after the pandemic?  Kumbh Mela in bathtub? If institutions like the Church of England can go digital, what stops Laxminarayan Temple in Delhi from broadcasting the evening aarti over the Internet? The history of cathedrals is part of European religious history, as indeed is the range of temples, churches and mosques in India. But after the experience of a million heads prostrated in unison at Mecca, can a private reading of the Quran be an adequate substitute for collective mass prayer? Will social distancing ever be possible at the Puri Jagannath Rath Yatra? Could indeed the next Kumbh Mela of 120 million devotees become an immersion in a home bathtub with packaged Gangajal ? What is the future of architecture, of monuments, temples, mosques and elaborate landmarks, if all life is going online? Will great complexes like Angkor Wat, the pyramids, the Taj Mahal, the churches of Italy, and the museums and concert halls of Europe become mere reminders of recent history — the physical age before the digital one? As the pandemic rages, it is hard to imagine crowds jostling at the new Ram Mandir being planned in Ayodhya, and yet it’s hard to imagine the Ram Mandir as a virtual structure, without physical dimensions or a construction budget.  Awaiting transformation At least for some time in the foreseeable future, expanded digital platforms are likely to become the medium for large public participatory events. People who want to indulge in fine dining might order food from a Japanese restaurant and then eat it in front of a TV screen display of the interiors of a Japanese restaurant. Fans may cheer a cricket match from their living rooms, with a collective of excited voices beamed to players on the field from speakers hidden under the empty seats of the stadium. Yet, what is the real value of a city, unless it is formed out of active public participation? Why would so many people come to live together in one place if there were no reasons to connect to each other? Is the future city then a wasted place? In a country that has never had outstanding modern edifices to public life — museums, libraries, theatres, concert halls — nonetheless, a vast array of buildings will still suddenly fall silent with social distancing. The vast chains of hotels, vacation resorts, malls, shopping centres and stadia across India will lie empty and forlorn, doomed to decay. Or they could be given a new lease of life. As the old requirements from spaces die out, new ones reveal themselves. The three main areas where such new ideas could play out are hospitality, commerce and entertainment. With tourism and travel the most obvious victims of the pandemic, hotels will largely lie empty. Would their conversion into private city apartments be a possibility? Could the Taj in Mumbai or the Oberoi in Delhi be the points of such transformation? What about malls, shopping centres and restaurants? With most forms of commerce moving online and home-delivery of food and groceries, these vacated spaces and their crucial location in key points across the city could make them ideal candidates for a useful addition of specialty hospitals and neighbourhood clinics. Changed order Just as homes have evolved into extended work spaces, large office buildings could enact a similar reversal, providing extended homes within the office area. Thus, work-from-home could be supplemented with live-in-office. The possibilities are endless. Any future rethink of architecture must widen its humanistic arc to include everyone in the city’s participatory life. The old idea of the city must be given a new direction. More than ever, the government — using the architect community — needs to take insightful and radical positions. The pandemic has clearly pointed out the immense shortfalls in our urban life. After this is over, as millions of migrants slowly return to cities and jobs, will they be given an assurance of better living conditions or will they merely creep back into their old decrepit crevices? Can the city reciprocate with a changed order of architectural priorities, and seek valuable lessons from new discomforts rather than return to old and flawed familiarities? Architecture’s brief will be valuable only if it creates vivid and unapologetic solutions for a new reality. The profession’s most tragic failure has been its inability to take a stand on cultural and social patterns of city life. Retaining for itself the comfortable and irrelevant postures of design, its failure will become all the more obvious if it doesn’t participate in redefining a new, post-pandemic character for our cities. In the end, that is where the difference will lie. Will we be saddled with a new set of urban ruins, adding crumbling hotels, stadia and malls to our existing stock of Mughal tombs and derelict monuments? Or will we take necessary — even outlandishly experimental — steps to create a diverse and unique skyline? At a time of such upheaval, the decisions that we don’t take may affect us more than we think. The writer is a Delhi-based architect and sculptor.  If institutions like the Church of England can go digital, what stops Laxminarayan Temple in Delhi from broadcasting the eveningaartiover the Internet?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/wah-taj-in-my-living-room/article31604949.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Who let the dogs out?||A month and something into this climate of sensory deprivation, and I wouldn’t be the only one feeling a persistent sense of free fall. Those of us who can afford to are sheltering in place, quarantining and social distancing. And rapidly realising that illness can be brought about as much by feelings of isolation, loneliness, and abandonment as by viruses. So what am I doing to stave off all of the above in these trying times? Two words: dog videos. Go ahead, judge me. Every half hour, I find myself looking at dogs walking, running, rolling over, slurping, cuddling... you get the drift. I also obsessively refresh the Instagram page of a Bengaluru-based organisation called ‘Let’s Live Together’ that rescues, fosters and facilitates the adoption of puppies. I dream about a basket of puppies at my doorstep or of my partner magically appearing one morning with a fluffy cheeseball of a dog. Yes, all of the above. And I ponder about what makes this form of consumption so very comforting. Our world, even pre-virus, has been having some intimacy issues. Therapists per square feet have risen to address, one, our increasing incapacity for spontaneous feeling, and two, the need to radically change how we live in relation to our privilege and its lack thereof in those we disregard and mistreat. In such a world, where all rules are up for debate, perhaps dogs represent a simpler kind of love. Perhaps they are the only form of risk-free intimacy left in a universe powered by anxiety, triggers, trauma and suspicion? Perhaps they are the only apt recipients of human love, given that we seem to no longer have any left to spare for fellow humans? And perhaps puppies are stand-ins for babies, the commitment that millennials and then some are so very afraid to make? Not just love But instead of treating dogs as metaphors, as representations and as projects in the service of yet another narcissistic rendition of mankind, perhaps anthropology in the Anthropocene can provide a better roadmap. Maybe, like Donna Haraway writes in The Companion Species Manifesto , dogs are not about unconditional love, but about “seeking to inhabit an inter-subjective world that is about meeting the other in all the fleshly detail of a mortal relationship”; in other words, the messy business of learning how to love so many others so different from oneself. And learning it in the most material fashion possible — through everyday acts of feeding, walking, tending, cleaning, grooming and cleaning up vomit. All for a dog that is fated to be never quite anything but, how do I put this, a dog? I see myself — too charitably perhaps — becoming a better inhabitant of the world with every new dog I pet. I marvel at the neighbourhood beauty that communicates wordlessly that it has no need for the water I carry or the biscuits I bring, but that it will gladly accept any and all head-scratches. I re-read my friend and columnist Gouri Dange’s glorious ode to her dog, ‘Yoyonama’, to relive memories of a dog that I understood not at all, but loved with so much wonder and abandon. Gouri’s adventures with Yoyo make me think that Haraway must have been writing about her when she said that “The permanent search for knowledge of the intimate other, and the inevitable comic and tragic mistakes in that quest, commands my respect...” And contrary to many people’s assumptions of dogs as upper-class luxuries, I remember homeless men and women hunkering down with their sole companions, their well-fed and well-loved dogs. We are not alone Dog-human relationships tell us that the question of animals versus people is a false binary. Loving dogs allows us ways to reconcile ourselves with and, indeed, learn to love the multiplicity of human-ness itself. For what better time than this to remember that not only are we not alone, but that our emotional and physical survival depends on fostering relationships with all manner of others. The question of dogs then is no less than a question of an ethics of learning how to live together. And, therefore, before we let out the people, I think we should let out the dogs.  I dream about a basket of puppies at my doorstep or of my partner magically appearing one morning with a fluffy, cheeseball of a dog. Yes, all of the above||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/who-let-the-dogs-out/article31604964.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Boys do cry||My 10-year-old son came to me saying something was bothering him. I asked what was it. He was disturbed and perhaps trying to find the reason. I asked again. And he reacted saying, “You just don’t understand, Baba.” I backed off from any further probing, understanding his need for space. Hugging him, I told him it was normal to feel disturbed or sad and there was no need to find the reason. He seemed to calm down. I told him if he felt sad it was okay to cry, and that from time to time, we all went through such feelings which drenched us like the waves of the sea but in the end, we came out of it. He sobbed for a bit on my shoulders, and then went to my wife and cried a bit on her shoulders as well. And after about 10 minutes, he was back to his normal happy and active self. I was reminded about how growing up, we were conditioned to a gender stereotype of “boys don’t cry”; crying was a sign of weakness which could brand the psyche from the pre-teen days. Perhaps recognising my sensitive and emotional nature, I had built a tough exterior as a coping mechanism to protect myself from this supposed weakness. Managing such bottled emotions with no natural outlet perhaps led at times to some cognitive dissidence of adjusting to the artificiality of the new normal of the shifting social norms. But an interesting outcome of cultivating this persona has been that some of the few people with whom I have had sustained friendships over 25 to 30 years at an emotional level have had similar persona — a sensitive and emotional core with a cultivated tough exterior. Maybe, there are some subconscious cues transmitted and received by such people seeking bonding, which make them click soon and sustain long friendships. But lately, lowering my emotional guard has been a liberating experience — cultivating friendships and nurturing relationships has become more important than maintaining an artificial self-image or sustaining egos. I am no longer conscious of being judged for the communication and expression of my emotions. I wished I had done so earlier and not missed out on the naturalism of life’s experiences. Coming back to my son, the least I can do is to encourage him to be true to his personality, transcend the social conditioning and grow up being secure about who he is; and tell him that the conventional attributes of toughness, like beauty, are just skin deep. Yes, not just boys, tough men too can cry. siddpanda@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/boys-do-cry/article31604903.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||In Patagonia by Bruce Chatwin||As a child he was infatuated with a “piece of skin” in his grandmother’s glass-fronted cabinet. She told him it was part of a brontosaurus, which lived in Patagonia in South America, and was sent to her by a sailor cousin, Charley Milward, who had settled in Punta Arenas after a shipwreck. Bruce Chatwin never stopped dreaming of this story, and his interest survived the loss of the skin, which was thrown out by his mother while shifting houses. And though it turned out that the brontosaurus was actually a mylodon or Giant Sloth, Chatwin, a journalist with The Sunday Times, landed up in South America in 1974 after writing to his boss: “Gone to Patagonia…” The months-long trip inspired the first of Chatwin’s books, In Patagonia , in 1977 and launched his writing career. Arid wastes Patagonia makes up the tail-end of South America, a huge mass of land shared by Argentina and Chile, filled with basalt pebbles left behind by glaciers — a “sea of grey-green thornscrub lying off in sweeps”. As he begins his journey, moving south from Buenos Aires on a night bus, Chatwin recalls the words of past travellers — how the “arid wastes” had taken firm possession of Charles Darwin’s mind, and W.H. Hudson, who had journeyed to the region in the 1860s, concluding that desert wanderers “discover in themselves a primeval calmness, which is perhaps the same as the Peace of God.” In the Chubut Valley, Chatwin arrives at a village called Gaiman, “the centre of Welsh Patagonia,” where the people are fiercely embedded in the past. The Welsh colonists had settled in the region ages ago: the houses have sash windows with the ivy trained to grow over porches, and one is named Nith-y-dryw or Wren’s Nest. A teashop sells lemon-curd tarts and most cling to their family clocks. Elsewhere, he runs into restless souls from Italy, Scotland, Germany and also Araucanian Indians, often very drunk, as he goes up and down the Patagonian region to trace his original story, that of Milward and his sloth skin. Outside a village in Rio Negro he climbs a path and looks up-stream towards Chile. “I could see the river, glinting and sliding through the bone-white cliffs with strips of emerald cultivation either side. Away from the cliffs was the desert. There was no sound but the wind whirring through thorns and whistling through dead grass, and no other sign of life but a hawk, and a black beetle easing over white stones.” The sea, the sea Writing in short despatches, Chatwin is more interested in what the traveller sees. Finding a log cabin of the North American kind along the trail, Chatwin probes new information on Butch Cassidy and the Black Jack gang, following their tracks in Patagonia. Once when his hand is cut to the bone after a fall from a horse, he is treated by an exile, a doctor from Russia who spends every spare peso to order books from the YMCA Press in Paris. At the town of Puerto Deseado, he argues with a bunch of scientists studying the migration of the jackass penguin: “We talked late into the night… whether or not, we, too, have journeys mapped out in our central nervous systems; it seemed the only way to account for our insane restlessness.” This restlessness or dogged pursuit of an idea would lead him to Casilla 182, Punta Arenas — the house where Milward lived, now owned by a doctor and his wife. The story goes that when Milward was old and sick he would look out at the Magellan Strait through a telescope kept in one of the towers or “sit at a desk stirring his memory to recapture the ecstasy of going down to the sea in ships.”  In Patagonia was released to effusive praise, with The Guardian calling it “the book that redefined travel writing.” But it upset many of the people who lived there, as his biographer, Nicholas Shakespeare, notes: “He wrote quick snapshots of ordinary people among whom he passed a very short time,” mining memory, which is not always reliable. Chatwin died at 48 after having put Patagonia on the map forever. Many wanderers still visit the place clutching a copy of his book. The writer looks back at one classic every month.  Finding a log cabin of the North American kind along the trail, Chatwin probes new information on Butch Cassidy and the Black Jack gang||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-patagonia-by-bruce-chatwin/article31604922.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||How to be a bookstore bakery||Last fall, Kyle Hall’s bookstore was destroyed by a tornado. This spring, it was almost wiped out by a pandemic. For the past two months, ever since Texas ordered non-essential businesses to shut down, Hall, the manager and co-owner of Interabang Books in Dallas, has taken one unprecedented step after another to keep the store open. In March, Interabang transformed from a brick-and-mortar shop to an online retail business. When the stay-at-home order was lifted in end-April, it became a curbside takeout operation. Staff members redesigned the storefront display, cramming 100 titles in the window so that customers could browse at a safe distance. “We called it the bookstore bakery case,” Hall said. “That was strange, but in a week we got used to it.” Then the State’s orders changed again, and retailers were told they could open at 25% of their usual capacity. Interabang’s staff reorganised the layout of the 2,000-square-foot space and put markers with the store’s logo on the floor to signal how far apart customers should stand. They put hand sanitiser next to the register, provided masks and gloves, and reopened on May 1. In the May 9 weekend, around 150 customers came to shop, most wearing masks.  Even as health experts working with the Trump administration warned a Senate panel on May 12 against reopening the country too quickly, the U.S. retail sector is slowly getting back to business. Balance beam As some States allow a handful of businesses to reopen and other regions charge ahead full throttle, it is an experiment for bookstore owners and other retailers attempting to strike a balance between staying afloat and keeping everyone safe. For now, Interabang may be something of an optimistic outlier. Among retail businesses, bookstores, especially smaller independent stores, face particular challenges. Many indies occupy cramped spaces with warrens of bookshelves, and serve as community centres and cultural outposts as well. Book lovers come in to linger, browse and chat with the staff, all behaviours that in a pandemic are potentially life-threatening. Some booksellers are now in the awkward position of having to disappoint eager customers. Malaprop’s in Asheville, North Carolina, has told subscribers that when it reopens, shoppers will be allowed to visit, masks on, by appointment only. In Barnes & Noble stores that are open for browsing, furniture has been removed, and trolleys have been set out with signs instructing customers to leave any books they have touched on the cart, so that the books can be quarantined for five days. Bad timing The pandemic struck at a time when U.S. booksellers were thriving after a shift among consumers toward local shopping helped drive a resurgence of indie stores. The outbreak threatens to wipe out those gains. Remarkably, the mass closure of brick-and-mortar bookstores hasn’t led to plunging book sales. Print unit sales grew by nearly 5% in the week ending May 2, compared with the same period last year. However, since sales are mostly online, some worry that Amazon will gain even more market share now. Across California, stores like Run for Cover, Napa Bookmine in Napa, Green Apple Books in San Francisco and Vroman’s in Pasadena are gearing up for curbside shopping. Others, like the Ripped Bodice in Los Angeles, are restricting their operations to online orders and shipping for now. “I would feel very uncomfortable about even doing curbside at this stage,” said Teresa Lynch, one of the store’s booksellers. The Book Catapult, an independent store in San Diego, is offering offering limited curbside shopping, asking customers to wear masks and practise social distancing when they come to pick up books. Seth Marko, one of the store’s co-owners, said he’s not eager to open the store for browsing. “What is right for the bookstore in this town is not going to be right for the bookstore in the next town,” said Calvin Crosby, executive director of the California Independent Booksellers Alliance. NYT||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/how-to-be-a-bookstore-bakery/article31604924.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Between technology and politics, the art of thinking big and small||‘Technology is both the problem and the solution. We wish for our kids to remain distant from the lure of technology — but should that happen, they will in many respects begin to move backwards in life. Therefore, we should always encourage our youth to understand technology. But how they use it makes all the difference — are new technologies making our youngsters robots or good human beings? In many cases, technology tends to narrow our minds, when it should be used to expand our horizons.’ As Arun Mohan Sukumar says in his book, that is Narendra Modi in 2019, sounding like Jawaharlal Nehru in the 1950s. At several other points too, Sukumar, attempting to chart modern India’s technological history on an oceanic scale, has to drop anchor close inshore. Cautious enthusiasm Sukumar starts by contrasting Madan Mohan Malaviya’s enthusiasm for technology with Nehru’s caution, but for Malaviya technology was the way to Hindu rule; for Nehru it had to serve all Indian citizens. Sukumar then divides the book into Ages, respectively of Innocence, Doubt, Struggle, and Rediscovery, like a sort of Pilgrim’s Progress. Noting that the term ‘technology’ has several senses, he criticises the solar cooker, the Community Development Scheme and the alternative technology movement, but is not messianic about the purported successes, like the civil nuclear programme. That took nearly 30 years to generate any electricity; the Tarapur and Rajasthan plants had lengthy shutdowns over radiation and other environmental hazards (the 2003 Environmental Impact Assessment for Kudankulam reactors 3 to 6 used baseline data for the distant Travancore coast, concluding that marine life there would not be affected). In 2017, 3.22% of India’s electricity came from 22 reactors. Praise for computers Sukumar apparently thinks powerful personalities can get through India’s bureaucracy, though he acknowledges problems. M. Visvesvaraya was a substantial figure, but was grossly casteist; presumably any system he ran would be barred to Dalits. Vikram Sarabhai, adding a powerful intellect to inherited wealth, needed the state to advance the space programme. The author’s greatest praise is for computers. He details India’s complex concerns about foreign exchange (without mentioning global oil-price shocks) and public servants’ anxieties about job losses, but argues that security concerns following the 9/11 attacks in the United States were decisive for India’s information technology turn; he does note that IT is used as much to spread ancient hatreds as to do anything else. Sukumar writes accessibly and recognises central political motivations — like Indira Gandhi’s science plans, and the reasons for India’s Antarctic bases — but he makes many unsourced pronouncements; comments that Politician X or Y could not have been unaware of Issue Z are also unsourced. Survey findings are taken at face value without mention of sample design, and documented episodes of technocrats concealing major problems do not figure. Significant lacunae Among other issues, the author does not ask what problem the Aadhaar card was meant to solve. He repeatedly castigates Indian bureaucracy, and calls U.S. federal regulations ‘onerous’, but he seems unaware that in the U.S. addictive opioid painkillers gained licences, or that the relation between the Federal Aviation Administration and passenger aircraft manufacturers is often problematic. His admiration for India as ‘the world’s pharmacy’ also neglects the fact that global bodies have criticised the substandard quality of certain Indian medicines they buy. For some reason, Sukumar does not mention the global North’s DIY revolution, which generates continuing improvements in the tools and machines householders use for often substantial work on their own dwellings. Nehru stunned engineers by asking if they had told the workers on a huge project why they were there. Today’s highups might well refrain from telling Indian labourers that they can read safety laws on their phones. The reviewer teaches at IIT Madras.  Midnight’s Machines: A Political History of Technology in India Arun Mohan Sukumar Penguin Random House India  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/between-technology-and-politics-the-art-of-thinking-big-and-small/article31604932.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on May 17, 1749, this English physician was an avid zoologist who discovered that the baby cuckoo pushes the other eggs out of the nest. He is most well known for inoculating an eight-year-old boy with pus from cowpox blisters on a milkmaid and proving his hypothesis. The success of this discovery led to the development of a biological preparation which provides immunity to an infectious disease. Who was this physician and what is the preparation that he pioneered? 2Emil von Behring was a German physiologist who won the first Nobel Prize in Medicine (1901). He was known as a ‘saviour of children’ because he discovered antitoxins for two diseases which before his time had killed thousands of children. The first one was caused by Corynebacterium and the second by Clostridium bacteria. What are these two diseases which children now are vaccinated against along with Pertussis (whooping cough)? 3Maurice Hilleman’s daughter Jeryl caught a viral disease in 1963 that caused her salivary glands to swell. He cultured a sample from her, worked and developed a vaccine and injected it into his younger daughter. The resulting vaccine is still used as part of the MMR vaccine and has saved more than a hundred million lives so far. He went on to develop vaccines for measles, Hep A, Hep B, Chickenpox, Meningitis and pneumonia (amongst others) rightfully earning the claim ‘most successful vaccinologist’. What disease did his daughter get that he treated? 4This Scottish gentleman won his Nobel in 1945 and is best known for discovering the lysozyme enzyme and the world’s first broadly effective antibiotic substance, which he serendipitously found on a mould. Who is this microbiologist who was voted one of the 100 Most Important People of the 20th century by Time magazine? 5Robert Koch was a German physician known for his extensive work in improving laboratory technologies and techniques in the field of microbiology. He received his Nobel Prize in 1905 for discovering the causative agent for a particular disease caused by a Mycobacterium species which generally affects the lungs. This disease was historically called ‘consumption’ due to the weight loss it caused. Thanks to Koch’s work a vaccine could be eventually developed which brought down the huge death toll from this ancient disease. Which disease is this? 6Jonas Salk successfully developed a vaccine which became the safest and most effective medicine needed in a health system when it was introduced. It was so effective and safe that an oral vaccine was developed which could be given as drops to children. He showed its success with a trial on 1.8 million U.S. schoolchildren after which countries all around the world immediately sprung to action. Which disease caused by a virus is this that once was feared as ‘America’s greatest fear after the Atom bomb’? 7John Snow was an English Physician who was a leader in the development of anaesthesia and medical hygiene and the founder of modern epidemiology. His work led to fundamental changes in the water and waste systems of London, which led to changes in all major cities all around the world, improving general public health till today. His work started because of his work on an outbreak of an infectious disease caused by the Vibrio bacterium in London. What disease is this, the first pandemic of which happened in India in 1817? 8Morbillivirus is an RNA virus which causes a highly contagious airborne infectious disease that affects only humans. Its main symptoms are small white spots known as Koplik’s spots. It is prevented by a combination vaccine which also protects from two other diseases, Mumps and Rubella. What disease is this that affects 20 million people per year but has been brought under control with the vaccine? 9Varicella which is caused by the varicella-zoster virus is a highly contagious airborne disease that results in a characteristic itchy skin rash. Since 1995 the introduction of a vaccine has decreased the number of cases dramatically. What disease is this that gets its more common name because the rash seems to resemble what happens if a certain farm animal would peck the skin? 10Kitasato Shibasaburō was a Japanese physician who was nominated along with Emil von Behring for the Nobel Prize but unfortunately didn’t win. He discovered a bacterium which he believed caused a certain devastating disease. A few days later the bacterium was identified by a Swiss bacteriologist Alexandre Yersin, after whom the bacteria is named Yersinia pestis . Once this was discovered it became easier to put an end to this disease that had killed an estimated 50 million people in the 14th century alone. What diseases is this, with the name nowadays used to refer to any major infectious disease wrongly? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article31604953.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Loving the corona pause||This may sound bizarre, but it’s logical to expect that a whole lot of people have begun to love the novel coronavirus. Let me take a bottom-up approach, beginning with children. They have not just one or two but three reasons to thank the virus: no school and homework, and an opportunity to play with their parents locked down at home. With maids not turning up, the mindset of generations of men that they are not supposed to do any household work has changed. Now many of them have been compelled to learn the skills of washing utensils and sweeping and mopping the floor. Rumours are afloat that many woman are contemplating doing away with the service of maids even after the lifting of the lockdown. At the organisational level, CEOs are thrilled to have spotted huge cost savings from asking employees to work from home — less travel, reduced staff, and savings in office space and expenses. Astrologers seem to be in great demand in TV shows and periodicals, as they seem to have formulated the horoscope of the virus and are hence able to predict the exact exit dates. Spiritual gurus seem to have far more followers now than ever before since people begin to grasp what they have been advising all along — seek happiness within and no need to step out. Statisticians never had it so good as they are busy with bar charts, tables and graphs of many shapes, updated on hourly basis. TV channels, of course, should be the biggest gainers, as locked-down viewers have become captive audiences.  soraiyurvraman@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/loving-the-corona-pause/article31604901.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Prophecy of 1984||We continue to live in Orwell’s Oceania, ridden with tensions between security and freedom, constraint and consent. Democratic structures stand battered in the face of the “Panopticon” visualised by Jeremy Bentham in the 18th century. Orwell, in his plain prose, direct, and hard-hitting, was warning against the human urge to control his fellowmen. His statement — “Who controls the past controls the future: who controls the present controls the past” — tersely describes the strategies of political and social hegemony. Escaping a bullet If it hadn’t been for a quirk of destiny, George Orwell would have been cast into oblivion. His miraculous escape from a bullet that just about missed his carotid artery during his involvement on the frontlines in the Spanish Civil War in May 1937 made it possible for generations to use his literary writings to substantiate their stand against totalitarianism. Like many other revolutionaries who had gone to Spain to fight against fascism, he remained a diehard rebel till the end. Though the wrath of the Stalinist machinery haunted and stalked him while in Spain, Orwell escaped to France. This harrowing experience left him with a constitutional antipathy for the communist cause. He had been always on the Left, but increasingly became exasperated by its non-avowal of Stalinist absolutism, and summed it up thus: “The sin of nearly all left wingers from 1933 onwards is that they wanted to be anti-Fascist without being anti-totalitarian.” Rodden stays clear from taking any position on Orwell’s ideological leanings: “I have sought to clarify with scholarly accuracy his legacy and not to indulge in the practice of robbing his grave or moving his coffin to the left or to the right for my own political purposes.” The emphasis is mainly on establishing Orwell’s controversial trajectory as well as his contribution to the liberal and social narratives of our times when human freedom and rights are under threat. Nightmares in history Orwell’s political essays and the outstanding novels Animal Farm and 1984   become for Rodden the hallmarks of political regimes that create nightmares of history endangering the survival of freedom. A perfect metaphor for today, 1984 holds an immense value and urgent warning for our times, though often the expression “Orwellian” ironically represents the totalitarian forces rather than the author who stood up against them. Combining biography and history, Rodden draws attention to Orwell’s  work which echoes the present. The horrors of dictatorship, the corruption of language, the production of a pervasive gullibility, and the endless spying on citizens find reflection in not only his innumerable coinages like “thought crime” “Newspeak”, “Big Brother”, but also his essays on the dangers of imperialism or the politics of language. Revisiting Orwell, Rodden’s book keeps alive the spirit of the man and his imagination ceaselessly pursuing the idea of freedom and justice under threat of regressive orthodoxy. Orwell was indeed an intellectual who wrote not only for his age, but for the future, becoming a source of inspiration for the ongoing struggles and the survival of the human spirit.  The reviewer teaches English at Panjab University.  Becoming George Orwell: Life and Letters, Legend and Legacy John Rodden Princeton University Press  Rs. 2,274||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/prophecy-of-1984/article31604936.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Candy crushed to bits||Respected Madam/ Sir,  How are you? What has Mr. Mathrubootham done today? Who is latest victim of his irritation? This only you are thinking? Okay you shut up. Yes, today also only one person is victim of Mr. Mathrubootham. Any guess who? Correct answer is Mr. Mathrubootham only. Self goal means total self goal. Whether any need was there for self goal? Zero. Just Kali Yuga. No other explanation is there. Till lunch time absolutely zero problem. Totally normal Corona type day. Waking up. Little bit yoga. Twenty minutes esteemed newspaper. Breakfast. Plant watering. Talking to neighbours from balcony. Little bit DVD. Some reading. Some house cleaning. Then lunch. No tensions. What is difference between retirement life and Corona life? Increased chance of beatings from police hahaha. After lunch suddenly strong crossword feeling is coming after long. I called out, “Kamalam, where is the newspaper? Whether any crossword is there?” She said, “Old man, when you were standing in balcony and shouting at Dr. Shankaramenon like crow in the morning, I am sitting and doing Hindu crossword like decent people. If you want, you take old newspaper and do.” At that moment my second son gave unnecessary advice. (Hope you still remember my second son.) He is working from home fulltime. Who knows what he is doing. Whole day he is sitting in front of computer typing takatakataka. And from somewhere money is coming into bank account every month. Every day I am asking, “Kamalam what he is doing whole day? Shall I go and ask? And she will say no need. If you don’t know then tomorrow if there is police case only one of you will go to jail. If both of you go at once, then how much time to waste coming to jail once a month for him and once for you? No need. I have other activities to do.” This same son entered and said, “Appa, appa, what you are talking like Vasco Da Gama era. Who is doing crossword and all in newspaper these days? What is the need when there is smart phone?” I said, ok fine, no need for UGC TV programme type lecture. Madam/ Sir, phone has no charge so I am putting it for charging. I can wait but brain is full of crossword. Immediate immediate. So I said, “Kamalam please give your phone, I will put Crossword app.” She said, “Fine. But if you touch anything else means I will put Vim in your tea.” Madam/ Sir, while Crossword app is downloading I thought I will play Candy Crush. Then tragedy of tragedies happened. When moving app from one place to another totally by mistake I am deleting Candy Crush from Mrs. Mathrubootham phone. Just like that. One moment it is there. Next moment it is gone. I started to panic like anything. Candy Crush for Mrs. Mathrubootham is like sandalwood for Veerappan. Immediately I went into bedroom and closed the door. I said, please don’t disturb. Time for fully focus on crossword, excuse me. Then Madam/ Sir, I played Candy Crush for four hours till I reached same level as Mrs. Mathrubootham: Level 243. And then after quickly doing 2-3 crosswords, I came out and said, “Ayappa too much enjoyment I have had with Crossword app. Kamalam you also try.” Then just 15 minutes later she said, “My god this is best app in whole world. I am enjoying like anything. Finally found one game better than stupid Candy Crush. It is good for brain also.” Then, just like that, she deleted Candy Crush and started doing Crossword. I went back into the bedroom and lay down on the bed quietly.  Yours in exasperation,   J. Mathrubootham||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/candy-crushed-to-bits/article31604961.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Tell him what you have||Today’s deal features an interesting defensive problem and highlights an important defensive principle. Declarer has no control over his result — it’s all up to the defence. East plays the two of clubs at trick one, discouraging. West continues with the queen of clubs and East shows his “present count” in the suit by playing his nine. West now knows that another club trick is cashing, so he leads the king of clubs. What now? The winning continuation is a fourth round of clubs, giving declarer a ruff-sluff but promoting East’s jack of spades into the setting trick. West will probably find this play, but it isn’t certain. Can East help West find the winning play? East could play his second and third clubs in reverse order, playing the three followed by the nine. This “red flag” should cause partner to sit up and take notice. “Why did my partner play his clubs that way? He must be calling my attention to something unusual”. Yes, this might work. It is also possible that partner will see the three of clubs at trick two and decide that the third club isn’t cashing. He might shift at trick three. “Don’t tell partner what to do. Tell him what you have and let him figure out what to do” is an important defensive principle. “Red flags” should be rare. East should just play his cards normally and let West figure it out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tell-him-what-you-have/article31604956.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sweeney Sisters||Lian Dolan  HarperLuxe Rs. 1166.32 (Kindle price) Maggie, Eliza, and Tricia Sweeney discover a fourth sister when their father, a literary icon, dies unexpectedly one cool June night. What does this mean for the father’s literary legacy? Where is the unfinished memoir he’s stashed away, and what will it reveal?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sweeney-sisters/article31604926.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Sea Wife||Amity Gaige  Knopf $13.99 (Kindle price) A staid marriage gets a new shot when Juliet, her husband, and their two children set out to sea on a sailboat. The family learns to crew the boat together on the ever-changing sea. The vast horizons and isolated islands offer them reprieve till they are tested by the unforeseen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sea-wife/article31604928.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Big Summer||Jennifer Weiner  Atria Books $14.99 (Kindle price) In this funny take on female friendship, Daphne Berg tries to resist the siren call of her once-bestie, Drue Cavanaugh. Letting glamorous, seductive Drue back into her life is risky, but it comes with an invitation to spend a weekend in a waterfront Cape Cod mansion thronged by single guys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/big-summer/article31604930.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||When Nehru Looked East||Francine R. Frankel  Oxford University Press Rs. 995 This volume gives an account of the origins of India-U.S estrangement and of India-China rivalry lasting beyond the Cold War and the difficulty of the United States and India in forging a strategic partnership to balance against China’s rise in the 21st century.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/when-nehru-looked-east/article31604934.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Shuttling to the Top: The Story of P.V. Sindhu||V. Krishnaswamy  HarperCollins Rs. 399 Volleyball was discussed at home, but badminton star Pullela Gopichand was P.V. Sindhu’s hero. She would travel over 40 km to train at his academy. Sindhu became the first Indian to win an Olympic silver medal for badminton.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/shuttling-to-the-top-the-story-of-pv-sindhu/article31604941.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Into the Heart of the Himalayas||Jono Lineen  Speaking Tiger Rs. 499 When Jono Lineen’s brother died in tragic circumstances, he moved to the Himalayas and immersed himself in the cultures for over eight years. His memoir traces the solo trekking odyssey of 2,700 km covering regions of Pakistan and Ladakh, Himachal and Uttarakhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/into-the-heart-of-the-himalayas/article31604943.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||35 Days: How Politics in Maharashtra Changed Forever in 2019||Jitendra Dixit  HarperCollins Rs. 399 A political drama unfolded in Maharashtra, between the declaration of the assembly election results in 2019 and the formation of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in the State. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/35-days-how-politics-in-maharashtra-changed-forever-in-2019/article31604945.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3100||Across  1 The Right Stuff and Top Gun aged badly (3-2-3-2) 6 What to say to a horse while holding on anxiously, primarily? (4) 9 Period during which you might have an unpleasant shock? (3,4,3) 10 For starters, alcoholic sparkling tincture, Italian (4) 11 Singer confused bride with shrug in church (5,2,5) 15 Tragic Greek figure, skinny, next to the German (7) 16 Drugs dipped in caviar for Brat Pack actor (3,4) 17 Once again, accepts contract’s terms and quits (7) 19 ‘Pescatarian option’? Ham is doubly out of order! (7) 20 Interrogate corrupt cronies about Congress in the morning (5-7) 23 Poet, retiring lone wolf at heart (4) 24Real idiots misconstrued views of theObserver, etc (10) 25 Middle section taken from Muslim holy book: it’s a Buddhist riddle (4) 26 Sympathisers omitting greeting disturbed intelligence chiefs (10)  Down  1 Travel over most of large desert (4) 2 Cut a dash, to some extent – voilà! (2-2) 3 Breakfast items stolen, for example case of grapefruits (7,4) 4 Less socially adept, demanding more energy, not right (7) 5 King George and Queen Elizabeth: that’s even more majestic (7) 7 That man’s little musical group, iconic, not half theatrical (10) 8 Crime that I arranged, being calculating (10) 12 Naïve types accepting president’s to get rid of weapons (5-2-4) 13 In the manner of Royal Marine, punch time- keeper (5,5) 14 Spies entrap idiot, minor poet regularly following stars (10) 18 ‘River Dee rising,’ son first exaggerated (5,2) 19 During autopsy, MP to manipulate evidence (7) 21 Blue European nobleman? (4) 22 Stinging insects, with tip of wings clipped, remain poisonous creatures (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3100/article31604959.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||SUNDAY RECIPE||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article31604899.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||WHO backs COVID-19 vaccine trials that deliberately infect participants||In new guidelines issued on May 6, the World Health Organization has said that well-designed human challenge studies could not only accelerate COVID-19 vaccine development but also make it more likely that the vaccines ultimately deployed will be far more effective. In human challenge studies, healthy participants are first administered the candidate vaccine and then deliberately exposed to novel coronavirus. In conventional clinical trials, healthy participants are administered the candidate vaccine, and the safety and efficacy of the vaccine is assessed through natural infection. Compare and select The guidelines say that it would be “substantially faster” to carry out vaccine field trials through human challenge studies as far fewer participants need to be exposed to candidate vaccines to “provide (preliminary) estimates of efficacy and safety”. It says this approach will make it possible to compare the efficacy of multiple vaccine candidates and select the most promising vaccines for larger studies. In addition to accelerating vaccine development, human challenge studies can help validate tests for immunity to the virus, identify correlates of immune protection, and investigate the risks of transmission by infected individuals, it says. COVID-19 can kill millions (over 3,00,000 people have already died) and strain the healthcare system worldwide. While physical distancing can help to reduce virus spread, it can disproportionately affect the underprivileged groups. Successes and risks While human challenge studies are ethically controversial, such studies have been performed safely in tens of thousands of people in the last 50 years and helped accelerate the development of vaccines against typhoid and cholera. Such a study for Zika virus was also conducted.  According to the guidelines, challenge studies would be least risky for young healthy adults aged 18-30 years, as the hospitalisation rates in this age group is about 1% and fatal infection rates around 0.03%. But a March 27 study in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report found that 20.8% of patients aged 20–44 had severe disease which required hospitalisation, and 4.2% of patients developed critical disease, which required admission to an ICU. Human challenge studies are to be carried out only in specialised centres where close monitoring and ready access to early supportive treatment for participants, including critical care if required is available, the WHO says. But what makes such studies for COVID-19 particularly risky and challenging is the fact that pathogenesis of the disease is poorly understood and there is no approved treatment available in case participants develop the disease. Potential benefits and risks should be assessed, quantified and compared with other feasible study designs, and the expected benefits should be maximised and the risks minimised, the guidelines say. “Given the ethically sensitive nature of SARS-CoV-2 challenge studies, assessment of their potential benefits and risks should be especially rigorous,” it says. Meanwhile, the U.S. National Institutes of Health is also preparing the ground for human challenge trials for COVID-19 vaccines. The vaccines working group is preparing the scientific and practical considerations for COVID-19 human challenge trials, the Financial Times reports. Michael Felberbaum, a spokesman for FDA told WIRED that challenge trials are one of the methods it is considering to speed up COVID-19 vaccine development. Prof Andrew Pollard, who is leading the trial of the vaccine developed by the team at the University of Oxford’s Jenner Institute told The Guardian that there is “huge interest” in the possibility of challenge trials among those working on coronavirus vaccines. “At the moment, because we don’t have a rescue therapy, we have to approach challenge studies extremely cautiously,” Pollard said. Ethical framework “Recognizing the uncertainties, risks from SARS-CoV-2 human challenge studies appear comparable to the risks from some other research and activities similar to research,” says Seema K. Shah, a medical ethicist from North Western University, in a paper in Science authored by her that lays out an ethical framework for conducting such studies. “Given the extraordinary nature of the pandemic, our framework and analysis support laying the groundwork for coronavirus challenge studies.” Dr. Shah is also part of the WHO working group that developed the guidelines. Meanwhile, NBC News reports that that the multinational testing company SGS and London-based hVIVO are planning human challenge studies. Nearly 20,500 people from 102 countries have already volunteered to participate in such studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/who-backs-covid-19-vaccine-trials-that-deliberately-infect-participants/article31605047.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Make masks at home with cotton and silk||Across the world, the COVID-19 pandemic has forced governments into mandating the use of face masks. The general public has been advised to use cloth masks and not hoard N95 and surgical masks which are reserved for the healthcare workers. But how do we make a good mask? Which material should we use? A new paper in ACS Nano shows that a combination of cotton and silk or chiffon is the answer. Supratik Guha and team from the University of Chicago carried out various studies on commonly available fabrics such as cotton, silk, chiffon, flannel and their combinations. They used an aerosol generation and mixing chamber to produce particles ranging from 10 nanometre to 10 micrometre in diameter. Using a fan, the aerosols were blown through the cloths at two different air flows corresponding to a person’s respiration at rest and moderate exertion. Cotton and chiffon The number and size of particles in air were measured before and after passing through the fabric. One layer of cotton along with two layers of chiffon showed the highest filtration efficiency of 97%. The researchers point out that the tightly woven cotton can act as a mechanical barrier to the aerosols and the chiffon serves as an electrostatic barrier. “As kids, we used to do this experiment where we would rub a comb on our dry hairs to lift small pieces of paper. Electrostatic filtration effectively works on the same principle. Some fabrics such as natural silk and chiffon can hold static charges. When small particles come in close proximity to these fabrics, they are attracted and trapped inside them, thus acting as filters,” explains Abhinav Prakash, a postdoctoral researcher and one of the authors of the paper in an email to The Hindu.  However, even a small 1% gap in the mask drastically reduced its efficiency. “The importance of a good fit needs to be emphasised. Even for a mask as good as an N95 mask, the filtration efficiency can drop significantly if they are nor properly worn,” he adds. “The idea behind using cloth masks using common fabrics is that they can be made readily available to the general public in the current COVID-19 situation where there is a shortage of N95 and surgical masks,”writes Dr. Prakash. “Their reusability and best ways of treating them still need to be studied. Also, we haven't performed any tests on how long they can be used. We are currently working on studying the effect of different wash cycles on the filtration efficiencies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/make-masks-at-home-with-cotton-and-silk/article31605041.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||IISc develops antimicrobial composite material and testing protocols for PPEs||A team from Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru (IISc) has developed a three-layered antimicrobial composite material of low-cost for making masks. And another team, including members from IISc, is involved in testing masks and developing a way of recycling them. The mask material consists of three layers. The outermost layer is made of polyester fabric with polymeric nanofibre deposited on it to make it water-repellent. The middle layer is also a polyester fabric on both sides of which polymeric nanofibres containing antiviral and antibacterial agents are deposited. This layer inactivates both bacteria and virus when it comes into contact with it. The innermost layer is a comfort layer consisting of cotton fabric. Testing anti-virus action “The middle layer also has positively charged polymer (polycations) which inactivate the microbes that come in contact with this layer,” explains Suryasarathi Bose, from Department of Materials Engineering, who is a leader of the project along with Kaushik Chatterji also from the same department. The material was tested by Umesh Varshney’s team in the Department of Microbiology and Cell Biology. Titers of bacteriophage (a virus that kills bacteria) were made, and the mask material was soaked in it for 30-120 minutes. The liquid was then eluted and poured on a bacterial colony where it was incubated for 24 hours. If the virus remained, they would have seen plaques. Instead they observed a flourishing lawn of bacteria. This indicated that the samples did not contain virus. The material is designed to cut off particles of the size of 0.3 micrometres to about 95% efficiency. “Our technology partner (Resil Chemicals, Bengaluru) has expressed interest in licensing this technology and following bulk trials they would get it manufactured,” says Dr Bose. Testing masks normally looks for the following parameters: particle filtration efficiency, virus and bacterial filtration efficiency, blood penetration, breathing resistance (difficulty in breathing), and how good a fit to the face the mask is. Physical parameters According to Akshay Naik of Centre for Nanoscience and Engineering, IISc, right now, their team tests masks for two factors: efficiency of particle filtration and breathing resistance. For instance, N95 masks are supposed to filter out 95% of particles of size 0.3 micrometre and above. “The entire system is built with components that we could source from our labs and some components that we could 3D-print,” says Prof. Naik. “The idea was to help hospitals or other agencies check the quality of new masks received or to test decontaminated masks for possible reuse.” Prof. Naik is quick to reiterate, “We obviously make it clear that this is not a substitute for legal certification. We also prohibit people from using the data that we provide or test that we do for any commercial use.” The team is also working on ways to decontaminate the masks and the number of times it can be recycled. However, they are clear that masks, especially the N95, are meant to be used just once, and reusing them after decontamination is really the last option.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/iisc-develops-antimicrobial-composite-material-and-testing-protocols-for-ppes/article31605046.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Traditional belief and today’s science||A fortnight ago, the union minister in charge of the National Mission for Clean Ganga approached the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct research on the use of Ganga river water (Ganga Jal) as a cure to the COVID-19 virus infection. The ICMR pointed out that the data available on this work are not strong enough to start any clinical trials, and politely declined — touché. River Ganga is regarded by millions of people as the holiest and most sacred among all the rivers of the world. Starting from the Gangotri glacier at Gaumukh in the Himalayas (3.9 km or 13,000 feet above sea level), it gathers water from several streams on the way to become River Ganga at Devaprayag near Haridwar in the Uttarakhand state. It flows all the way to the Bay of Bengal 2,525 km, with river basins across all the northern Indian flatlands such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. People (mostly Hindu, but some others too) all across its course worship it, bathe in it, take its water home for pooja and related purposes (I saw it being sold abroad as well, for example, in Indian shops in California). Such is the belief and reverence for Ganga Mata. The Sacred and the profane Unfortunately, in the Haridwar region itself, pollution of its water has been going on for centuries — largely through human waste disposal and some commercial pollution as well. R. Bhutania and colleagues have published a paper titled: “Assessment of Ganga River Ecosystem at Haridwar, Uttarakhand, India, with reference to Water Quality Index” in the journal Applied Water Science, 6, 107-118 (2016), <link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s13201-014-0206-6.pdf>, which is not at all a happy reading. And the most recent contamination study of river Ganga water has appeared in the December 23, 2019 issue of the New York Times <nytimes.com/2019/12/23/health/ganges-drug-resistant-bacteria.html>. This study summarises the ongoing analysis (by a group of researchers at the IIT Delhi) of the pollution, and the presence of dangerous bacteria in the water, which are resistant to the currently used antibiotic drugs. In other words, right where it starts to flow into the country, Ganga Jal is harmful for human and animal health. As it flows downstream, industrial wastes from factories are further dumped, making its water quality and safety even worse. Indeed, a recent report from the holy city of Varanasi says that the current lockdown period has helped the river’s water quality improve by 40-50% ( India Today, April 6, 2020). How have we allowed this profanity? Surely, a large number of humans who use Ganga water are believers; even many heads of the various industry groups still hold Ganga as sacred, and even offer pooja using its water from time to time, and yet go ahead and pollute it. [It is important to note here that the word ‘profane’ is not necessarily a denial of belief, but refers to mundane individual concerns, and not ‘good versus evil’, or ‘God versus Satan’]. It is a ‘what is in there for me’ attitude, which is ethically (perhaps even morally) wrong. Given this dichotomy, Ganga Mata does not appear to have a safe and clean future. Learn from dolphins, gharials Getting back to science, given this abundance of poisonous germs (and harmful chemical wastes), one wonders how the 140 fish species, 90 amphibians, reptiles, birds, and the famous Ganges river dolphins and the gharials (fish eating crocodiles) cope with the conditions in the water, particularly, since it is also polluted now by COVID-19. Do they have special immunity, and do they generate antibodies to fight against such pathogens? This is an issue that needs to be studied with care and adapted for human defence against coronaviruses. Some interesting insights have come about from some recent immunity studies displayed by unusual animals such as llamas, camels and sharks. Mitch Leslie writes in the May 1, 2020 issue of Science: “Biologists invent a new way to fight viruses with llama blood and molecular superglue”. Miniature antibodies are seen to be pumped out by the immune cells of llamas, camels and sharks, which are about half the size of standard antibodies. The main message here is that these animals generate mini-antibodies, which can be easily synthesised in biology labs and used as weapons to win over viral infection. A detailed paper on how this can be done has just been published in the journal Cell (see: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2020.04.031 ). More relevant to the dolphins is a paper by C. Centellege and coworkers,: “Insights into dolphins’ immunology: Immuno-phenotypic study on Mediterranean and Atlantic stranded cetaceans”; < https://doi.org/10.3389/2019.00888> . The Mediterranean Sea is highly polluted while the waters in Canary Islands are purer. I believe we can take a lesson from these studies, research on the Ganges river dolphins and the ghariyals, identify their mini-antibodies, synthesise them in the lab, and adapt them for human use against COVID-19 and other such coronaviruses. The DBT laboratory, National Institute of Animal Biotechnology (NIAB) at Hyderabad might be a possible centre to initiate this. Where the twain do meet In stark contrast to the above minister, is a request from the minister in charge of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy) to conduct a randomised controlled clinical trial to assess the efficacy of Ashwagandha, Yashtimadhu, giloy and a polyherbal formulation (called Ayush 64), as prophylactic interventions against COVID-19. This should be conducted since there is sufficient evidence that molecules in traditional herbs and plants have therapeutic properties, and their active molecules discovered, synthesised and used by drug companies. And the polymath M S Valiathan has spent the last two decades, collaborating with Ayurvedic practitioners, biochemists, cell biologists, geneticists and nanotechnologists to evaluate the effects of traditional formulations using today’s scientific methods.(Read, for example, his medal lecture:”Ayurvedic Biology: The First Decade” published in Proceedings of the Indian National Science Academy 82, No.1, March 2016. pp. 13-19, where he cites many experiments on Ayurveda using today’s science, and their confirmatory results; available free on the web). One such example is: “ In vivo effects of traditional Ayurvedic formulations in Drosophila melanogaster model relate with therapeutic applications”, by V. Dwivedi et al., PLoS One , 2012; 7(5):23711<doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0037113>. Here is how tradition and today’s science meet and merge. AYUSH can fight COVID-19, Ganga Jal can only carry it. dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/traditional-belief-and-todays-science/article31605043.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Aiming to achieve herd immunity naturally is ‘dangerous’, WHO warns||The World Health Organization has condemned the “dangerous” concept of herd immunity for managing the coronavirus pandemic. Dr. Michael Ryan, executive director of the WHO’s health emergencies programme said it was wrong to think that countries can “magically” make their populations immune to novel coronavirus. During a press briefing on May 12, Dr. Ryan said the concept of herd immunity is generally used for calculating how many people will need to be vaccinated in a population in order to protect those who are not vaccinated. “We need to be careful while using terms in this way around natural infections in humans because it can lead to a very brutal arithmetic which does not put people, life and suffering at the centre of that equation,” he said. It was mistakenly assumed that as this disease spreads across the world, only the severe cases become apparent while most people would indeed be infected as reflected in sero epidemiology results. Greater proportion of people getting infected would mean that the pandemic will be over soon and people can go back to normal business. “But the preliminary results from in sero epidemiology studies are showing the opposite. The proportion of people with significant clinical illnesses is a higher proportion of all those who have been infected. This is because the number of people infected in the total population is probably much lower than we expected. That means we have a long way to go. This is a serious disease, this is public enemy number one. We have been saying this over and over again,” he said. “No one is safe until everyone is safe,” Dr. Ryan added. The WHO director also warned about the dangerous assumption by countries that have had “lax measures and haven’t done anything [that they] will all of a sudden magically reach some herd immunity” by losing a few old people along the way. “This is a really dangerous calculation. We need to get our priorities right as we head to the next phase of this fight,” he said. Other challenges Achieving herd immunity through natural infections has other challenges. While antibodies (IgG and IgM) against novel coronavirus generally develop in one–three weeks after infection, some people do not seem to develop a humoral immune response, as reflected by detectable antibodies. It is unclear why this happens. Writing in a Perspective piece in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), Dr. Robert D. Kirkcaldy, from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, U.S., and others say the relationship between antibody response and clinical improvement is still not clear. Though a small study involving just nine patients found a direct correlation between clinical severity and levels of antibody response, “antibody detection and higher titers have not always been found to correlate with clinical improvement in COVID-19”, they say. Also, mild infections can resolve even before detectable antibodies are produced. Durability of response Also, how long neutralising antibodies against the virus would last is currently not known, though one study found that they persist for up to 40 days from symptom onset. In the case of the 2002 SARS, levels of IgG remained high for nearly four–five months before declining during the next two–three years. For MERS, the antibodies persisted for up to 34 months. “Detection of IgG and neutralising antibodies is not synonymous with durable immunity,” they write. A small study posted in a preprint server bioRxiv found that four rhesus macaques that were infected with coronavirus and recovered did not get reinfected when exposed to the virus 28 days after the first infection. Whether humans too will exhibit such protection is not known, though no cases have so far been reported of people getting reinfected. The detection of over 220 cases of “reinfection” in South Korea was found to be a case of virus remnants being detected and not reinfection or reactivation. Reinfections possible Reinfection is mightily possible with at least three of the four coronaviruses which cause common cold. “The reasons for this reinfection are not fully known, but evidence suggests that possibilities include both short-lived protective immunity and re-exposure to genetically distinct forms of the same viral strain,” they write. But WHO cautions that “there is currently no evidence that people who have recovered from COVID-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second infection”. Infected people may have some level of protection against the virus, but the level and duration of protection is still not known. Finally, they caution about reading too much from antibody testing of the general population to know the extend of virus spread in the community. Antibody tests have been known to produce wrong results as the sensitivity and specificity of these tests is not known. “It is presently premature to use such assays to determine whether individuals are immune to reinfection” they say. “It remains to be determined whether a robust IgG response corresponds with immunity.” According to them, only well-designed longitudinal studies involving those who have recovered from COVID-19 for recurrent illness can help provide the much-needed information about reinfection and the duration of protection by the antibodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/aiming-to-achieve-herd-immunity-naturally-is-dangerous-who-warns/article31605044.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Waiting for a train home||Pramod Kumar, 35, his wife Pratima and their three-year-old son Sameer reached New Delhi railway station from Jammu in the wee hours of Saturday. Their train home to Bilaspur, Chhattisgarh, is scheduled to depart on May 19. With no other options available, a pedestal outside the nearby metro station will be their ‘home’ for the next three days. The family presents the grim reality of the plight of stranded migrants trying to return home in the absence of direct or connecting trains, and proper accommodation during lockdown. Mr. Kumar used to work as a labourer under the Shrine Board in Jammu. His contractor helped him book the tickets to Bilaspur online. As there was no direct train available and the next available train to Bilaspur was on May 19, they had no option but to book the tickets without giving a thought to how they would manage for three days. “I have seen places around, everything is shut. No eateries are open and no accommodation also. We will have to stay here only,” he said, clutching on to his bags as Sameer sat on his lap. While leaving on Friday evening, Pratima said she had made 30 chapatis and tomato chutney for the journey which will last till Saturday night at most. “We didn’t know how we would manage food but have been told that there is a school where the government is providing food. I will go there,” said Mr. Kumar. For Sameer’s hunger bouts at odd hours, they had kept biscuits and mixture packets. For water, the couple said that they bought a two-litre bottle for Rs. 20 from a public convenience opposite to a toilet facility, however, money is charged for using the toilets. While others sitting nearby agreed that the public convenience was charging for services, the caretaker denied levying charges and said that the place is shut unless people need to use it in an emergency. “ Paani bhi soch soch ke pee rahe hain (We have to think before drinking water),” said Mr. Kumar. The travel home cost the couple close to Rs. 10,000 as opposed to Rs. 2,000 in normal times. Its a major blow to their finances but: “ Bas ghar jaa paa rahe hain, isse badi koi baat nahin hai (We are able to go home, there’s nothing more important than that),” he said.  ‘Here since March 21’ Sitting next to the family was Riyadhi, a kinnar from West Bengal’s Kolkata. “I have been living here since March 21,” she said. Hopping between Delhi’s Malviya Nagar and Kolkata with her group, Riyadhi was clueless about any government facilities except a hunger relief centre. “I have Rs. 1,000 left. I will use it to buy a general ticket back home whenever normal services resume. My group left for Kolkata on March 21. I came to the station on March 22 to buy a ticket and board the train but then the lockdown was announced and I got stuck here,” she said, adding that her group used to dance on auspicious occasions to earn money. She claimed that five days after reaching the railway station, her purse got stolen which had her phone charger. Now, the phone is off and she has been unable to contact anyone for over 50 days. Riyadhi gets meals twice a day at a nearby government school and goes to public convenience for relieving herself and bathing. “If public transport starts sooner than the trains, I will go back to Malviya Nagar where I know people. My mother back home in Kolkata might be worried about me,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/waiting-for-a-train-home/article31605237.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||How will the COVID-19 relief for MSMEs help?||The story so far: In his address to the nation on May 12, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a Rs. 20-lakh crore economic relief package titled Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. The relief package is being unveiled in tranches (from May 13) by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The first tranche, aimed at micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and at some individuals was announced by her on Wednesday. What are the proposals aimed at offering relief to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs)? The government has proposed to offer collateral-free loans to MSMEs which will be fully guaranteed by the Centre. There will be a principal repayment moratorium for 12 months and the interest rate will be capped and there will be no guarantee fee. All MSMEs with a turnover of up to Rs. 100 crore and with outstanding credit of up to Rs. 25 crore will be eligible to borrow up to 20% of their total outstanding credit as on February 29, 2020. These loans will have a four-year tenure and the scheme will be open until October 31. A total of Rs. 3-lakh crore has been allocated for this. How will this benefit MSMEs? This will act as initial seed money for these small enterprises hit by zero cash flow due to the national lockdown. This loan will help them buy raw materials, pay initial bills and daily wages to employees. In short, this will be like working capital for cranking up their businesses again. Banks, though flush with funds, have been unwilling to lend to this category of borrowers as they fear that the money will not be repaid. These small businesses have also pledged all their assets already for other loans and do not have any more assets to pledge. It is to break this logjam that the government has said that it will backstop banks up to Rs. 3-lakh crore and said that these loans do not need collaterals. Banks are now expected to be more comfortable in assisting this category of borrowers because the risk is zero (since the loans are guaranteed by the central government). This is the single biggest proposal in the last three tranches of announcements under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and small businesses are expected to benefit from this in a big way. About 45 lakh MSMEs are expected to gain from this proposal. Are these the only proposals for MSMEs? No. A partial credit guarantee scheme has been extended to enable promoters of these units to increase their equity. A total of Rs. 20,000 crore will be funnelled through the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) whereby banks will lend money to promoters which can be infused as equity in their businesses. About two lakh stressed MSMEs with non-performing assets (NPAs) are projected to benefit from this. The CGTMSE will offer a partial credit guarantee to banks. There is also a proposal to infuse equity into MSMEs through a Fund of funds system where the government will provide Rs. 10,000 crore as initial corpus of the Fund. This will be leveraged to raise Rs. 50,000 crore which will be used to support MSMEs in desperate need of equity through ‘daughter funds’ of the main Fund of funds. The aim is to expand size and capacity of the MSMEs with equity and help them get listed on the stock exchanges. Was not a change in the definition of MSMEs also announced? Yes, henceforth MSMEs will be defined not based on their investment alone but also on their turnover. The definition has been tweaked and the existing distinction between manufacturing and services units has been eliminated. Henceforth, a unit with up to Rs. 1 crore investment and Rs. 5 crore turnover will qualify as a micro unit, investment up to Rs. 10 crore and turnover up to Rs. 50 crore will qualify as a small unit, and investment up to Rs. 20 crore and turnover up to Rs. 100 crore will qualify as a medium enterprise. It has been a long-standing demand from industry to hike the investment limits, as with inflation, units often cross the threshold that will bring them benefits. To prevent this, they either run their operations at a reduced level or incorporate multiple units so that turnover is distributed in a way that they remain within the threshold that will give them the benefits. The decision to add turnover criteria to investment is seen as a good decision as there are units that leverage a small capital to post large revenues. What are the proposals for non-banking financial companies (NBFCs)? NBFCs, housing finance companies and micro finance institutions are finding it difficult to raise debt capital due to a confidence crisis in the debt markets. The government has, therefore, announced a special liquidity scheme of Rs. 30,000 crore to pick up investment grade debt paper from both primary and secondary markets. Such paper will be fully guaranteed by the government. This is expected to break the low confidence cycle in the market for lending to the above category of borrowers. In addition, to help low rated finance companies to raise debt, the existing partial credit guarantee scheme has been extended to cover primary market debt paper wherein the first 20% loss will be borne by the government. A total of Rs. 45,000 crore has been set aside for this Partial Credit Guarantee Scheme 2.0 that will offer liquidity to paper rated AA and below and even unrated paper. Do electricity distribution companies (discoms) also feature in the first tranche announced? Yes, discoms are in a huge liquidity crisis and unable to pay their dues to electricity generation companies. Their cash flow and revenues have been hit due to low demand from industrial consumers for power during the lockdown. The various State discoms together owe about Rs. 94,000 crore to their suppliers, the generation and transmission companies. The government, through Power Finance Corporation-Rural Electrification Corporation, will infuse liquidity of Rs. 90,000 crore to discoms which will be securitised against their receivables from consumers. The loans given for the purpose of discharging their dues to generation companies will be against a guarantee from the respective State related to the discom. This emergency liquidity infusion will avert a crisis where generation and transmission companies stop supplies to discoms that are in default. What are the measures for the common man? In March, when the first relief package called the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana was announced, the government offered to pay the 24% provident fund contribution (employer+employee) for those earning up to Rs. 15,000 a month as salary and working in units that employ less than 100 workers for three months. This has now been extended for another three months up to August. The statutory PF contribution for those employed in the private sector (and not in the category of establishments above) has been reduced to 10% (from 12% now) for the next three months in order to increase liquidity in their hands. This is expected to benefit 4.3 crore people and 6.5 lakh establishments and release a total of Rs. 6,750 crore liquidity. In addition to the above, the rate of tax deducted at source (TDS) and tax collected at source (TCS) has been reduced by 25% for a whole range of receipts. Thus, in payments to contractors, professional fees, rent, interest, commission, brokerage, etc. the TDS will be 25% lower. The TCS paid while buying a car of over Rs. 10 lakh in value and TCS collected in property transactions will also be lower. The lower TDS is not applicable on monthly salaries that employees receive. In the cases where TDS/TCS has been reduced, the tax liability is not reduced. It will be payable while filing return or while paying advance tax. The idea is only to offer immediate cash relief to people. The lower TDS/TCS kicks in right away and will stay until March 31, 2021.  About 45 lakh micro, small and medium enterprises are expected to gain from the government’s measures. Banks are likely to feel more comfortable to help these borrowers as the loans will be fully guaranteed by the Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-will-the-covid-19-relief-for-msmes-help/article31604976.ece
17 May 2020||NUH,||Nuh shatters wrong notions in its fight against COVID-19||A Muslim-dominated region, Nuh’s challenge to combat COVID-19 has been different. And so is its response. No wonder this Haryana district, accounting for more than one-fourth of the State’s active COVID-19 cases in the second week of April, mostly linked to the religious congregation in New Delhi, now only has seven under-treatment patients left. This amounts to just 2% of the State’s tally of 360 cases. This, despite twin handicaps — the lowest literacy rate in the State and extremely poor health infrastructure. Seemingly relieved, Nuh’s Deputy Commissioner Pankaj says the district officials’ public image of being “impartial”, “transparency in dealing with the situation” and the “prompt action” are the cornerstones of their multipronged approach to tackle the crisis. “The situation could have easily gone out of hand had we not been able to trace the Tablighis swiftly. The cases could have even run into thousands due to community spread. Maintaining law and order was another major challenge as rumours could turn things ugly in no time,” says Mr. Pankaj, a 2009-batch IAS officer. Sudden spurt Not having a single case till the end of March, Nuh saw a sudden spurt soon after the religious congregation in the Capital and topped the State’s COVID-19 tally with 38 cases on April 9. The administration responded quickly to the emerging situation realising its gravity to “trace” 655 Tablighi members, including 50-odd foreign nationals, within 48 hours after the Nizamuddin episode hit the headlines. But it soon dawned upon the authorities that the battle was far from over. The local religious leaders, voicing the perception of the large Muslim population, expressed apprehensions that the Tablighis could be “ill-treated” inside the quarantine centres and opposed to them being kept at government centres. They demanded that Tablighis be kept at mosques or madrasas . Potential flashpoint Given the long history of the local population’s lack of faith in the government agencies, as also evident from their opposition to the vaccination drives, and more so in the wake of the Citizenship Amendment Act recently, the situation could be a potential flashpoint. But the administration, going against the protocol, allowed the maulanas escorted visits inside the centres and to talk to the under-treatment Tablighis to assure them they were not in “custody”. Reputation of Mr. Pankaj, who has completed almost two years in the district, and Additional Deputy Commissioner Vikram, and their understanding of the local sentiments helped save the situation. Another possible flashpoint was reached when the Haryana government ordered seizing of the mobile phones and the original identity cards of the Tablighis inside the centres, but the district administration again acted judiciously to convey the ground situation to the higher-ups and a mutually agreed upon solution was found. ‘Nuh model’ Mr. Vikram, a 2014-batch IAS officer, says that close coordination of all district departments and ensuring the participation of the locals in the form of “Theekri Pehras” inside the containment zones has been another highlight of the “Nuh model”. On April 8, as many as 33 villages and two urban areas, Nuh and Punhana, were declared containment zones to prevent the spread of the deadly virus. In four villages, even stricter restrictions were put in place and the residents were supplied the essentials at their doorsteps. The health department constituted 289 teams, comprising the ASHA workers, Aganwadi workers and lab technicians, under the overall supervision of the doctors for a door-to-door survey. Mr. Pankaj says the entire 12 lakh population of the district has been checked twice for symptoms, besides random check-ups for the policemen, paramedical staff and cart pullers. The Chief Medical Officer, Virender Yadav, suggested to modify a mobile van to minimise a doctor’s interaction with the suspects during sample collection to go around the scarcity of Personal Protective Equipment. It was a great success. In fact, none of the medical and paramedical staff in the district has contracted the virus so far. The district administration simultaneously analysed the death figures for the villages on a daily basis to detect emergence of any new pattern suggesting possible community spread. All vegetable markets were shut in April itself in a pre-emptive move and the shops, now allowed to open, follow the odd-even scheme. Amid all this, the administration also arranged for the procurement of Rabi crop and ran relief centres for migrants walking through the district. Countering rumours Being one of India’s most backward regions — Nuh figures on the NITI Aayog’s 100 aspirational districts list – the locals have little access to social media and electronic and print media. The administration arranged for announcements from the mosques with the active support of the religious leaders to put across the authorities’ directions and counter the rumours. Radio Mewat, a community-radio station run by SMART, an NGO, also acted as vital bridge between the administration and the locals. “Our team has been running the programme “COVID-19 Se Jung Radio Mewat Ke Sung” since mid-March and broadcasting 3-4 hours of content on the deadly virus. It has been fighting myths, misinformation and rumours,” says Archana Kapoor, founder director SMART/Radio Mewat. The religious leaders also helped persuade the locals not to go to the mosques during Ramazan and stay indoors. “In fact, they had a very important role in implementing the administration’s orders on the ground in our fight against COVID-19. These leaders also convinced the Tablighis inside the centres to not gather for offering namaz and maintain social distancing,” says Mr. Pankaj. Nuh boasts of the maximum number of self-help groups in Haryana. These also contributed their bit by making masks and even PPEs for the secondary and tertiary line workers. Mr. Vikram says the administration procured two lakh masks at Rs. 8 per piece from the SHGs. Tense relations Mewat Vikas Sabha president Salamudeen Meo says the region managed to win the fight against the COVID-19, but a campaign of hate against the Muslims labelling them as “corona spreaders” has impacted the relations between the two communities in and around the district. Though no major incidents of misbehaviour or violence were reported in the district, a former Muslim serviceman was beaten up in Sangel village of Nuh by a crowd in April accusing him of spreading the virus. Mr. Meo says there were also reports of the local Hindus not buying vegetables and fruits from the Muslim vendors in the area. Similarly, a few ASHA workers and paramedical staff had also alleged misbehaviour by the locals villagers during the door-to-door survey. Local journalist and social worker Mohammad Younus Alvi says the local police registering attempt to murder cases against the village sarpanchs for failing to inform the authorities about the visitors from outside helped contain the spread. “All the cases in Nuh were linked to those coming from outside. The fear of police action led to quick reporting of the outsiders and the spread was contained in time. The political and religious leaders also played an important role in ensuring adherence to the directions of the administration. But the district administration lacked in its efforts to create awareness on the matter,” says Mr. Alvi, also a former councillor. Nuh MLA and Deputy Leader of the Opposition, Aftab Ahmed, says the victory against the virus was a “collective effort” and the locals in their fight against COVID-19, shattered the wrong perceptions held against them, to comply with the government directions staying indoors and maintaining social distancing. Mr. Aftab says the district did not register even a single death and the health infrastructure created during the Congress rule, such as Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar helped the district. Mr. Pankaj says the district’s fight against COVID-19 continues with new challenges and the administration now needs to be more vigilant since a large population, working as drivers and daily wagers, needs to travel to Delhi and Gurugram daily for their livelihood. “But the fact that only nine of 65 patients had symptoms hints at the high immunity levels among the locals. It could work to our advantage,” he says, with a broad smile.  All the cases in Nuh were linked to those coming from outside. The fear of police action led to quick reporting of the outsiders and the spread was contained in time Mohammad Younus Alvi Local journalist and social worker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nuh-shatters-wrong-notions-in-its-fight-against-covid-19/article31605241.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Will migrants benefit from the Centre’s measures?||The story so far: In her second tranche of COVID-19 relief package announcements, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the steps taken by the government for migrants and farmers during the national lockdown, including free ration for stranded workers. Acknowledging the significance of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) during the pandemic, she said it had helped provide jobs to returning workers in rural areas and advised States to continue the process in the monsoon season as well. Migrant workers, the urban poor and small farmers are the targeted beneficiaries of these announcements. Why and how have migrant workers suffered during the lockdown? One of the most severely affected sections of the population due to the extended lockdown has been migrant workers, especially those in urban areas across the country. The recent Periodic Labour Force Survey conducted in 2017 by the National Sample Survey Office of the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, had estimated that there were around 1,49,53,750 urban workers who had vulnerable jobs. These workers included helpers in a household enterprise and who did not receive a regular salary and casual labourers who received daily wages; besides this, the number considers only those in the bottom 50% of the wealth pyramid in 2017-18, based on their monthly per capita expenditure. This number extended to an estimated 2.5 crore people if those who had salaried jobs but did not receive any paid leave and other benefits were included. Migrant workers numbered more than 81 lakh people among this segment. Once the national lockdown was announced, it was this segment of the population which was hurt the most as many of them lost their jobs (the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, or CMIE, estimates unemployment to have reached 24.2%, with urban unemployment being 26%) and had barely any income to tide over the lockdown. Many migrant workers sought to return home to their home towns, but the absence of transport prevented them from doing so. State governments were supposed to set up relief camps and shelters providing food and other amenities for these workers, but implementation was skewed (69% of the overall shelters and camps were situated only in Kerala, according to an affidavit submitted by the Union government to the Supreme Court in early April). With increasing distress, many migrant workers took recourse to their own means of transport to go home — many had no other option but to walk long distances — before the central government finally notified the start of services of “Shramik trains” to transport them. Migrant workers have continued to travel to escape distress conditions at their places of work and in the absence of any social security net. What has been announced for migrant workers? The Finance Minister acknowledged the significance of the MGNREGS in providing jobs to workers returning to rural areas. The government noted that work off-take increased in May. This followed instructions from the Centre to restart the scheme after work hours fell drastically in April. The Centre has now advised States/Union Territories to provide work through the scheme and to extend this to the monsoon season as well in providing jobs in plantations, horticulture, livestock-related work. The CMIE’s latest unemployment survey report also found that while various segments (small traders, salaried employees, entrepreneurs, etc) have suffered significant job losses, the number of farmers in the survey had increased, indicating that farm work has been a source of livelihood during the lockdown. The government has promised a free supply of 5 kg of foodgrain per person and 1 kg channa per family per month for two months, for those migrants who are neither beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act (2013), or NFSA, nor possess State cards. The government expects eight crore migrants to benefit from this scheme and the Centre will spend Rs. 3,500 crore on this. States will be in charge of implementation and distribution. The inclusion of these estimated eight crore beneficiaries will bring the total number of people under the Public Distribution System coverage close to the level legally mandated by the NFSA of 67% of the population. Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan has said that if the number exceeds eight crore, the Centre is ready to provide additional foodgrain for free supply but it would leave it to States to identify genuine beneficiaries. “States can directly supply free ration at shelter camps, or issue distress coupons or adopt any suitable method for free distribution of the food grains and channa ,” Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey clarified at a briefing on Saturday. What about the One Nation One Ration Card scheme? The Centre has also said that the One Nation One Ration Card scheme will be enhanced by assuring national portability of 83% by August 2020 and 100% by March 2021. The scheme should allow migrant workers to access food in States other than that of their permanent residence. But concerns remain about availability of ration in shops to allow for distribution to migrant workers as well. In places where the scheme has been implemented so far, the utilisation of the scheme has been very low (800 workers on an average in a month before the lockdown and an average of only 200 workers during the lockdown). Besides these steps for immediate relief to the workers, the government has also announced that it will launch a scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) to convert government funded housing in the cities into affordable rental housing complexes under PPP mode through a concessionaire. A special credit facility with liquidity of up to Rs. 5,000 crore has been announced for street vendors through a special scheme that will facilitate easy credit and will be launched in a month. Will small farmers benefit? Among steps announced to ease credit for small farmers, the government said that the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) will extend an additional refinance support of Rs. 30,000 crore for crop loan requirement of rural cooperative banks and regional rural banks.  The government expects eight crore migrants to get free foodgrain for two months. The Centre will spend Rs. 3,500 crore on this intervention. States will be in charge of implementation and distribution||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/will-migrants-benefit-from-the-centres-measures/article31604978.ece
17 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||1,300 persons arrested for north-east Delhi riots: police||The Delhi Police on Saturday said that about 1,300 accused persons had been arrested in 750 cases concerning the recent communal violence in north-east Delhi, stressing that “in terms of proportion of the arrested accused, the numbers from two communities are almost identical to each other”. Responding to a comment piece published in The Hindu by two secretaries of the Peoples Union for Democratic Rights, the Delhi police PRO M.S. Randhawa stated, “The police actions in all such situations are guided by the twin principles of providing relief to the victims and ensuring legal action against the perpetrators.” All arrests in the riot cases, Mr. Randhawa claimed, were based on scientific and technical evidence since the responsibility cast upon the police is to prosecute the arrested accused before a court of law where every bit of evidence is scrutinised threadbare. “Each arrested accused was produced before the judicial magistrate as mandated in law where legal aid was available to him / her in the form of private counsel or a legal aid counsel from the Delhi Legal Services Authority,” he pointed out. Separate FIRs The PRO said a perusal of the list of people who had applied for compensation from the Delhi administration would reveal that the “sufferance has been almost equal for all victims”. The PRO also claimed that for every single murder case, the Delhi Police had registered a separate FIR and “clubbing” of multiple incidents was not a “fact”. Mr. Randhawa also denied any link between the charges brought against Delhi Minorities Commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the riots in north-east Delhi. According to the PRO, it needed to be “clearly understood that the conduct of [the] DMC chief and the subsequent criminal action against him is distinct and separate from the northeast riots”. Stating that the police was committed to ensuring justice for the victims, he pointed out that as any as 750 cases had been registered following the communal riots in Delhi. “It is difficult to find a similar precedent,” Mr. Randhawa added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/1300-persons-arrested-for-north-east-delhi-riots-police/article31605243.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Central govt. has left the poor labourers on the streets’||Aam Aadmi Party leaders on Saturday criticised the Central government and also said that the State governments should solve the plight of migrant workers, following an accident near Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh in which 24 workers died. “Closed cities are becoming graves for labourers. We have to show the courage to open the city by accepting the presence of corona,” Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said in a tweet. AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said that though the Railways have the capacity to carry 2 crore passengers daily, the Central government has left the poor labourers on the streets. “Such heartbreaking incidents are coming from all over the country, but the insensitive government of the country has left the poor labourers on the streets. It’s an extremely sad happening,” Mr. Singh said. Delhi Labour Minister and AAP senior leader Gopal Rai said that the State governments must ensure that migrant labourers reach their States safely. “The death of 24 migrant workers in a road accident in Auraiya is unfortunate. The workers were on a truck and going to their homes. Governments must ensure that migrants reach their homes safely,” Mr. Rai said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that “something” has to be done “urgently”. “Extremely disturbed by the loss of lives in the accident in Auraiya. The tragedy of migrant labour keeps getting worse. Something needs to be done urgently,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/central-govt-has-left-the-poor-labourers-on-the-streets/article31605232.ece
17 May 2020||New Delhi,||BJP sets up centre to assist migrant workers||BJP State general secretary Sidharthan on Saturday provided food and other necessities to the migrants, leaving for their hometowns, at the Migrant Workers Assistance Centre set up by the party at the Delhi-Haryana border. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, as many as 1,400 migrant workers were currently staying at the shelter. “The Delhi government should find out how many of the Auraiya accident victims in Uttar Pradesh had gone from Delhi and provide financial assistance of Rs. 10 lakh to the families. Over 6,2000 workers have registered to return home on the Delhi government website,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-sets-up-centre-to-assist-migrant-workers/article31605234.ece
17 May 2020||May 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Reforms and agriculture||The story so far: With mandi closures and supply chain disruptions causing havoc in agricultural marketing, the COVID-19 pandemic has put a spotlight on some of the critical infrastructure gaps and long-pending governance issues that plague the farm sector. The third tranche of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan listed measures to deal with those gaps, though there has been no announcement on an immediate economic stimulus for the sector. What are the reforms announced in the farm sector? The third tranche announced on Friday focused on long-term issues in the agricultural sector, by promising financing to strengthen infrastructure, build better logistics and ramp up storage capacities, as well as proposing three major governance and administrative reforms that have been in the pipeline for many years. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s rationale for the third tranche was that improving farmers’ income needed such long-term investments and changes, rather than a focus on short-term crop loans. However, a number of farmers and activists said that in the light of the COVID-19 crisis, immediate support and relief in the form of cash transfers, loan waivers, and compensation for unsold produce should have come before long-term reforms. How will they change the agriculture sector? Taking the opportunity of a crisis situation, the Finance Minister has pushed through reforms that the Centre has been trying to implement for years. For instance, the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 came into being at a time of food scarcity and famine; last year’s Economic Survey called it an “anachronistic legislation”. It allows the government to control price rise and inflation by imposing stock limits and movement restrictions on commodities, giving States the power to regulate dealer licensing, confiscate stock and even jail traders who fail to comply with restrictions. Earlier this year, it was used to control soaring onion prices. Traders have long complained of harassment under the Act on the suspicion of hoarding, black marketing and speculation, while food processors and exporters have also pointed out that they may need to stock commodities for longer periods of time. The Act has disincentivised construction of storage capacity and hindered farm exports. Discussions about amending or repealing the Act have been going on for almost two decades. On Friday, the Finance Minister announced that the Act would be amended to deregulate six categories of agricultural foodstuffs: cereals, pulses, edible oils, oilseeds, potato and onion. Stock limits on these commodities will not be imposed except in times of a national calamity or a famine, and will not be imposed at all on food processors or value chain participants, which/who will be allowed to store as much as allowed by their installed capacity. Exporters will also be exempted. It is hoped that the amendment will bring more private investment into warehouses and post-harvest agricultural infrastructure, including processors, mills and cold chain storage. It could help farmers sell their produce at more competitive rates if there is no fear of government intervention to artificially suppress market prices, and is likely to give a boost to farm exports. What about the other planned reforms? The Centre plans to bring in a new federal law to break the nearly half-century long monopoly of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) mandis . It has already tried the route of trying to coax State governments into adopting its Model APMC Amendment Act which aims at developing unified State-level markets by offering a State-wide licence and single point levy of market fees while also allowing private markets, direct marketing, ad hoc wholesale buying and e-trading. However, only a few large States ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, including Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, have amended their Acts. Now, the Centre proposes to bypass States altogether by bringing in a federal law to abolish inter-State trade barriers. The hope is that these reforms will bring in more options for the farmer, offering more competitive prices if there is a wider choice of buyers. The plan to bring in a legal framework for contract farming also aims to provide more certainty and choice for farmers, although some experts caution that recent drafts of contract farming law promote the interests of the large corporate player at the expense of safeguarding the small farmer. How are infrastructure investments expected to help? Reforming governance structures is of no use unless there is infrastructure on the ground to enable farmers to take advantage of the wider choices with which they are being provided. A Rs. 1-lakh crore agriculture infrastructure fund run by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development will help create affordable and financially viable post-harvest management infrastructure at the farm gate and aggregation points. The Finance Minister emphasises that her announcements would also bring better infrastructure and logistics support to fish workers, dairy and other livestock farmers, beekeepers and vegetable and medicinal plant growers. She also offered support to lakhs of small informal food processors, mostly women, who need technical upgradation and marketing support in order to compete in a changing marketplace.  The Finance Minister has pushed through reforms that the Centre has been trying to implement for years, such as amending the Essential Commodities Act and proposing a federal law to break the monopoly of Agricultural Produce Market Committees||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reforms-and-agriculture/article31604980.ece
