18 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan SOG files FIRs after tapes emerge on horse-trading||The political turmoil in Rajasthan took a serious turn on Friday with the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the State police registering two criminal cases after incriminating audio tapes were made public in which a dissident Congress MLA is purportedly talking to Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and a middleman about toppling the Ashok Gehlot government. Dissident Congress leader Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs backing him got a respite in the Rajasthan High Court on Friday until the court hears their petition challenging the Speaker's notices to them under the anti-defection law on July 20. Abhishek Singhvi, senior counsel for the Speaker, offered to extend the time to respond to the notices till 5.30 p.m. on July 21. After a Division Bench headed by Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty passed the order, the Speaker’s office stated that Mr. Joshi had deferred the hearing on notices issued to the 19 MLAs after taking into account the “dignity of judiciary” and in view of the matter being sub judice. The decision was taken with the consent of senior advocates representing both sides, it said. In the wake of the tapes that surfaced on Thursday night, the Congress announced the suspension of Bhanwarlal Sharma, representing Sardarshahar Assembly constituency in Churu district, who was allegedly in conversation with the Union Minister. Vishvendra Singh, who has been sacked as the Tourism Minister, was also suspended from the primary membership of the party. The party has issued show cause notices to them. Discussion on bribes Addressing a press conference, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the tapes had revealed the role of Mr. Sharma and Mr. Shekhawat in the conspiracy that involved payment of bribes, exchange of black money and hawala transactions. The horse-trading of MLAs was being done through middleman Sanjay Jain, who was a BJP leader, he said. Mr. Surjewala demanded an investigation and the arrest of Mr. Shekhawat if the SOG’s probe confirmed the misuse of office by him, which he said was “prima facie clear”. While alleging a conspiracy by “influential people” in the Union government and its agencies to topple the State government, he demanded that Mr. Pilot, dismissed as the Deputy Chief Minister, clarify his position vis-a-vis a specific allegation that he had provided a list of MLAs to the BJP. The FIRs registered by the SOG under Sections 124-A (sedition) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC, named Mr. Sharma, Mr. Shekhawat and Mr. Jain. SOG Additional Director-General Ashok Rathore said the matter would be under investigation until the persons said to be conversing in the audio tapes were identified. The SOG, which had called Mr. Jain for interrogation on Thursday night, arrested him on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-sog-files-firs-after-tapes-emerge-on-horse-trading/article32119705.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||No one can touch an inch of India’s territory: Rajnath||No country in the world can touch or occupy even an inch of India’s territory, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said in Ladakh on Friday. Mr. Singh’s comments came in the aftermath of the stand-offs with China on the border, including the killing of 20 soldiers by Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley. “The progress in the talks [with China] should lead to a resolution of the issue”. However, there was no guarantee to what extent the issue would be resolved, he told troops at the Lukung Border Observation Post (BOP) near Pangong Tso. Mr. Singh was accompanied by Chief of the Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and Army chief General Manoj Naravane. Mr. Singh said India desired peace, not conflict. “But it’s in our character that we have never tried to hurt the self-respect of any other country. However, if anyone tries to hurt India’s self-respect, then we will not tolerate this in any circumstances and give them a fitting response.” He is on a two-day visit to Ladakh and J&K to review the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the Line of Control (LoC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-one-can-touch-an-inch-of-indias-territory-rajnath/article32119700.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||Less than 2% COVID-19 patients in ICU||The Union Health Ministry on Friday said less than 1% COVID-19 patients in the country are on ventilator support, less than 2% cases in ICUs, and less than 3% on oxygen beds. It said the actual case load in the country is 3.42 lakh, with more than 6.35 lakh people recovering from the disease. “Almost 80% of the asymptomatic and mild cases have been advised home isolation under medical supervision. Moderate and severe patients are being treated in either the Dedicated COVID Hospitals or Dedicated COVID Health Centres. India has seen a steady increase in the number of patients recovering of COVID. This has resulted in 63.33% of total positive cases recovering,’’ the Ministry said, adding that ‘Testing, Tracing and Treatment’ remain the cornerstone of India’s fight against COVID-19. The Health Ministry on Friday also deployed a team to Bihar to review the situation in the State, which is witnessing a rising trend in COVID-19 cases. ‘Providing support’ “Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry; S. K. Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control; and Neeraj Nischal, Associate Professor, Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi will undertake the visit immediately and coordinate with State health authorities to review the existing situation and provide necessary support and guidance,” said a senior Health Ministry official. He added that India’s case fatality rate at 18.6 deaths per million is one of the lowest in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/less-than-2-covid-19-patients-in-icu/article32119703.ece
18 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Human trials for Covaxin begin||Three volunteers were administered Covaxin, India’s first indigenous COVID-19 vaccine, at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak on Friday as part of the first phase of human trials. The vaccine, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology, didn’t induce any initial adverse effects, said doctors involved in the process. Senior professor and head, Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Dhruva Chaudhry, also the co-principal investigator, said the three volunteers were picked from eight probables. They were administered the vaccine after health checks to ensure proper liver function and absence of infection. “There were no complaints. We observed them for two hours before releasing them. The immediate issue of allergic reaction has been taken care of. We will now look for any soreness at the local site over the next 24-48 hours,” said Dr. Chaudhry, who is overseeing the clinical aspect of the process at the institute. Dr. Savita Verma, the principal investigator, and Dr. Rakesh Verma, responsible for the vaccination aspects, are the other doctors involved. Results in six months Dr. Chaudhry said the vaccine has been tested successfully on animals. While the first phase of human trials has commenced, he said the entire process might take six months and the final assessment on safety and the level of production of antibodies would be made by a safety board. O.P. Kalra, Vice-Chancellor of University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, said the human trials have begun at three institutes including PGIMS, Rohtak, and more volunteers might be administered the vaccine on Saturday. He said 10 volunteers would be enrolled in the first phase and the second dose administered to them in two weeks. Adverse effects, if any, and the level of antibodies produced would be studied on them. More patients would be enrolled in the final phase of the two-phase process and higher doses administered to them. “A total of 1,125 subjects would be enrolled and the antibody levels studied after a month, three months and six months. If the antibody production levels are satisfactory, this vaccine will be a success,” said Dr. Kalra. Initial results should be available in two-three months, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/human-trials-for-covaxin-begin/article32119908.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.P. denies it killed gangster Dubey in fake encounter||The Uttar Pradesh government emphatically denied before the Supreme Court on Friday that the gunning down of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey on July 10 was a “fake encounter”. Special Secretary, State Home Department, Anil Kumar Singh, in a 58-page counter-affidavit, said “the incident can never be termed as a fake encounter looking at it in totality”. Uttar Pradesh objected to the apex court’s suggestion to set up a judicial commission like the one investigating the encounter deaths of the four accused in the Hyderabad veterinarian’s rape-and-murder case. Unlike the Telangana government, the U.P. government has suo motu instituted a judicial inquiry into Dubey’s death within days. Mr. Singh assured the court, “The State has taken all steps to ensure that even a suspicion does not remain on the incident. It [the Uttar Pradesh government] has acted proactively.” The affidavit said a retired Allahabad High Court judge is heading the judicial inquiry. A Special Investigation Team has also been set up. The Uttar Pradesh government described Dubey as a dreaded gangster and the leader of the “Bullet Gang”. It said Dubey was the leader of the gang “registered as D-124”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-denies-it-killed-gangster-dubey-in-fake-encounter/article32119906.ece
18 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State’s COVID graph goes up with 791 fresh cases||The fast and intense transmission of COVID-19 along the State’s coastal belt, with the population in entire fishing villages affected, has put Thiruvananthapuram district in an extremely sensitive situation. The government has been forced to bring in more restrictions in fishing activities as well as people’s movement. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan officially conceded here on Friday that community transmission has already happened at Pulluvila and Poonthura villages in Thiruvananthapuram and that only a coordinated approach, with the active involvement of the local community, alone can check the situation from getting out of hand. Thiruvananthapuram alone accounted for 246 out of the 791 fresh cases reported in the State on Friday. Local transmission has resulted in 244 of these cases, with 112 cases being reported from the coastal wards. One more death Of the State’s 791 new cases, 557 were cases of local transmission, with missing epidemiological link in 42 cases. The cumulative case burden went to 11,066 cases, with the number of active cases being 6,029. The death of a 46-year-old in Thrissur on July 15, which has now been confirmed as due to COVID-19, takes the State’s death toll to 38. Mr. Vijayan said that considering the intense and unusual state of disease transmission in the capital district, full lockdown would have to be imposed in the district’s coastal areas and that the movement of people within and out of the containment zone would have to be strictly prevented. The State now has 10 large community clusters and 84 clusters scattered across many districts, with most of the community clusters formed along the entire 200-km coastal belt from Thiruvananthapuram to Ernakulam. The Chief Minister claimed that things were still within the State health administration's grip and that proper implementation of containment activities within the clusters could help limit the disease transmission within the clusters themselves. He said that when the cases began going up exponentially, the State had been anticipating community transmission and that with heightened vigil and people’s cooperation, all-out efforts should be launched to ensure that the disease did not spread to newer areas. The government would manage the burgeoning case numbers by opening up more first-line treatment centres across all districts, where all mild and asymptomatic cases would be managed. Patients would be shifted to hospitals if they required a higher level of care. He said the State needed the support of front-line volunteers and doctors and nurses, retired hands or fresh qualified hands to manage the first-line treatment centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-covid-graph-goes-up-with-791-fresh-cases/article32120007.ece
18 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Weak earthen embankments cause Assam’s sorrow||Ill-maintained or poorly constructed river embankments have added to Assam’s flood woes this year. The daily flood summary provided by the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) is a profusion of numbers. Some 5.35 million people of 5,004 villages and localities across 30 of Assam’s 33 districts have been affected and 76 died — five on Friday — in two waves of floods since May 22. Another 26 died in landslips. So far, 1,606 roads and 164 bridges or culverts have been damaged. The column also says 197 earthen embankments have been damaged or breached. This is the major reason Assam suffers every monsoon, water resources experts say. “One major feature of flood management in Assam is total dependence on embankments. If the approach to a very complicated problem is on a mono strategy that is technically unsound, then you are in great danger and that is what’s happening,” said Partha Jyoti Das, who heads the water, climate and hazard programme of Assam-based conservation NGO Aaranyak. Last-moment schemes ASDMA officials admit that the brittle embankments have often compounded flood management plans. A factor is the last-moment schemes submitted by the Water Resources Department. “Embankments are repaired or constructed from the State Disaster Response Fund, but the schemes for release of money were submitted in May, when the flood season in Assam starts. The quality of work suffers obviously,” an official said, declining to be quoted. Water Resources officials blamed the delay on COVID-19 and the associated lockdown. Assam began constructing embankments in the 1960s and most of them have outlived their utility. Many of these started breaching or collapsing from the 1990s, more seriously from the 2000s. “In two decades of study, we have found that human casualty, farm and infrastructure damage have been proportionate to the breaching of embankments. In the absence of long-term alternatives, the government has to invest in sturdier, durable embankments to ensure that the situation does not deteriorate every year,” Mr. Das said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weak-earthen-embankments-cause-assams-sorrow/article32119902.ece
18 July 2020||Hyderabad,||1,200 PG medicos to be absorbed into govt. service||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered absorption of 1,200 students who completed their post-graduate medical courses in the State into government service. At an official meeting to discuss steps taken to check spread of coronavirus, Mr. Rao also ordered immediate filling up of 200 vacancies of medical officers in primary health centres. Among the decisions at the meeting were to extend University Grants Commission pay scales to faculty at teaching hospitals, pay for newly appointed nurses on a par with those already in service, hike in retirement age of teachers in Ayush departments up to 65 years and continuation of 10% additional pay as incentive to all personnel in health department, including outsourced employees. The incentive will also be continued to personnel in police and municipalities and sanitation workers of gram panchayats. It was also decided to allot Rs. 100 crore in addition to the regular budget provisionary to health department for emergency needs in tackling COVID and providing better treatment to patients. The fund will be placed at the disposal of the Health Minister and Chief Secretary for taking instant decisions. Mr. Rao allayed the fears of public about coronavirus but, at the same time, warned them not to be negligent. There was no need for people who tested COVID positive to rush to private hospitals and spend large amounts of money. The government hospitals and staff were equipped to treat as many patients as possible. He said the COVID mortality rate in the State was less than the national average and the recovery rate very high. Of the 3,692 positive patients who were undergoing treatment in hospitals till Thursday, everyone was recovering except 200 persons who suffered from comorbidities. The positive cases in the State till date were 41,018, discharged persons were 27,295 ( 67 %t) and asymptomatic persons in home quarantine were 9,636. The rest underwent treatment in hospitals and speedily recovering. He reiterated that there was no other option but to live with the virus. The country was in unlock mode and the Centre had decided to operate international flights. There was no need to get agitated as the situation was not very scary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1200-pg-medicos-to-be-absorbed-into-govt-service/article32119969.ece
18 July 2020||MANGALURU,||COVID-19: DK to get 25,000 rapid antigen testing kits||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan has said that the State government will supply 25,000 rapid antigen testing kits and sanction 15 more ambulances to Dakshina Kannada immediately to deal with COVID-19, according to Kota Srinivasa Poojary, Minister in charge of Dakshina Kannada. The testing kits will be used to conduct free COVID-19 tests. After holding an emergency meeting with the Deputy Chief Minister at Vikasa Soudha in Bengaluru on Friday, Mr. Poojary pointed out that the Deputy Chief Minister said that if required the government will provide free treatment to COVID-19 patients at private hospitals. But such patients will have to first visit the nearest government hospital. If the government doctors recommended that such patients have to be admitted in private hospitals, the government will bear their treatment cost. Mr. Ashwath Narayan also said that people need not be apprehensive to get tested for COVID-19, Mr. Poojary said in a statement. The Deputy Chief Minister also held a virtual meeting with the Dakshina Kannada district administration along with Mr. Poojary. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh told the Minister that the district administration has presently taken 10 ambulances on rent. Hence, it currently has 59 vehicles. CSR, other funds She added that the administration is planning to procure five more ambulances through the corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds of companies and other governemtn funds. She said that 430 COVID-19 patients in the district are now getting treatment at their residences. Mr. Ashwath Narayan instructed the Deputy Commissioner to get the services of more ambulances on rent and use them to transport patients with serious conditions. Asymptomatic patients can be transported in maxi-cabs, he said. The Deputy Chief Minister asked Ms. Rupesh to mobilise 50 more drivers from other government departments to drive the ambulances. There should be at least one ambulance in each primary health centre, he said. He instructed the Deputy Commissioner to hold talks with private hospitals and private medical colleges to get their beds for treating COVID-19 patients through an agreement. The district had eight medical colleges and the total availability of beds, including in the private hospitals, in the district stood at about 8,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-dk-to-get-25000-rapid-antigen-testing-kits/article32119948.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State COVID tally crosses 40,000-mark, toll mounts to 534||With an alarming increase of incidence of COVID-19 cases, the State’s death toll has crossed the 500-mark and the tally of infections crossed the 40,000-mark, with the districts reporting 42 deaths and 2,602 fresh cases in the past 24 hours, as of Friday morning. According to the bulletin issued by the Health Department, the current tally is 40,646 and toll 534. The number of cases doubled in about 11 days and the number of deaths doubled in just nine days. The State's COVID mortality rate is 1.31%. Te number of discharges stood at 20,298 and acative cases were 19,814. The first 10,000 cases were reported in 105 days and the second 10,000 cases were reported in 12 days. Further, it took only seven days to witness the third 10,000 cases and the fourth 10,000 cases were reported in just four days. The new deaths were reported in 12 districts, and Anantapur reported six deaths in the past day. It is followed by East Godavari, Chittor and Prakasam with five deaths each and Guntur and West Godavari with four deaths each. Kadapa and Visakhapatnam witnessed three deaths each while Kurnool, Nellore and Vizianagaram saw two deaths each. Krishna, which has the highest mortality rate, reported only one death. Local cases Meanwhile, more than half of the new local cases were reported by just three districts. East Godavari alone reported 643 cases while Guntur reported 367 and Chittoor reported 328 new cases in the past day. Kurnool reported 315 new cases and crossed the 5,000-mark. More new cases were reported in Anantapur (297), Srikakulam (149), Nellore (127), West Godavari (109), Vizianagaram (89), Kadapa (55), Prakasam (53), Krishna (37) and Visakhpatnam (23). The district tallies of local cases are as follows: Kurnool (5,131), East Godavari (4,505), Guntur (4,330), Anantapur (4,284), Chittoor (3,864), Krishna (3,021), West Godavari (2,537), Kadapa (2,275), Srikakulam (1,852), Nellore (1,717), Visakhapatnam (1,716), Prakasam (1,448) and Vizianagaram (1,071). Of the imported cases, 2,461 are of people from other states and 434 are of foreign returnees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-covid-tally-crosses-40000-mark-toll-mounts-to-534/article32119691.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Ramesh Kumar free to approach Governor: HC||The High Court gave liberty to senior IAS officer N. Ramesh Kumar to approach the Governor seeking his restoration as the State Election Commissioner (SEC) under Article 243-K of the Constitution and directed the government to file a counter-affidavit explaining its position vis-a-vis the implementation of its earlier order. During a hearing on Friday on matters arising from the controversial ordinance (No. 5 of 2020) which resulted in the curtailment of Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s tenure as SEC to three years, Chief Justice J..K. Maheswari and Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy said since there was no stay, the court order has to be complied with. Advocate-General (A-G) S. Sriram requested the court to adjourn the matter while saying that the Supreme Court was about to take it up soon. Pointing out that the apex court was disinclined to pass interim orders, the judges enquired from the petitioner’s advocate if they approached the Governor for restoration. The A-G said after contempt papers were served, the petitioner sought an adjournment in the Supreme Court.  After hearing both sides, the court adjourned the matter by a week and observed that the Governor has the powers to appoint the SEC, and took stated that the Supreme Court has refused to stay the reinstatement of Mr. Ramesh Kumar as SEC. It may be recalled that Mr. Ramesh Kumar had taken legal recourse against the validity of the impugned ordinance through which his tenure was cut short and former Madras High Court judge V. Kanagaraj was quickly brought in as his replacement. Mr. Ramesh Kumar argued that his decision to postpone the local body elections due to COVID-19 was not acceptable to the government and hence it removed him from the key post through the ordinance route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ramesh-kumar-free-to-approach-governor-hc/article32119627.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,||High Court permits schools, colleges to collect 40% of fees by August 31||Observing that there was great uncertainty over when the threat of COVID-19 would subside and pave way for the reopening of schools and colleges, the Madras High Court on Friday permitted all self-financing educational institutions in the State to collect 40% of the fee for now, and ordered that it should be remitted on or before August 31. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh clarified that 40% of the fee fixed for the academic year 2019-20 could be collected as advance fee for the academic year 2020-21, since it was reported to him that the Private Schools Fee Determination Committee, headed by a retired High Court judge, was yet to fix the fee for the years 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23. When it was also brought to the notice of the judge that several schools in the State were to yet to collect fee arrears, running to several lakh rupees, for the academic year 2019-20, the judge ordered that those arrears should be paid in full, on or before September 30. Students who had already paid the entire fees, including arrears, could not claim any refund, he said.  Fee determination committees As far as the rest of the 60% of fee for the academic year 2020-21 was concerned, the judge said that 35% could be collected within two months after the institutions reopen and commence physical classes. He further ordered that fee determination committees for schools and colleges should fix the fee for the next three years, within eight months from August. The balance fees for the current academic year could be collected after such determination, he said, and made it clear that the directions issued to the committees would not, in any way, prejudice the rights of educational institutions which had already moved the Supreme Court and the High Court challenging the jurisdiction of such committees to fix fee for private institutions. Stating that the interim arrangement for collection of 40% of fees was being made in the interests of teachers who had to be paid salaries and parents who might not be able to pay more, Justice Venkatesh ordered that teachers of unaided private educational institutions should not insist upon annual salary increments or other perks until normalcy is restored. Free notebooks He directed the State government to consider a request made by some self-financing schools to provide books and notebooks, for free, to children who could not afford them. “For this, the Sate government can get the particulars of students who are in dire straits from the respective schools, and this can also be confined to those students. “This direction is issued purely in the interest of students who should not be deprived of education due to their inability to purchase textbooks and notebooks. This court is confident that the State government will come up with a positive response in this regard,” the judge said, and adjourned a batch of cases filed by the private institutions to October 5. The cases were filed challenging a government order issued in April restraining all private schools and colleges from forcibly collecting fees during the lockdown. After the court insisted upon balancing the interests of teachers who were dependant on salary as well as the parents, the government reconsidered its decision. Advocate General Vijay Narayan on Friday informed the court that it had been decided to permit private schools to collect 25% of fees at present, 25% within two weeks after the commencement of physical classes, 25% three months after the schools reopen and the rest after the determination of fee for the current academic year by the committee concerned. However, senior counsel K.M. Vijayan, Fr. Xavier Arulraj, R. Silambanan and advocates E. Vijay Anand and R. Sankaran vehemently objected to such a measure and insisted that they should be allowed to collect 50% of fees immediately and 25% after the commencement of physical classes. They said that educational institutions were fully dependant on the fees for paying salaries to staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-permits-schools-colleges-to-collect-40-of-fees-by-aug-31/article32119826.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,||As toll rises, State fine-tunes its strategy against COVID-19||On a day when Tamil Nadu recorded its highest-ever daily death toll due to COVID-19 so far, the State government on Friday reviewed the prevailing situation and instructed District Collectors to go for focused intervention such as ganising fever camps. The Collectors were also told to boost health infrastructure and recruit adequate medical staff. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam chaired a videoconference of District Collectors at the Secretariat and reviewed the status of COVID-19 cases and the steps being taken in each district to contain the spread. “The Chief Secretary asked us to map the disease spread and go for focused interventions like fever camps and awareness-building exercises, clear the backlog in obtaining results and take care of health infrastructure. By and large, the Collectors are focused [on the issue], and the number [of cases] is expected to come down in a few days,” a senior official who was present at the meeting told The Hindu.  The Chief Secretary instructed the Collectors to carry out “adequate testing”, i.e., 10 times the average case load. “If the [number of] positive cases were 100 the previous day in a specific district, he advised the Collector concerned to test at least 1,000 samples the following day,” the official said. “The idea is to strategically locate the fever camps, make the staff accountable and plan for increasing care centre capacity once they reach 75% utilisation. Some Collectors wanted to appoint lab technicians. They were instructed to conduct walk-in interviews and select and appoint technicians for three or six months,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-toll-rises-state-fine-tunes-its-strategy-against-covid-19/article32119781.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||1,478 test COVID positive in State||The number of COVID cases reported in State on Friday stood at 1,478, marginally lower than the number a day before. This brings the total number of cases to 42,496. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits continued record the largest number of COVID cases with 806 cases. This was followed by Rangareddy with 91 cases, Medchal with 82 cases, Karimnagar with 77 cases and Warangal (Urban) with 51 cases. Seven more people succumbed to the virus on Friday, bringing the total number of COVID fatalities to 403. There are 13,389 active cases as on July 17. The number of patients who have recovered or were discharged on Friday stood at 1,410, pushing the total to 28,705. The discharge rate stands at 68%, the government stated. State government-released data puts the number of tests done on Friday at 15,124, spiking the total number of tests to 2,37,817. Meanwhile, the government released a list of dedicated COVID hospitals across districts. While there are 61 government hospitals, including nine in GHMC limits and five in Sangareddy district, there are 57 private hospitals which have been given the go-ahead to treat COVID - 19 patients. Further, there are 16 government and 23 private facilities where testing is done. COVID fatality in Khammam district rose to 13 with two more persons succumbing to the virus on Friday. A total of 15 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in the town in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1478-test-covid-positive-in-state/article32119964.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Chinese troops are yet to fully move out’||Chinese troops are yet to fully move out of Patrolling Point (PP) 15 of Hot Springs area in eastern Ladakh and continue to occupy positions within 1.5 km of India’s perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), a second assessment of the ground situation by security agencies has revealed. Chinese troops had at one stage entered around 5 km on the Indian side of PP-15 in May, and as per a disengagement plan, moved back 2.5 km and another 1 km in subsequent phases and around 1.5 km was yet to be vacated, a senior government official told The Hindu . In this area, Indian troops have also moved back around 2.5 km. As reported by The Hindu, there is a moratorium on foot patrol for 30 days and a strength of not more than 80 (50+30 at two intervals) troops at all the friction points where disengagement has been implemented. After the Galwan Valley incident, the Corps Commanders of the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had agreed to disengage and withdraw fully from other face-off sites along the LAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chinese-troops-are-yet-to-fully-move-out/article32119688.ece
18 July 2020||Belagavi,||Belagavi DC orders inquiry into death of patient||Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath has ordered an inquiry into allegations that a 65-year-old COVID-19 ward patient died owing to negligence of hospital authorities on Friday. This follows a complaint by relatives of the victim. A video clip of the victim lying on the floor without any clothes was widely circulated on social media. Official sources have confirmed the identity of the patient in the video. The victim, a resident of Radderhatti village near Athani, was admitted to the district hospital after he complained of stomach ache on Monday. He tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. He was shifted to the COVID-19 ward of the hospital. His relatives complained that he was not treated properly and that his death was owing to negligence. “He was not given any treatment for three days, till his test results arrived. That led to this unfortunate event,” a family member told The Hindu.  “On Friday morning, someone from the hospital called to say that he had died. They refused to hand over the body to us and said that they would bury him following protocol in a designated corner of the graveyard in Belagavi. Since Athani taluk is under lockdown, we will not be able to travel to the city,” said the victim’s son, who runs a shop in Athani town. Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences director Vinay Dastikop denied the allegations and said that there had been no negligence. “It is not true that he did not get a bed. He was made to sleep on the bed, but he fell down. It is possible that in the few minutes that someone shot the video, there was no staff member attending to him. Immediately after that, the patient was lifted on to the bed and treated. But he died of a cardiac arrest,” Dr. Dastikop said. He said he would seek a report from the officer in charge of the ward. He added that the district hospital staff was overburdened and could not attend to “all patients at all times”. “We have to look after over 200 COVID-19 patients and hundreds of other patients. We cannot be expected to be sitting near every bed at all times,” he said. Dr. Dastikop said that the patient was given the standard green gown, which is supplied to all in-patients. “It must have come off when he fell from the bed. That is why he appears without clothes in the video,” he said. Joint director of health and family welfare officer Shashikanth Munniyal said there a serious staff scarcity at the district hospital. We are planning to hire private staff on a temporary basis to work in the hospital, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/belagavi-dc-orders-inquiry-into-death-of-patient/article32119946.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Not my voice, says Shekhawat||Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat denied the Congress’s allegation that he was part of a conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. The allegation came after audio clips surfaced pertaining to an alleged conspiracy. “This is not my voice... Let there be an investigation. I am ready to face any probe,” the Minister said.page 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-my-voice-says-shekhawat/article32119689.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Govt. wedded to the welfare of SCs, STs’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday said as part of his government’s commitment to the welfare of SCs/STs, funds allocated for their cause had been increased during 2020-21. Addressing the sixth SC, ST Development Board meeting, Mr. Jagan pointed to the allocation of Rs. 15,735 crore for welfare of SCs and Rs. 5,177 crore for welfare of STs in 2020-21, and said welfare schemes such as YSR Cheyutha and YSR Asara, to be implemented this year, would further benefit the weaker sections. The Chief Minister also asked the officials to complete Ambedkar Park in Vijayawada by April 14 next year. “The YSR Asara programme will benefit 25 lakh women and the YSR Cheyutha scheme will benefit another 90 lakh women,” said Mr. Jagan. Referring to Ambedkar Park, he said it was being developed in the heart of the city with 125-foot-high Ambedkar statue. The aim was to complete the project by April 14, to coincide it with his birth anniversary. Furnishing details of the expenditure, the officials informed the Chief Minister that Rs. 8,903.44 crore spent for SC welfare in 2018-19, was increased to Rs. 11,205.41 crore in the next year and in 2020-21, the amount was further increased to Rs. 15,735 crore. Similarly, for ST welfare, the allocation of funds was increased from Rs. 2,902.61 crore in 2018-19 to Rs. 3,669.42 crore in the following year and in 2020-21, it was further increased to Rs. 5,177 crore. They said a total of 77,27,033 SCs benefited from various welfare schemes in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-wedded-to-the-welfare-of-scs-sts/article32119697.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||U.P. denies it killed Dubey in fake encounter||The Uttar Pradesh government emphatically denied before the Supreme Court on Friday that the gunning down of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey on July 10 was a “fake encounter”. Special Secretary, State Home Department, Anil Kumar Singh, in a 58-page counter-affidavit, said “the incident can never be termed as a fake encounter looking at it in totality”. State objection The State objected to the court’s suggestion to set up a judicial commission like the one investigating the Hyderabad encounter deaths. Unlike the Telangana government, the U.P. government has suo motu instituted a judicial inquiry into Dubey’s death within days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-denies-it-killed-dubey-in-fake-encounter/article32119701.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,||HC reserves verdict on plea for 50% quota for OBCs in AIQ medical seats||The Madras High Court on Friday reserved its verdict on cases filed by a host of political parties, individual politicians and the State government, seeking 50% reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in medical and dental seats surrendered to the All India Quota (AIQ) every year, as per a judgment passed by the Supreme court in 1986. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy decided to deliver their verdict on July 27 after hearing arguments advanced by Advocate General Vijay Narayan for the State government, senior counsel P. Wilson for the DMK and AR.L. Sundaresan for the AIADMK. Senior counsel A. Thiyagarajan and advocates K. Balu and Kabilan Manoharan also made their submissions on behalf of the Dravidar Kazhagam, PMK and the Naam Tamilar Katchi respectively. CPI(M), CPI and MDMK too had filed cases. Mr. Wilson told the court that it was one of the rare occasions “when the entire Tamil Nadu had come together against the Centre”. He said almost all political parties in were voicing their concerns together because the cause involved the issue of rightful reservations to OBCs. The A-G told the court the AIQ was basically a creation of the Supreme Court judgment passed in September 1986. Till then, all seats in State government medical and dental colleges were filled up only with local residents of the respective States. Disagreeing with such practice, the Supreme Court had ordered creation of AIQ Accordingly, State governments began surrendering 15% of medical and dental seats in undergraduate studies and 25% of postgraduate seats to the AIQ, every year, so that candidates across the country could compete for them. The number of postgraduate seats to be surrendered was increased from 25% to 50% in 2005. In 2007, the Supreme Court also ordered the reserving of 15% of seats in the AIQ for Scheduled Castes and 7.5% for Scheduled Tribes. However, OBCs were not given any reservations. A case seeking reservations for OBCs is still pending in the apex court, though the State government is providing as high 50% reservation to OBCs in State quota seats. Pointing out that the State government determined quota depending on population, the A-G said that the population of Scheduled Castes in the State was 18% as per the last census and hence they were given 18% reservations. Similarly, the 1.25% of Scheduled Tribe population was given 1% reservation, thereby reserving a total of 69% of seats for various caste groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-reserves-order-on-plea-for-50-obc-quota-in-aiq-medical-seats/article32119813.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Experts: Surge points to community spread||The sudden surge in COVID-19 cases in the State points to community transmission and local circulation of the virus, according to experts. While the huge spike is making contact tracing impossible, poor contact tracing is further leading to the rapid spread of infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/experts-surge-points-to-community-spread/article32119734.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Exploring options on conducting session’||Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri is exploring options on conducting the legislature session in September. Many legislatures may have to hold sessions in the next few months to meet the Constitutional requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/exploring-options-on-conducting-session/article32119735.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Schools, colleges can collect 40% of fees: HC||Observing that there was great uncertainty over when the threat of COVID-19 would subside and pave way for the reopening of schools and colleges, the Madras High Court on Friday permitted all self-financing educational institutions in the State to collect 40% of the fee for now, and ordered that it should be remitted on or before August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-colleges-can-collect-40-of-fees-hc/article32119830.ece
18 July 2020||Srinagar,||Three Jaish militants killed in Kulgam||A Jaish-e-Muhammad militant, an expert in handling improvised explosive devices, was among three militants killed at Kulgam in south Kashmir on Friday in an operation conducted by the security forces, the police said. Three soldiers were injured in the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-jaish-militants-killed-in-kulgam/article32119901.ece
18 July 2020||Bhopal,||Five Dalits attacked over land dispute||The Madhya Pradesh police have registered a case against seven upper caste men for reportedly assaulting five Dalit men over a land dispute in Shivpuri district. The incident comes two days after a Dalit couple reportedly consumed pesticide while resisting an anti-encroachment drive in neighbouring Guna district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-dalits-attacked-over-land-dispute/article32119904.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||9 parties against digital campaign in Bihar||A day after the Election Commission reversed its decision to extend postal ballot facility to voters above 65 years of age, nine Oppo-sition parties on Friday met in Delhi to oppose the panel’s move to hold only a digital campaign for the upcoming Bihar Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9-parties-against-digital-campaign-in-bihar/article32119903.ece
18 July 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata airport extends flight curbs till July 31||The Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport in Kolkata has extended the restrictions on incoming flights from six cities till July 31. “The restriction on arriving flights to #KolkataAirport from 6 cities viz Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Nagpur & Ahmedabad has been extended upto 31st July,” the airport tweeted from its official handle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-airport-extends-flight-curbs-till-july-31/article32120069.ece
18 July 2020||Kolkata,||Highest surge of 1,894 cases in West Bengal||West Bengal on Friday recorded 1,894 new COVID-19 cases, its highest single-day spike yet, taking its tally to 38,011. The State’s toll rose to 1,049, with 26 deaths being recorded in the past 24 hours. To curb the spike in cases, the State has increased the number of containment zones to 702. At a meeting in Durgapur on Thursday, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh advocated the use of “cow-urine” to boost immunity in the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highest-surge-of-1894-cases-in-west-bengal/article32120068.ece
18 July 2020||Kolkata,||90.13% students clear higher secondary exams||A record 90.13% students have cleared the West Bengal higher secondary examinations this year. The results, which were declared on Friday, showed a significant improvement in the pass percentage from last year’s 86.29. Over 7.61 lakh students had appeared for the examinations, of whom 3.22 lakh have secured first division marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9013-students-clear-higher-secondary-exams/article32120070.ece
18 July 2020||Mumbai,||Gonsalves, Teltumbde move HC for COVID-19 testing||After P. Varavara Rao, 81, tested positive for COVID-19, Vernon Gonsalves, 61, and Anand Teltumbde, 68, co-accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, have moved the Bombay High Court seeking permission to undergo COVID-19 tests. The duo has been in close proximity to Mr. Rao at Taloja Central Jail. The petition said the duo is at grave risk. Meanwhile, authorities at St. George Hospital said that they are conducting neurological tests on Mr. Rao and he might have dementia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gonsalves-teltumbde-move-hc-for-covid-19-testing/article32120124.ece
18 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra tally crosses 2.9 lakh with 8,308 cases||Maharashtra reported 8,308 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, its second-highest single-day jump yet, taking its tally to 2,92,589. A surge of 258 deaths was also recorded, pushing its toll to 11,452. This is the third time in a week that a single-day spike of over 8,000 cases has been recorded in the State. Mumbai’s case load has risen to 99,164, with 1,214 new cases, while 62 more deaths have raised its toll to 5,585. Maharashtra’s tally of recoveries has surged to 1,60,357, with 2,217 patients being discharged. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, “The State’s recovery rate stands at 54.81%, while its case fatality rate is 3.91%.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-tally-crosses-29-lakh-with-8308-cases/article32120123.ece
18 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||Section 144 in Gadag||In the wake of rising COVID-19 cases, Deputy Commissioner of Gadag M. Sundaresh Babu has imposed prohibitory orders in the district under Section 144 of the Cr.PC from 8 p.m. on Friday [July 17] to 5 a.m. on July 27. All commercial activities and shops will be allowed to function from 5 a.m. to 2 p.m. and there will be no public gatherings, barring only marriage ceremonies that were fixed before the imposition of the prohibitory orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/section-144-in-gadag/article32119949.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,||HC fiat to State govt.||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to immediately act firmly against the political leaders and others who grossly violated the COVID-19 health safety norms during three recent events attended by former and current Ministers, including the Chief Minister. The Bench said the government should handle such instances of violation with a firm hand, no matter how influential the violators are.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-fiat-to-state-govt/article32119736.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,||State’s recovery rate is highest in country: CM||Early identification of COVID-19 cases and effective treatment have helped the State achieve a recovery rate of 67% — the highest in the country, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Friday. He said “right action and intense testing” helped in reducing deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-recovery-rate-is-highest-in-country-cm/article32119777.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,||4,538 more COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu on Friday recorded 4,538 more COVID-19 cases and 79 deaths, the highest number of fatalities on a single day so far. The fresh cases took the overall count to 1,60,907. As of now, 47,782 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4538-more-covid-19-cases-in-tamil-nadu/article32119779.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Corporation to take up serosurvey from today||Residents of Alanganallur have given an ultimatum of 25 days for the district administration to shift three TASMAC shops. Following protest by residents and traders, who had downed shutters of shops on Friday, the officials decided to close down the shops by August 11, if the administration failed to shift the TASMAC shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corporation-to-take-up-serosurvey-from-today/article32119780.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka ramps up testing as cases soar||A day after it crossed the 50,000 mark on COVID-19 cases, Karnataka on Friday reported 3,693 new cases, raising the tally to 55,115. With 115 more deaths, the toll touched 1,147. Bengaluru Urban once again led the incidence, with 2,208 cases. Seventy-five of the day’s 115 deaths were from Bengaluru Urban. The total number of positive cases here touched 27,496 of which 582 succumbed to the infection. The total number of people discharged in the State touched 20,757 with 1,028 new recoveries. RT-PCR tests crossed 9.5 lakh with a record 24,700 tests in 24 hours. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Dharwad reported 157, Ballari 133, Vijayapura 118, and Belagavi 95. With 33,205 active cases, Karnataka was third in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Bringing cheer to the COVID-19 ward at the Trauma and Emergency Care Centre on Victoria Hospital campus, 100 women had given birth to babies; the 100th was born on Friday. Fast transmission in Kerala’s coastal belt, with entire fishing villages affected, put Thiruvananthapuram district in a sensitive situation. The government introduced more restrictions on fishing and movement of people. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that community transmission had taken place at Pulluvila and Poonthura and announced further curbs. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for 246 out of the 791 fresh cases. Local transmission resulted in 244 cases, 112 in coastal wards. Of the State’s 791 new cases, 557 were due to local transmission, with a missing epidemiological link in 42 cases. The cumulative case burden went up to 11,066 cases, and active cases were 6,029. The death of a 46-year-old in Thrissur on July 15, was confirmed as due to COVID-19, taking the State’s death toll to 38.   Andhra Pradesh reported 42 deaths and 2,602 fresh cases on Friday. The Health Department said the case tally was 40,646 and toll 534. The first 10,000 cases were reported in 105 days and the second 10,000 cases in 12 days. It took only seven days for the third 10,000 and four for the fourth 10,000. The new deaths were reported in 12 districts and Anantapur reported six deaths. It was followed by East Godavari, Chittoor and Prakasam with five deaths each and Guntur and West Godavari with four deaths each. Kadapa and Visakhapatnam witnessed three deaths each while Kurnool, Nellore and Vizianagaram saw two deaths each. Krishna reported only one death. Tamil Nadu recorded 4,538 more cases and 79 deaths on Friday. This was the highest number of fatalities to be recorded on a single day so far. The overall count in the State has risen to 1,60,907.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-ramps-up-testing-as-cases-soar/article32119643.ece
18 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Clip hints at Shekhawat’s role||The Congress on Friday alleged the involvement of Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in the conspiracy to topple its government in Rajasthan and demanded his immediate arrest if a probe by the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the State police confirmed misuse of office by him, which it said was “prima facie clear”. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said at a press conference that audio clips of purported conversations between a rebel Congress MLA and Mr. Shekhawat had revealed the latter’s role in the conspiracy, which involved payment of bribes, exchange of black money and hawala transactions. The SOG should register a first information report, he said. The Congress leader also demanded registration of criminal cases against dissident MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and BJP leader Sanjay Jain, who allegedly acted as a middleman, on the basis of their reported conversations with Mr. Shekhawat. The audio clips were made public on Thursday night. Mr. Surjewala announced the suspension of Mr. Sharma, who represents Churu district’s Sardarshahar constituency, and Vishvendra Singh, who has been sacked as the Tourism Minister, from primary membership of the Congress.  Later, the SOG registered a first information report against Mr. Shekhawat and others on a complaint filed by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi alleging their role in attempts to topple the Congress government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clip-hints-at-shekhawats-role/article32119653.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||With fewer confirmatory tests, Delhi’s testing strategy under fire||Only one in 200 of those who tested negative in an antigen test in Delhi to detect possible novel coronavirus cases was retested, a fraction that epidemiologists say is too low. From June 25, daily cases appear to have peaked at 3,390 and steadily declined to 1,790 as of July 15. Delhi formally began using antigen testing kits on June 18 and has accelerated their use since July. While these tests dominate daily testing, using them widely without following up with adequate retests contradicts Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines on use of the test, experts told The Hindu . From June 18 to July 16, Delhi conducted 3,05,820 rapid antigen detection tests (RADT), a quicker complement to the standard RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test that while most accurate, takes 24 to 48 hours to give the result. Of these, 2,85,225 tests came ‘negative’. Of them, 1,670 (or about 0.5%) were chosen for retest by RT-PCR and 252 of these were confirmed positive, according to the most updated figures as on July 16 confirmed by The Hindu . RADT’s limitation The limitation of the RADT is that they may miss as many as half of those who are actually positive, which is why the ICMR recommends that these tests be administered in regions where the background prevalence of the disease is known to be high and those negatives “suspected” to be harbouring the virus be retested by the standard RT-PCR test. When approving the RADT by SD Biosensor, a South Korean company, the ICMR underlined that the test ought to be used only in containment zones, hotspots, hospital settings and laboratories among those who manifested one or other symptoms of the disease, influenza-like illnesses, and people with co-morbidities who were asymptomatic, and direct and high-risk contacts of those confirmed positive. Under these settings, those who tested “negative” and whom clinicians “suspected” to be harbouring the disease ought to be “definitely tested sequentially by RT-PCR to rule out infection”. Those who test positive don’t need a retest and must be considered positive, the guidelines note. Expanded ambit On July 9, a Delhi government order as part of its “test, track, treat” strategy expanded the ambit of testing beyond containment zones. Symptomatic individuals would be identified via surveys and they would all need to be tested with RADT kits. “We consistently need to test at least 20,000 people each day. Since the contacts can be in any part of the city, depending on the movement of the patient, the testing facility will be made available at all identified dispensaries and polyclinics,” the order said. This initiative also underlines that “high-risk” persons who test negative in the RADT will have to undergo RT-PCR. However, the low number of retests doesn’t square with the ICMR recommendation regarding retests nor with previous research. ICMR scientists, in a national survey published in May in the Indian Journal of Medical Research , found 10% positives among symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases; 6.1% among hospitalised patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI); and 5.1% among asymptomatic family members of laboratory-confirmed cases. This was in April and cases have only exponentially increased everywhere, including Delhi, since. ‘Imprecise tracking’ “A low level of retesting with RT-PCR in persons who are testing antigen negative will underestimate the cases and make the tracking of the decline imprecise. The ability to detect true positive cases must be maintained at a high level, even as testing rates are being increased,” said Srinath Reddy, President, Public Health Foundation of India, and a member of ICMR’s national COVID-19 task force. An epidemiologist who has been part of the ICMR surveys but declined to be identified said, “If the overall positivity is 15%-20%, it’s very odd if only 0.5% samples are chosen for retesting.” Officials told The Hindu that in Delhi, the tests were being deployed widely and there were camps being set up outside containment zones in various districts to facilitate testing. A modified “revised COVID response plan” was released on July 8. Some districts officials started holding camps for testing “special surveillance groups”, including domestic workers, drivers and electricians in areas where they work and also stay, using RADTs. ‘Purpose defeated’ “We retest a person using RT-PCR if the doctor on the ground feels that the person has ILI (influenza like illness) symptoms. But not every negative case is retested using RT-PCR,” a Delhi government Health Department official said. “If we re-test everyone, then the purpose of having another [rapid antigen] test is defeated.” Of those retested with RT-PCR, around 15% test positive, which is higher than the antigen test positivity of 6%. According to sources in the Union Home Ministry, from April 1 to June 14, Delhi averaged 2,800 tests a day, and from June 15 to July 8, these increased nearly tenfold to 20,000 a day (including RT-PCR and RDAT). A Delhi government affidavit to the High Court says that from July 11 to 14, there were on average every day two or three RADTs for every RT-PCR test — or 52,000 RADTs for about 20,000 RT-PCR tests. The consequence of indiscriminately deploying antigen tests would mean expanding the number of tests and presenting a lower positivity rate while not necessarily being able to reliably establish the extent of the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/with-fewer-confirmatory-tests-delhis-testing-strategy-under-fire/article32119663.ece
18 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Weak barriers cause Assam’s sorrow||Ill-maintained or poorly constructed river embankments have added to Assam’s flood woes this year. The daily flood summary provided by the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) is a profusion of numbers. Some 5.35 million people of 5,004 villages and localities across 30 of Assam’s 33 districts have been affected and 76 died — five on Friday — in two waves of floods since May 22. Another 26 died in landslips. So far, 1,606 roads and 164 bridges or culverts have been damaged. The column also says 197 earthen embankments have been damaged or breached. This is the major reason Assam suffers every monsoon, water resources experts say. “One major feature of flood management in Assam is total dependence on embankments. If the approach to a very complicated problem is on a mono strategy that is technically unsound, then you are in great danger and that is what’s happening,” said Partha Jyoti Das, who heads the water, climate and hazard programme of Assam-based conservation NGO Aaranyak. Last-moment schemes ASDMA officials admit that the brittle embankments have often compounded flood management plans. A factor is the last-moment schemes submitted by the Water Resources Department. “Embankments are repaired or constructed from the State Disaster Response Fund, but the schemes for release of money were submitted in May, when the flood season in Assam starts. The quality of work suffers obviously,” an official said, declining to be quoted. Water Resources officials blamed the delay on COVID-19 and the associated lockdown. Assam began constructing embankments in the 1960s and most of them have outlived their utility. Many of these started breaching or collapsing from the 1990s, more seriously from the 2000s. “In two decades of study, we have found that human casualty, farm and infrastructure damage have been proportionate to the breaching of embankments. In the absence of long-term alternatives, the government has to invest in sturdier, durable embankments to ensure that the situation does not deteriorate every year,” Mr. Das said. Task force The worst flood struck Assam in 2004 when 497 people were killed. This made the Centre set up a task force that came up with flood mitigation ideas involving States and countries in the upstream and downstream of the Brahmaputra and Barak rivers and their tributaries. The suggestions were put in the cold storage. Chief Executive Officer of ASDMA, M.S. Manivannan, said the breaching of embankments had complicated matters as much as periodic high-volume discharge of water from the adjoining hills of Bhutan, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. “But our planning based on the mapping of vulnerable areas has succeeded in rescuing many people,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/weak-barriers-cause-assams-sorrow/article32119686.ece
18 July 2020||Patna,||Bihar gang-rape survivor gets bail||The  Araria gang-rape survivor  was granted bail on Friday while the court denied the same to her two caregivers. The special hearing was called at the court of the Araria Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM). The Patna High Court too was scheduled to hear the case on Friday but it was deferred till the filing of the report. “The court of CJM Anand Kumar Singh today heard the case and granted bail to the gang-rape survivor on a PR bond while it rejected bail to two caregivers, Kalyani Badola and Tanmay Nivedita,” advocate Debu Sen, who appeared for the survivor, told The Hindu over phone. Araria-based NGO Jan Jagran Shakti Sanghtan had filed for the bail petition of all three — the survivor and her two caregivers — in the CJM court of Araria on July 15. The court made the special hearing on Friday as all hearings of lower courts are suspended due to COVID-19 lockdown. “While the victim was given bail, the bails of her friends and support persons — Kalyani Badola and Tanmay Nivedita — were rejected. This is not legally sustainable,” said JJSS secretary Ashish Ranjan Jha. In a release to the media, JJSS also said, “The bail was given to the survivor on a PR bond, which creates a further problem of separation from her primary support persons. It is also putting her through a whole new trauma which is going to be caused by her guilt for being the cause of her support persons being in jail, probably one of the very few people she had trust in and who stood by her in her crisis.” Sensitisation needed The release added, “We would like to reiterate our faith in the judiciary and appeal for the immediate release of the friends and support persons of the survivor. We would also like to pursue the issue on the need to sensitise the criminal justice system on the gender aspect of such cases of sexual violence, in a non-adversarial manner, so that no one again has to go through such an ordeal.” The 22-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped on July 6 and when she narrated her ordeal to JJSS workers, where she was employed as a domestic help, an FIR was lodged at the women’s police station of the town on July 9. In the FIR, she had accused five persons, including one acquaintance, for sexually assaulting her. One arrested The police later arrested one named accused while four others are absconding. On July 10, when the survivor was called to record her statement before the judicial magistrate, she allegedly refused to sign the statement paper and insisted on calling her two aides, Kalyani Badola and Tanmay Nivedita, who were standing outside the court room. When they came in, they allegedly had a heated exchange of words with the magistrate. Later, the magistrate ordered the clerk of the court to call the police and a case was lodged against all the three at the Araria town police station under IPC sections for obstructing a public servant from discharge of duty. The police, later, sent all the three to Dalsinghsarai jail in Samastipur district. When the incident was highlighted in the media, the Araria district and session judge asked the CJM to look into the matter. Arrest denounced Meanwhile, 376 eminent lawyers of the country denounced the arrest of the survivor and wrote a letter the Chief Justice and other judges of the Patna High Court for “urgent and systematic changes in the treatment of survivors of violent sexual crimes in the Araria district court”. Several women organisations too had condemned the incident and demanded immediate release of the survivor and her caregivers. “This must have happened for the first time in the State or the country where a gang-rape victim was sent to jail along with her two caregivers…this is not justice,” Nivedita Jha, a Patna-based women rights activist, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-gang-rape-survivor-gets-bail/article32119914.ece
18 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Human trials for Covaxin begin||Three volunteers were administered ‘Covaxin’, the novel coronavirus vaccine from Bharat Biotech, at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak on Friday, as part of the first phase of clinical trial on the humans. All three were reported to have tolerated it well without any initial adverse effects. Senior Professor and Head, department of Pulmonary & Critical Care Medicine, Dhruva Chaudhry, also the co-principal investigator, told The Hindu over the phone that the three volunteers were short-listed out of eight after health checks to ensure proper liver function and absence of infection and were administered the vaccine. “All three tolerated it well. There were no complaints. We observed them for two hours before releasing them. The immediate component of allergic reaction has been taken care of. We will now look for any soreness at the local site over the next 24-48 hours,” said Dr. Chaudhry, taking care of clinical aspect of the process at the institute. In addition to Dr. Chaudhry, Dr. Savita Verma, the principal investigator, takes care of logistics and control, and Dr. Rakesh Verma is responsible for the vaccination aspects of the process. Dr. Chaudary said the vaccine had been tested successfully on animals for safety and response, and the process had now entered the first phase of clinical trials on the humans. He said the process might take six months and the final assessment on the safety and the anti-bodies produced would be made by the safety board. Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij tweeted: “Human trial with Corona vaccine (COVAXIN) of Bharat Biotech started at PGI Rohtak today. Three subjects were enrolled today. All have tolerated the vaccine very well. There were no adverse efforts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/human-trials-for-covaxin-begin/article32119665.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||Health infrastructure being ramped up: govt.||The Union Health Ministry on Friday said medical infrastructure to ensure quality treatment for COVID-19 patients is being continuously augmented across the country, with India now having 1,383 ‘Dedicated COVID Hospitals’, 3,107 ‘Dedicated COVID Healthcare Centres’, and 10,382 ‘COVID Care Centres’. “Together, they have a capacity of 46,673 ICU beds. 21,848 ventilators are deployed in the hospitals in all States/UTs. We are receiving no reports of shortage of N95 masks and PPE kits with the Centre having supplied 235.58 lakh N95 masks and 124.26 lakh PPE kits to States/ UTs/ Central institutions so far,” said the Ministry. It added that the strategy of home isolation for the mild and asymptomatic patients has ensured that hospitals beds remain unburdened, while the focus has been on the treatment of the severe cases and reduction of fatality. In an effort to ramp-up testing, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked States and UTs to identify and approve all government and private facilities for conducting Rapid Antigen Detection Tests (RADT) for COVID-19. The ICMR, in its latest communication, has advised that States should ensure all RADT testing points are appropriately linked with RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) test facilities, where symptomatic ‘negatives’ will be tested. District-wise login credentials should be shared with all antigen testing sites, government as well as private, so that data can be entered into the ICMR portal on a real-time basis. It added that with the use of antigen tests, more tests were being carried out, and that it was absolutely necessary that all such testing data are uploaded to the ICMR database and all positive cases were brought to the attention of district/ municipal authorities for isolation/ quarantine/treatment. “Ramping up testing capacity has resulted in more than 3 lakh tests being conducted per day. 3,33,228 samples have been tested in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-infrastructure-being-ramped-up-govt/article32119669.ece
18 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Police team attacked in Aligarh village||Days after police teams were attacked in Kanpur and Bulandshahr, the Uttar Pradesh police came under fire in a village in Aligarh where three of its personnel were injured in an attack by the family and accomplices of an alleged smuggler and manufacturer of illicit liquor. The incident happened in Sankra village of Dadon area of Aligarh when a team of at least a dozen police personnel went to arrest Jagan Mallah, wanted in the smuggling of illicit liquor. The team included a sub-inspector from Dadon police station, the police post in-charge of the village and two women constables. Attacked with rods According to local sources, when the police detained Jagan and made him sit in their vehicle, his daughter and son rushed towards the policemen with sticks and the women members of the family started throwing stones from the rooftop of his residence. “The police personnel tried to stand their ground for sometime but were overwhelmed by the intensity of stone-pelting. They were also attacked with rods and sticks,” said Brijesh Yadav, pradhan of Sankra village. In the melee, he said, Sub-Inspector Harikesh Yadav was hit on the head and lost consciousness. Two women constables were also injured. Confirming the sequence of events, Superintendent of Police (Rural) Atul Sharma said, “The injured police personnel were taken to Chharra community health centre and are out of danger. Later, another team under SHOs of two police stations was sent to nab the culprits but by then they had escaped.” Right now, teams drawn from five police stations are conducting combing operations in the area, he added. Mr. Yadav said the whole village was worried over the illegal activities of Jagan. Liquor seized According to the police, Jagan has many furnaces in a nearby village where 400 litres of illicit liquor is manufactured every day. “Two months ago, the police had raided his unit and seized 250 litres of liquor but Jagan and his son had managed to escape,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-team-attacked-in-aligarh-village/article32119911.ece
18 July 2020||Kozhikode,||Wilson murder: probe into Kozhikode links||Central investigation agencies, including the National Investigation Agency, are probing whether the accused in a case pertaining to the gunning down of Tamil Nadu Special Sub-Inspector of Police Wilson received any logistical support in Kozhikode. After carrying out the crime at the market road check-post at Kaliyikkavila, Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu, on January 8, the assailants escaped and concealed the knife and firearm used in the attack near the KSRTC bus stations Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam. They then reached Kozhikode, changed their appearance before travelling to Maharashtra. “They had offered prayers at a mosque and bought clothes from a shop near the Vadakara railway station to disguise themselves for almost half a day. They proceeded to Maharashtra and returned to Mangaluru. Security agencies are probing whether they had secured logistical support from any organisation or any individual. Further investigations are on,” an official said. Last week, the NIA submitted a chargesheet against six persons — Abdul Shameem, 30; Y. Thowfeek, 27, of Kanyakumari; Khaja Mohideen, 48, of Cuddalore; Mahboob Pasha, 48, and Ejas Pasha, 46, of Bengaluru; and Jaffer Ali, 26, of Cuddalore — before the special NIA court in Chennai. Wilson was shot and stabbed to death by Shameem and Thowfeek. The assailants were arrested on January 15. But investigation revealed that they killed the police officer with a view to creating terror in the minds of the people as part of waging violent jihad, the NIA said in its chargesheet. It said Khaja Mohideen was a member of the proscribed terrorist organisation Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS)/Daesh. He had recruited and radicalised Shameem and Thowfeek to carry out violent attacks against the establishment in Tamil Nadu. Mahboob and Ejas and Jaffer were involved in procuring firearms and ammunition to carry out the attack. All the accused were charged with Sections 120B, 302, 353 and 506 ( ii) read with 34 of the IPC and Sections 16, 18, 18B, 20, 23, 38 and 39 of the UAPA Act and sections 25 ( IB) 9a) and 27 of the Arms Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wilson-murder-probe-into-kozhikode-links/article32120012.ece
18 July 2020||MUMBAI,||‘T.N. emerges as top investment destination’||Tamil Nadu has emerged as the country’s top investment destination in the first quarter of this financial year, even as overall fresh investment announcements in India slumped to the lowest in five years amidst a period marred by the extended pandemic-induced lockdown. The southern State accounted for 18.63% of the Rs. 97,859 crore of investments envisaged to execute 1,241 projects in the country in the first quarter, reckoned the latest ‘Projex Survey’ released by Projects Today, an independent firm that tracks investment projects in the country. In the same quarter last year, India had seen the announcement of 2,500 new projects worth Rs. 3,86,673 crore. 17 MoUs signed The Tamil Nadu government had signed 17 MoUs (memorandums of understanding) with investors on May 27, 2020, which gave a Rs. 18,236 crore fillip to its investment pipeline in the quarter between April and June. While private sector investments on the whole collapsed to just 39.1% of total investments in the quarter, a ratio last seen in the first quarter of 2013-14, Tamil Nadu attracted large players like Daimler India Commercial Vehicles for a Rs. 2,277 crore project at Oragadam and the largest power project in the quarter — a 750 MW gas-based plant with an outlay of Rs. 3,000 crore. Two private sector projects worth Rs. 2,900 crore in the State for producing wind mill equipment and semiconductor chips accounted for a bulk of the 16 machinery sector investment proposals worth Rs. 3,678 crore across the country. Data centres The State is also host to three of the five data centres envisaged to come up in the country at a total investment of Rs. 7,400 crore. The other two data centres are proposed in Maharashtra, which was second to Tamil Nadu with fresh investments worth Rs. 11,228.8 crore. Maharashtra had signed 12 MoUs with firms from Singapore, South Korea and the U.S. through a virtual summit. Suspension of work “While States like Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra held investors meet and signed MoUs, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka reworked labour laws, started building land banks and sent feelers to foreign companies for investing in their States,” the Projects Today investment survey noted. In all, private promoters announced 266 new projects worth Rs. 38,242.9 crore. The nationwide lockdown has also led to suspension of work on investment projects worth around Rs. 21.12 lakh crore due to critical factors such as shortage of labour, funds and equipment. “We believe that India has all the potential to be the contract manufacturer of the world in several sectors, and has the required labour force. However, slow-moving official machinery, archaic land and labour laws are some of the things preventing foreign companies from bringing in their technology and capital to India. It is high time we address these issues at the earliest at the Central and State governments’ level,” said Shashikant Hegde, director and CEO of Projects Today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tn-emerges-as-top-investment-destination/article32119621.ece
18 July 2020||Srinagar,||Three Jaish militants killed in Kulgam||A Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) militant, an expert in handling improvised explosive devices (IEDs), was among three militants killed at Kulgam in south Kashmir on Friday in an operation conducted by the security forces, the police said. Three soldiers were injured in the operation. A police spokesman identified the IED expert as Walid, a Pakistani national and “a most wanted terrorist”. The identities of the other two terrorists were being ascertained. “Walid was involved in the killing of four civilians in Kulgam. He was also involved in luring innocent youth to join terrorist ranks,” the spokesman said. The three Army men were wounded during the initial firing. Two of them were shifted to 92 Base hospital. Arms and ammunition, including an M-4 rifle, an AK rifle, a pistol, a grenade launcher and grenades, were recovered from the site of encounter. “The bodies of the terrorists will be sent to Handwara for their last rites after conducting medico-legal formalities, including collection of their DNA,” the police said. The encounter broke out in Kulgam early on Friday when a joint team of the police, 09 Rashtriya Rifles of the Army and the CRPF launched a cordon and search on specific information about the presence of militants in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-jaish-militants-killed-in-kulgam/article32119655.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||SC refuses plea for single curriculum||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a plea for a uniform and common curriculum for school students in the age group of six to 14 across the country rather than have diverse ones such as the CBSE, the ICSE and State Boards. The court sad it was a “matter of policy” and the judiciary could not “command” the government. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, leading a three-judge Bench, declined the petition by advocate Ashwini Upadhyay to set up a National Education Council/Commission and follow a “one nation, one-board” system and merge the ICSE with the CBSE. Mr. Upadhyay also urged a standard textbook with chapters on fundamental rights and duties, directive principles and the golden goals set out in the Preamble, and make its study compulsory throughout the territory of India. On this, Justice Chandrachud asked the advocate to spare a thought for the plight of the schoolchildren, who were already burdened by their books and heavy bags. “Our children are so burdened now with heavy bags on their shoulders... You want to add one more book to their bag & burden them more. Let us not burden our children any further,” Justice Chandrachud addressed Mr. Upadhyay orally. “Presently, each education board has its own syllabus and curriculum and entrance examinations are based on CBSE, so prevailing system doesn’t provide equal opportunity to all students,” the petition said. “Uniform education system having common syllabus and common curriculum would achieve the code of a common culture, removal of disparity and depletion of discriminatory values in human relations. It would enhance virtues and improve the quality of life, elevate the thoughts, which advance constitutional philosophy of equal society,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-refuses-plea-for-single-curriculum/article32119675.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Minister denies Congress charge of horse-trading||Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Friday denied the Congress’s allegation that he was part of a conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan. The accusation, levelled against him by All India Congress Committee (AICC) media in-charge Randeep Surjewala, was on the basis of an alleged recording of horse-trading transactions between Mr. Shekhawat and Congress MLAs and was revealed in a press conference on Friday morning. Mr. Shekhawat said, “This is not my voice... Let there be an investigation. I am ready to face any probe,” he said after the Congress demanded his arrest. Mr. Shekhawat is a member of the Lok Sabha from Jodhpur, Mr. Gehlot’s area of influence. He also tweeted in Sanskrit, stating that “where there is dharma [righteousness], there is victory.” Sources close to Mr. Shekhawat said he would cooperate with the any investigation in the matter. Mr. Surjewala also demanded the arrest of one Sanjay Jain, whom he described as a BJP leader. Mr. Shekhawat denied knowing Mr. Jain. The BJP has dismissed the audio clips as “manufactured”. Its spokesperson Sambit Patra said Mr. Surjewala had said soon after the rebellion by former Deputy Chief Minister of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot that if there were many utensils in a house, then they collided and made noise at times. “The Congress is now trying to suppress this noise through a manufactured audio,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minister-denies-congress-charge-of-horse-trading/article32119646.ece
18 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||CPI(M) pledges support to CM||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretariat on Friday pledged total support to the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and endorsed the decision to suspend former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar in connection with a gold smuggling case. Briefing reporters about the secretariat deliberations, State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan told reporters that there was no lapse in taking action in case and reiterated that neither the government nor Mr. Vijayan would protect anyone involved in the case. Despite the government action, the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) were embarking on a campaign to destabilise the government. The Opposition was trying to create a smokescreen to mislead the National Investigating Agency (NIA) and Customs probing the case. No-confidence motion Referring to the notice for a no-confidence motion by the Opposition against the government and Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan, Mr. Balakrishnan said the discussion on the motion would prove the popularity of the government and the support it enjoyed. Violating the COVID-19 protocol, the Opposition was trying to create anarchy in the name of the agitation against the government. The High Court had to intervene to halt the agitation till July 31, he said. Mr. Balakrishnan denied reports that the party had lost its clout on the government. The party did not intervene in the routine administration, but advised the government only on policy matters. The appointments made by various consultancies was being reviewed. Consultancies cannot be done away with at one go and certain projects needed it. “No official should fly above the government,” he said. Mr. Balakrishnan ruled out chances of making any change in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) in the wake of the latest developments. The party would not go on a campaign till July 31, but launch a house-visit programme from the first week of August. A mass campaign would be launched to counter the Opposition bid to target the government from August 16, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-pledges-support-to-cm/article32120013.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||High Court clears demolition of Telangana Secretariat complex||After issuing an order a week ago staying demolition of Secretariat complex, Telangana High Court on Friday dismissed a PIL plea seeking a direction to government to stop the demolition. With the HC dismissing the plea and vacating the stay order given earlier, the State government was allowed to resume the demolition of the Secretariat started on July 7 and put on hold since July 10. It also clears the decks for construction of a new Secretariat complex, design of which was finalised and okayed by the State Cabinet recently. Delivering the verdict on Friday, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy observed that there were no merits in the contentions of the petitioners. The PIL plea was filed by professor P.L. Vishweshwar Rao and Cherukuri Sudhakar. Lawyer Chikkudu Prabhakar presented arguments for them. Initially, the petitioners’ main contention was that the demolition taken up by government was illegal since it did not adhere to rule 4 (3) of Demolition and Construction Waste Management Rules-2016. Since the government could not immediately place before the bench the related information, the bench issued an order staying the demolition. However, subsequently the government filed a counter affidavit presenting documents substantiating that it had complied with the said rule and obtained permission from the local body which was GHMC in the case. But the petitioners’ counsel Mr. Prabhakar contended that demolition of a building falls within definition of preparation of land for construction of a building and for that an environment clearance certificate from the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests was mandatory. However, Advocate General B.S. Prasad rejected the argument stating that preparation of land commences with the beginning of construction of a building but demolition of building did not fall under preparation of land. With Mr. Prabhakar and the AG making different interpretations of “preparation of land”, the CJ on Thursday instructed Assistant Solicitor General of India N. Rajeshwar Rao to secure clarity on this. On Friday, the ASG presented before the bench a letter from the Centre stating that there was no need to obtain a clearance certificate from the ministry if a stand alone building was demolished. This supported the AG’s contention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-court-clears-demolition-of-telangana-secretariat-complex/article32119624.ece
18 July 2020||BENGALURU,||No plan to extend lockdown: CM||Amidst a demand by experts, officials and a section of political leaders to extend the lockdown in Bengaluru beyond a week, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday maintained that the lockdown was “not a solution” to contain COVID-19 and said that there was no proposal before the government to extend it in the city. The Chief Minister announced his stand at a meeting of the eight zonal in-charge Ministers for monitoring the situation in Bengaluru on Friday. Bengaluru Mayor M. Goutham Kumar and BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, among others, had earlier expressed a view that it would be better to have a longer lockdown to break the spread of virus. However, the Chief Minister asked officials to take stringent measures to prevent the spread of virus. Mr. Yediyurappa directed the authorities concerned to ensure bed allocation and the arrival of ambulances to the doorstep of COVID-19 infected persons within two hours of them testing positive. According to a release from the Chief Minister’s Office, Mr. Yediyurappa asked the authorities to decentralise the bed allocation system to the zonal level. During the meeting, he asked the zonal in-charge Ministers to ensure treatment for COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients in private hospitals according to government guidelines. He asked the authorities to give priority for the admission of symptomatic people above 65 years. Reiterating the government’s stance of home quarantining asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients, he said such patients could even be admitted to COVID Care Centres so that hospital beds are available to those in dire need of treatment.  Rapid antigen tests Mr. Yediyurappa instructed that rapid antigen tests should be conducted on the deceased to know if they died owing to COVID-19 and take the necessary steps to hand over the body or conduct the last rites according to guidelines. Similar tests should be conducted on those who die in home isolation too and the family should be facilitated to conduct last rites as early as possible, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-plan-to-extend-lockdown-cm/article32119630.ece
18 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Customs unravels hawala trail in Kerala gold smuggling case||The Customs Department on Friday moved to track down the network of sponsors who had purportedly financed the illegal import of gold in trade quantities via air cargo shipments addressed to the consulate of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) here. Investigators inspected the house of Fazil Fareed, a suspect in the case who was still at large, in Thrissur. They said they suspected that Fareed had handled the Dubai end of the operation. His collaborators in Kerala, some of whom are now in judicial custody, had collected money to seed the smuggling run. The financiers included at least one jewellery shop owner and some persons with possible links to organisations that fronted for a proscribed fundamentalist outfit. Sent to Dubai Investigators believe the money raised in Kerala was sent to Dubai via an informal hawala banking system headquartered in Hyderabad. The accused had used the underground money transfer business to dodge banking regulators. The operators at the Dubai end used the funds to purchase gold and convert the bullion into concealable form in cargo shipments addressed to the consulate. A tip-off had led the Customs to the contraband. Customs enforcers have attempted to quantify the amount of contraband gold the smuggling network had illegally imported into the country in diplomatic air cargo consignments. The gang, which included two employees of the consulate, had raked in huge profits and used a part of it to fund a lavish lifestyle. The role of the hawala operator and the likelihood that the secretive money transfer channel could be used to send cash to finance terrorist activities had kindled the NIA’s interest in the smuggling case. Hawala channels were also active conduits for laundering proceedings from illegal activities . Customs enforcers said the return of a consulate official to Dubai did not have any bearing on the case. The mission had denied any knowledge or involvement in the crime and preferred a detailed statement. The mission had stated that it did not order the consignment and the documents were forged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/customs-unravels-hawala-trail-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/article32119634.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||PM’s blunders weakened India: Rahul||A fragile economy, troubled neighbourhood and weak foreign policy prompted China to act against India, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said in a short video released by the Congress on Friday. Mr. Gandhi, in the 3 minute 37 seconds video, alleged that in the past six years, the Narendra Modi government “disturbed and disrupted” all these aspects and made the country vulnerable. The video is part of a newly launched series where Mr. Gandhi would discuss issues related to current affairs for those interested in knowing the “truth”. This comes after his high-profile virtual interviews with experts during the nationwide lockdown. “Since 2014, the PM’s constant blunders and indiscretions have fundamentally weakened India and left us vulnerable. Empty words don’t suffice in the world of geopolitics”, he said in a tweet along with the video. “...Today you have a country which is economically in trouble; in trouble as far as foreign policy is concerned; in trouble with its neighbours; and that’s why the Chinese have decided that this is possibly the best time to act”, he said in his latest video. “So our strengths have suddenly become our weaknesses”. He asserted that countries were protected by confluence of forces and systems and not by any one particular thing. “A country is protected by its foreign relationships, it is protected by its neighbourhood, it is protected by its economy, it is protected by the feeling that its people have. The vision that its people have. And what has happened over the last six years is that in all those areas, India has been disturbed and disrupted”, he stated. ‘Transactional relations’ In terms of foreign policy, Mr. Gandhi claimed that earlier powers like the U.S., Russia and the European Union used to help India manoeuvre globally but now relations were transactional. “Today our relationship has become transactional. We have a transactional relationship with the U.S. We have disturbed our relationship with the Russians. We have a transactional relationship with Europe”, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pms-blunders-weakened-india-rahul/article32119667.ece
18 July 2020||Bhopal,||5 Dalits attacked over land dispute||The Madhya Pradesh police have registered a case against seven upper caste men for reportedly assaulting five Dalit men over a land dispute in Shivpuri district on Thursday night. The incident comes two days after a Dalit couple reportedly consumed pesticide while resisting an anti-encroachment drive in neighbouring Guna district. Members of both the communities cultivated parts of a land at Silra village in the Karera police station limits, R.S. Chandel, Superintendent of Police, said. “Our team has reached the spot to inquire into the matter. Some of the accused are being questioned,” he said. Mahendra Boudh, a social worker, who met the injured men at the district hospital, alleged that members of the Thakur community wanted to grab their land for which they were thrashed while showing resistance. “At least two got their arms fractured, while one suffered injuries on his head and got stitches,” he said. “They called people from outside who carried guns and lathis. They fired shots in the air, and landed lathis on us and hit us with the guns,” said Jaswant Jatav, 50, who suffered a fracture. “They came to our houses at night and assaulted us,” he added. Mr. Jatav said the Thakurs wanted to grab the five-bigha patch the Dalit farmers cultivated. “We told them it is our land, but they used tractors to dig out parts of our fields,” he said. Sunil Astay, formerly in charge of the State unit of Bhim Army, said atrocities continued against Dalits in the Gwalior-Chambal region. “The bastion of BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia is where such atrocities are being reported frequently. Until when can we tolerate this,” he asked. Last year in September, two Dalit children were thrashed to death for defecating in the open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-dalits-attacked-over-land-dispute/article32119673.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal to explore archaeological site||Nepal’s Department of Archaeology is holding cross-ministerial meetings to explore an archaeological site in Thori near the border town of Birgunj, officials in Kathmandu have said. The development comes four days after Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli said the real birthplace of Lord Ram is located in Thori village around Birgunj, a major border town. Thori is known to have a cluster of ancient Hindu religious sites that draw pilgrims from different parts of Nepal. “The department has been holding several meetings with different ministries to discuss the possibility of starting archaeological studies in Thori,” Ram Bahadur Kunwar, spokesperson for the Department of Archaeology, was quoted by a news outlet as saying. Nepalese historian Jagman Gurung, in a TV interview, said that according to the geographical descriptions in Valmiki’s Ramayana , it appears that Lord Ram’s Ayodhya was located nearer to Janakpur. “The travel time in a chariot from India’s Ayodhya to Janakpur is around seven days. But Ramayana says Ram arrived in Janakpur [of Nepal] in a day. Is it possible?”, he said, adding that the location of the ancient city of Ayodhya required to be studied further. Strong reaction Mr. Oli’s remarks have drawn strong reaction from Indian civil society, including former parliamentarian Karan Singh, who termed the claim bizarre. Nepal’s foreign ministry claimed that Mr. Oli’s comments were not aimed to hurt anyone’s sentiment. On Thursday, India, in response to Mr Oli’s claim, said the world was aware of India’s deep cultural heritage. The Nepal embassy here has taken up the safety and security of Nepalese citizens in Uttar Pradesh after a group of miscreants assaulted a Nepalese person and posted a video online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-to-explore-archaeological-site/article32119679.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||9 parties against digital campaign in Bihar||A day after the Election Commission (EC) reversed its decision to extend postal ballot facility to voters above 65 years of age, nine Opposition parties on Friday met in Delhi to oppose the panel’s move to hold only a digital campaign for the upcoming Bihar Assembly election in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Bihar in-charge for Congress Shaktisinh Gohil, RJD RS MP Manoj K. Jha, CPI (ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharjee, RLSP president Upendra Kushwaha, CPI general secretary D. Raja, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, among others, were present at the meeting. The parties came up with a joint memorandum opposing the EC’s decision to prohibit the traditional mode of campaign and allow only a ‘virtual election campaign’. They pointed out that as per the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), only 34% of Bihar voters had a smartphone. The parties said almost two-thirds of the electorate would be left out. The election, they argued, would end up being a mere formality and it would be a ‘travesty of democratic processes’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/9-parties-against-digital-campaign-in-bihar/article32119656.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||IITs to relax criteria for admissions due to cancelled board exams||The Indian Institutes of Technology will relax their eligibility criteria dealing with Class 12 marks this year, as several board examinations were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier, a minimum 75% score in Class 12 was required; this year, a simple pass will be sufficient. The decision was taken by the Joint Admissions Board of the IITs, Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank tweeted on Friday evening. “For admissions to IITs, apart from qualifying the JEE (Advanced), the eligibility was to secure either a minimum score of 75% marks in class XII Board exams or rank among the top 20 percentile in their qualifying examinations,” he tweeted. “Due to the partial cancellation of class XII exams by several Boards, Joint Admission Board (JAB) has decided to relax the eligibility criterion for JEE (Advanced) 2020 qualified candidates this time. Qualified candidates who have passed class XII examinations will now be eligible for admissions, irrespective of marks obtained.” CBSE and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations were two of the national school boards that were forced to cancel some papers when schools were closed in mid-March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iits-to-relax-criteria-for-admissions-due-to-cancelled-board-exams/article32119681.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects plea against demolition of buildings||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain an appeal to stop the Telangana government from demolishing State Secretariat buildings spanning 10 lakh sq ft set on 25.5 acres. The new Secretariat building is estimated to cost Rs. 1,000 crore of public money. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan declined a plea by Jeevan Reddy to stop the demolition by quoting reports that there were “several deficiencies in the buildings.” Mr. Reddy had appealed against a High Court decision dismissing his plea on June 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-rejects-plea-against-demolition-of-buildings/article32119622.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No one can touch an inch of India’s territory’||Upon arrival in Leh, Mr. Singh witnessed a high-altitude joint airborne exercise by troops, including some battle drills by troops of the Ladakh Scouts, a defence source said. The exercise at Stanka near Leh showcased the application of integrated combined force in high-altitude terrain involving newer generation IAF helicopters and special forces in vertical envelopment and ground forces, including mechanised columns, effecting speedy link-up, the source stated. Thereafter, Mr. Singh visited Lukung in eastern Ladakh, where he was briefed on the security situation and operational preparedness along the LAC as well as along the LoC in Kargil and Dras sectors, the Defence Ministry said in a statement.  In the afternoon, Mr. Singh reached Srinagar from Ladakh where he was briefed in detail about the situation on the LoC, in the hinterland and successful counter-terrorist operations by 15 Corps Commander Lt. Gen. BS Raju. Later in the evening, Mr. Singh chaired a security review meeting, which was attended by the Lieutenant Governor of J&K and other senior officials from the security forces, civil administration and intelligence agencies, the Ministry statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-one-can-touch-an-inch-of-indias-territory/article32119638.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||U.P. govt. denies it killed Dubey in fake encounter||The Uttar Pradesh government emphatically denied before the Supreme Court on Friday that the gunning down of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey on July 10 was a “fake encounter”. Special Secretary, State Home Department, Anil Kumar Singh, in a 58-page counter-affidavit, said “the incident can never be termed as a fake encounter looking at it in totality”. The State objected to the court’s suggestion to set up a judicial commission like the one investigating the encounter deaths of the four accused in the Hyderabad veterinarian’s rape and murder case. Unlike Telangana government, U.P. government has suo motu instituted a judicial inquiry into Dubey’s death within days. Mr. Singh assured the court that, “The State has taken all steps to ensure that even a suspicion does not remain on the incident. It [the Uttar Pradesh government] has acted proactively.” The affidavit said a retired Allahabad High Court judge is heading the judicial inquiry. A Special Investigation Team has also been set up. The Uttar Pradesh government described Dubey as a dreaded gangster and the leader of the “Bullet Gang”. It said Dubey was the gangleader of the gang “registered as D-124”. “He has been a gangster since many decades, having 64 cases of serious offences like murder, dacoity, extortion, etc., against him,” the U.P. government said. It described the ambush and murder of eight policemen by Dubey and his gang in Kanpur a “brutal massacre”. The State said Dubey, who was booked under National Security Act in 2001, was serving a life sentence and was out on parole on July 2. Dubey had a strong motive to escape from custody on July 10 when the convoy bringing him back to U.P. from Ujjain met with an accident due to heavy rains. “He had the capacity, potential and experience to attack the police and kill them,” the government said. He was killed when the police escort fired back in self-defence. The State denied reports that the media following the convoy was held back without an explanation. On reports that the vehicle in the “accident” was different from the one he was travelling in, the State said vehicles were swapped constantly for security reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-govt-denies-it-killed-dubey-in-fake-encounter/article32119640.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Chinese troops are yet to fully move out’||They have held four rounds of talks so far — on June 6, 22 and 30 and July 14 — to disengage and de-escalate from the build-up areas in Gogra-Hot Springs and Finger area along Pangong Tso (lake). The official said that at some places, disengagement has not been as expected but considerable progress had been made after the talks were scaled up to the level of ‘Special Representative on Boundary Question' on July 5. India was represented by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and China by Foreign Minister Wang Yi. “In all the four rounds of Corps Commander talks, it was vehemently impressed upon the Chinese that the pullback of troops as per the disengagement agreement does not mean the final settlement of the boundary. This is temporary,” said the official. A second official said after the third round of talks on June 30, it was decided Chinese troops would completely withdraw from PP-15 in the Hot Springs area. “Due to the terrain and other factors, verification process is slow. While Chinese troops had agreed to move back from PP-15, our assessment finds that they are well within 1.5 km of India’s perception of the LAC,” the official said. At PP-17, the strength of Chinese troops had reduced from 3,000 to around 150 personnel. Indian and Chinese troops were around 500-600 metres apart here, the official stated, adding that at PP-16, Indian and Chinese troops were positioned almost 20 km away from each other. The first official said, “At none of the places, there is an eyeball to eyeball deployment now. But we remain cautious of the Chinese claims and this is going to be a long haul.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-troops-are-yet-to-fully-move-out/article32119639.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘270 mn Indians lifted out of poverty by UPA’||Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative (OPHI) study finds that 270 million Indians were lifted out of poverty by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) and those who scoff at its record must know that economists laugh at their ineptitude, said former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said on Thursday. Mr. Chidambaram was reacting to a report on poverty data released by the United Nations Development Programme and OPHI that pointed out that 65 out of 75 countries studied significantly reduced their multidimensional poverty levels between 2000 and 2019. About 273 million Indians moved out of multi-dimensional poverty between 2005-6 and 2015-16, it claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/270-mn-indians-lifted-out-of-poverty-by-upa/article32119647.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air France allowed to resume flights||Passengers will be able to fly to and from Paris on Air France flights, provided they meet the mandatory medical and travel advisories laid down by the French government. India has allowed Air France 28 flights from Saturday to July 31 from Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru. But severe restrictions imposed by both the governments for incoming passengers mean that only essential travel will be encouraged and India’s proposal for a “travel bubble” with easier quarantine norms to ensure hassle-free travel has not come through. Air France advises passengers on its website to carry a report of a negative COVID-19 test done 72 hours before a flight, as well as a “Travel Certificate for access to French Territory detailing their travel plans, and a sworn statement that they do not have novel coronavirus”. Upon their arrival in France, travellers from India will have to undergo 14 days of mandatory home or institutional quarantine. Other countries India is also in talks with the U.S., Germany and the U.K., who have been conducting repatriation flights from here but are yet to start regular commercial flights which will not only allow their airlines to ferry passengers into their countries and also bring passengers into India. The U.S.-based United Airlines aims to start scheduled flights from August 1, which will allow it to fly passengers both ways, pending government approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-france-allowed-to-resume-flights/article32119670.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Weak embankments in Assam causing floods||The worst flood struck Assam in 2004 when 497 people were killed. This made the Centre set up a task force that came up with flood mitigation ideas involving States and countries in the upstream and downstream of the Brahmaputra and Barak rivers and their tributaries. The suggestions were put in the cold storage. Chief Executive Officer of ASDMA, M.S. Manivannan, said the breaching of embankments had complicated matters as much as periodic high-volume discharge of water from the adjoining hills of Bhutan, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. “But our planning based on the mapping of vulnerable areas has succeeded in rescuing many people,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/weak-embankments-in-assam-causing-floods/article32119909.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajasthan SOG files FIRs after tapes on horse-trading||Mr. Jain, allegedly heard in conversation with Mr. Shekhawat had moved to Jaipur from Lunkaransar in Bikaner two decades ago and developed contacts with influential people in politics and bureaucracy through his hotel business. Initial probe by the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police has revealed that Mr. Jain developed relations with politicians and regularly appeared with in photographs with high-profile persons. Mr. Jain father was the Block Congress president of Lunkaransar. His proximity to the politicians in both the Congress and the BJP helped him grow over the years and he was consulted even for political appointments. In the latest tapes, Mr. Jain is heard talking about money being delivered to legislators for switching sides to bring down the Ashok Gehlot government. While the Congress alleged that Mr. Jain was a BJP leader, BJP State president Satish Poonia denied that he was party member. Asked whether he knew Mr. Jain, Mr. Shekhawat said in Delhi that he knew many Sanjay Jains. “Let me know which one they are talking about. From which [phone] number was the purported call made?” he asked. A five-member SOG team also left for Manesar in Haryana to question MLAs loyal to Mr. Pilot, who are staying in a resort, . The SOG comes directly under Mr. Gehlot, who also holds the Home portfolio. Congress Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi, who had lodged a complaint about the tapes with the SOG, told reporters that he could recognise the voice of Mr. Sharma talking to Mr. Shekhawat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-sog-files-firs-after-tapes-on-horse-trading/article32119644.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||God’s plans||Sundaranatha, a devotee of Lord Siva, is well versed in the Vedas. He leaves Kailasa to meet his friend sage Agastya. But in life everything happens according to God’s plans and we see this clearly in the case of Sundaranatha, said R. Narayanan in a discourse. Taking pity on a herd of cows, which are mourning the death of a cowherd, Sundaranatha uses his siddhic powers to exit his body and to enter the body of the cowherd, whose name was Moolan. Sundaranatha hides his own body, and takes the cows to Sathanur, from where they have come to the forest for grazing. Once the cows are safe home, Sundaranatha, now in the body of Moolan, stays on the boundary of the village. Moolan’s wife, who does not know that her husband is dead, and that a great yogi now inhabits his body, asks Moolan to come home. But Moolan refuses. The next day she complains to the elders of the village, who go to the mandapam, where Moolan has spent the night. They look at him and realise that the one before them is no ordinary person. They tell Moolan’s wife that her husband is not mad, as she thinks. He has a connection with divinity. They tell her that he is doing Siva yoga. He is a jnani, who has no worldly desires. The elders further say that he is a Jeevan muktha, who will never come back to resume the life of a householder. The woman is extremely sorrowful, and the villagers console her. Sundaranatha, who is in Moolan’s body, goes to the forest to get his own body, but he finds that his body, which had so carefully hidden has vanished! He now has no option but to continue in Moolan’s body. He goes to Thiruvavaduturai and seated under a peepul tree, he meditates on Siva. He comes to be known as Thirumoolar. He writes 3000 verses in Tamil, and is one of the 63 Nayanmars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gods-plans/article32119672.ece
18 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Minor rape victim set afire, dies||A minor rape victim in a Bhiwani village died after the accused in the rape case and his relative allegedly set her afire on Thursday morning. The prime accused in the case has been arrested, the police said, and his role in the muder was being investigated. According to the police, the girl, 15, was sleeping in her house when the rape accused, a distant relative, and his accomplice allegedly set her afire at 3 a.m. causing serious burns. She was taken to a civil hospital and later referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak. She died during treatment a few hours later. The incident came days after the girl had accused the relative of raping her. The police had registered a case on July 13. Fearing social ignominy, the accused’s father allegedly took his own life a few hours later. The girl had made the allegations of rape earlier as well, but the matter was never reported to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minor-rape-victim-set-afire-dies/article32119912.ece
18 July 2020||Hyderabad,||NIA serves notice on Virasam member||The National Investigation Agency has served notice to Viplava Rachayitala Sangham (Virasam) executive body member Kranthi Tekula in connection with 2018 Bhima-Koregaon case. Mr. Kranthi, who earlier worked in a popular Telugu newspaper, was asked to come to NIA’s Hyderabad regional office on July 13, where the officials served him the notice in-person. The notice served by the central agency stated that he must appear before the investigating team at NIA office in Mumbai on July 24 for questioning. “They served me notice and asked me to appear in the Mumbai office. Except the case number and name of the Superintendent of Police investigating the case, whom I should go and meet, nothing is mentioned in the notice,” Mr. Kranthi told The Hindu . Apart from poet and activist Varavara Rao and his two daughters houses, the Pune police also searched Mr. Kranthi house in August 2018. Sources said that the agency is likely to serve more notices to the key members of Virasam, as they believe they were in ‘close’ contact with Mr. Varavara Rao. “After questioning Mr. Kranthi, we might call more people to our office in connection with the case,” an officer said on condition of anonymity. Mr. Varavara Rao and several others were booked by the Pune police for alleged provocative speeches during the ‘Elgar Parishad’, an event held on December 31, 2017, to commemorate a military victory of Dalits against the Peshwa army 200 years earlier. A day later, on January 1, 2018, violent clashes between Dalit and Maratha groups during the celebrations. The investigators believe that alleged provocative speeches made during Elgar Parishad led to the violence next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-serves-notice-to-virasam-member/article32120000.ece
18 July 2020||Mumbai,||Shift poet to COVID-19 hospital, says NHRC||Following a complaint from the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) regarding lack of treatment being provided to Varavara Rao, the 81-year-old poet who is being held in the Taloja Jail in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said on Friday that the Chief Secretary of the Maharashtra is expected to ensure that he is shifted to the best possible COVID-19 hospital. Stating that Mr. Rao is an under trial prisoner presently in the State’s custody, the NHRC said the government must ensure that the medical expenditure is borne by the State. His co-accused Vernon Gonsalves and Anand Teltumbde moved the High Court for a direction to test them too as they were in close proximity with Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shift-poet-to-covid-19-hospital-says-nhrc/article32119648.ece
18 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Police team made to wait at hotel||High drama unfolded outside a five-star hotel in Manesar here on Friday evening, after a Rajasthan Police team was not allowed inside by the local police and the staff for more than an hour. More than a dozen Rajasthan Congress MLAs supporting former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot are believed to be inside ITC Grand Bharat. Bhanwar Lal Sharma, whose name figures in the FIR on conspiracy to topple the government, is believed to be inside. Around 8 p.m., the staff allowed the police personnel inside. The team left the hotel 45 minutes later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-team-made-to-wait-at-hotel/article32119660.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Draft EIA gives licence for violations’||The Draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020 is in keeping with the pro-business agenda of the Narendra Modi government and gives “licence for wrongdoing and violations,” CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat said in a letter to Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday. Ms. Karat has demanded that the draft notification be withdrawn and redrafted after due consultations. “The draft notification is in keeping with the pro-business agenda of the Central government in the name of development. People’s interests or concerns of protection of environment are not the concern of Draft EIA 2020. In fact it gives licence for wrongdoing and violations,” she wrote. ‘Dilutes protections’ The Draft EIA 2020, Ms. Karat says, is contrary to its statutory requirement to “protect and improve the environment,” instead it is designed to dilute existing protections through different means. She further alleged that the draft not only supersedes the EIA 2006 but also seeks to circumvent various rulings made by the National Green Tribunal and the Supreme Court. The most objectionable aspect of the draft is completely ignoring the concerns of Adviasis, who are going to be the most affected community due to the dilution of environment regulations, said Ms. Karat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/draft-eia-gives-licence-for-violations/article32119664.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul warns of 20 lakh cases by August 10||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the number of coronavirus or COVID-19 infections in the country will breach the 20 lakh mark by August 10 if the Union government does not take concrete steps to prevent the spread. “10,00,000-mark has been crossed. If COVID-19 spreads at this pace, by August 10, more than 20,00,000 will be infected in the country,” Mr. Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The former Congress chief has been very critical of Centre’s handling of the pandemic and retweeted his earlier tweet where he had predicted about India breaching 10-lakh cases this week. India is now ranked third in the COVID-19 tally after the U.S. and Brazil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-warns-of-20-lakh-cases-by-august-10/article32119671.ece
18 July 2020||Lucknow,||Nepal man tonsured in Varanasi||A Nepal-speaking person in Varanasi was tonsured and forced to shout “Jai Shri Ram” and slogans against Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Oli by members of a fringe group. They wrote “Jai Shri Ram” on his scalp. Arun Pathak, convener of the Vishwa Hindu Sena, was among the four booked in this connection on Friday under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 120 (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The Director-General of Police directed the senior-most officer in Varanasi to take strict action against those involved in the incident. One Santosh Pandey, a member of the Vishwa Hindu Sena, was arrested and efforts were on to nab the others, the DGP’s office said. A video of the incident was widely circulated on social media after Mr. Pathak recorded and shared it on his Facebook profile. The incident came against the background of Mr. Oli stoking a controversy by stating that the “real” Ayodhya was in Nepal and not in Uttar Pradesh. In the video, the unidentified man is made to shout slogans against Mr. Oli and Nepal, and praise India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-man-tonsured-in-varanasi/article32119680.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Appeal to pause work on legal reform||Indian criminal law cannot be overhauled in six months amidst a pandemic, 123 eminent personalities — including former Supreme Court judges, senior lawyers and academics — said in a letter to the national committee set up by the Ministry of Home Affairs to reform penal laws in the country. The July 16 letter advised the committee to pause its work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/appeal-to-pause-work-on-legal-reform/article32119687.ece
18 July 2020||Lucknow,||‘Has U.P. govt. withdrawn cases against ex-Minister’||The Allahabad High Court has asked the Uttar Pradesh government whether it has withdrawn criminal cases pending against former Minister Raghuraj Pratap Singh, also known as Raja Bhaiya, and if so, explain the reason behind it. The High Court’s Lucknow Bench comprising Justices M.N. Bhandari and Manish Kumar cautioned the State government that if a proper explanation was not given by July 21, it may take suo motu cognisance and examine if the withdrawal of cases was proper or not.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/has-up-govt-withdrawn-cases-against-ex-minister/article32119913.ece
18 July 2020||Srinagar,||J&K to notify ‘areas’ for infrastructure building||The J&K administration on Friday decided to designate locations inside the Union Territory as “strategic areas” to facilitate a time-bound development of infrastructure of strategic importance. The move, first of its kind, was approved by the J&K Administrative Council, which met under the chairmanship of Lieutenant-Governor G.C. Murmu. An official spokesman said the L-G granted his nod to the proposal of amending two Acts for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-to-notify-areas-for-infrastructure-building/article32119910.ece
18 July 2020||Hyderabad,||1,200 PG medicos to be absorbed into govt. service||Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered the absorption of 1,200 students who have completed their post-graduate medical courses in the State into government service. At a meet to discuss steps to curb COVID-19, Mr. Rao also ordered immediate filling up of 200 vacancies of medical officers in primary health centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1200-pg-medicos-to-be-absorbed-into-govt-service/article32119625.ece
18 July 2020||Mumbai,||BJP collected Rs. 500 crore to topple Rajasthan govt., says Congress||The Congress on Friday alleged that the Maharashtra unit of the BJP had amassed about Rs. 500 crore from builders and businessmen to topple the Rajasthan government. “I have discussed the issue with Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and he said his department has received sensitive info,” said party spokesperson Sachin Sawant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-collected-rs-500-crore-to-topple-rajasthan-govt-says-congress/article32119659.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||61 RS members to take oath on Wednesday||Newly elected 61 members of the Rajya Sabha will be administered oath on Wednesday, and for the first time, the ceremony will be done inside the House chamber when Parliament is not in session. Subscribing to oath when Parliament is not in session is usually done in the Chairman’s room. The ceremony had to be cancelled once before as members expressed inability to travel to Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/61-rs-members-to-take-oath-on-wednesday/article32119658.ece
18 July 2020||Bhopal,||Cong. down to 90 MLAs in M.P. as another lawmaker quits||Another Congress MLA in Madhya Pradesh, Sumitra Devi Kasdekar, legislator from Nepanagar, resigned from the Vidhan Sabha and joined the BJP on Friday. With this, the Congress’s strength in the Assembly has come down to 90. On July 12, Congress MLA Kunwar Pradyumna Singh Lodhi joined the BJP within hours of resigning. He was later appointed the Chairman of the State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd. and accorded a Cabinet rank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-down-to-90-mlas-in-mp-as-another-lawmaker-quits/article32119661.ece
18 July 2020||Patna,||Bihar gangrape survivor granted bail||Amid media outrage and concern from the legal fraternity across the country, the gang rape survivor from Araria in Bihar who was arrested on the orders of a judicial magistrate while giving her statement, was granted bail on Friday. The judicial magistrate had said the woman had disrupted court proceedings. However, bail was refused to two social workers who had helped the woman and were arrested with her on July 10. Many lawyers have denounced the arrest in a letter to the Chief Justice of Patna High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-gangrape-survivor-granted-bail/article32119676.ece
18 July 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. official suspended for threatening to fix hand pump on complainant’s chest||The Bhind district administration has suspended an official whose account on the Chief Minister’s helpline was used to inform a complainant that he was mad and the handpump that he had complained of would be fixed to his chest. The login credentials of an executive engineer of the Public Health Engineering Department were used, said Arun Sharma, assistant director, Bhind district administration. “Another official had sent the absurd response using it, which was taken into cognisance by the Collector,” he said. Rahul Dixit, the complainant, told  The Hindu , that he was hurt by the response. “We are just seeking our rights,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-official-suspended-for-threatening-to-fix-hand-pump-on-complainants-chest/article32119684.ece
18 July 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown today||Power supply will remain suspended from 9 a.m. on Saturday in the following areas owing to maintenance work to be taken up by the Tangedco at the Ariyalur and Thaelur sub-stations: parts of Ariyalur, Kayaralabad, Walajahnagaram, Kallankurichi, Kattupirinkiyam, Periya Nagalur, Varanavasi, Hasthinapuram, Kurichinatham, Pudupalayam, Siruvalur, Zameen Athur, Rasulabad, Palampadi, Parpanancheri, Thavuthaikulam, Mallur, Krishnapuram, Rengasamudiram, Mannuzhi, Rajiv Nagar, Kolapadi, Manakudi, Kadugur, Koppiliyankudikadu, Srinivasapuram, Poiyyathanallur, Ottakovil, Govindapuram, Mangalam, Thamaraikulam and Kurmanchavadi, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown-today/article32120155.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNA,TAMIL NADU||HITS online test from August 5 to 7||The Hindustan Institute of Technology and Science (HITS) will hold its online entrance exam for B. Tech, B. Arch and B.Des. from August 5 to 7. The last date to apply is July 31. For details, visitwww. hindustanuniv.ac.in. Admission will be on the basis of entrance exam score along with class 12 marks in physics, chemistry and mathematics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hits-online-test-from-august-5-to-7/article32119788.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 4,538 new cases, 79 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Friday recorded 4,538 fresh COVID-19 cases and 79 deaths — the highest number of fatalities recorded by the Health Department on a single day. The fresh cases took the overall count to 1,60,907*. Another 3,391 persons were discharged following treatment, taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 1,10,807. As many as 47,782 persons are currently undergoing treatment. The overall death toll stands at 2,315 54 deaths in a day The 79 deaths — 56 at government hospitals and 23 at private hospitals — had occurred from July 13 to 16. But the majority of the patients — 54 — died on July 16. Except one patient, the remaining 78 had co-morbid conditions. At least 50 of them were aged above 60. Chennai accounted for 36 deaths, while eight patients died in Chengalpattu, five in Tiruvallur and four each in Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Tiruvannamalai. Among the deceased was a 57-year-old man from Chennai, who died within four hours of admission to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on July 16. He had carcinoma tongue (post-radiation therapy) and died due to factors including cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 49-year-old woman, a diabetic, from Tiruvallur was admitted to RGGGH at 11.48 p.m. on July 15. Her swab, which was lifted at the Ayapakkam Primary Health Centre, returned positive on July 12. However, she died at 7.45 p.m. on July 16 owing to severe COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 66-year-old man from Chennai died at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital within an hour of admission on July 16 because of acute respiratory failure, bronchopneumonia and COVID-19. He had diabetes. A 63-year-old man was referred from a private hospital to the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, at 8 p.m. on July 15. He had diabetes and coronary artery disease and died at 11 a.m. the next day owing to multiple-organ dysfunction, sepsis, septic shock, acute respiratory distress syndrome, acute respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 1,376 persons have died in Chennai, while 184 persons died in Chengalpattu and 147 in Tiruvallur. There was a slight increase in the number of fresh cases in Chennai, with 1,243 persons testing positive. Among the northern districts, Tiruvallur reported 220 fresh cases, Vellore had 183 cases and Tiruvannamalai had 145 cases. Chengalpattu had 124 cases, while Kancheepuram and Villupuram had 110 and 105 cases respectively. Surge in south The surge in cases continued in the southern districts — Madurai - 262, Virudhunagar - 196, Thooth- ukudi - 189, Theni - 175, Dindigul - 160, Kanniyakumari - 149, and Tirunelveli - 115. Tiruchi recorded 100 cases, while Thanjavur saw a spike, with 117 cases. A total of 141 persons tested positive in Coimbatore. While all 37 districts recorded fresh cases, only four districts — Erode, Nagapattinam, Perambalur and Tirupattur — had fewer than 10 cases each. Apart from the indigenous cases, 75 returnees tested positive. Chennai’s overall tally increased to 83,377, while Chengalpattu accounted for 9,035 cases, Tiruvallur, 8,329, and Madurai, 7,858. The active cases stood at 14,923 in Chennai. In the last 24 hours, a high number of samples was tested. A total of 48,669 samples were tested. The total number of samples tested so far has gone up to 18,31,304. The Government Headquarters Hospital, Mettur, and a private laboratory — Sudha Diagnostic Centre, Erode — were approved for testing. The State now has a total of 109 testing facilities.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection.)   Chennai accounted for 36 deaths, while eight patients died in Chengalpattu, five in Tiruvallur and four each in Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Tiruvannamalai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-4538-new-cases-79-deaths/article32119807.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government hospitals record more deliveries||There has been a marginal increase in the number of deliveries performed at government hospitals across Tamil Nadu over the last three months. The lockdown and the surge in COVID-19 cases led to more pregnant women being referred to government hospitals, especially medical college hospitals. According to officials of the National Health Mission (NHM)-Tamil Nadu, there was a 2%-4% increase in the number of deliveries performed at government hospitals since April. Government hospitals accounted for 61% of the deliveries during the period from April to June, while the rest were done at private hospitals. A total of 1,40,208 deliveries occurred at government hospitals and 89,576 at private hospitals during the three months. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said government tertiary care centres received more number of pregnant women in the wake of COVID-19. “Many private hospitals referred pregnant women to the government sector due to COVID-19. There were referrals from primary health centres, too,” he said. Closure of facilities Health Department officials said that during the initial phase of the lockdown, a number of private facilities, including those offering maternity services, shut down, prompting the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services to caution them against suspension of services. Officials said that every year, the State records 10 lakh-odd deliveries. “The number of deliveries in the government sector has always been higher than in the private sector. Of the 10 lakh-odd deliveries, around six to seven lakh deliveries happen in the government sector. However, in normal times, about 58%-60% deliveries happen in government institutions. In the wake of COVID-19, more deliveries have taken place in government medical college hospitals across the State,” an official said. K. Senthil Raj, mission director, NHM-Tamil Nadu, said the department’s micro-plan helped to a large extent. “We have a robust system through PICME (Pregnancy and Infant Cohort Monitoring and Evaluation) to track pregnant women... Through this, we identified low-risk and high-risk women in all districts. Through Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram, we chalked out a plan and arranged for the pick up of antenatal mothers from their homes to the hospital. They were screened for COVID-19 at least 10 days before their expected date of delivery. This accessibility to government hospitals during COVID-19 could have been one of the reasons for more number of deliveries in the government sector,” he said. In Chennai, the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (IOG) and Hospital for Women and Children has so far recorded 400 pregnant women who had tested positive for COVID-19. Hospital director S. Vijaya said they had received more private referrals than usual during the pandemic. “Women who had tested positive COVID-19 and high-risk deliveries were referred to IOG. In fact, women who had undergone in-vitro fertilisation in private facilities were referred to IOG, which is usually not the case,” she said. The three government maternity hospitals, along with Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, were divided into area-wise zones and pregnant women were referred there accordingly, doctors said.  The lockdown and the surge in cases led to more pregnant women being referred to government hospitals, especially medical college hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-hospitals-record-more-deliveries/article32119811.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Automatic rain gauges planned in area offices of water board||In a few months, the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board will install automatic rain gauges in all its area offices. This will help assess how the rainfall affects water table in various localities. This is part of the project for real-time online monitoring of water level in 200 locations, covering all the divisions of the city. Setting up automatic rain gauges would help gather data about rainfall pattern in specific areas. The data collected on rainfall and water table would enable the engineers to assess the effect of rainwater harvesting structures in each locality. There are nearly nine lakh RWH structures across the city. About 130 borewells had been drilled. The project had been delayed because of lockdown period. The remaining borewells would be sunk by this month-end. Work on fixing digital water-level recorders in these wells would be taken up soon to monitor changes in water table even after a short spell of rain, said officials of the board. At present, the board manually collates data on water level and quality through a network of 145 observational wells every month. The groundwater level has dipped by half a metre on an average across the city in June compared to May. Variation in levels Officials said the water level had dipped more in some zones and it depended on population density, soil condition and the level of extraction and recharge. For instance, the groundwater level was at a depth of 7.36 metre at Tondiarpet in June, which is 1.10 metre lower than the previous month. However, the water table is set to rise now with the southwest monsoon picking up. Once the digital water level recorders are in place, the board would be able to observe the levels on a daily basis, they said. “We will have details on daily variations of the water table, level of extraction and the need for recharge during monsoon and summer. Information on water table will be periodically uploaded on the website. This may help residents plan their water consumption,” said an official. The data collected through the real-time monitoring of groundwater level would be used for planning equitable water distribution. For instance, if the water table in a particular locality declines, the engineers concerned may plan to increase the piped water supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/automatic-rain-gauges-planned-in-area-offices-of-water-board/article32119784.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police, Corporation lay out plan to contain crowd at Kasimedu market||As thousands flock to the busy fish market at Kasimedu, physical distancing has been a problem since the beginning of the COVID-19 outbreak. The city police, the Chennai Corporation and Fisheries Department officials on Friday chalked out a plan to rein in the crowd and make it follow personal hygiene and physical distancing. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash; A. Arun, Additional Commissioner of Police, North; V. Balakrishnan, Joint Commissioner of Police, North; and Fisheries officials had an interaction with fishermen associations. Mr. Prakash said they warned the representatives of the associations that officials would seal the fishing harbour if physical distancing norms were violated. “Zones such as Tondiarpet, Royapuram and Thiru Vi Ka Nagar are registering a dip in positive cases. But we have to be vigilant. We have decided to permit operations in the fishing harbour to help those who have lost their source of livelihood in the past few months. Officials have advised people to adhere to the norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” he said. Mr. Arun told The Hindu , “Boats have gone to sea and will be returning soon with the catch. We have discussed arrangements to maintain physical distancing. All areas here have been barricaded duly so that sellers and buyers can operate in an orderly way and maintain physical distancing...” Fishermen wanted the authorities to change the timing of auction sale from 6 a.m.-noon to 3 a.m.-9 a.m., so that retailers could carry the catch to outlets across the city on time. Since the sale was restricted to wholesalers from the wharf, the associations wanted a certain number of retailers allowed to the wharf areas. G. Arasu, a boat owner, said, “Wholesalers buy only a certain variety of fish and not all. Hence, we have requested the authorities to permit 50-100 retailers at a time to enter the area.” K. Kabilan, of Chennai Mechanised Boat Owners’ Association, said, “We have formed a group of volunteers from among the association members to ensure that physical distancing norms are duly followed in the wharf area.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-corporation-lay-out-plan-to-contain-crowd-at-kasimedu-market/article32119823.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man ‘tests positive’ in the midst of liver transplant||Doctors at MGM Healthcare hospital recently had to make a difficult decision whether or not to proceed with a liver transplant for a patient after his COVID-19 test result returned ‘positive’ in the middle of the surgery. While the doctors decided to proceed with the surgery despite the risks for the patient and themselves, the test result later turned out to be a false positive. According to a statement issued by the hospital, the 46-year-old patient was suffering from liver ailments for a few years and recently developed a life-threatening spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP). Since his illness was critical, his sister came forward to donate a part of her liver. During the evaluation for surgery, the patient tested negative twice for COVID-19. A day before the surgery, another sample was taken. As his condition deteriorated badly, the doctors decided to start the procedure for transplant even as the result was awaited, the statement said. When the surgery commenced, it was brought to the surgeons’ knowledge that the result had returned positive. Selvakumar Naganathan, director, Institute of Liver Transplantation and HBP Surgery, decided to proceed with the surgery as all safety protocols were in place even if the patient was COVID-19-positive, the statement said. Had confidence Prashant Rajagopalan, director, MGM Healthcare, said that despite the unique situation, they had the confidence to go ahead, thanks to the hospital’s superior COVID-19 protocol and the assurance that all precautionary measures were in place. “We were happy both for ourselves and the patient that another RT-PCR test performed for COVID-19 came negative for him,” he said, adding that the patient and the donor were discharged around two weeks after the surgery.  The patient was suffering from liver ailments for a few years and recently developed a life-threatening spontaneous bacterial peritonitis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-tests-positive-in-the-midst-of-liver-transplant/article32119809.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Desecration of statue is a cowardly act: Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Friday condemned the attack on Periyar’s statue in Sundarapuram in Coimbatore by some ‘viruses’. In a series of posts on social media, Dr. Ramadoss said those responsible should be arrested. “Thanthai Periyar’s statues alone are being desecrated continuously. And this is because his ideology has scared some ‘viruses, poisonous snakes’ that have infiltrated Tamil Nadu. Those who don’t have any guts to take him on ideologically are more dangerous than coronavirus. They spread the virus. It is important to safeguard our young men and create awareness,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said that it is a cowardly act and nothing can be achieved with these acts as it has been the case in the past. At the same time, Dr. Ramadoss demanded action on ‘Karuppar Koottam’, a YouTube channel that claims to popularise Periyarist ideas, such as rationalism and anti-caste thought, for making derogatory comments against Kandha Shashti Kavasam.  “Those who believe in Hinduism and worship Lord Muruga wouldn’t have gone through a day without listening to this devotional song. This song is also played on television channels in the mornings and evenings. However, Karuppar Kootam has not bothered to understand anything about the song and attacked and demeaned the religious beliefs of Hindus and devotees of Lord Muruga,” said Dr. Ramadoss. ‘Systematic attack’ He said that it was a pre-planned, systematic attack to destroy religious harmony in the State. “Though a few members of the channel have been arrested, others who are attached to the online channel have not been arrested yet. The organisation that instigated these groups should also be severely punished,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said that cyber crimes cell should keep a watch on online channels that attack and demean religious beliefs and they must take action on those who create content even before an official complaint is lodged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attack-on-dk-founders-statue-a-cowardly-act-says-ramadoss/article32119791.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 pandemic deprives AGMs of their charm||Annual General Meetings (AGMs) or shareholders’ meetings are usually the most preferred place for senior citizens in the city to have a chat with their long-lost friends and company top management, over a cuppa. However, this year, the usual charm will be missing at the AGMs, as most firms have decided to hold it virtually due to COVID-19. Hence, the ever-bustling marriage halls, sabhas and community halls in the city, where the AGMs are usually conducted, are now wearing a deserted look. From mid-July to September, it is the AGM season, wherein the shareholder has a field day to quiz the top management on any company related topic. But, this time, they might not be able to ‘grill’ the CEOs, CMDs, CFOs or board members as the AGM will shift to digital mode due to the new normal followed by the company and most of the senior citizen shareholders are probably not used to videoconfere-ncing apps. Earlier, the AGMs would go on for hours, but this season, there is going to be a time out. While AGMs are dubbed as a routine affair, it can turn interesting, if a company is in the news over a scam, merger or acquisition, strike or closure of unit, among other issues. Generally, there will be usual questions from the shareholders at the MRF annual meet on bonus shares and at TVS Motor, about a visit to its plants. Madras Fertilisers used to hire buses to take shareholders to its Manali facility, but shareholders would want the AGM to be held in the city as attending this particular company’s meeting would mean loss of time for them. Hilarious moments Sometimes, the questions would also evoke laughter in the hall. For instance, in one of the AGMs in Tuticorin, a shareholder meant to ask the management when it was planning to restart production. Instead he asked when it was going to “start re-production”. This question, as expected, turned around the otherwise dull AGM. In the past, this reporter had seen a fraction of shareholders hopping from one venue to another to have a chat with top company officials, collect balance sheets and then proceed to have tea, before sometimes, hoarding sweet boxes. The reason is simple. These firms, apart from paying dividends to the shareholders, as a special gesture, would offer snacks and sweet boxes to those attending the AGM. Some investors do have shares in several names. And each folio earns them one additional box of sweet/savouries. “It is usually a good opportunity to meet the investors. We have been doing it for years and this is the first time, since the inception of the company that we will be missing them. They may be asking some intriguing questions. On the other hand, they might offer also some suggestions. Clearly it is a loss of opportunity for them to meet the board members,” said A.V. Dharmakrishnan, CEO, Ramco Cements Ltd. While most of the companies offered tea, coffee and sweets, this group is known to serve a full-course lunch on banana leaves to the shareholders in Rajapalayam. A spokesperson for Music Academy, which is the preferred destination for several AGMs, said they had lost an opportunity to host at least 25 AGMs this season. “Over the years, we have developed rapport with board members. This time, we might not be able to have a personal chat with them,” rued L. Subramanian, a retired Central Government employee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-pandemic-deprives-agms-of-their-charm/article32119803.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Uber offers three new options||Uber, the taxi aggregator, has been keeping its driver partners busy during the lockdown by offering a variety of transport options to the people. Uber, which has been offering free rides for front-line staff of the Greater Chennai Corporation, has introduced three new transport options for the benefit of citizens affected by the lockdown. The three transportation facilities include Uber Last Mile Delivery, Uber Essentials and Uber Connect, in Chennai. A spokesperson said under the Last Mile Delivery service, Uber had entered into pact with eight shopping companies, e-commerce platforms and retail stores, Chennai clocked the highest number of 45,000 bookings among 11 cities in the country. Also, Uber Essential was introduced to help facilitate essential medical travel requirements of hospitals and pharmacies and for residents to travel between cities amidst the extended lockdown. The offer evoked good response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uber-offers-three-new-options/article32119785.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vedanta seeks nod for maintenance work at smelting plant||Vedanta Limited has approached the Madras High Court seeking permission to carry out essential maintenance work at its Thoothukudi Sterlite copper smelting plant, which has remained sealed since May 28, 2018, until the court pronounces its verdict on cases challenging the permanent closure of the plant. In an additional affidavit filed in the court on Thursday, the company alleged that the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) as well as the district administration had failed to maintain the plant and machinery properly, as assured to the court, and such indifference had caused grave threat to the structural stability of the plant. Vedanta said that regular maintenance of such plants was highly essential not just for their upkeep but also to prevent environmental hazards. Orders challenged The company pointed out that it had filed a batch of writ petitions in the High Court last year, challenging different orders passed by the State government and the TNPCB refusing the renewal of consent to operate the plant, ordering disconnection of power supply and deciding to seal the entire plant. Though the hearing was completed on January 8 and the judgment was reserved, the officials failed to maintain the plant. Estimating that 750 personnel would be required to undertake maintenance activities, the company urged the court to grant permission only for such activities. It gave an undertaking that it would not commence regular operations without the express leave of the court if such an interim permission was granted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vedanta-seeks-nod-for-maintenance-work-at-smelting-plant/article32119816.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Customs officials seize LSD stamps from two postal parcels||LSD stamps, ecstasy pills and MDMA crystals that came in two postal parcels from the Netherlands were detained and two persons have been held in this regard, according to a press release. Chennai Air Customs held these parcels at the Foreign Post Office based on suspicion that it may have narcotic substances. One parcel had a DVD cover and when opened, it contained a plastic pouch with three packs having 25 LSD stamps, 31 pink MDMA pills and six grams of white crystal of MDMA. The LSD stamps are lysergic acid diethylamide, a very potent hallucinogen and these have been seized for the first time in Chennai. “These LSD stamps are commonly known as Bicycle Day and Hofmann, containing 33 micrograms of LSD. “These soaked onto sheets of absorbent paper with colourful designs which are cut into small, individual dosage units in the shape of stamps,” the release said. The pink pills had an embossment of a popular soft drink logo and had 200 mg of MDMA, a narcotics substance. In the second parcel, there were 100 pink pills and eight grams of white crystal and they are suspected to be MDMA. “These pills are commonly known as ‘DHL-LKW’ are in shape of a truck and contain 297 mg MDMA. These are the strongest pills seized till date,” the release said. In total, 131 MDMA pills, 14 grams of MDMA crystals and 25 LSD stamps which are worth Rs. 6 lakh have been seized. Subsequently, the officials searched the houses of the persons whose names the parcels were addressed to and two of them have been detained now. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/customs-officials-seize-lsd-stamps-from-two-postal-parcels/article32119841.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chocolate Krishna to be streamed online today||Fans of late Crazy Mohan are in for a treat on Saturday evening. They can watch the late playwright’s Chocolate Krishna on YouTube, Facebook and on Kalakendra from 7 p.m. onwards. The play was shot on stage for online sometime last year with Mohan playing Lord Krishna. Mohan passed away on June 10, 2019. Mohan’s brother Madhu Balaji said there would be a short introduction about the making of the play that has been staged 1,024 times so far. “We wanted to rejuvenate the drama scene and wanted to bring fresh audiences, which is why our primary targets were children. And we learnt and practised magic from Shivaji Chaturvedi, an expert,” he said. Although the show is free, those willing to contribute through online payments towards stage artistes, make-up men, set artistes and the lighting men are welcome to do so, he added. Sponsored by Nalli Silks, India Cements, Leap Sports and Simply South, the show can be accessed by those around the globe on these links.  https://www.youtube. com/c/CrazysCreations    https://www.kalakendra . com/chocolatekrishnalive    https://www.facebook.   com/Crazy-Mohan- 399578450063365/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chocolate-krishna-to-be-streamed-online-today/article32119818.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Body urges Minister to fulfil doctors’ demands||The Service Doctors’ and Post Graduates’ Association (SDPGA) has urged the Health Minister to fulfil some of the long-pending demands of government doctors in the State. In a statement issued on Friday, the association said that government doctors had been demanding the right pay on a par with qualification and experience. In September 2018, when government doctors were in for a State-wide strike, the Health Minister held talks with them and promised that their demands would be met within four weeks, but nothing happened. In August 2019, the doctors again went on a State-wide strike. The Minister promised to fulfil their demands within six weeks. But none of the demands were taken into consideration. This prompted the doctors to go on an indefinite strike during the end of October, 2019. They withdrew the strike following the Chief Minister’s assurance that their demands would be met. “To our dismay, our demands have not been fulfilled till date. Instead, 118 doctors were transferred,” the association said. Following High Court directions, the government withdrew the transfer orders after seven months. Noting that quite a large number of government doctors had tested positive for COVID-19 and a chief medical officer had succumbed to the infection, the association said that doctors continued their work with dedication and urged the Health Minister to fulfill their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-urges-minister-to-fulfil-doctors-demands/article32119808.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin, other leaders condemn defacement||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday noted that Periyar worked even for the welfare of his critics. “Periyar had said that statues were built at places where shoes were hurled at him. He printed and gave his picture to those who wanted to burn it. He offered a pen to those who wanted to raise opposing questions. That is why he is Periyar,” he said in a tweet, reacting to the news of Periyar’s statue being defaced in Coimbatore. DMK MP Kanimozhi called for strong action against those who attempted to deface the statue. “Even decades after his demise, Periyar is still the one who sets the narrative. He is not a mere statue but the path to self-respect and social justice, including for those who smear him with colours,” she said in a tweet. Action sought Those who could not secure the support of the people of Tamil Nadu were indulging in such acts regularly, Ms. Kanimozhi alleged. She also asked why the Tamil Nadu government had not taken any action and said that it was not surprising as they had lost all self-respect. MDMK chief Vaiko also strongly condemned the incident. In a statement, he pointed out that incidents of defacement of Periyar statues had increased under the AIADMK rule. Mr. Vaiko demanded that those found guilty be arrested and given severe punishment. He pointed out that Periyar’s hardwork was the reason for Tamil Nadu being known as a pioneer for social justice, communal harmony and women’s rights, among other things — a fact even his enemies would acknowledge. Mr. Vaiko also urged the State government to take measures to safeguard statues of all leaders. CPI (M) state secretary K. Balakrishnan demanded that the police quickly identify the miscreants who desecrated the statue. Mr. Balakrishnan said those who indulged in the incident were cowards who do not have the ability to debate issues. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam founder T.T.V. Dhinakaran has also condemned the incident. Calling upon the police to take stern action against those responsible, he said the trend of rising number of such an incident should be brought to an end.  He is not a mere statue but the path to self-respect and social justice Kanimozhi DMK MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-other-leaders-condemn-defacement/article32119789.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to take up serosurvey from today||Starting Saturday, the Greater Chennai Corporation will send healthcare professionals to residents’ doorsteps to collect blood samples for a serosurvey. Besides detecting the virus, a serosurvey will also help find out if a person has recovered from the infection without being aware of it. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the serosurvey would be completed in 10 days, covering all parts of the city. “Random samples of blood will be collected from 12,000 residents for the serosurvey,” said Mr. Prakash. In a serosurvey conducted several weeks ago, ICMR had found that 2% of Chennai’s residents had been exposed to SARS-CoV-2. But a serosurvey conducted for Corporation staff on Thursday showed that 15% to 20% of them were exposed to SARS-CoV-2. Mr. Prakash said that all the information technology firms and other agencies would be asked to conduct serosurvey of their staff. Testing to be increased Following directions from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday, the Corporation has decided to increase the number of tests from 10,000 to 13,000 every day. But the city and the suburbs continue to report a backlog in data entry of the results. “Doctors are doing non-medical work, including data entry, in tertiary care hospitals in Chennai and suburbs. We need IT professionals to work on various aspects of data entry and statistics of COVID-19. Many doctors are being asked to coordinate with hotels for food supply to hospitals,” said a doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-take-up-serosurvey-from-today/article32119782.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||End manual scavenging, Kamal Haasan tells govt.||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Friday said that the death of two workers due to asphyxiation after they entered a drain in Chennai only shows the society’s indifference. In a statement, Mr. Haasan recalled a similar incident in July 2 in Thoothukudi district where 4 workers died. “While it (manual scavenging) was banned in 1993, certain amendments were made in 2013 making it a compulsory ban. “In 2014, the Supreme Court had urged the State government to ban manual scavenging and rehabilitate the workers involved. Despite this, around 206 workers have died between 1993 and 2019,” he said. Mr. Haasan said that statistics show how the State government disregarded the lives of the workers and the Supreme Court’s directives. “We must ban manual scavenging. It is our duty to prevent another human being from experiencing such injustice,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/put-an-end-to-manual-scavenging-kamal-haasan-tells-state-govt/article32119814.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM condoles fireman’s death||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday condoled the death of firefighter R. Rajkumar, who died of suffocation, while attempting to rescue two labourers trapped inside a well at Selliampalayam in Perambalur district on July 12. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs. 10 lakh to the family of the deceased firefighter, in honour of his selfless, daring, sincere and duty conscious act. Mr. Palaniswami also announced that one of the relatives of the deceased firefighter would be provided with a government job based on qualifications. He also announced a compensation of Rs. 1 lakh each to another firefighter Paulraj and driver Dhanapal, who too suffered injuries while rescuing Rajkumar. Labourers R. Radhakrishnan and Bhaskar were working inside a well in a field belonging to an individual, suffocated, as some explosives were used inside the well a few days ago. Once the Perambalur fire station was alerted, fireman Rajkumar, who went to rescue Radhakrishnan, too was suffocated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-condoles-firemans-death/article32120147.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM lauds bravery of girl||Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami appreciated the brave act of an 11-year-old girl who managed to escape from the clutches of her kidnapper in Sembium. According to police, on Tuesday, the class VI girl, who had gone to a shop, was intercepted by an unidentified person. While he attempted to push her into the auto, she raised an alarm and managed to escape from his clutches after biting his hand. She ran towards her home. Later, she and her mother complained to the police. A special team of police personnel, after scrutinising CCTV footage, nabbed auto driver Haribabu, 24, of Thiru Vi Ka Nagar. He was booked under Protection of Children from Sexual offences (POCSO) Act and was remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. The Chief Minister sent gifts to her through City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-appreciates-bravery-of-girl/article32119819.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gurumurthy alleges scam in TNCC Trust, leaders deny charge||Thuglak editor S. Gurumurthy on Friday alleged that a scam was brewing in the Tamil Nadu Congress Charitable Trust and claimed that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s aide Kanishka Singh was now controlling the Trust’s properties. The TNCC vehemently denied the charge. In a series of tweets on Friday, Mr. Gurumurthy claimed “the scam is 10 times the National Herald fraud”. He also asked “what trustees like G.K. Vasan and Jayanthi Natarajan” were doing about this. But both of them are no longer part of the Trust. Mr. Vasan confirmed to The Hindu that he was no longer a Trustee. Mr. Gurumurthy alleged that the administration of the Trust had been taken over by the party high command in Delhi. “In 2009, the trustees were called to Delhi by Rahul Gandhi and asked to sign some papers. They didn’t know what it was,” Mr. Gurumurthy told The Hindu . The Trust's properties are worth Rs. 15,000-20,000 crore, he said. “I am told that they were also trying to build a multi-storey building on the Mount Road property (Teynampet Congress grounds),” he alleged. But several persons in the TNCC and the Trust said this plan was mooted by the late G.K. Moopanar and his colleagues back in 1995 but was dropped. Members of the TNCC, and TMC leaders — former TNCC presidents G.K. Vasan and B.S. Gnanadesikan, and E.M. Sudarsana Nachiappan, who is one of the lifetime trustees of the Trust — said the Trust properties cannot be used for any purpose other than what is mentioned in the Trust Deeds, which consists of charitable activities such as education and some medical grants. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said the charges made by Mr. Gurumurthy were baseless. Mr. Nachiappan said Mr. Gurumurthy’s claims about the multi-storeyed complex were not true.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gurumurthy-alleges-scam-in-tncc-trust-leaders-deny-charge/article32119828.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. procures 2,414 high-flow nasal cannulas||The Tamil Nadu government is procuring 2,414 high-flow nasal cannulas at a cost of Rs. 76.55 crore through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC). Of them, the State has so far received 530 devices. In a release, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the work was being taken up on a war footing to ready beds with oxygen points for COVID-19 patients whose lungs were affected. The Chief Minister had sanctioned Rs. 150 crore for the work. More oxygen supply In the meantime, an order to procure high-flow nasal cannulas was placed through the TNMSC. Patients in respiratory distress are normally provided oxygen supply through pipelines whenever they require support. A maximum of 12 litres of oxygen can be given per minute. It is possible to provide 60 litres of oxygen per minute through the cannulas. The high-flow oxygen therapy would help to reduce respiratory distress of patients, besides helping the affected lungs recover quickly. Patients themselves could put the cannula on whenever they needed oxygen supply, Mr. Vijayabaskar said. The cannulas would be procured as per requirements, in phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-procures-2414-high-flow-nasal-cannulas/article32119804.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for circulating defamatory content||The Central Crime Branch of the city police on Friday arrested S.J. Gopal alias Mount Gopal, 46, of the Hindu Tamilar Peravai, for circulating defamatory content on Prophet Muhammad over social media. He was arrested based on a complaint from the Popular Front of India’s Chennai zone secretary Ahamed Mohideen. The complainant alleged that some persons had circulated defamatory content, hurting religious sentiments, over social media networks with intent to promote enmity between different groups. He wanted the police to book cases against people who continued to indulge in such malicious campaigns. Gopal was arrested from Nandambakkam and remanded in judicial custody. He was booked under sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153 A(1)(a) (Promoting enmity between different groups), 295(A) (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings), 505(1)(b) (Whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public) and other provisions of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-circulating-defamatory-content/article32119824.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vels Institute entrance exam cancelled||Vels Institute of Science Technology and Advanced Studies (VISTAS) has cancelled its entrance examination, VEE-2020, for admission to professional courses for the academic year 2020-21. Candidates will be admitted based on the marks scored in class 12 for all courses offered by VISTAS, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vels-institute-entrance-exam-cancelled/article32119786.ece
18 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hindustan Institute offers scholarships to children of COVID-19 warriors||The Hindustan Institute of Technology and Science (HITS) will select children of COVID-19 warriors who died in the service of patients with SARS-CoV2 infection, for support. Under the “Adopt a COVID warrior ward scheme”, the children of these warriors will receive waiver of tuition fee, provided they meet the basic norms. The scheme will cover all expenses of the students, including boarding and lodging and they will receive a monthly stipend. The institute has introduced 100 COVID-19 frontline warriors scholarship scheme for two years for children of doctors, healthcare professionals, government and service personnel who lost their lives to COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindustan-institute-offers-scholarships-to-children-of-covid-19-warriors/article32119790.ece
18 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Gopalkrishna Gandhi to deliver Nelson Mandela lecture||Gopalkrishna Gandhi, former Indian High Commissioner to Pretoria and former Governor of West Bengal, will deliver the 3rd Nelson Mandela annual lecture on Saturday evening from Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, on the occasion of Nelson Mandela’s 102nd birth anniversary. The lecture was instituted in 2018 to commemorate Mandela’s centenary year. The lecture will be held as a special webinar hosted by the India International Centre, (IIC), New Delhi. Mr. Gopalkrishna Gandhi was India’s High Commissioner when Mandela was the President of South Africa. N. N. Vohra, President, IIC, and former Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, will chair the webinar. Suhas Borker, Convener Working Group on Alternative Strategies and South African High Commissioner to New Delhi Joel Sibosiso Ndebele will also speak on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gopalkrishna-gandhi-to-deliver-nelson-mandela-lecture/article32119797.ece
18 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Youth responsible for defacing Periyar statue surrenders||A youth from a right-wing organisation surrendered before the Coimbatore city police in connection with the desecration of a statue of Dravidar Kazhagam (DK) founder Periyar E.V. Ramasamy in Coimbatore on Friday. The statue, located in Sundarapuram, was splashed with a saffron-coloured liquid when the police personnel deployed at the spot were away at around 5.30 a.m. on Friday, police sources said. Upon hearing the incident, a group of members from DK and Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) assembled in front of the statue and staged a demonstration demanding action. Deputy Commissioner (Law and Order) of Coimbatore City Police G. Stalin visited the spot and assured them that appropriate action will be taken on the issue, following which Kuniamuthur police began investigations. On Friday afternoon, M. Arun Krishnan, 21, a member of Bharat Sena, a fringe outfit, accompanied by other members of the organisation turned up at the Podanur police station. The youth claimed responsibility for the act and was then sent to Kuniamuthur police station, sources said. M. Muthukumar, district general secretary of Bharat Sena, told The Hindu that they informed the police after Mr. Krishnan admitted that he committed the act. The accused, who was the Coimbatore South district organiser of Bharat Sena, was “hurt” by the video released by the YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam that allegedly denigrated the devotional song Kanda Shashti Kavacham sung in praise of Lord Muruga. “He took the decision himself [to commit the act] without consulting any of us,” Mr. Muthukumar claimed. Kuniamuthur police booked the accused under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code, according to police sources. The Central Crime Branch of the Chennai city police had, on Thursday, arrested Surenderan alias Nathigan, who was an anchor with the Tamil YouTube channel. Against this backdrop, the Coimbatore city police, as a precautionary measure, deployed police personnel to monitor six Periyar statues and three B.R. Ambedkar statues in the city since Thursday night. Meanwhile, members of DK and TPDK organised demonstrations demanding the arrest of the miscreant in front of Periyar statues in Coimbatore and Tiruppur. Commissioner of Police Sumit Sharan told The Hindu that the Coimbatore city police will continue to maintain vigil for the next two days to ensure that there was no flare-up of tensions. “The situation is under control, but we will have some bandobast during night hours,” he said. About 700 police personnel will be deployed in prominent areas in Coimbatore and police protection for the statues of Periyar and Ambedkar will continue, Mr. Sharan said. Another incident A statue of Periyar was vandalised by miscreants at Keezhaiyur near Tirukovilur in Kallakurichi on Friday, triggering protests by members of the Dravida Kazhagam and the DMK. Police sources said the statue was found desecrated with a garland of footwear placed around its neck. Local residents spotted the footwear on the statue at around 3 p.m. and it was immediately removed. Receiving this information, a group of cadres of DK and DMK staged a protest demanding the immediate arrest of the culprits. The Tirukovilur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-claims-responsibility-for-defacing-periyar-statue-surrenders/article32119799.ece
18 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Concern over entry of private vehicles into Codissia with asymptomatic patients||Concern has been raised over entry of asymptomatic COVID-19 positive patients into Codissia Trade Fair Complex in private vehicles to get admitted at the COVID care centre. Asymptomatic positive patients are currently treated at the COVID care centre. These patients should first report at the ESI Hospital and from there they should be shifted to the Trade Fair Complex by ambulance. However, for the last two or three days there are reports that some of them arrived at the Complex in private vehicles. “Only doctors are allowed to enter the Complex through the main gate. Ambulances take another entrance and go straight to ‘D’ Hall where the patients are treated. But, now there are people who come in two-wheelers and cars, park the vehicles, and do not listen to the security,” sources alleged. This puts at risk the security personnel at the gates and those who come to the other halls for any meeting, the sources said. The issue was taken up with the authorities concerned and they have assured appropriate action. The sources added that requests were also made to post more police personnel at the Complex to ensure that only those who need treatment entered the campus and only in an ambulance. Officials have promised that they would look into the issue and take necessary measures. The officials also explained in detail the facilities provided at the treatment facility. One of the requests was for separate space with water connection for the patients to bathe. But, they cannot leave the hall. This is expected to be addressed, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-entry-of-private-vehicles-into-codissia-with-asymptomatic-patients/article32119854.ece
18 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Total lockdown not needed in Coimbatore, says Minister||There is no need for a total lockdown in Coimbatore as the COVID-19 situation is under control, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani has said. Even if the number of cases were to rise, the administration was equipped to handle the situation, he told reporters at the Coimbatore Corporation main office on Thursday. The number of deaths was less owing to the steps taken by the district administration, he said. A release from the Corporation said the ‘Kovai Care’ mobile application that the Minister launched on Thursday would furnish information on how safe or vulnerable a user was. It would also show if the user was in a safe or red zone (containment zone) and if the place the user intended to travel was near a containment zone. The application would share details of the nearest medical shop, hospital and public convenience facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/total-lockdown-not-needed-in-coimbatore-says-minister/article32119844.ece
18 July 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Dalit boy made to clean his faeces with hands||A 14-year-old Dalit boy was made to clean up his faeces from a field, after he was spotted defecating behind the bushes on the fringes of a patta land here in a village in Penngaram. A case has been registered against the perpetrator based on a complaint filed by the victim’s father. The boy from Kodarampatty village was made to clear the refuse with his hands. According to the complainant Krishnamoorthy, his son had stepped into a nearby area under cover of an umbrella on a rainy evening on July 15 to defecate. He was spotted by the owner of the land Rajashekhar, who pulled him up and forced him to clear the faeces with his hands. Rajashekhar also hit him, according to the complaint. The traumatised boy walked home and narrated the incident to his father. Complaint A complaint was lodged at the Pennagaram police station on the same evening. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) condemned the incident and demanded a case be registered. On Friday, a case was registered against Rajashekar under Sections 323 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3(1) of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015. The accused is yet to be arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dalit-boy-made-to-clean-his-faeces-with-own-hands/article32119829.ece
18 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||LBP canals to be renovated at a cost of Rs. 945 crore, says Chief Minister||The State government has proposed to renovate Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canals at a cost of Rs. 945 crore, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in Erode on Friday. Addressing the media, he said that there is a long-pending demand to renovate the canals so that seepage is arrested and water reaches the tail-end farmers. “To ensure that not a single drop of water is wasted, a proposal is with the government to carry out renovation of the canals”, he said. He added that Rs. 65 crore has been allotted for concrete flooring of the Mettur West Canal and seven check dams will be constructed across river Bhavani in Erode district at a cost of Rs. 81 crore. Drinking water schemes Mr. Palaniswami said that 30% of the work under Athikadavu – Avinashi Ground Water Recharge and Drinking Water Supply Scheme has been completed and the rest would be completed on time. Also, 72% works under the Kodiveri Combined Water Supply Scheme has been completed, while 95% of the work under the Dedicated Water Supply Scheme for Erode Corporation had been completed. The Chief Minister said that land acquisition has begun for the Rs. 20 crore Erode-Thindal- Kanirowther Lake road widening project, while the legal hurdles in implementing the outer ring project have been resolved and work will be completed in three months. Mr. Palaniswami held meetings with representatives from industries, farmers and also SHG members. He also reviewed COVID-19 control activities in the district. Ministers K.A. Sengottaiyan and K.C. Karuppannan, Collector C. Kathiravan and officials were present. Meanwhile, Mr. Palaniswami condoled the death of two persons, who died of asphyxiation while attempting to clean a clogged drain in Chennai on Thursday. He has instructed the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board to grant Rs. 10 lakh to the families of each of the deceased. C||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lbp-canals-to-be-renovated-at-a-cost-of-rs-945-crore-says-chief-minister/article32119821.ece
18 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||State has highest recovery rate in country, says CM||Tamil Nadu has reported 1.56 lakh cases of COVID-19 so far, and early identification and effective treatment have helped the State achieve a recovery rate of 67% — the highest in the country, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Friday. Addressing the media, he said “right action and intense testing” helped in reducing deaths in the State, and the case count would come down gradually. Mr. Palaniswami said industrial units were allowed to function fully and the Centre had announced loans to help them return to normalcy. The State received more investments during the lockdown. To a question on DMK president M.K. Stalin calling for a protest against the collection of “exorbitant” electricity charges, he said the method adopted by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) to calculate consumption charges was correct. “The Madras High Court has dismissed a petition on the issue. We don’t know what doubt he has,” the CM said. Mr. Palaniswami said the law would take its course with regard to those behind the defacement of a Periyar statue in Coimbatore. Earlier in the day, he opened 13 completed projects, laid the foundation for 14 works and distributed welfare assistance, all costing Rs. 151.57 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-has-highest-recovery-rate-in-country-says-cm/article32119801.ece
18 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||LBP canals to be renovated at Rs. 945 crore, says CM||The State Government has proposed to renovate Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canals at Rs. 945 crore, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said here on Friday. Addressing the media, he said there was a long pending demand for renovating the canals so that seepage was arrested and the water reached the tail-end farmers. “To ensure that not a single drop of water is wasted, a proposal is with the government to carry out renovation of the canals,” he said. He added that Rs. 65 crore had been allotted for concrete flooring of the Mettur West Canal, and seven check dams would be constructed across River Bhavani in Erode district at Rs. 81 crore. Mr. Palaniswami said 30% of the work under Athikadavu – Avinashi Ground Water Recharge and Drinking Water Supply Scheme had been completed and the rest would be completed on time. Also, 72% works under the Kodiveri Combined Water Supply Scheme and 95% of the work under the Dedicated Water Supply Scheme for the Erode Corporation had been completed. The Chief Minister said land acquisition had begun for the Rs. 20-crore Erode-Thindal- Kanirowther Lake road widening project while the legal hurdles in implementing the outer ring project was solved and work would be completed in three months. Mr. Palaniswami also held meetings with representatives from industries and farmers associations. He held a meeting over COVID-19 control activities in the district in which School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan, Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan, and others MLAs, Collector C. Kathiravan and officials took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lbp-canals-to-be-renovated-at-rs-945-crore-says-cm/article32119853.ece
18 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Copra procurement in progress||Procurement of copra under the Price Support Scheme (PSS) is in progress at the regulated markets and farmers are asked to utilise the opportunity. Collector C. Kathiravan, in a release, said the government had fixed Rs. 99.60 per kg for milling copra procurement while ball copra would be procured for Rs. 103. Farmers should submit copies of chitta adangal, Aadhaar card and bank details to the supervisor at the markets. After procurement, money would be transferred to the farmers’ bank account directly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/copra-procurement-in-progress/article32119840.ece
18 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 positivity rate has reduced in Madurai’||The COVID-19 positivity rate in Madurai has significantly reduced from around 18% before the intensified lockdown to 8% post the lockdown, said District Monitoring Officer B. Chandra Mohan. The officer met the press on Friday, at a centralised Amma kitchen, where food was being prepared for COVID-19 patients. The monitoring officer, and District Collector T. G. Vinay, later inspected a number of COVID-19 treatment facilities including COVID-19 care centres and the Government Hospital in Tirupparankundram. The positivity rate has reduced because of increased testing that was intensified during the lockdown. “The case detection and binding rate has significantly improved during the lockdown. Testing, case identification and evaluation are taking place in both static fever camps as well as in mobile camps,” Dr. Chandra Mohan said. The detection rate has improved because health authorities are going to areas where many cases have been reported and reaching out to the residents there to get tested, Dr .Chandra Mohan said. He added that there are 600 beds with oxygen facility at the Government Rajaji Hospital’s Intensive Care Centre. “Around 200 beds with oxygen facilities are in use, but very few patients are on ventilator support. The recovery rate is high because we are using the latest treatment protocol and have been providing drugs approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO),” he said. After requests to private hospitals, a total of 750 beds are currently being used for COVID-19 treatment. “We are also asking nursing homes to open up their establishments for treatment,” he said. “Now that the lockdown has been relaxed, people must take the steps to protect themselves by wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining physical distancing. These are imperative in the fight against COVID-19,” he said. Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar headed the inspection on Friday, and spoke to staff members preparing the food at the Amma kitchen. “We are providing traditional food that is healthy using fresh ingredients,” he said. Every day, since July 5, food is being cooked at the kitchen, at the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry building, in a hygienic environment and transported to the three COVID-19 care centres in the city. The patients are served breakfast along with ginger tea, a meal with an egg, sprouts in the evening and chappati/dal, and milk with pepper in the night. About 1,400 people have benefited from the initiative, the Minister said and added that the government was committed to serving the needy during this health emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-positivity-rate-has-reduced-in-madurai/article32120100.ece
18 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Alanganallur residents talk tough; officials to shift TASMAC outlets||Residents of Alanganallur have given an ultimatum of 25 days for the district administration to shift three TASMAC shops outside the town panchayat limits. Besides, they have registered their strong opposition against a proposal to open an FL-2 bar in the town. Following unanimous protest from residents and traders, who had downed shutters of shops and commercial establishments in the town on Friday, the officials decided to close down the shops by August 11, if the administration failed to shift the TASMAC shops. These were the resolutions adopted at a peace meeting chaired by Madurai Revenue Divisional Officer, V. Muruganandam, in the presence of Sholavandan MLA, K. Manickam, at Vadipatti Taluk office. Officials from the police department and TASMAC took part in the meeting. Fear of COVID-19 spread Almost all shops and commercial establishments in Alanganallur remained closed on Friday as a token of protest seeking closure of all three TASMAC shops to prevent spread of COVID-19. Ever since the State Government announced partial lockdown in Madurai city and some rural areas from June 24, thousands of people from the city and other areas under lockdown started to swarm towards Alanganallur and Melur in search of liquor bottles.  “Right from early morning till late in the night, people start coming here on hundreds of motorbikes,” complained a local youth. J. Sundararajan, a local man, said that people were scared to see large-scale movement of outsiders in the area. “The outsiders neither wear mask nor maintain physical distancing while waiting in queue outside the TASMAC shops. Besides, they create nuisance by haphazard parking of vehicles on the road,” he said. “We fear that the pandemic might spread fast with so many people coming here. The outsiders do not stop with just going to TASMAC shops, they also go to other shops to buy water bottles, glasses and snacks,” he added. These people do not follow any of the rules put forth by the police or other authorities, Mr. Sundararajan said. Local people also complained that these outsiders consumed liquor on roadsides or in the farms in the area. Later, they would throw the empty bottles on the road or in the irrigation channels. With the local people having already petitioned the district administration and the district police asking them to close down the TASMAC shops, traders and all political parties have shown solidarity with the villagers. Stating that Gate Kadai area in Alanganallur has three shops meant for Kallanai and Palamedu, Mr. Sundarajan said that all the shops should be moved out of Alanganallur town panchayat limits. “Let the shops be located outside the town limits so that local people do not suffer due to the presence of these outsiders,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alanganallur-residents-talk-tough-officials-to-shift-tasmac-outlets/article32120111.ece
18 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Southern districts record 530 new cases||A total of 263 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Friday raising the overall tally to 7,858. Of the 263 cases, one was imported. A total of 143 people were discharged from various facilities. The total number of cases discharged were 4,677 till date. There were four deaths recorded including that of a 42-year-old woman who was differently abled. The tally of deaths is 138. There are 3,043 active cases, according to the State Health bulletin. Meanwhile, Madurai City Commissioner Prem Anand Sinha, has asked city residents to take photographs or videos of people not wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing on their mobile phones and send them to the city police through its WhatsApp number 83000-21100. In a statement, Mr. Sinha said that people can also upload those photographs or video clippings in the Facebook page of Madurai City police. Strict action would be taken on the violators, he said. Theni The district recorded 176 new cases and there were 56 discharges. A total of 671 samples were taken today and results were awaited. There was a death recorded in Bodi Municipality limits, a district press release said. Dindigul The district reported 163 fresh cases, taking the tally to 1,356 from 1,193 on a single day. The discharge was 74 thus taking the total number of discharged patients to 727. Ramanathapuram A total of 82 fresh cases were reported in the district which took the total positive cases to 2,167. The discharges stood at 105 with total discharge being at 2,249 from the Government Hospitals. Sivaganga The district had 72 fresh cases reported taking the total positive cases to 1,260. There were 19 people discharged from the hospital, according to the State medical bulletin. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district on Friday added 196 fresh COVID-19 positive cases talking the total towards 3,000-mark. With no new discharges reported on the day, the total number of positive cases stood at 2,948. After 1,065 patients were discharged till Thursday, the number of active cases stood at 1,859. The death toll remained at 24.  Tirunelveli Four districts in south Tamil Nadu recorded 530 fresh COVID-19 positive cases on Friday of which six were imported while remaining 424 cases were indigenous. Of this, Thoothukudi once again recorded the highest number with the addition of 189 new cases, all indigenous, to take the tally to 3,129 and active cases to 1,768. After testing negative for the viral infection, 127 patients were discharged from the hospitals in the district including Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. The district has so far lost 22 COVID-19 patients from all age groups. Total number of infections in Kanniyakumari district crossed the 2,000 mark with the addition of 151 cases, including 149 indigenous cases. While the number of active cases stood at 1,346 on Friday, the district’s total number of infection touched 2,041. A total of 68 patients were discharged from various hospitals after they tested negative for COVID -19 infection. Tirunelveli district, which has so far witnessed 11 deaths due to the viral infection, had 119 new COVID – 19 positive cases on Friday that took the district’s tally to 2,345 and the number of active cases to 1,192. In Tenkasi, 65 new cases were reported on Friday to jack up the number of infections to 926 and active cases to 598. The district has lost three patients to the viral infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-districts-record-530-new-cases/article32120105.ece
18 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring stepped up near Vaigai dam||The Madurai Corporation has ramped up vigilance and monitoring at the civic body’s two intake wells at Vaigai dam to prevent illegal water tapping. This decision was taken following last week’s surprise inspection by officials of the Corporation and Public Works Department (PWD), during which 25 motors were seized for illegal water tapping, said Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan. Currently, water taken from Vaigai dam is stored at the two intake wells and then sent to the treatment plant at Pannaipatti. The treated water is then supplied to Madurai city. Engineer S. Arasu, who was present during the inspection, said that farmers who undertook farming near the dam had installed motors and had engaged in illegal water tapping. “We found 25 motors and each of them had a capacity of 15 horsepower (HP). The farmers had even installed submersible motors to tap water from the wells,” he said. With the help of police personnel, the motors were removed. “We also got a written acknowledgement from the farmers emphasising that they would not deploy motors in the future,” he said. A Corporation engineer said that following removal of motors, the water level in the intake wells had risen by 20 cm. He added that if the levels were lower, water would not reach the treatment plant and would cause shortage in supply of drinking water. The Commissioner said additional officials had been deployed near the wells to ensure round-the-clock monitoring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-stepped-up-near-vaigai-dam/article32120116.ece
18 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court impleads ICMR||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has suo motu impleaded the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in a public interest litigation petition filed by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MLA P. Saravanan, who sought a direction to the State to purchase COVID-19 rapid testing kits approved by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) and the ICMR. In his public interest litigation petition, Mr. Saravanan said that in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State, the government should purchase effective testing kits from authorised companies that were approved by CDSCO and ICMR. Adjourned A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam suo motu impleaded ICMR in the case and adjourned the hearing till August 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-impleads-icmr/article32119831.ece
18 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ration shops inspected||Madurai Central MLA P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan inspected ration shops and inaugurated anganwadis in his constituency under MLA Constituency Development Fund, here on Friday. He inaugurated an anganwadi near Crime Branch (ward 86) at a cost of Rs. 8.20 lakh. A compound wall of an already existing anganwadi at Melavasal (ward 78) was also inaugurated. Two borewells were inaugurated in Sundararajapuram (ward 77). Each of the borewells were dug at a cost of Rs. 4.30 lakh. The MLA also inspected the functioning of ration shops located in A.A. Road at Arapalayam, S.S. Colony and one in Dhanappa Mudali Street. “I had received complaints that some residents did not get the COVID-19 financial assistance of Rs. 1,000. So, I undertook the inspection and found that some products were not given in full quantities. The quality of some products was also poor,” said the MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ration-shops-inspected/article32120112.ece
18 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Is Government hiding COVID-19 deaths in Madurai district’||Alleging a large-scale difference in the data on COVID-19 deaths in Madurai district provided by the government, Madurai M.P., Su. Venkatesan, has urged the State to clarify on this. In a statement, Mr. Venkatesan said that the State Government had announced that Madurai district had, so far, registered 129 deaths due to COVID-19. However, a survey conducted by the MP’s office in various crematoriums and burial grounds has revealed that at least 205 persons from the district have died due to coronavirus till July 15. The MP said that in the corporation crematorium at Thathaneri, a total of 167 bodies has been cremated. Among them, 46 persons belonged to other districts. Similarly, at the corporation crematorium ‘Anjali’ at Keeraithurai 57 bodies of those who died due to COVID-19 were cremated and among which 13 bodies belonged to other districts. At Maiyyavadi burial ground meant for Muslim organisations, 39 bodies of COVID-19 infected persons were buried. This included eight bodies from other districts. Muslim organisations had also buried two bodies in different places. Similarly, in the Christian cemeteries seven bodies have been buried. The number of COVID-19 deaths would increase if complete details about the number of bodies buried in Christian cemeteries were obtained, he added. The MP said that in total, 205 persons from Madurai district have died due to COVID-19 as against 129 deaths reported by the State Government. “Is Tamil Nadu Government trying to suppress one third of the deaths reported in the district?” the Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP wondered and asked a clarification from the State Government.  205 persons from Madurai district have died due to COVID-19 as against 129 deaths reported by the State Government Su. Venkatesan Madurai M.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/is-government-hiding-covid-19-deaths-in-madurai-district/article32120102.ece
18 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Student, who stopped her marriage, passes 12th exam with flying colours||A year-and-half back, K. Lekha, who was 17-years-old then, contacted the Childline, to prevent her marriage. Officials of the Childline and Child Welfare Committee intervened and placed this student, who hailed from Naithanpatti of Melur block, at a Child Care Unit. Now, she has secured 549 marks out of 600 in the Class 12 State Board examinations, results of which were announced on Thursday. Ms. Lekha’s mother has been suffering from mental disorder for nearly eight years. Her father, an alcoholic, had arranged her marriage. “I wanted to study and requested officials to help me,” she says. Her education was interrupted and she had difficulties in securing admission in a school the next year. “Authorities spoke to the management of St. Justin’s Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Sivaganga district where I had studied. The school management reduced the fee and helped me to complete my education,” she says. She stayed in the school hostel and completed her studies. “On Sundays, my friends would get visitors but no one came to see me. I felt heartbroken. But, I would tell myself to focus on studies,” she says. She secured more than 90 marks in four subjects with a score of 97 in Accountancy. ‘I want to become a Chartered Accountant and support my mother and younger brother. Staying away from home has helped me understand complexities of life,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-who-stopped-her-marriage-passes-12th-exam-with-flying-colours/article32120120.ece
18 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Social worker moves HC on illegal sand quarrying||A social worker moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday alleging illegal quarrying of savudu soil or top soil in Thoothukudi district. He complained that the authorities concerned had failed to stop the illegal activities. In his public interest litigation petition, S.M.A. Pon Gandhimathi Nathan from Thoothukudi district complained that illegal sand quarrying was taking place in ponds and patta lands in Vilathikulam, Ottapidaram and Tiruchendur in Thoothukudi district. The petitioner said that the Tahsildars concerned failed to act against those involved in the illegal sand quarrying activities. Therefore, action must be taken against the Tahsildars as they have failed in their duty, he said. He sought a direction to the State to act against those involved in illegal sand quarrying. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the State and adjourned the hearing in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/social-worker-moves-hc-on-illegal-sand-quarrying/article32120119.ece
18 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||120 hospitals remain closed||An inspection by the Madurai district administration has revealed that 120 private hospitals and nursing homes are not providing treatment to the public for COVID-19. In a press statement on Friday, the district administration said that the closure without proper reasoning was against the guidelines issued for COVID-19 treatment by Central and State governments as per the National Disaster Management Act (NDMA). According to the Act, private hospitals, clinics and nursing homes are bound to be kept open to provide treatment for all patients. The district administration has sought an explanation and has ordered the managements to open their hospitals for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/120-hospitals-remain-closed/article32120115.ece
18 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||SRMU workers stage demo||Members of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union on Friday staged a demonstration at 18 branches in the division in protest against handing over of 159 trains in 101 routes. Divisional secretary J.M. Rafi spoke at western entry of Madurai railway junction. The protest was presided over by divisional secretary, SRMU loco running staff wing, Alaguraja. SRMU members staged a demonstration at the Tirunelveli Railway Junction on Friday. Sporting black badges, they raised slogans against the Centre and the Railway Ministry for pushing forward the privatisation move which would blow a death knell to the Indian Railways. Even as the entire nation was battling the pandemic, the Centre was “auctioning the entire country” to corporate firms by relaxing all existing norms and diluting the Acts, they said. SRMU office-bearer S.J. Ayyappan presided. Before staging demonstration, they met their colleagues in various departments and explained the objective behind the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srmu-workers-stage-demo/article32120118.ece
18 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||MKU to remain closed for three days||The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) campus will be closed till Monday, said Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan after two persons from the Directorate of Distance Education (DDE) department tested positive for COVID-19. The university administration had issued a circular regarding the closure of the university including the administrative block, here on Friday. The V-C said that extensive disinfection will take place in the university campus over the next three days. He added that 20 people, who interacted with the two positive patients will be tested over the course of the next three days to determine if they too have COVID-19. “People who are symptomatic are requested to stay back at home and quarantine themselves. They do not have to come to the university and present any letters of leave. It is important now, more than ever, to ensure that we are careful about any potential spread,” he said. The V-C added that regular disinfection activities have been taking place in the university every alternate week. Mr. Krishnan added that anyone else who had interacted with those who have tested positive for the virus can come forward to get tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mku-to-remain-closed-for-three-days/article32120109.ece
18 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||State response sought on providing assistance||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought a response from the State government in a public interest litigation petition filed by the Tamil Nadu Typewriting, Shorthand, Computer Institutes Sangam. The Virudhunagar-based sangam had sought a direction to the State government to permit them to reopen typewriting institutes. The petitioner, S. Soma Sankar of Srivilliputhur, said that typewriting institutes have remained closed since the imposition of COVID-19 lockdown. As a result, members and staff were finding it difficult to make ends meet. He said that the institutes should be re-opened for the welfare of the owners and staff. He said that the Sangam members would ensure strict adherence to sanitisation and physical distancing norms. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the State to file a counter affidavit and asked if financial assistance could be provided to the members and staff of the typewriting institutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-response-sought-on-providing-assistance/article32120103.ece
18 July 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Ten booked for violating safety norms||Namakkal district police on Thursday registered cases against 10 persons for violating COVID-19 safety norms in containment areas here. A press release from Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan said 35 streets in Mijanur, Erumapatti, Sendamangalam and Vellur police station limits were monitored using drones after more cases were reported in these areas. On Thursday, cases were registered against 10 persons from these areas for stepping outside their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-booked-for-violating-safety-norms/article32119856.ece
18 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Paolo Tommasi no more||Paolo Tommasi, 92, an Italian architect-artist who helped design the Matrimandir at Auroville, died of COVID-19 on Thursday. Mr. Tomassi was among the few persons still around, who had interacted with Mirra Alfassa -- ‘The Mother’ to her followers -- the spiritual associate of Sri Aurobindo, who established the universal township of Auroville in 1968. He was closely associated with the Sri Aurobindo Ashram, though he was living in an independent apartment nearby. Health officials on Friday said he had been diagnosed with COVID-19 in June and was admitted to JIPMER on July 2. He was shifted to the ICU on July 15 after his condition worsened. Hailing from Ancona, Italy, Mr. Tomassi came to India and played a crucial role in helping French architect Roger Anger design the Matrimandir and the 12 gardens surrounding the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paolo-tommasi-no-more/article32119812.ece
18 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. Assembly to re-convene on Monday||The Puducherry Legislative Assembly will re-convene at 9. 30 a.m on Monday to present the annual budget. The session will start with the address of the Lt. Governor. CM V. Narayanasamy will present the budget 2020-21 at around 12.05 p.m, a communication from Secretary, Legislative Assembly, R. Mounissamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-assembly-to-re-convene-on-monday/article32119792.ece
18 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Funds will be allotted for land acquisition for ring road project: CM||Funds will be allocated for acquiring land for Jalagandapuram ring road project soon, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said here on Friday. Inaugurating the newly constructed building for Edappadi Municipality at Rs. 5 crore. Mr. Palaniswami said administrative sanction had been given to construct compound wall and improve other infrastructure at the building at Rs. 3.25 crore. The Chief Minister also inaugurated a bridge built at Rs. 2.42 crore across Sarabanga river in Vellalapuram panchayat. He also laid the foundation for the construction of 42 classrooms, four laboratories, 21 toilet blocks, compound walls for three schools and drinking water facilities at eight higher secondary and high schools. The works would be carried out at Rs. 11.54 crore. He also laid the stone for expansion of five combined water schemes at Rs. 17.30 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/funds-will-be-allotted-for-land-acquisition-for-ring-road-project-cm/article32119842.ece
18 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Families of schoolchildren to receive rice, cereals||The families of schoolchildren covered under the Puratchi Thaliavar M.G.R. Nutritious Meal Programme in Thanjavur district will be receiving 556.50 tonnes of rice and 175.59 tonnes of cereals during this month. The Collector, M.Govinda Rao, in a press release, has said that 1603 nutritious meal centres are functioning in Thanjavur district where 70912 children studying in the first to fifth standards and 72404 children studying in 6 to 10th standards are availing the food offered at the centres. The State government had earlier announced that the monthly allotment of dry ration (rice and cereals) to be served as cooked food to the beneficiaries of the noon meal scheme through the nutritious meal centres in the month of May 2020 would be distributed to the families of the beneficiaries. As per the announcement, the children coming under the standard 1 to 5 category are entitled to receive 3.100 kg of rice and 1.200 kg of cereals, each, and those studying in the higher classes are entitled for 4.650 kg of rice and 1.250 kg of cereals, each, as dry ration for the month of May. Since a government order relating to this announced had been issued recently and the required goods had been moved to the noon meal centres, the distribution of dry ration to the families of school children covered under the scheme in the district had commenced from July 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/families-of-schoolchildren-to-receive-rice-cereals/article32120145.ece
18 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Traders down shutters||Traders in Kumbakonam and nearby areas downed their shutters on Friday expressing solidarity with the Coordination Committee for Formation of Kumbakonam District. The committee, comprising representation from different sections of the society such as traders, lawyers, medical practitioners and others, had earlier called for a total bandh in Kumbakonam, Thiruvidaimaruthur and Papanasam areas on July 17 to press for the demand for the formation of a new district with Kumbakonam as its headquarters. Prior to the bandh call, the committee had organised a postcard campaign and staged demonstrations in the town by roping in the political parties, non-governmental organisations and social activists. On Friday, more than 15,000 shops in Kumbakonam, Thiruvidaimaruthur and Papanasam areas remained closed. Lawyers staged a demonstration in front of the Combined Court Complex at Kumbakonam in support of the two-decade-old demand for a new district with Kumbakonam as its headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-down-shutters/article32120140.ece
18 July 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||Vilathikulam All Women Police have arrested a 45-year-old man for allegedly raping and impregnating his 14-year-old daughter. The girl is now carrying a seven-month-old foetus, and doctors are of the opinion that it cannot be terminated. The police said the girl, a Class 9 student, fell ill and was taken to the primary health centre in the area, where the doctors found that she was pregnant. As her mother, a labourer, grilled her, the girl told that her father Karuppasamy, a charcoal unit labourer, had raped her on December 14 and 15 last year under the influence of alcohol. Since Karuppasamy threatened the girl that he would kill her if she revealed it to anyone, she kept silent.  Based on the statement of the victim, Vilathikulam police arrested Karuppasamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested/article32120106.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Delta farmers pin hopes on monsoon, CWMA||With the storage level at the Mettur dam depleting fast, anxious farmers in the delta region are pinning their hopes on the monsoon and the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) to see them through the kuruvai and the samba seasons this year. Although farmers in the delta had taken up kuruvai paddy cultivation after a gap of eight years with much confidence this year as water was released from Mettur dam on the scheduled date of June 12, apprehensions are now being aired over the prospects of the kuruvai and samba crops as the water level has slumped to 71.16 feet on Friday, against its full level of 120 feet, with a storage of 33.70 thousand million cubic (tmc) feet. The dam has a capacity to hold 93.47 tmc. The Public Works Department has already adopted a turn system for water release from the Grand Anicut in an attempt to ensure equitable supply of available water. The PWD has also gradually reduced the quantum of water release from the Mettur Dam to 10,000 cusecs as on Friday. Until about a week ago about 15,000 cusecs was being released. “The available storage will last only for another 25 to 30 days, raising a question mark over the kuruvai and samba paddy crops” observed Cauvery S. Dhanapalan, general secretary, Cauvery Farmers Protection Association. Farmers’ organisations have been pressing for steps to get Tamil Nadu’s due share in the Cauvery from Karnataka. “It is just not enough for the Cauvery Water Management Authority to issue directions and remain silent. The authority members should personally inspect the Karnataka dams and ensure that water was released to save the crop in Tamil Nadu,” said P.R.Pandian, president, Coordination Committee of All Farmers Associations of Tamil Nadu. Kuruvai cultivation had begun only recently and was yet to be fully completed. The crop on about 3.5 lakh acres has to be saved and samba crop has to be raised on about 15 lakh acre, he said emphasising the need for Tamil Nadu Chief Minister to mount pressure for the release of water. Agreeing that the State has to impress upon the CWMA to ensure release of enough water by Karnataka, Mannargudi S.Ranganathan, general secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, however, said that the inflow thus got in the Cauvery has to be judiciously managed. “Once the monsoon gets active in the delta here, we can reduce the discharge from the Mettur. If there is enough rain locally, we can store the inflow at Mettur and use it when we need it. I think the situation will be manageable,” he observed. “Though there has not been much rain in the delta so far, I feel that the monsoon is going to be good and the inflow (in Cauvery) will be fairly appreciable,” he said citing the increasing in inflow at Hogenakkal over the past few days. Pressing the State government to intensify efforts to get water from Karnataka, Mr.Dhanapalan also urged the government to immediately take steps to enumerate and reconcile the kuruvai area in the delta as many places have not been notified for crop insurance. “Since kuruvai crop was not raised in many places, they have not been included in the notified area for insurance coverage this season and hence farmers will not be able to insure their crop in such places. The government as a special case should immediately reconcile the cultivated area and get them notified for crop insurance,” Mr.Dhanapalan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-farmers-pin-hopes-on-monsoon-cwma/article32120143.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases up in central region||The central region saw a major spike in COVID cases with a total of 340 patients testing positive on Friday, with Thanjavur district recording a new single-day high of 117 cases. Three deaths were recorded in Tiruchi district. A 70-year-old man diagnosed with systemic hypertension and kidney disease, another 70-year-old man with diabetes, and a 59-year-old man died of COVID-19 related complications at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Meanwhile, cases were on the upswing in Thanjavur, Tiruchi and Pudukottai. Tiruchi with 100 fresh cases was close behind Thanjavur, while Pudukottai added 75 new cases. Among the other districts in the region, 15 new cases were reported in Tiruvarur, 12 in Karur, 10 in Ariyalur, nine in Peramblaur and two in Nagapattinam. All 117 patients who tested positive in Thanjavur were vendors of the Darasuram vegetable market in Kumbakonam and their primary contacts. “We are expecting at least 350 cases from this cluster. A few days back, 75 tested positive, a few more are likely to test positive over the next few days,” said a senior health official in the district. The total number of cases reported in the district so far is 952. Of them 453 patients are currently undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. In Tiruchi most of the fresh cases were reported from areas within containment zones, official sources said. At least 60 patients belonged to areas within Tiruchi city limits. All patients have been admitted to the Tiruchi MGMGH for treatment. The total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district stood at 2,004. Meanwhile, 61 patients, including 57 from Tiruchi, were discharged from the MGMGH while 57 patients, including 50 from Tiruchi, were discharged from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai. All the 75 patients from Pudukottai have been admitted to the Government Ranee’s Hospital. Among the 12 patients who tested positive in Karur, five were men and seven women. All of them have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. Five of 0 patients who tested positive in Ariyalur were immediate contacts of those who tested positive earlier. Three had returned from Kumbakonam, while one each had returned from Tiruchi and Perambalur. Seven patients have been admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital, two to the Tiruchi MGMGH and one patient to a private hospital in Coimbatore. A three-year-old child was among the nine patients who tested positive in Perambalur. A 30-year-old man, a typist working at the Alathur panchayat union office also tested positive. While six patients have been admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital, three are in home quarantine. Two patients tested positive in Nagapattinam on Friday. A 33-year-old man hailing from Mayiladuthurai had travelled to Thanjavur with his ailing father-in-law for treatment. He is now admitted to ha private hospital in Thanjavur. The other patient is a 28-year-old woman who was a local contact of a patient who tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-up-in-central-region/article32120151.ece
18 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Research must be driven by passion and purpose’||Research and development must be driven by passion and purpose, T. Ramasami, former secretary, Department of Science and Technology (DST), New Delhi, said recently. Research and development have to be linked to social outcome, attuning industry towards an outcome based approach, Mr. Ramasami said inaugurating a national workshop on “Perspectives and challenges in outcome based research” (NWPCOBR) organised by NIT Tiruchi (NIT-T). Lauding NIT-T for its top-level ranking among engineering institutions in the country by way of producing more researchers, he emphasised on the country’s focus on public private partnership to fund, build, and operate projects based on thrust areas of research and development. In his lecture on ‘Research and development funding in context of low resource setting’, Mr. Ramasami advocated a vibrant ecosystem for R&D through intellectual freedom, progressive planning, de-bureaucratisation of funding and freedom from feudalism. He also guided the participants on sourcing funding from different entities through submission of innovative proposals. University sector needs to explore new tools for capitalization of its intellectual assets through the acts of commercialisation of technologies, Mr. Ramasami said. Nitin Kanwade, General Manager- Manufacturing, TATA Motors, highlighted the importance of Industry 4.0 and digitalisation, and threw light on how industries are handling numerous product variants and wider customer preferences. Presiding over, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said the online mode of content delivery and online platform based interactions would be the new normal in the near future. The AICTE Margdarshan Scheme under which the five-day national workshop was being conducted will motivate the faculty members to enhance teaching learning skills and students to come up with innovative ideas and projects and widen the exposure to the prototype development on enhanced educational standards and research aptitude. The NIT-T has been organising such workshops on outcome based education to train the faculty members of mentee institutions to apply for accreditation process. The institution has plans to conduct future workshops with focus on preparing mentee institutions for submission and processing of pre-qualifier report and submission of self assessment report (SAR) for National Board of Accreditation (NBA), she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/research-must-be-driven-by-passion-and-purpose/article32120144.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi GH gets 10 more HFNC||Doctors in Tiruchi are employing more high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) to treat patients of COVID-19 suffering from respiratory distress. The Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital had four HFNC on hand and over the last week has received 10 more machines from the State government. These machines, which supply oxygen in high flow, are used to treat patients who have difficulty breathing, according to R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH. So far, 10 patients had been treated at the MGMGH using the HFNCs, Dr. Yeganathan said. It is possible to provide 60 litres of oxygen per minute to patients and patients can put on the cannula on their own whenever they require oxygen supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-gh-gets-10-more-hfnc/article32120149.ece
18 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Holy Cross College focusses on artificial intelligence||Deriving optimum benefit inherent in the online platform, Holy Cross College, Tiruchi, roped in experts from developed countries as resource persons for its faculty development programme recently. Initiated by the Principal Rev. Sr. Christina Bridget, under the aegis of Collaborative Research on Sustainable Development (CICRSD), the FDP on ‘Artificial Intelligence and IoT (Internet of Things) heuristic transdisciplinary perspectives’, witnessed experts from Canada, Spain, Germany and USA interacting online with hundreds of participants. Krishna Venkataraman, Cloud Architect, Microsoft, Canada; Saad Malik, Data Scientist, Microsoft; and Jeya Mathew, Senior Data Scientist, Azure- AI, Microsoft, Canada, handled sessions on ‘High Performance Computing (HPC) in Life Sciences – Clinical trial simulation medical imaging.’ Axel Angeli Director, Digital Future Evangelist for Industries 4.0, Germany, drew the attention of participants to the ways in which artificial intelligence and smart woven industries will impact agriculture, healthcare and education. The use of AI in drug designing can reduce the cost and timeline and in identifying the potential targets for development of vaccines, explained Bharathi Pandi, Senior Scientist, Integrated Laboratory Solution, Raleigh–Durham, USA; and Kamal Rawal, Associate Professor, Amity Institute of Biotechnology, Delhi, in a session on 'Artificial Intelligence and IoT in Drug Designing'.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holy-cross-college-focusses-on-artificial-intelligence/article32120136.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Colleges confused over instruction to stop online admission process||Confusion prevails among administrators of arts and science colleges that had initiated online admission earlier this week, following an instruction on Friday from the Directorate of Collegiate Education to stop the process until July 20. According to college heads, the idea of the Department of Higher Education seems to be that the online admission process must begin simultaneously in government, government-aided, and self-financed colleges. But, the government has lost sight of the reality that the aided and self-financing colleges are desperately in need of money to run the show, the managements lament. Pushed into a financial crisis due to COVID 19 lockdown since March, private managements are at a loss to understand why the government has stopped the admission process for them. “We paid our staff members salaries with the corpus fund for the last three months, and are in dire need of money accruing as course fee for meeting future salary costs. The government's order stopping the admission process has come as a bolt from the blue. We are left with no money to pay the staff for this month,” a principal of a self-financed college in the city said. The online admission process in itself is devoid of clarity for government-aided colleges. As per the specified instructions, the colleges are required to sell the applications and received the filled-in forms entirely through online process. “Till last year, we had the flexibility of admitting students to seats that were not taken by students admitted on given dates to other applicants. This time, the scope does not exist for us to know whether the admitted students will unfailingly join the colleges and pay the fee on specified dates as it is normal for the candidates to apply for various colleges and take the admission in an institution from which they get the communication first,” a principal of one of the leading arts and science colleges in the city said. The general view of the college heads is that full-fledged online admission process for arts and science colleges was not workable, since a majority of students would be from the rural areas with no access to computers or high-speed Internet connectivity. Unlike in the case of engineering courses wherein the online admission process was well-structured, ad hocism in the admission process in the arts and science colleges would turn counterproductive crippling the system, they point out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-confused-over-instruction-to-stop-online-admission-process/article32120138.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Doctor working on enlisting plasma donors to benefit COVID-19 patients||A Tiruchi-based emergency physician has begun work to enlist prospective donors of plasma to patients diagnosed with COVID-19. Mohammed Hakkim has joined hands with Uyir Thuli Blood Bank and Research Centre to create a database of willing donors across Tamil Nadu. Dr. Hakkim said that the initiative was launched after trials were undertaken at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai proved to be successful. “Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar announced that a plasma bank at the cost of Rs. 2 crore is being set up in Chennai. We, here decided we wanted to pitch in and help,” he said. He claimed that once more patients begin to be treated with plasma, the demand will skyrocket, creating a shortage. Over the past three months, the number of blood donations has fallen, and to get plasma during an emergency would be difficult. “Due to stigma and fear, patients who have recovered from the viral infection are afraid to donate plasma. The authorities must create awareness and their important role in fighting COVID-19,” Dr. Hakkim said. The government could also offer incentives for donation. The initiative, launched on Tuesday, has received around 60 applications from individuals across Tamil Nadu volunteering to be potential donors. “If they are near Tiruchi, we can arrange for their travel and organise the donation at Uyir Thuli, which has a special licence to collect plasma from donors, or we can guide them to the plasma bank in Chennai,” he said. An online portal and a website for filing applications will soon be made available so people who have recovered from the infection across Tamil Nadu can donate and those in need of plasma can get in touch through the website. An individual must spend at least 14 days in home quarantine following treatment before they are eligible to donate. “Patients diagnosed with diabetes, pregnant women and those over the age of 55 are not eligible. Asymptomatic patients are the best candidates,” he said. Dr. Hakkim also appealed to the Tamil Nadu government to make a real-time list of donors available so that those looking for plasma can arrange for it from the nearest blood banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctor-working-on-enlisting-plasma-donors-to-benefit-covid-19-patients/article32120146.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man stuck during lockdown rescued||A 67-year-old man believed to be from Nepal, who was found near an Anjaneya temple situated close to the Head Post Office for long, was rescued by the Cantonment police on Friday. Police said Amardass who had settled in Uttar Pradesh in a mutt several years ago was on a visit to Rameswaram along with others. However, he was left behind accidentally by the group on their return. The sources said Amardass managed to reach Madurai and later on came to Tiruchi where he got stuck due to the lockdown clamped in late-March. The aged man was found staying near the Anjaneya temple for long with no support and surviving on eatables given by devotees coming to the shrine. The Cantonment police noticed the aged man and inquired him. He could converse only in Hindi. The police called up representatives of a home meant for orphans at Crawford and arranged for his safe accommodation there temporarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-stuck-during-lockdown-rescued/article32120152.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Training for constable recruits resumes||After having been suspended for over 100 days, training for 393 recruit woman constables selected to serve in the Railway Protection Force (RPF) resumed at the RPF Zonal Training Centre here on Thursday. The eight-month long training, which commenced in November last year at the RPF Zonal Training Centre, was suspended in late March when the lockdown was clamped in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The trainees hailing from various parts of the country had to head back home due to the lockdown. They began to arrive at the training centre late last month after being asked by the RPF authorities for recommencement of their training. However, the trainees had to remain in quarantine at the training centre upon arrival in batches as a precautionary measure in the wake of the spread of COVID-19. A senior RPF officer said after completion of their quarantine period permission was sought from the District Collector for recommencement of training here. Consequent to the permission accorded by the Collector, the training resumed on Thursday morning, the officer added. All necessary safety precautions and steps were being taken at the training centre in the wake of the spread of COVID-19 in Tiruchi and elsewhere. Personal distancing was being ensured during the training sessions as well as at the barracks where the trainees have been accommodated, the officer further said. The training which comprises outdoor and indoor sessions for the recruits was being organised as per the schedule outlined by the RPF authorities. The outdoor training includes yoga, squad drill, running, training in handling arms and ammunition. The indoor sessions cover a host of subjects including law, working of railway, railway act and other acts taken by a team of 30 instructors drawn from various ranks of the RPF. In the wake of the spread of COVID-19, the recruits were now being given kabasura kudineer , ginger tea and soup to improve their immunity, the officer further said. Upon completion of training and passing out parade, the trainees would be sent to various RPF posts for field-level practical training. Another officer said training also resumed at the Railway Protection Special Force V Battalion at Tiruchi separately for another group of 297 recruit women constables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-constable-recruits-resumes/article32120141.ece
18 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cop’s timely help to injured woman||Sub-Inspector of Police Ravi of Ariyalur District Special Branch provided timely assistance to a woman, who was unconscious after she met with a road accident, by transporting her in his official vehicle to Perambalur Government Hospital. The accident occurred near Perali in Perambalur district when Manickam and his elder sister Meenakshi of Kolapadi were going on a motorcycle. Police sources said Manickam lost control after a cow suddenly crossed the road. In the melee, Manickam and his sister fell down on the road and the woman sustained severe head injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cops-timely-help-to-injured-woman/article32120153.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water from Petchipaarai reaches tail-end areas in Radhapuram||Farmers having their farms under tank irrigation in the tail-end region of Radhapuram Channel in the district are jubilant as water released in the channel from Petchipaarai dam in neighbouring Kanniyakumari district for cultivation of crops under 52 tanks in this dry region has reached Mahendrakulam, the last waterbody of the irrigation system. Since the arrival of water in Radhapuram Channel, farmers, particularly floriculturists and paddy growers are happy anticipating a bumper harvest this year. After seeing huge quantity of water released from Petchiparai dam going waste near Kuzhithurai, late Chief Minister K. Kamaraj had initiated steps to increase the dam’s height from 42 feet to 48 feet and taking the extra water from the dam to the dry Radhapuram region in Tirunelveli district through a 26.50 km-long channel by diverting the water at Nilapparai near Azhagappapuram. If 150-cft floodwater is released for 20 days or a discharge of 100 cusecs is maintained for 30 days, all 52 irrigation tanks in Radhapuram union, having a cumulative storage level of 300 mcft, can be filled up and the drinking water crisis in the region solved to a greater extent. Moreover, the rain-fed land can be made cultivable.  “The only condition is that Petchiparai dam should have a storage level of 1,300 mcft so that water can be released in Radhapuram channel. If the dam, that gets copious influx during the southwest monsoon between June and August, has a storage level sufficient for nourishing standing paddy in Kanniyakumari district, water is released into Radhapuram channel on June 16 every year. The Chief Minister ordered the release of water from July 15 to August 13 and this will benefit over 17,000 acres in our area,” says S. Murugesan, chairman of Nanguneri- Radhapuram Taluks Agriculture Producers’ Cooperative Marketing Society. As water reached Mahendrakulam around Friday noon, Assistant Executive Engineer of Public Works Department Subhash and the farmers received the flow with flowers. Floriculturists of Radhapuram taluk, who have been engaged in relatively profitable agro ventures for the past several decades, are the happiest lot as the water released from the dam would also improve groundwater table in this region, known for drinking water crisis. “With water being released in Radhapuram Channel and with water available in the wells, we can cultivate flowers and raise paddy during ‘pisanam’ season (between October and February). Since the water has reached the last tank, we’ll get good harvest,” said Paulraj, an office-bearer of Mahendrakulam Farmers’ Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-from-petchipaarai-reaches-tail-end-areas-in-radhapuram/article32120122.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Girl’s murder: kin receive body||Family of the girl, who was murdered near Sattankulam last Wednesday and was refusing to accept the body, received it on Friday. Demanding compensation of Rs. 1crore and government job for the mother of the girl, who was murdered allegedly by two teens, the relatives and members of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) refused to accept the body after the post-mortem was done here on Thursday at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. On Friday, Mr. Sandeep held talks with the family in the presence of S. Jayakumar, Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi, at the Collectorate. The Collector agreed to give 3 cents of land to the family and order for monthly pension of Rs. 5,000 to the girl’s mother besides compensation of Rs. 8.25 lakh, usually given to kin of Scheduled Castes who are murdered by members of other castes. Moreover, Mr. Sandeep also assured them that a green house would be built. The SP said the girl, would regularly visit the accused’s house to watch television. On that day, she had pestered the teen to switch it on even as he was quarrelling with his mentally ill father. “In anger, the teen strangulated the girl and she swooned. Fearing that she had died, he put her in drum and closed it. The girl suffocated to death. With the help of his friend, he took the drum with the body and dumped it in a dry irrigation channel,” Mr. Jayakumar said adding that investigations had shown that the girl was not sexually assaulted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girls-murder-kin-receive-body/article32120117.ece
18 July 2020||Tirupattur,TAMIL NADU||Constable suspended||The Tirupattur Superintendent of Police P. Vijay Kumar has suspended a constable in connection with an incident in which a man attempted to end his life after his two-wheeler was seized by the police in Ambur last Sunday. Police said that they were holding a vehicle check near OAR Theatre in Ambur to enforce the complete COVID-19 lockdown. They stopped the vehicle of Mugilan, a resident of Anna Nagar. As he was reportedly not going out for any emergency purpose, the police seized his vehicle. Police claim that Mugilan went to his house and later attempted to end his life. The police rushed him to Ambur Government Hospital and then to CMC hospital. Five police personnel and home guards who were present during the vehicle check were shifted to the Tirupattur town police station for a fair probe into the incident. Meanwhile, constable Chandrasekhar, who was present at the checkpost at the time of the incident, has been placed under suspension for violation of conduct rules. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-suspended/article32119827.ece
18 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man held for son’s murder||Dhali police on Thursday arrested a man on charges of murdering his son. C. Palanisamy (69) allegedly murdered his son P. Senthilnathan (28) at K. Vallakundapuram due to land dispute, the police said.  The accused was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sons-murder/article32119850.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Paddy Festival held||The proposed ban on the use of high-level toxic class 1 pesticides in agriculture sector announced by the Union Government has been welcomed by farmers who aspire to protect and preserve traditional paddy varieties. Participating in the 14th National Paddy Festival organised by farmers associated with Save Our Rice Campaign in Tamil Nadu, spearheaded by the Consumer Research Education Action Training and Empowerment (CREATE) Trust at Veludayar Higher Secondary School, Tiruvarur, on Thursday, the farmers alleged that the use of pesticides such as monocrotophos, methomyl, and carbofuran resulted in farmers deaths. They welcomed the proposed ban of 27 pesticides since they are high-level of toxic class 1 pesticides. They urged the Tamil Nadu government to formulate a policy for organic agriculture and set a roadmap for five years to phase out toxic chemicals in farming activities so as to make the State achieve the status of an “organic state.” During the festival, inaugurated by Food Minister R.Kamaraj, sessions on agro-ecological techniques, seed production and conservation, importance of maintaining genetic purity, and processing and marketing opportunities of traditional paddy varieties were held, according to P. Duraisingam, chairman, CREATE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-festival-held/article32120137.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Bangles trader arrested||The All Women Police, Nannilam arrested a bangles trader on Friday on the charge of sexually harassing a 7-year-old girl. The accused, Kathiresan (45) of Vadakandam hamlet had allegedly harassed the girl who was playing near his house on Thursday morning. Later the girl informed her parents about the incident. Kathiresan was nabbed by the girl’s parents and villagers and handed over to the police who booked him under POCSO Act and remanded him on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bangles-trader-arrested/article32120148.ece
18 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||VAO suspended as the Nilgiris sees spike in cases||Amid a spike in COVID-19 positive cases in the Nilgiris district on Friday, the district administration placed a Village Administrative Office under suspension on grounds of poor enforcement of norms that led to a cluster of cases. The VAO was charged with failure to monitor the turnout at a wedding at Thangadu -Oranalli, which is blamed for the cluster of infections. Friday saw 52 new positive cases in the district, with 29 of these being people who attended the wedding. Till Thursday, 33 people who attended the event had tested positive. According to the district administration, the organisers of the wedding solemnised a few weeks ago had sought permission for 50 participants, but had far more people attending it. Fifty-five people who attended the wedding have been traced, but it seemed likely that the number of people who went to the wedding could have been more than a 100, an official said. It was the duty of the VAO in-charge to ensure that the gathering was held in accordance with the prescribed rules. The VAO was suspended for failing to monitor the gathering and enforcing the rules, he said. Those who organised the gathering too would be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act once they recovered from treatment at the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, he said. With the 52 new cases, the district recorded a total of 371 positive cases so far, with 116 people having recovered, and one death. Community vigil meetings The district administration has launched a series of meetings to emphasise the need to empower local communities to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The meetings stressed on the need to prevent unauthorised entry of people into villages, and to follow rules laid down to prevent large gatherings. Officials said that till date, more than 35 community vigil meetings had been held across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vao-suspended-as-the-nilgiris-sees-spike-in-cases/article32119860.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five deaths, 141 new positive cases in Coimbatore||Five patients who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 died in Coimbatore on Thursday, according to a media bulletin released on Friday, a day on which the district saw 141 new positive cases. According to the media bulletin, three women aged 56, 50 and 60 died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and two men aged 70 and 59 died at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. Of the three women, two had Type 2 diabetes and one was suffering from systemic hypertension, the bulletin said. Of the 141 new cases reported in the district, 29 were from two areas in Selvapuram, Health Department sources said. The rest were from Saramedu, Podanur, Varatharajapuram, Telungupalayam, Annur, Somayampalayam, Kumarapalayam, Karumbukadai, Shanthi Nagar, Kanappa Nagar, Vadavalli, Rathinapuri, Gandhi Maanagar and Mettupalayam. A total of 34 patients were discharged. As of Friday, Coimbatore district has 1,071 active cases.  The overall death toll of the district went up to 17 on Friday. 28 cases in Tiruppur Of the 28 cases reported in Triuppur on Friday, 21 were men and seven women. The cases were reported from Tiruppur Corporation limits, Dharapuram, Palladam and Madathukulam Blocks, according to a tweet by District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan. Man dies in Salem A 72-year-old resident of Hasthampatti died at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital on Friday. According to health officials, the man was admitted to the hospital on July 12 after he tested positive. He died on Friday without responding to treatment. He was suffering from kidney ailment, officials said. Of the 68 new cases reported in Salem, 54 were indigenous. Forty-eight cases were from Salem Corporation limits. Three patients had travel history to districts such as Krishnagiri, Kallakuruchi and four patients had come from Bihar, Karnataka and Gujarat. Namakkal district saw a spike with 48 new cases on Friday. According to health officials, majority of the patients were from Paramathi Velur and Kumarapalayam. Four of the patients had travelled to Karur, Erode, Salem and Karnataka. 3 test positive in Erode Three persons tested positive in Erode. Cases were reported at Nethaji Street in Surampatti, Krishnampalayam and Veerapampalayam, all in Corporation limits. A total of 464 cases were reported in the district so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-deaths-141-new-positive-cases-in-coimbatore/article32119858.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||UG admission process to start in August: TNAU||The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University will start in August the admission to 10 undergraduate degree courses in 14 constituent and 28 affiliated colleges. Online A release from the University Dean, Agriculture, and Chairman, Admissions, M. Kalyanasundaram said Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar would launch the online admission process in the first week of August for the undergraduate programmes – B.Sc. in agriculture, horticulture, forestry, food, nutrition and dietetics, sericulture and agri business management and B.Tech. in agriculture engineering, food technology, biotechnology and energy and environmental engineering – and also in affiliated colleges. The University was looking to fill 1,600 seats in constituent colleges and 3,100 seats in affiliated colleges, Mr. Kalyanasundaram said and added that the admission was completely an online process in all the following stages – online registration, application filling, rank list release, counselling process, seat allotment, certificate verification, sliding process and provisional seat allotment. Submit details Those interested in applying for the UG courses should visitwww.tnauonline.inand submit all necessary details with application fee from August 1. The University had provided information detailing the admission process. To have the doubts cleared candidates or others would do well to dial 0422-6611322 or 6611328 or 6611345 or 6611346 between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on working days, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ug-admission-process-to-start-in-august-tnau/article32119839.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK seeks action||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge N. Karthik and west urban unit chief M. Muthusamy have urged the State Government to act against those who doused Periyar statue in orange paint. In statements issued on Friday, they said the party units condemned the action of those who thought that they had defamed Periyar, who in his lifetime had faced stiffer challenges. The pouring of paint was aimed at disturbing peace in the State, they said and sought action against those who not only committed the act but also those who instigated it. Protest staged The Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Coimbatore urban unit led by secretary R.R. Mohakumar on Friday staged a protest in front of its office condemning the pouring of paint on Periyar statue. The party said in a release that the attack on Periyar statues had increased in the State since 2014. The perpetrators were not brought to book. Or so it appeared. If the situation were to continue the State would witness massive protests. Therefore, the police would do well to arrest those involved in the incident and see to it that they were punished for their crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-seeks-action/article32119832.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for skill training course||The Institute of Indian Foundrymen (IIF), Coimbatore chapter, and GKD Institute of Technical Resources (GKD ITR) have signed an agreement to offer three-year vocational training courses in foundry technology, automation, and manufacturing. According to a press release, as many as 180 students will stay at the industries and study the three courses. They will spend five days a week at the units and one day at GKD ITR for theory classes. “This is a vocational training programme based on the German model. The students will get an exposure to the industry environment and will find it easy to get absorbed at the units for job when they finish the course,” said G. Ezhil, chairman of IIF - Coimbatore. Foundries need skilled manpower for support services and maintenance and the courses in manufacturing and automation will train students for these sections. The students should have completed higher secondary at school or an Industrial Training Institute course or a diploma to join the B. Voc programme. Contact For details, contact: principal of GKD ITR at balamurugan.m@gkditr.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-skill-training-course/article32119845.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Elephant dies after getting trapped in swamp in Gudalur forest||A 25-year-old tusker was found dead after getting stuck in a swamp encroached on by a farmer at Manvayal in Gudalur Forest Division on Friday. Forest officials said that the elephant had got trapped in the loose sand, which had become extremely dangerous due to the rains in the regions over the last few weeks. The animal is believed to have entered the farm in Manvayal as it was traversing between the scattered patches of reserve forest in the Gudalur division, and had gotten stuck. After it got stuck in the swamp, it was unable to extricate itself from it and died on Friday. District Forest Officer, Gudalur division, Sumesh Soman, rushed to the spot and conducted preliminary investigations into the death, and a postmortem is to be conducted on Saturday. Officials believe that the animal could have suffocated to death after getting trapped in the swamp and it was not spotted due to the thick growth of crops and plantations in the land in which it died.  Erode In Erode, a male elephant aged about 35 was found electrocuted near a farmland in Bargur Forest Range. On Friday morning, villagers at Oosimalai found the carcass near a farm and alerted the officials. The elephant had come into contact with an electric fence put up around a farm by the farmer S. Madesh (50) of Oosimalai. Officials said that the farmer, who had fled the spot, had drawn power for the fence from domestic supply leading to the death of the animal. A team led by K. Ashokan, wildlife veterinarian of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, performed autopsy. A case was registered and search is on for the farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-dies-after-getting-trapped-in-swamp-in-gudalur-forest/article32119848.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK to protest on July 21 against power tariff||Dravida Munnetra Kazham district units in Coimbatore will stage a protest on July 21 against the alleged discrepancies in power tariff. A release from the east unit district unit in-charge and Singanallur MLA N. Karthik said party officers at all levels and members would stage the protest in front of their houses while observing physical distancing norms, by hoisting black flags. They would raise slogans against the ruling AIADMK government to highlight the faulty method adopted to arrive at the power tariff, he said. Though the party had appealed to the government, it paid no heed. Therefore, the DMK would ask the government to calculate the tariff in a way that suited the consumers and allow for paying the tariff in instalments. The protest in Coimbatore would be a part of the State-wide protest the party would hold in response to an appeal from its president M.K. Stalin, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-protest-on-july-21-against-power-tariff/article32119843.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HH Iron And Steel Pvt Ltd Group concern of Hindustan Hardwares||Hindustan Hardwares is a household name for any steel requirement in Tamilnadu & Kerala. Since their establishment in 1958, their business is driven by their Founder’s vision to meet the Iron & Steel requirements of Industrial & Construction sector. Followed by the founder, Hindustan Hardwares is marching successfully under the able guidance of their Managing Director Shri.D.Natarajan, B.E., They deal with a variety of Steel and Building products like, TMT Bars, Angles, Channels, Beams, Rounds, Wire Rods, Flats, Square, GC Sheets, CR Sheets/ Coils, HR Sheets/Coils, GP Sheets/Coils, Colour Coated Sheets, Plates, Chequred Plates, Cement. HH Iron And Steel Pvt Ltd is the Authorized Distributors of JSW Steel Limited for their Neosteel TMT Bars, JSW Colouron + and JSW Vishwas + for Coimbatore, Erode and The Nilgris Districts. These products are suitable for varieties of applications. JSW NEOSTEEL TMT Bars are the number one choice for the construction requirements for a Small House to Bigger Apartments, Malls, Industries, Highways & Bridges and Major Projects. JSW Colouron + is one of the original colour coated sheets manufactured in India under the license given by Bluescope Australia. JSW Colour coated sheets are manufactured from high strength steel and Anti corrosive material exhibiting wider spanning capabilities with better uplift performance. JSW Colouron + Colour coated sheets are suitable for Industrial buildings, Hospitals, Schools and Colleges, Auditorium, Ware houses and Cold storage, Domestic car parking. Colouron + Colour coated sheets are available with Guard film to ensure it reaches your roof without scratches and damage to colours. It has non erasable Liner marking to show its originality. They also offer all kinds of accessories required for complete roofing works like Profiled Ridge, Gutters, all kinds of Flashings, Poly carbonate sheets, Insulations, Self Tapping Screws and Roof ventilators. Thus they could satisfy all the steel requirements for your building from basement to roof – all under one roof.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hh-iron-and-steel-pvt-ltd-group-concern-of-hindustan-hardwares/article32119838.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Aftermath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aftermath/article32119852.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth dies of burns||A youth succumbed to burns after he and a woman immolated at Vilankurichi on Friday. The deceased was identified as Rajesh, 22 and the woman was Sivasankari, 26. The two were neighbours and the woman was married, the police said. They immolated in the early hours of Friday and their relatives rushed them to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The youth died on Friday evening without responding to treatment. Saravanampatti police have registered a case. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-dies-of-burns/article32119847.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Till July 17||Persons tested +ve so far: 1,785 Domestic cases: 1,752 (141 new cases on Friday) Imported cases: 33 Persons recovered: 696 Death: 17 (One death cross-notified to Kerala) Active cases: 1,071    House quarantined: 2,888 Positive: 409 (28 fresh cases on Friday) Discharged: 203 Active cases: 202 Deaths: 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/till-july-17/article32119855.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Aavaranaa aadi sale…||Plan your aadi sale in safe and hygiene place, come and admire the beautiful collection with aavaranaa ,all our staffs were screened every day and use sanitizer. We also serve through video call ( con:9244403113). If you want more safety and convenience, you can reserve your appointment by calling (mob: 7604984298). Also you can buy through social media Wide ranges of collection are waiting here for you. Huge collections of hand loomed pure kanchipuram silk sarees with traditional designs ( coveri,annapachi,long border,vanasingaram etc…)with beautiful butta and pallu… our weeding collections make the bride looks more elegant…in the auspious occasion Beautiful collections of Banaras sarees, chiffon sarees, and georgette sarees with the finest workmanship form all over india available in wide range of collection with better discount… Aavaranaa gives colour combinations for cotton,crape,chiffon,ikat,muliswari cotton…salwars in wide range of collections for the season… Grab the most beautiful readymade blouses…||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavaranaa-aadi-sale/article32119836.ece
18 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||AYUSH doctors to meet CM||A delegation of AYUSH doctors on contract duty with the Department of Health and Family Welfare will meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Monday to request him to fulfil their demands such as regularisation of service and wage revision. This follows the en masse resignation of around 2,000 AYUSH doctors in the State on Thursday. They quit citing delays in fulfilment of their demands for wage revision, health insurance, and safety equipment. A team of five office-bearers is expected to meet the CM at his home office, doctors said. “We had sought an appointment with the Chief Minister’s Office. We have been asked to call on him in Bengaluru on Monday,” said Harsha Patil, president of the Belagavi unit of the AYUSH doctors’ association. On Friday, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy tweeted in support of the AYUSH doctors and said the government should reduce the huge gap between the wages of regular doctors and of those on contract.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ayush-doctors-to-meet-cm/article32119766.ece
18 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi students excel in pre-university examination||Some schools in Belagavi have excelled in the pre-university examinations. The Good Shepherd PU Science College has obtained 92.53% results. Uzama Patel has got 98.16 per cent, Arsheen Sayed got 91.51 per cent, Poornima Patil 91%, Mustafa Maniyar 90%, Anha Sayed 89.51%, and Shifa Pathan 87% marks in the PCMB category. The management and principal have congratulated the teachers, staff, students and parents.  Students of Jain PU College of Commerce have done well in the PU Commerce stream. Sanjana Upadhya got 97.83% and Darshan Chindak got 97.66%. They the district toppers in the commerce stream. Ritka Anandrao, Khushi Khataria and Neeta Kittur share the third position in the district at a score of 96.16%. Science In the Science stream, Sai Jadhav got 94.83% and Navajeet Singh Kohli got 93%. Sonia Anwekar and Aparna Mahule secured third place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-students-excel-in-pre-university-examination/article32119951.ece
18 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Man dies, wife struggles to get help||A woman in Athani was forced to use a vegetable vendor’s cart to transport her husband’s dead body. He had succumbed to an illness on Friday. Sadashiv Hiratti, 55, repaired shoes for a living in front of the district hospital. He was a habitual alcoholic and died of a long-time illness. He had not contracted COVID-19, officials said. His wife, Shantavva, wanted to carry him to the burial ground in the outskirts of the town. But she could not find enough relatives or acquaintances who could carry the body on their shoulders. A vegetable vendor offered to carry the body on his cart. The pandemic scare and the lockdown in Athani kept most of her relatives away. Most did not help as they suspected him to have died of COVID-19. The few of her friends or relatives who wanted to come, could not travel due to the lockdown in Athani taluk, a police officer, who helped the family with the burial told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-dies-wife-struggles-to-get-help/article32119952.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic body proposes extension of lockdown||The civic administration, which is at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic in Bengaluru, wants an extension of the lockdown for at least another week. However, its view is at odds with that of the State government’s. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, at a review meeting on Friday, reiterated that “lockdown is not a solution to control COVID-19”. Mayor Gautam Kumar and BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar told mediapersons on Friday that they had recommended extension for at least a week. “The number of COVID-19 cases is on a steady rise. There is a strong case for extending the lockdown by a few more days,” said Mr. Gautam Kumar. Mr. Anil Kumar said, “If the chain needs to be broken, there needs to be a lockdown of at least 15 days, which is the time period of a cycle of COVID-19. I personally think the lockdown must be extended at least till the end of the month.” While the eight ministers put in charge of the eight zones of the city were part of the Chief Minister's review meeting, the civic administration was not. Sources who attended the meeting said that a majority of the eight ministers supported the CM’s view and were confident that the situation could be brought under control without extension of the lockdown. “The hit the economy takes during a lockdown seems to be heavily weighing down on the Chief Minister’s mind. Then there is a counter argument that a lockdown for nearly three months did not prevent the rapid spread of the virus that the city is now witnessing. All it did was postpone the peak. The Chief Minister and several ministers argue that it is better to face the peak now,” said a senior functionary, who was part of the meeting. ‘Wasted effort’ The civic administration, however, feels the rapid antigen testing it launched on Friday will provide results in the next week, and only a lockdown for at least one cycle of the infection can break the chain. “If the lockdown is not extended to cover at least one cycle of the infection, even the one week lockdown we are in now will go to waste,” a senior civic official said. During a lockdown, social contact is significantly reduced and enforcement of anti-COVID-19 measures is strengthened. Bengaluru, which is currently witnessing a peak, is following the trajectory of other cities, such as Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai, that had to extend periods of lockdown and put in place severe restrictions to flatten the curve, a civic official pointed out. He added that even if the lockdown is lifted, all markets, malls, places of worship, hotels and any other crowded places, including public transport, must not be reopened. “As per our studies, COVID-19 cases will continue to rise for at least another few weeks. The rapid antigen tests will only help us discover more cases in the coming weeks. But we need not worry about the rising cases, but we need to work towards preventing deaths,” said a senior health official. An analysis of the data indicates that a majority of deaths may have been caused due to late hospitalisation. “Delay in test results is one of the reasons, and we are working on it. Rapid antigen tests will again help in early diagnosis and hospitalisation,” the health official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-body-proposes-extension-of-lockdown/article32119746.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Surge points to community spread, local circulation of virus: Experts||The sudden surge in COVID-19 cases in the State, especially Bengaluru, has resulted in a “catch-22” situation. While the huge spike day after day is making contact tracing impossible, poor contact tracing is further leading to the rapid spread of infection. Four months after the first case was reported on March 9, the total tally crossed 50,000 and death toll crossed 1,000 on Thursday. While the surge was expected as it is only natural that epidemics in different parts of the country will peak at different times, experts say that the spread points to community transmission and local circulation of the virus. In clusters Attributing the surging numbers to the cumulative effect of inter-State and inter-district migrations/travel, C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said the concept of living in clusters (houses that are attached to each other with common toilets) in Bengaluru has only added to the problem. “The spike in COVID-19 cases in June can be divided into two stages. First, the gradual but worrying increase between June 1 and June 26 followed by a sharp increase in cases since June 26. Now the spread is nothing but community transmission,” said Dr. Manjunath. He pointed out that some areas that were declared containment zones in June are now seeing a second wave. “Delayed transmission is taking place in areas that were initially declared containment zones. People in these areas are still getting infected now,” he said. As it is practically impossible for contact tracing when the surge is in thousands every day, the doctor said civil society should take up contact tracing apart from the infected individual. ‘No city immune’ Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 technical advisory committee, said no city is immune to a surging caseload during a pandemic. But what matters most is the way the State/civic authorities respond to the surge, he said. “The surge is not a freak occurrence. There were several systematic problems with surveillance, testing, contact tracing, and tracking, which resulted in several missed cases and the virus continued to spread. There is a delay in analysing and reporting the results, often up to five days. In this time, people keep moving around freely, and potentially spreading the disease. Hence, the government has now made it mandatory for people who go in for tests to quarantine themselves till the test report arrives,” he said. To manage the surge, there should be increased testing, strict adherence to timelines by the BBMP in reaching the house of infected individuals within 12 hours after confirmation, robust follow-up of ILI and SARI cases and their isolation, and adherence to home isolation guidelines by people, Dr. Babu said. Geometric progression V. Ravi, senior professor and head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said the progression was geometric. “Doubling of cases has been rapid mainly because after lockdown people did not follow precautions. During a pandemic, apart from preventive measures and treatment strategies adopted by the government, people also have a responsibility. They are the carriers and unless they take it upon themselves to stop the spread, it is difficult to cut transmission,” Dr. Ravi said. As the ongoing season is also conducive for high transmission of various infections, people have to behave sensibly, he added.  Doubling of cases has been rapid mainly because after lockdown people did not follow precautions. During a pandemic, apart from preventive measures and treatment strategies adopted by the government, people also have a responsibility. Dr. V. Ravi  The spike in COVID-19 cases in June can be divided into two stages. First, the gradual but worrying increase between June 1 and June 26 followed by a sharp increase in cases since June 26. Now the spread is nothing but community transmission. Dr. C.N. Manjunath  The surge is not a freak occurrence. There were several systematic problems with surveillance, testing, contact tracing, and tracking, which resulted in several missed cases and the virus continued to spread. Dr. Giridhara R. Babu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surge-points-to-community-spread-local-circulation-of-virus-experts/article32119760.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Discussions being held on conducting session’||Karnataka Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri is exploring options on ways of conducting the legislature session in September. Many State legislatures in the country may have to hold sessions in the next few months to meet the Constitutional requirement of holding session within six months of the previously-held one. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Kageri said he has begun discussing with the State government on holding the Assembly session and is also closely watching the steps to be taken by Parliament and State governments in order to conduct the session. Budget session “It is Constitutionally binding and we have to meet in September. We are discussing and exploring modalities of conducting the session, considering the COVID-19 pandemic gripping the country and the State,” he said. “The State legislature’s Budget session ended in March. So we have to meet in September.” Article 174 of the Constitution stipulates that “six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointment for its first sitting in the next session.” The issue of holding the legislature session came up for discussion at a videoconference that Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla had with presiding officers of State legislatures on April 21. Congress demand The principal Opposition Congress has been demanding the State legislature’s session to discuss issues related to handling of COVID-19 by the government and various amendments made to laws through Ordinances. When The Hindu contacted former law Minister M.C. Nanaiah and sought his views on the matter, he said the session may be convened by asking members of all parties to attend by rotation. “Two-third members can attend sessions at a time wearing masks and maintaining social distance.” On being asked about a virtual meeting of the legislature, Mr. Nanaiah said: “As of now, the Constitution does not provide provisions for conducting a virtual meeting of legislatures. By allowing all Cabinet Ministers to attend the session, he said “a limited presence of members at any given time may be an alternative for conducting a session.” PAC meeting When asked about the decision by the office of the Speaker to stop investigation by the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) headed by Congress MLA H.K. Patil into the alleged scam in purchase of COVID-19 medical equipment, Mr. Kageri said: “It is not advisable to conduct meetings of members of PAC, officials, Assembly staff at a time when the pandemic is raging everywhere.” Mr. Kageri said Mr. Patil himself postponed the PAC meetings. “He has stopped holding meetings of various committees for the time being,” the Speaker said.  It is Constitutionally binding and we have to meet in September. We are exploring modalities of conducting the session, considering the pandemic gripping the country and the State. Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri Speaker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/discussions-being-held-on-conducting-session/article32119776.ece
18 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hard work pays off at THiS institutions||The effort put in by students and teachers at schools that are part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme reflected in the excellent results achieved in CBSE Class 10 examinations. All 121 students at JSS Public School, Banashankari passed with 27 students scoring 90% and above marks. Akash Gowda H U. (97%) emerged school topper. In BGS National Public School, Hulimavu, 92 of 231 students secured 90% and above marks, Parth Uppal (97%) was the topper. In Sri Lakshmi Public School, Sunkadakatte, 30 of 48 students passed in first class. Madhushree K R. (96.4%) was the topper. The Smart School, Machohalli, boasted 100% pass with 24 of 77 students securing distinctions. Yashaswini H M. (93.17%) was the topper. At Vidya Sanskaar International Public School, Sunkadakatte, 14 of 21 students secured distinctions. Donna R. and Mrinank Ganachari both securing 93.2% were the toppers. In all, 12 of 82 students at KLE Society’s School, Rajajinagar, scored 90% and above marks. Deepak S., 96.2% emerged the school topper. Sri Jnanakshi Vidyaniketan, Rajarajeshwarinagr too achieved 100% pass with 73 of 146 students securing distinctions. Sumit S. Patil (97.8%) was the topper. Christ Academy (CBSE), Koppa-Begur Road, achieved 100% pass results. Teja VSSS Ram P., by securing 96% emerged school topper. Presidency School Bangalore East, Kasturinagar, achieved 100% pass with 102 of 123 students securing distinctions. Thegnapraya Saravanan (97.6%) was the topper. Cadets of Rashtriya Military School (RMS) Bangalore excelled in board examinations. In class 10, all 70 and in Class 12, all 38 cadets passed. Cadet Kumar Abhishek (96.4%) was the topper in Class 10, while Cadet Aditya Arya (95.4%), in Class 12. Army Public School (APS), PRTC achieved 100% pass results with 32 of 132 students securing distinctions. Misha Yadav (94%) was the topper. In APS, ASC, 54 of 147 students secured distinctions. Asish Kumar (95.8%) was the school topper. In APS, K. Kamaraj Road, 43 of 186 students secured distinctions. In Air Force School, ASTE, 15 of 94 students scored 90% and above marks. Seetha K. (97.2%) was the topper.  (To be continued)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hard-work-pays-off-at-this-institutions/article32119740.ece
18 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BBMP elections unlikely this year||In the normal course of events, the city would have by now been in the middle of a political campaign for the civic polls, with elections due in September first week. However, with the COVID-19 pandemic showing no signs of easing, and the authorities estimating that it will be a few months before we can flatten the curve, elections to the BBMP council are unlikely to be held as per schedule. A senior minister in the government said that given the COVID-19 situation in Bengaluru, it is unlikely that elections can be held in 2020. “We don’t think we can afford to let a city with a population of 1.34 crore come out and vote this year,” said the minister. The State government has already postponed gram panchayat elections indefinitely. “In all likelihood, a similar decision will be taken for the BBMP polls,” he added. Karnataka State Election Commissioner Dr. B. Basavaraju said that while he was yet to receive any communication from the State government, the upcoming BBMP elections may be postponed. “Recently, the Karnataka High Court asked us to reconsider the decision to postpone gram panchayat elections. We held a review meeting with all district administrations via video conference recently. The Deputy Commissioners expressed not only concerns over holding elections during the pandemic, but also how the administration is busy fighting the pandemic. We think the BBMP elections may also go the same way. But we shall consult the State government after the lockdown is lifted,” he said. Following a writ petition in the Karnataka High Court, the government had recently notified the new delimited wards but is yet to announce reservations, following which the Commission will have to get down to updating the electoral rolls. If the elections are not held as per schedule, the council will cease to exist and the State government will have to appoint an IAS officer of the rank of additional chief secretary as the administrator for the civic body. “Discussions are already under way as to who will be the right person. The administrator will also hold charge of the fight against COVID-19 in the city,” a senior functionary of the government said. Civic activists are unhappy with the absence of the civic administration in the fight to stem the rise of cases in Bengaluru. “Ideally, the civic administration should have led the management of the COVID-19 crisis. But the Mayor is nowhere to be seen,” said N.S. Mukunda, founder president of Citizen Action Forum. “It is the BBMP Commissioner and Ministers who are at the helm. The absence of a council and a mayor will unlikely cause any change in the fight against the pandemic since they have had no meaningful role so far,” he added. Meanwhile, the ruling party Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has on its agenda a dedicated law for the governance of the city, expansion of the BBMP to include 67 more villages on the city's outskirts and increasing the number of wards to 224. This is contrary to a proposal pending with the State government to divide the civic administration into multiple corporations as it is unmanageable in its current form. A senior city BJP leader said the party will use the time it has gained by the pandemic to push through the Bengaluru Governance Bill and restructure its administration before the next civic polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-elections-unlikely-this-year/article32119739.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||100th baby born at trauma care centre||Bringing cheer to the COVID-19 ward at the Trauma and Emergency Care Centre (TECC) on Victoria Hospital campus, 100 COVID-19 positive women were delivered of their babies at the facility. The 100th baby was born on Friday. As many as 79 deliveries are through C-section procedures. The remaining normal deliveries include four sets of twins. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar congratulated the doctors and other health staff for ensuring the safe deliveries. 3,693 new cases Meanwhile, a day after the tally of COVID-19 positive cases breached the 50,000 mark, the State on Friday reported 3,693 new cases, taking the total number of cases to 55,115. With 115 more deaths, the toll touched 1,147. This is apart from six non-COVID-19 deaths. Continuing to record a surge, Bengaluru Urban saw 2,208 people test positive. Seventy-five of the day’s 115 deaths are from Bengaluru Urban. With this, the total number of positive cases here touched 27,496 of which 582 succumbed to the infection. The total number of discharges in the State touched 20,757 with 1,028 new recoveries on Friday. The total number of RT-PCR tests conducted in the State crossed 9.5 lakh on Friday. A record 24,700 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Dharwad reported 157, Ballari 133, Vijayapura 118, and Belagavi 95.  Third highest With 33,205 active cases, Karnataka continues to remain third State after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/100th-baby-born-at-trauma-care-centre/article32119732.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shramik trains to operate once restrictions end||The State government has decided to continue running the mustering centre for migrant workers at Tripuravasini on Palace Grounds in Bengaluru and will operate Shramik trains after the lockdown ends next week. Until then, migrant workers will be accommodated at the centre and will be provided food and other facilities. A circular in this regard was issued on Wednesday, after a high-level meeting headed by the Chief Secretary. At the district level, wherever lockdown has been reimposed, Deputy Commissioners have been directed to open relief centres for migrant workers and other vulnerable sections and provide them with shelter and medical care. The circular further stated that district administrations should be proactive and distribute ration for July to November 2020 under the Pradhan Mantri Gharib Kalyan Yojana as well as under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Instructions have been given for vulnerable sections of the population to be surveyed again. These sections include the transgender community, migrant workers, the destitute, beggars, sex workers, and others who require immediate relief in the form of shelter, food, or both. The survey should be carried out at the panchayat and local body level. “If persons so identified as vulnerable have a ration card, they shall be facilitated to get their quota of ration from the Public Distribution System. Ration card-holders of Karnataka can get their ration from any fair price depot in the State. Ration card-holders from other States can also get ration as per the NFSA norms from any FPO through the inter-State portability portal of the Government of India.” Those who do not hold a ration card will get a dry ration kit that will have 5 kg of rice, 2 kg of dal, half a litre of oil, 0.5 kg of sugar, 0.5 kg of salt, and appropriate quantities of spices as per minimal requirement, the circular stated. Districts are free to add more components to the kit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shramik-trains-to-operate-once-restrictions-end/article32119771.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman who recovered from COVID-19 found dead in hospital bathroom||A 60-year-old woman, who had recovered from COVID-19, reportedly committed suicide at K.C. General Hospital early Friday morning. She was being treated for the virus, and was all set to be discharged on Friday, but inexplicably she decided to end her life, said sources in the hospital. Her body was discovered in the hospital bathroom. The woman had been admitted to the hospital with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) on July 1 and tested positive for COVID-19 on July 3. Multiple co-morbidities “Initially she was in a bad state and was given respiratory aid. But despite having multiple co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension, she fought back and recovered,” said Dr. B.R. Venkateshaiah, medical superintendent, K.C. General Hospital. She is the fourth person, who had contracted COVID-19, to commit suicide and the second in K.C. General Hospital itself. “We held a review meeting to analyse why patients are taking this drastic step. Both women who ended lives in the hospital did so after the treatment when they were about to be discharged. We have an in-house psychiatrist who counsels all COVID-19 patients regularly. The victim was also counselled and evaluated and found to have no serious issues. We shall consult NIMHANS as well,” Dr. Venkateshaiah said. On the advice of psychiatrists, the hospital has installed two television sets in the COVID-19 ward, but has banned news. We usually show popular films and COVID-19 awareness programmes, said a source. Both suicides occurred in the bathroom. “We shall also take adequate administrative measures as well to prevent this from happening again,” Dr. Venkateshaiah added.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-who-recovered-from-covid-19-found-dead-in-hospital-bathroom/article32119752.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IISc. researchers track aerosol generation during surgeries||Amid growing evidence of the novel coronavirus being able to spread through aerosols in closed spaces, medical health professionals and scientists are putting their heads together to study risks associated with aerosols generated during surgeries and out-patient procedures. Doctors at Narayana Nethralaya, Bengaluru, have collaborated with researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) to investigate how aerosols — tiny droplets that can remain suspended in air for hours in closed spaces — are generated during routine eye procedures. High-speed imaging and aerodynamic models were used to visualise the generation of droplets during procedures such as cataract and LASIK surgeries. The size of the droplets were identified and the researchers calculated the speed and distance to which they travel.The studies showed that during most procedures, aerosols are not generated, Saptarshi Basu, professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, IISc., and co-authorof two papers published in the  Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery, was quoted as saying in an IISc. press release. The first study focused on phacoemulsification, a type of cataract surgery where an ultrasonic needle is used to break up the cataract. The fluids are then suctioned out and the eye is rehydrated with a balanced salt solution. The researchers employed a technique called shadowgraphy, which uses a light source such as pulsed laser or LED to cast shadowsof fast-moving droplets onto the sensor of a high-speed camera, the release stated. It added that no aerosols were generated when the probe was restricted to the inner layer of the eye calledanterior chamber, but when the probe was exposed to the salt solution on the eye’s outer surface called cornea, aerosols were formed. The researchers have suggested replacing the salt solution with more gelatinous or viscous materials to prevent fluid spurting and aerosol generation.  Droplets travel In the second study during LASIK surgery performed to correct near or far-sightedness, researchers found that the oscillating blade cut through the stroma (the inner layer of the cornea), some droplets were generated, likely owing to the balanced salt solution used as a lubricant prior to the procedure. However, most of the droplets were found to be large in size and therefore likely to settle down fast, reducing the risk that they will become aerosolised. “Because the droplets were found to travel up to 1.8 m in a simulated surgery setting, adequate precautions and protective equipment should be adopted by doctors,” the researchers have suggested. The release added that based on these findings, the hospital has identified and implemented specific safety protocols. Similar studies have been planned for orthopaedic and heart surgeries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iisc-researchers-track-aerosol-generation-during-surgeries/article32119757.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pourakarmikas mourn colleague||Pourakarmikas across the city observed a few minutes of silence at their respective workplaces in memory of their colleague, 28-year-old Shilpa, who died of COVID-19 on Thursday. A ‘digital vigil’, organised by the All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), was held later in the evening where people put up photos of candles on social media. BBMP Mayor M. Goutham Kumar on Friday handed over a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to the husband and the father of the deceased pourakarmika. Ever since the outbreak, activists and pourakarmikas have been demanding that they be provided with adequate protective gear. AICCTU has demanded insurance, reduction of working hours, and improvement of work condition for pourakarmikas who are at risk. “We wanted to organise a peaceful symbolic protest in front of the BBMP headquarters but could not do that due to the lockdown,”said Nirmala M. of the BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha. “We have consistently demanded regular supply of sanitizers, masks, gloves, and also face shields and PPE kits for pourakarmikas. While masks and sanitisers are irregularly supplied, pourakarmikas have not got face shields and PPE kits which are vital,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pourakarmikas-mourn-colleague/article32119743.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private COVID Care Centres asked to make voluntary declaration||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which has allowed establishment of COVID Care Centres (CCCs) by private medical establishments and hotels, is now asking them to opt for voluntary declaration. Those who have set up these facilities have to visithttps://spacebasic.com/ bbmp/registrationand fill in the details sought. A special drive is also being planned to check the patients admitted in private hospitals, said a source who attended an inter-departmental coordination meeting on Friday. “If the patients are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, they may be shifted to either a CCC set up by the government or the private CCCs at their cost. This is one way to ensure that beds are available for COVID-19 patients who actually need medical interventions,” sources said. There are at least five CCCs established privately by medical institutions and hotels in the city. The government has fixed the ceiling on package rates based on the kind of the hotel. While CCCs in five-star hotels may charge a maximum of Rs. 12,000 a day, those in three-star hotels can charge up to Rs. 10,000 a day and those in economy/budget hotels may charge Rs. 8,000 a day. The BBMP has developed an index application for real-time push of information on COVID-19 positive cases for action by the zones, including shifting of patient to either hospital or CCC based on symptoms, arranging ambulances etc.Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, in charge of the BBMP war room, said zonal command centres had also been set up. “Bengaluru is the first city to have such a system in place. The zonal command centres also have a dashboard with localised information,” she said. The index application, she said, allows for smooth transition of information to the zones for action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-covid-care-centres-asked-to-make-voluntary-declaration/article32119756.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Webinar on biodiversity conservation||The Indian Institute of Plantation Management (IIPM) Bengaluru in association with The Hindu and The Hindu BusinessLine organised a webinar on ‘Best practices for biodiversity conservation’ on Friday. The objective of the event, which saw more than 150 participants, was to identify best practices and governance approaches to mainstream biodiversity conservation particularly in the production sectors. Sixteen papers were presented by scholars as well as practitioners. The seminar was attended policy makers, planters, academicians, research scholars, forest department officials, scientists, ecologists, environmentalists, corporate and industrial personnel, etc. In the opening remarks Dr. S.K. Khanduri, Technical Advisor to the UNDP presented an overview on the relevance of sectoral analysis in mainstreaming conservation in use of natural resources. Mohan C. Varghese, GM, KDHP, Kerala, made a presentation on the best practices for biodiversity conservation in plantation. Tarun Kathula, Director Conservation & Survey, MoEFCC delivered a talk on mainstreaming biodiversity, and Dr. B. Ramesh, former Director of Research, French Institute, Pondicherry made a presentation on significance of forest map of Western Ghats for conservation and management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar-on-biodiversity-conservation/article32119750.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protocol for cases of death of positive and also suspected patients||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike on Friday issued protocol to be followed after a patient succumbs to COVID-19 or a deceased is suspected to have caught the virus. This comes in the wake of complaints on delays in handing over bodies of the deceased to relatives. As per the protocol, if a person with COVID-19 dies in a hospital, it is the job of the hospital authorities to collect Aadhaar copies or any proof of identity and COVID-19 positive report of the deceased. Details should be updated in the patient management portal online. For suspected COVID-19 cases where deaths have occurred in hospitals, a provisional cause of death certificate should be issued. Throat swabs of the deceased should be collected for testing by the jurisdictional BBMP UPHC. The body should be handed over to the relatives with instructions to transfer to the crematorium/burial ground immediately under intimation to zonal BBMP officials. If a person with COVID-19 dies at home, the photograph of the body should be taken by the jurisdictional BBMP medical officer to rule out any injuries/unnatural death.After the required documents are collected and cause of death certificate is issued, the body should be packed by the jurisdictional UPHC as per the SOP. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) should be provided by the zonal BBMP officials to the crematorium staff. The protocol is similar in cases of suspected COVID-19 deaths at home. Throat swab of the deceased should be collected for COVID-19 testing by the jurisdictional UPHC. All hospitals are required to maintain a register with details of COVID-19 related deaths. Documents pertaining to death and treatment should be maintained for death audits and provided to the BBMP when required.Crematoria/burial grounds cannot deny services irrespective of the zone in which the patient resided. They have been directed to function every day from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protocol-for-cases-of-death-of-positive-and-also-suspected-patients/article32119763.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4 held for e-commerce racket||Two African nationals, along with two associates from Assam, who had created over 10 websites through which they allegedly cheated customers, were arrested by the city police. The e-commerce sites lured customers with a range of attractively priced products, such as COVID-19 cures and exotic breeds of dogs. The police received multiple complaints registered at various police stations. The gang used to also make personal phone calls to convince potential customers to make the payments, but switched off their phones after they got the money. A police team busted the gang through the phone numbers used by the gang. Police have recovered material used to cheat the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4-held-for-e-commerce-racket/article32119749.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMRCL told to clarify on app||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday asked the BMRCL to clarify whether it has proposed to make the use of Aarogya Setu app mandatory for passengers. The court also asked the Union government to clarify whether the use of the app as a generic preventive measure in the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for offices and other workplaces, is mandatory. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition, filed by Anivar A. Aravind, a city-based software engineer working for a non-profit organisation to protect people’s rights in the digital space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmrcl-told-to-clarify-on-app/article32119744.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COMEDK-UGET deferred again||COMEDK-UGET 2020 has been deferred and the revised date will be announced in due course, a release from COMEDK said.The exam was initially scheduled for May 10. It was put off to July 25, and subsequently to August 1, because of COVID-19. Candidates should visit www.comedk.org regularly for updates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/comedk-uget-deferred-again/article32119767.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Changes to land law a fraud on Constitution’||Former Law Minister M.C. Nanaiah has strongly criticised the State government’s decision to amend several major laws, particularly the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, through Ordinances and termed it as “fraud on the Constitution, legislature and people.” “Amending Sections 63, 79 (a, b) and 80 of the land reforms Act through an Ordinance is as good as scrapping the law,” Mr. Nanaiah told The Hindu on Friday. The government, generally, makes changes in laws through an Ordinance when the situation demands immediate measures in the interest of the people and the State. “What is the emergency to amend the land reforms Act during COVID-19?” he asked. The government has introduced changes in eight laws through Ordinances. It is the duty of the government to amend major laws through debates in the legislature. However, to cover up for its failure in handling COVID-19 and the alleged scam in purchase of medical equipment, the government has amended laws through Ordinances, he said. On virtual meetings of various committees of Parliament and State legislature, Mr. Nanaiah said “virtual meetings may be conducted since all members cannot attend” owing to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/changes-to-land-law-a-fraud-on-constitution/article32119774.ece
18 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HAL establishes COVID-19 Care Centre||Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL) has converted its Ghatage Convention Centre, located on Airport Road, into a COVID-19 Care Centre. The centre was handed over to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike on Friday. The facility has 160 beds with other supporting infrastructure such as toilets and bathrooms created in 16 days, according to R. Madhavan, chairman and managing director of HAL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hal-establishes-covid-19-care-centre/article32119755.ece
18 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||People urged to become ‘Corona Warriors’ in Dharwad||In the wake of surge in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in Dharwad district, the district administration has sought help from the general public and has appealed to them to become ‘Corona Warriors’. To make the fight against the pandemic more effective, the Dharwad district administration and Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) have jointly formed a ward-wise task force. The task force comprises of officials from the municipal corporation and volunteers.  Its basic objectives includes ensuring mandatory use of masks, maintenance of cleanliness in localities, discouraging spitting, and strict adherence to social distance norms. The members will also have to ensure mandatory use of hand sanitisers in every commercial establishment, scientific disposal of bio-waste and penalising those violating COVID-19 guidelines. It will also be entrusted with the task of providing medical aid to the poor and helpless and distribution of medicines to aged persons and other services. Focus on youth Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has appealed to the people particularly the youth to join hands with the administration in making Dharwad a COVID-19-free district. Those interested have been requested to send their bio-data to https://forms.gle/UYqVr2kawrgnd1Xh9.  The task force comprises of officials from the municipal corporation and volunteers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-urged-to-become-corona-warriors-in-dharwad/article32119959.ece
18 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain hits Malnad region||Several parts of the Malnad region have received moderate to heavy rainfall in the last two days, affecting normal life. The water level in reservoirs has also been increasing. Low lying areas were inundated and motorists had a tough time. In Chikkamagaluru district, many villages in Chikkamagaluru, Koppa, Mudigere, N.R. Pura and Sringeri taluks received heavy rains. The average rainfall recorded in the district in the last 24 hours that ended at 8.30 a.m. on Friday was 27 mm against the normal 19 mm. Residents of villages, which were badly hit by the heavy rains last year, are worried about their safety. Many lost their houses in the rains and landslips then. Similarly, a heavy downpour was reported in parts of Hosanagar, Sagar, Thirthahalli, Shivamogga and Soraba taluks in Shivamogga. The average rainfall in the district was 37.11 mm. The normal rainfall expected in Shivamogga in July is 688.87 mm and so far 298.43 mm has been recorded. In Hassan district, parts of Hassan, Arkalgud, Alur and Sakleshpur taluks received incessant rains. The district recorded an average rainfall of 18 mm against the normal of 10 mm. With the heavy rains in the catchment area, the inflow into Yagachi reservoir in Belur has been increasing. The engineers maintaining the reservoir have appealed to the people in the low-lying areas to relocate to the safer places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-hits-malnad-region/article32119960.ece
18 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Did old grudge lead to Hassan youth’s killing?||The kin of Madhu, a Dalit youth who was shot dead on Wednesday, are yet to come to terms with the tragedy that struck the poor family of Soppinahalli in Alur taluk. Madhu, 28, had left home to attend a programme at a temple nearby along with two friends. Roopesh, a resident of the same village, stopped Madhu while he was returning home, and opened fire with his double-barrel gun around 3.15 p.m., killing him instantly.    Madhu’s mother Shivamma, who works as a cleaner in a hotel, took care of her two sons with her little earnings after her husband left them years ago. “How long can we continue like this? Will my son ever get justice?” she asks. The motive behind the crime is allegedly a two-year-old incident where Madhu was accused of kidnapping a minor girl, the niece of Roopesh. While the family members of Madhu insisted that they were in love, the girl’s parents filed a complaint with the police, leading to Madhu’s arrest. He was put behind bars under POCSO Act. Madhu got bail and moved to Bengaluru looking for a job, while the matter was still in court. “We sent him to Bengaluru to ensure he does not get in touch with the girl. He came back during the COVID-19 lockdown and got a job in a workshop in Hassan,” Madhu’s brother Manu told The Hindu.  “A month ago, Rupesh had openly said he would kill Madhu if he ever tried to talk to the girl again. We did not approach the police then. But, now he has done this,” said Manu. However, Manu does not know if his brother had contacted the girl after returning from Bengaluru.   The Alur police have booked a case based on the complaint by Manu. The case has been registered under Sections 341, 355, 302, and 34 of IPC, besides the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Roopesh and his father Shive Gowda have been named accused. The police is said to have taken them into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/did-old-grudge-lead-to-hassan-youths-killing/article32119773.ece
18 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Not all have access to online classes’||Many UG, PG, and professional and pre-university course students took part in the protest in Hassan under the banner of Karnataka unit of All India Democratic Students’ Association. They argued that the lockdown was declared well before the teaching faculty could complete their syllabus. Later, students were asked to study at home. Most of the students could not get access to online classes as they did not get Internet connection in rural areas, where they had gone during the lockdown. “I have scored very well in all seven semesters so far. I am worried about the last semester because we have not been able to attend the classes. It is true students got books and other reading material via mobile phones. But, it is difficult to prepare for the exams going through such bulky books in soft copies,” said Atreya, an engineering student from Shivamogga. They demanded that the government postpone CET exams scheduled in the end of this month, all exams of degree and engineering courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-all-have-access-to-online-classes/article32119961.ece
18 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Another death, 21 new cases in Hassan||One person died of COVID-19 and 21 more cases of the infection were reported in Hassan district on Friday. With this, the total number of deaths due to the infection rose to 25. A 50-year-old man from Hassan taluk was admitted to a hospital on July 6. He had diabetes and kidney-related issues. He was shifted to the ICU on Thursday as he had developed complications. He died on Friday morning, said K.M. Sathish Kumar, District Health Officer. With the new 21 cases reported on the day, the total number of confirmed cases rose to 792 in the district. Among them, 529 have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-death-21-new-cases-in-hassan/article32119953.ece
18 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Protests in Hubballi||In response to the call for ‘All Karnataka Protest Day’ given by All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO), students held an online protest from their respective areas in Hubballi and Dharwad and from various districts of North and Central Karnataka. AIDSO had given the call for the State-wide agitation to protest against the decision of the State government and University Grants Commission to hold final year examinations for graduate and postgraduate courses and Common Entrance Test for II PU students amidst the pandemic. The students held placards condemning the decision to hold the examinations, calling it unilateral and a risk to their lives. They also opposed what they termed as ‘discriminatory online education and online examinations’. In addition to the students, several parents and activists supported the agitation. The students said that the lockdown had troubled the people of the country and amidst this, the UGC had decided to hold online and offline examination, in an undemocratic and anti-student move. Office-bearers of AIDSO, through a release, have said that during the survey conducted on the issue in 30 districts of the State, over 90% students of graduate, postgraduate and engineering streams, and 97% of PU students had said they were not in a position to appear for the examination at this time. This decision to hold examinations at a time when the number of cases were increasing would do more damage, they said. The protesting students and parents have urged the government to immediately revoke the decision to hold examinations and come out with a systematic and scientific evaluation mechanism, refund examination fees and postpone the KCET .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protests-in-hubballi/article32119954.ece
18 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||AIDSO demands cancellation of final year examinations||The All-India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) has urged the government to cancel the final year degree exams along with postgraduate and engineering exams, to curb the spread of coronavirus. AIDSO district president S.H. Hanumanth, in a memorandum addressed to the government, said the COVID-19 situation in the State is not conducive to conduct the examinations. The organisation demanded cancellation of exams in universities and colleges in the interest and safety of the students; they also appealed to the government for postponement of Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) exams. Some of the other demands of the protesters included reimbursement of examination fees and also a waiver of education loans. In Belagavi As part of All Karnataka protest day, All India Democratic Students Union members held placards that said , ‘We don’t want examinations’, ‘We don’t want an examination during the COVID crisis’ and ‘Don’t hold examinations when cases are rising’. They also opposed plans to hold online examinations, calling them undemocratic and discriminatory’. They said their parents were also in support of cancellation of examinations. Mahantesh Bilur, district organiser, said that a survey of students by AIDSO had revealed that 90% were opposed to the idea of holding examinations this year. As many as 97% of the students opposed KEA’s idea of holding the CET.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aidso-demands-cancellation-of-final-year-examinations/article32119950.ece
18 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||300 more beds at Wenlock hospital to get piped oxygen||The government on Friday decided to provide piped oxygen supply to 300 more beds at Government Wenlock Hospital which is the COVID-19 hospital in the city, said D. Vedavyasa Kamath, MLA, Mangaluru City South. The decision was taken at a virtual meeting the Dakshina Kannada district administration had with C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Deputy Chief Minister, and senior officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, he said in a statement. Presently, 150 beds at Wenlock hospital have piped oxygen supply connectivity. When 300 more are added, 450 will have connectivity, he said. In addition, the government agreed to provide piped oxygen supply connectivity to 30 beds in five taluk hospitals in Dakshina Kannada. This is to reduce the burden on Wenlock hospital. The district administration was instructed to begin works to provide pipe connection to additional beds in the hospitals immediately, he said. Mr. Kamath said that the meeting decided to supply oxygen cylinders to primary health centres (PHCs) in the district. It is to ensure that the oxygen cylinders are available in case of emergency in village/ward levels. The MLA said that of 300 more beds, the district administration has already begun fixing pipelines to 150 additional beds at Wenlock. The meeting was attended among others by Kota Srinivasa Poojary, Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada, Harish Poonja, MLA, Belthnagady, and Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/300-more-beds-at-wenlock-hospital-to-get-piped-oxygen/article32119958.ece
18 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Demand for petroleum products yet to pick up||Notwithstanding Karnataka entering Unlock Phase 2, demand for petroleum products, particularly the most sought-after ones such as high-speed diesel (HSD), motor spirit (MS-petrol), and Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF), is yet to pick up. Consequently, Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL), the State’s only petroleum refinery, which continued refining operations even during the lockdown period to cater to essential activities, is yet to achieve normal production as the demand for fuel is gradually picking up. While some commercial activities, including shops and establishments, public transport buses etc., were allowed to commence from Unlock 1 itself, some other activities demanding high energy, including malls, cinemas, the tourism industry, railways, and civil aviation, were yet to commence fully, thereby reducing the demand for fuel, according to M. Venkatesh, MD of MRPL. Mr. Venkatesh told The Hindu the company has almost curtailed the production of ATF as domestic flights had just commenced staggered operations while international flights were yet to start. MRPL used to sell about one lakh tonnes of ATF every month. At the same time, the demand for petrol and diesel is slowly increasing, with it hitting about 60% and 70% of the peak demand, respectively, Mr. Venkatesh said. MRPL spokesman Rudolph J. Noronha said that as against the peak crude processing capacity of 13 lakh tonnes a month, the average production had been 13 lakh, 6.71 lakh, and 6.27 lakh tonnes during April, May and June, respectively. The company expects production to increase in a fortnight. Diesel production has been steadily increasing, at 2.47 lakh, 2.65 lakh, and 3.38 lakh tonnes during the last three months, as against the average peak demand of 5.4 lakh tonnes. Petrol, too, has reached about 60% of the peak demand of 1.1 lakh tonnes a month. MRPL’s losses MRPL had suffered a substantial net loss of Rs. 2,078 crore during 2019-20 on account of various reasons, including acute water shortage in April-May, heavy rains in August 2019, and the COVID-19 lockdown in March 2020. With continued production at lower demands under partial lockdown, the company would have to operate under lower revenues and margins, MRPL had stated in its annual results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-petroleum-products-yet-to-pick-up/article32119765.ece
18 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Eight COVID-19 deaths, 311 new cases in DK||Dakshina Kannada district administration on Friday announced the death of eight patients admitted in different hospitals in the district and who had co-morbidities. It said that the death audit report from an expert committee is expected to decide on the cause of death. Of them six patients died on July 16 and two died on July 17. Those who died included a 72-year-old woman and men aged 56, 72, 70, 69, 53, 68 and 65. Meanwhile, in the highest single day spike, the district reported 311 COVID-19 cases on Friday. With this, the active cases went up to 1,725. A release issued by the Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said that 115 patients were discharged from hospitals after treatment on Friday. She said that of the new cases being reported, 50% were asymptomatic. Such patients are allowed to take treatment at home. They are being contacted by government authorities through the command control centre in the Mangaluru City Corporation and through video calls and phone calls in the jurisdiction of other local bodies. They are also being counselled by doctors. For ambulance services, people can call 0824-2441444 or call 108 or 1077. In Udupi Udupi district reported 84 new cases on Friday taking the total active cases to 429. The district has reported seven deaths so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-covid-19-deaths-311-new-cases-in-dk/article32119955.ece
18 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Youth Congress leader tests positive||The president of Dakshina Kannada Youth Congress Mithun Rai, who was the party’s candidate for 2019 Lok Sabha election from Dakshina Kannada Lok Sabha constituency, has tested positive for COVID-19. In a tweet on July 17 he said: “I have been tested COVID-19 positive and I am under quarantine in Bengaluru. With all your love and blessings, I will recover and be back soon at your service. My request to all those who were in close proximity with me in the last few days, kindly get yourselves checked for COVID-19.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-congress-leader-tests-positive/article32119956.ece
18 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KSOU readying for ‘contactless’ admissions, classes||Even as uncertainty prevails over the resumption of universities and classroom teaching, with the COVID-19 pandemic wreaking havoc in the country, Mysuru-based Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), the State’s sole university for Open Distance Learning (ODL), is keeping itself prepared for “contactless” admissions as a means of keeping its students safe. Though it had introduced online admissions early this year for the January cycle, it has rationalised the system to make all admission procedures entirely contactless, including verification of documents, so that students need not visit the Muktagangotri campus. If the situation was normal, the July cycle of admissions would have commenced at the KSOU. In February this year, more than 5,000 students took admissions online. In view of COVID-19 scare, the KSOU, besides consolidating the system of online admissions, wants to make the contactless admissions and contactless teaching a regular feature for students’ safety and convenience. The university has told the students to visit its website https://ksoumysuru.ac.in/ or download the KSOU Student App for latest information on the post-COVID-19 measures it had initiated for making open distance learning safe. Uncertainties “We don’t know when universities are going to reopen and admissions are going to commence but we are keeping ourselves ready for the situation and provide all handiness to the students in this hour of crisis. If admissions hopefully start in October, it may go on till December. The KSOU is reckoned to be the first university in the State to take the online route for admissions,” said Vice-Chancellor S. Vidyashankar. In ODL, contact classes are one of the key factors in bringing students face-to-face with the faculty. But, the mass contact classes are almost impossible now. However, to make learning easy, the KSOU is equipping its studios with the state-of-the-art equipment for launching live online classes in a big way. Prof .Vidyashankar said the overseas travel restrictions had caused delay in the import of equipment, including high-definition cameras, for the studios. “Now that the online classes have taken centre stage, we wish to take the plunge, engaging students of all courses in online mode shortly,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksou-readying-for-contactless-admissions-classes/article32119754.ece
18 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Partial lockdown in Mysuru||A partial lockdown for one week was enforced in Mysuru city with areas coming under four police station limits in Narasimharaja Assembly constituency identified as ‘restricted’ zones from 6 a.m. of Friday (July 17) to 6 a.m. of July 24. The curbs are in force in Narasimharaja, Mandi Mohalla, Udayagiri and Lashkar Mohalla Police Station limits. All commercial activities and services in the lockdown areas had been prohibited barring essential services such as milk, groceries, medical shops, fruits and vegetables, banking services and government offices. Meat shops will open only on Tuesdays and Saturdays. No public gatherings are allowed inside places of worship. There is no curb on already-planned weddings with the participation of guests restricted to less than 50 persons and strict enforcement of the SOPs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/partial-lockdown-in-mysuru/article32119741.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Commissioner in quarantine||Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao went into home quarantine on Friday after his driver tested positive for COVID-19. “I have home quarantined myself for four days and will get myself tested again on Monday for the fifth time in three months. I had to be in numerous inadvertent interactions with positive cases,” he tweeted. To date, over 600 police personnel in the city have tested positive, of which seven have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/commissioner-in-quarantine/article32119748.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Celebrating COVID-19 warriors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrating-covid-19-warriors/article32119963.ece
18 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Treatment centre at ITBP||With several Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) Personnel at Nooranad unit testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the district administration has come up with a special standard operating procedure to tide over the health crisis there. Last week, the grama panchayats of Nooranad, Palamel and Thamarakulam were declared as large cluster/containment zones after the personnel tested positive for COVID-19. As of Friday, 138 ITBP personnel have contracted the disease. Officials said that the barrack had been evacuated and measures were taken to set up a first-line COVID-19 treatment centre (FLTC) there. “The first-line treatment centre will have 120 beds. At present all the positive cases are admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, and a private hospital at Kayamkulam. With the setting up of the FLCTC, cases with mild symptoms will be shifted there,” said an official. The unit houses 375 personnel, while some along with their families live outside the compound. Personnel other than patients were shifted to various facilities and put in individual quarantine. The ITBP personnel and family members living outside have been put in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/treatment-centre-at-itbp/article32120094.ece
18 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Hike in cases in Alappuzha||The district witnessed a jump in COVID-19 cases on Friday with 57 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Increase in cases of local transmission and cases with unknown source of infection is a matter of concern in several parts of the district. Of the new patients, at least 40 contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection of three others remains unknown. According to officials, five COVID-19 clusters have been identified in the district at Kayamkulam, Kuruthikkad, Nooranad, Pallithode and Ezhupunna. District Collector A. Alexander said that more COVID-19 first-line treatment centres would be set up and 1,000 beds would be set up in coastal areas alone. Ezhupunna cluster The Ezhupunna cluster continued to widen with 23 more people on the contact list of an employee of a seafood factory there, who was diagnosed with the disease earlier, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the 23 persons, 15 hail from Ezhupunna, two from Cherthala and one each from Kadakarappally, Panavally, Chandiroor, Vayalar, Kodamthuruthu and Pattanakkad. Thirteen patients, including seven from Kuthiathode, four from Thuravoor and two from Ambalappuzha are on the contact lists of COVID-19 patients associated with the Chellanam harbour. Two persons hailing from Pallithode on the contact list of a COVID-19 patient from Pallithode, a 53-year-old man from Perumbalam on the contact list of a COVID-19 patient from the same place and a 52-year-old woman from Alappuzha who is an employee of a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram also contracted the disease through contact. Unknown source Source of infection of a 34-year-old fisherman from Kadakarappally who works in the fishing sector in Fort Kochi, a 27-year-old pregnant woman from Kadakarappally and a 19-year-old woman from Andhakaranazhi remains unknown. Besides, one more staffer of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police unit at Nooranad unit was diagnosed with the disease. The District Collector has declared all wards in Thrikkunnappuzha and ward 1, 2 and 18 in Amabalappuzha North grama panchayats as containment zones.  All wards in Thrikkunnappuzha and three wards in Amabalappuzha North made containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hike-in-cases-in-alappuzha/article32120093.ece
18 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||11 positive in Idukki||Eleven persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. Three persons from Rajakkad got infected through contact and the source of infection of one person could not be traced. One person had come to Elappara from Dammam on July 3. A doctor from Munnar who had travelled to Thiruvananthapuram on July 7 also tested positive on Friday, apart from a Vannapuram resident who was a fruit vendor at Nettoor in Ernakulam, a Rajakkad resident who came from Delhi, a Chakkupallom resident who came from Gudalur in Tamil Nadu, and residents of Senapathi and Udumbanchola who came from Cumbom in Tamil Nadu. Five persons were cured of COVID-19 on Friday. Now, 183 persons are under treatment in district .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11-positive-in-idukki/article32120095.ece
18 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Applications invited||Applications have been invited from qualified candidates belonging to Ezhava/Thiyya/Billava/Scheduled Caste/Muslim/Latin Catholic/Anglo Indian communities for appointment to 23 posts of Assistant Professors in various disciplines in the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article32120021.ece
18 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Monsoon disaster control rooms opened||Monsoon disaster control rooms started functioning at the Wayanad collectorate here and headquarters of the three taluks in the district, Collector Adeela Abdulla said in a release here. The phone numbers of the disaster control rooms are: District Collectorate - 1077 (toll free), 04936 204151, 04936 203939, 8078409770, 9526804151. Sulthan Bathery taluk office - 04936 223355, 9447097707; Vythiri- 04936 256100, 9447097705 and Mananthavady taluk office-04935241111, 9061742901.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monsoon-disaster-control-rooms-opened/article32120028.ece
18 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Award for Kannur shrimp farmer||T. Purushothaman, a shrimp farmer from Payyannur, has bagged the Jagjivan Ram Innovative Farmer Award instituted by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). Union Minister of Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar has declared the award online during the 92nd foundation day of the ICAR. Mr. Purushothaman has been selected for the award for his outstanding contributions to the development of diversified aquaculture practices utilising technological advancements. The award comprises a cash award of Rs. 50,000 and a citation. An experienced aqua-farmer, Mr. Purushothaman with support from the Central Institute of Brackish Water Aquaculture (CIBA), Chennai, focussed on farming indigenous species following scientific principles and adopting various technologies, which helped him develop innovative practices such as zero water exchange system in indigenous shrimp farming and multi-trophic species diversification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-kannur-shrimp-farmer/article32120058.ece
18 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records fourth COVID-19 death as cases spiral||Of the 115 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Friday, more than half were from the Chellanam and Aluva market clusters. The district recorded a fourth COVID-related death after a nun who died on Wednesday night tested positive for the disease. The 86-year-old nun was admitted to a private hospital at Pazhanganad with fever, said Kuzhuppilly panchayat president Rajitha Sajeev. After her death, her test results, done at a private lab, returned positive on Thursday, she added. Six others who were at the convent in Kuzhuppilly along with her have been quarantined. Out of the total, 84 persons had acquired the disease through local contact, and 31 had returned from outside the State. A total of 33 persons tested positive from Chellanam, taking the total number of cases from the cluster to 167. For testing in Chellanam, a special team will be appointed along with a nodal officer, and testing facilities will be made available at the COVID first-line treatment centre being set up in the area, said a press release here. As many as 770 samples have been tested so far from Chellanam. From the Aluva market cluster, 30 persons tested positive on Friday. Four from Keezhmad have also been infected. Health workers Three health workers too tested positive — a 33-year-old doctor at a private hospital, a 41-year-old AYUSH doctor from Varapetty, and a 23-year-old staff member of a private hospital. A 53-year-old sanitation worker who was on the contact list of a sanitation worker at Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, has tested positive. A 32-year-old policeman from Muvattupuzha, who had been on duty at the Kozhikode airport, has tested positive. Four persons from Karumalloor, three of whom were on the contact list of a patient, have tested positive. A 47-year-old from Alangad, also on the contact list of a patient, has tested positive. A 53-year-old from Koonammavu and a 43-year-old from Kumbalangi who had been on the contact list of patients who had worked at a food processing unit in Alappuzha, have tested positive. A 19-year-old and a 32-year-old from Chittattukara, and a 76-year-old from Kanjoor have tested positive. The source of their infection is uncertain. A 68-year-old nun of a convent in Angamaly, who had come into contact with a patient, has been infected. Five persons have recovered from the disease, and 638 patients are receiving treatment. As many as 421 samples were sent for testing. Testing will be intensified in Chellanam, Aluva, and Keezhmad areas. Two islanders The official figures apart, two islanders of Lakshadweep who were in quarantine at the guest house in Kochi, also tested positive. A dweep official said since the archipelago continued to remain a green zone, the islanders will have to recover and test negative before travelling to the island.  New containment zones Ward 1 of Kuzhuppilly panchayat, Ward 15 of Nedumbassery panchayat, Ward 2 of Choornnikkara panchayat, Ward 1 of Kanjoor panchayat, and Ward 3 of Chittattukara panchayat have been classified as containment zones. While, Ward 4 of Maradu Municipality, Ward 28 of Thrikkakara Municipality, Wards 67 and 11 of the Kochi Corporation, except the Ernakulam market and Thoppumpady fishing harbour, have been removed from the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-fourth-covid-19-death-as-cases-spiral/article32120030.ece
18 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cheating case: HC flays CB for not taking action||The Kerala High Court on Friday criticised the Crime Branch (CB) for not taking action against the accused officials of the Dr. Somervell Memorial CSI Medical College, Karakonam, in a case relating to cheating of certain students by collecting huge amounts by offering them admission in the college. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan observed that "big sharks are swimming without any hindrance and the investigating officer is behind the employees of the college.” The court said the report submitted by the police clearly revealed that no investigation was conducted against the director and others of the college. The court made the observation during the hearing on a bail petition of Shiji P.L. and Sanu J.S., staff of the college. The prosecution case was that the accused had collected huge amounts from the parents of students by promising them admission to MBBS seats in the college but later cheated them. The prosecution informed the court that Sanu was not made an accused in the case. Shiji, an accountant of the college, is the third accused in the case. College director Bennett Abraham and Church of South India Moderator Bishop A. Dharmaraj Rasalam, the chairman of the college, are the other two accused. The court observed that the admission supervisory committee had found that there were evidence in accepting capitation fee from students. The Crime Branch probe was later ordered by the High Court. Even now, the investigation officer had not raised his little finger against the chairman and the director of the college. The court directed the Crime Branch to file a report about the action taken so far against the three accused and also about the progress of the investigation. The court, while grating bail to Shiji, dismissed the bail petition of Sanu. The High Court had in February ordered a Crime Branch probe into the complaints that the management of the medical college had cheated several people and collected huge sums. The directions in February had come on a batch of petitions from the parents of some students alleging that the management cheated them and collected huge sums by offering admission at the medical college. However, the college authorities failed to give admissions to the students as promised and did not give the money back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cheating-case-hc-flays-cb-for-not-taking-action/article32120041.ece
18 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Silver Line a win-win for all, says KRDCL||There is no sustainable alternative to mass rapid transport of rail commuters in Kerala other than Silver Line — the 530-km Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod semi-high-speed rail corridor, for which pre-investment activities are under way, says Kerala Railway Development Corporation Ltd. (KRDCL) managing director V. Ajith Kumar. ‘Least disturbance’ The Rs. 63,941-crore project is worth the expense since third and fourth tracks parallel to the existing rail lines would affect thousands of houses and other buildings in close proximity to the tracks. On the contrary, the Silver Line alignment, would pass mostly through open spaces and could be built with least disturbance to buildings, he claims.  Moreover, trains would be able to operate only at much the same speed as now even if two additional tracks are laid parallel to the existing corridor. They would eventually have to reduce the speed to less than 100 kmph at 260 (major curves) of the around 700 curves along the corridor. Keeping this in mind, the Silver Line alignment has been envisaged as largely greenfield (undeveloped areas) on the Thiruvananthapuram-Tirur stretch. It would proceed parallel to the existing tracks on much of the Tirur-Kasaragod stretch, except in curves where they would take a deviation, he adds. The fare too would be competitive, vis-a-vis personalised travel modes such as cars the operational cost of which is around Rs. 10 per km and would still have to commute through congested and accident-prone highways. The per-km fare to commute by Silver Line, which would operate at an average speed of 200 kmph, would be just Rs. 2.75 per km. Apart from lessening congestion on highways, the proposed rail corridor would also cater to 480 lorries a day, further decongesting highways. This is achieved by the roll in, roll out (RoRo transit) of laden/empty lorries. Aimed at enabling higher speed, the Silver Line rail would have standard gauge rails, used in most countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silver-line-a-win-win-for-all-says-krdcl/article32120039.ece
18 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Division fund’ creates rift in corporation||The Kochi Corporation Secretary’s insistence that an amount above a certain limit cannot be spent by the civic body in the name of a ‘division fund’, without the approval of the District Planning Committee (DPC), while the civic body’s coffers are nearly empty, has ruffled feathers in the council. In a letter to the Mayor, Corporation Secretary R. Rahul pointed out that the spending on annual projects could be undertaken only as per a Government Order issued in February 2018. According to the guidelines in the order, only 25% (Rs. 12.56 crore) of its own fund can be spent on urgent work without the DPC’s sanction. But this year, over Rs. 4 crore has already been paid to contractors for work done, and additional work worth Rs. 9 crore has already been sanctioned. Any additional work taken up now will have to be placed before the DPC. He also stressed the poor financial situation of the corporation, which has accrued liabilities worth Rs. 88 crore. With just over Rs. 5.48 crore in the bank, the corporation requires Rs. 11.5 crore for monthly expenses, owes Rs. 44 crore to contractors and Rs. 69 crore to PMAY-LIFE beneficiaries. Since several expenses listed under the division fund were not sanctioned, UDF councillors raised a hue and cry. “Such a situation where division fund expenses are to be placed before the DPC has never come up before,” said UDF councillor A.B. Sabu. Other councillors said it could delay projects taken up for the division. Around Rs. 40 lakh per year is set aside as a councillor’s division fund to take up projects for the development of the local area, they said. However, LDF councillor Poornima Narayan said the Kochi Corporation was the only civic body which had the concept of a division fund. How the division fund is spent is still uncertain, she said. “When the corporation’s coffers are in bad shape, our expenses need to be prioritised,” said Ms. Narayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/division-fund-creates-rift-in-corporation/article32120031.ece
18 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Generous response to District Collector’s call||After the District Collector’s call for contributions of essentials to first-line treatment centres (FLTC), the collection centre at the Thrikkakara community hall received a pile of 150 bedsheets on Friday. Besides the community hall, every taluk office will function as a collection centre, and they will remain open over the weekend as well between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Essentials Foldable cots, chairs, steel vessels, masks, buckets, pillows, soap, sanitizers, refrigerators, masks, PPE kits, diapers, and sanitary napkins are needed. As many as 2,000 beds have been set up so far at FLTCs by local bodies in the district. A total of 10,000 beds are to be set up at the panchayat level by July 23. The district administration has directed private hospitals to set beds aside for COVID-19 patients for use once the FLTCs at the panchayat level have reached their full capacity. Staffing issues According to the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA), staffing the FLTCs could be a tough task, since the existing workforce has their plates full. Private doctors or volunteers from the panchayat will have to be roped in to help with the FLTCs, said Dr. Deepa K.H., district president, KGMOA. If staff from the local primary health centres (PHC) are deployed at the FLTC, nearly 21 PHCs where only one doctor has been appointed might have to close, she added. Appointments Since March, under the National Health Mission (NHM), 70 doctors, 80 nurses and junior health inspectors have been appointed, said Dr. Mathews Numpelil, district programme manager, NHM. Each FLTC will be staffed by volunteers from the panchayat and staff from PHCs, along with fresh appointments that will be made on contract basis, he said. The NHM has already put out a call for applications to the posts of medical officer, junior health inspector, and staff nurse.  Each FLTC will be staffed by volunteers from the panchayat and staff from primary health centres, along with fresh appointments that will be made on contract basis Dr. Mathews Numpelil District programme manager National Health Mission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/generous-response-to-district-collectors-call/article32120032.ece
18 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Heritage railway stations, prime land underutilised||Just as the city observed the 118th anniversary of the first passenger train chugging into Kochi on July 17, the Old Railway Station, where the train arrived and later saw the arrival of other historical figures like Mahatma Gandhi, remains in ruins. Concerted attempts by vested interests to divest the 40-acre prime property located behind the High Court of Kerala for alternative use, were foiled by NGOs and heritage enthusiasts. “It is shocking that attempts to renovate the station building and lay fresh tracks and other infrastructure did not yield much results, despite visits by Union Railway Ministers and dozens of senior officials,” said K.P. Harihara Kumar, general convenor of Old Railway Station Vikasana Samiti. The station was realised during the tenure of Rama Varma XV, then Maharaja of Kochi. It fell into disuse in the 1960s when the Ernakulam Junction and Town railway stations were commissioned. Attempts to revive the station by restoring rails and signals two years ago slowed down following the demand for an overbridge at Pachalam before restoring rail services. “A National Green Tribunal [NGT] order on the need to conserve the evergreen space having huge trees as it is, considering its proximity to Mangalavanam, further stymied efforts to revive the heritage station into a hub of suburban trains,” said a senior Railway official. Similar plight awaits Cochin Harbour Terminus, another heritage station, located in Wellington Island. The proposal to extend a few passenger trains to the station to decongest the Ernakulam Junction station remains on paper. Low patronage for trains like DEMU that began service from the station and lack of electric line owing to concern over the safety of aircraft taking off from the nearby naval airport were other hurdles. The station, although renovated, will most likely remain unused until an overbridge is built at Vathuruthy, replacing the level-crossing, railway sources said. The proposal to convert 100 acres of railway land in the Ponnurunni-Kathrikadavu area to build an integrated railway station-cum-coaching terminal, too remains on paper. Realising the project will go a long way in augmenting reception capacity for trains in the city, officials said.  It is shocking that attempts to renovate the station building and lay fresh tracks and other infrastructure did not yield much results, despite visits by Ministers and senior officials K.P. Harihara Kumar General convenor, Old Railway Station Vikasana Samiti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heritage-railway-stations-prime-land-underutilised/article32120033.ece
18 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Hundreds pay homage to crematorium caretaker||It was only fitting that Chandran had his last journey from the same crematorium where he assiduously served as caretaker for over 15 years. Hundreds bid adieu to him at the crematorium run by the Kochi Corporation at Ravipuram. The 70-year-old, who had been suffering from cardiac problems for the last few months, died at a hospital on Thursday night. He took up the job of caretaker in 2005 shortly after he retired from the police as head constable. “Even before, he used to help the previous caretaker, Mohandas, who was also his distant relative. He eventually replaced Mohandas on the latter’s death,” said Sathyan C., brother of the deceased, who is now fulfilling the role of caretaker. P.D. Martin, councillor of Division 55, within which the crematorium is located, has only good words for Chandran. “He was very efficient and took good care of the crematorium. “While the crematorium was electrified only eight years ago, Chandran used to be the all in all of the facility long before that,” he said. Sathyan recalled that his brother was not the first choice after the demise of Mohandas but eventually took over after a couple of persons roped in during the interim period were found wanting. Despite suffering from respiratory issues, Chandran was active with the management of the crematorium till a few months ago when his health began to deteriorate, and Sathyan came to his aid. An affable person “For someone doing not such a jovial job, Chandran was a very affable person. He had been to hospitals more than once over the past few months,” said Anildas K., his neighbour near Kasturba Nagar for over a decade. The police gave a guard of honour to the late caretaker. Chandran is survived by his wife and daughter. T.J. Vinod, MLA, and corporation councillors were present at the crematorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hundreds-pay-homage-to-crematorium-caretaker/article32120035.ece
18 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Demand up for domestic options in admissions||The COVID-19 pandemic crisis has led to a spike in demand for domestic options available for admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in the new academic year. With parents reluctant to send their wards to colleges outside the State and abroad in view of the prevailing crisis, the rush for admissions to higher educational institutions in the State has gone up, according to an initial assessment. “We are seeing an increase in demand to the tune of 30% to 40% for all undergraduate and postgraduate programmes compared to the previous year. Parents prefer to admit their children to colleges here in view of the COVID-19 crisis,” said Binoy Joseph, principal, Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kalamassery. Sunish K.S., member of the governing council of Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, and faculty member of the zoology department at the college, said more than 500 aspirants had applied online for various undergraduate and postgraduate programmes after the admission window was opened two days ago. “The demand for postgraduate programmes will go up once the final year results of undergraduate programmes offered by Kerala, Calicut and Mahatma Gandhi universities are published,” he added. On the hike in intake capacity for the new academic year, Dr. Sunish said each department had made an assessment of the possible increase based on infrastructural and human resources available. “The entire process of admission will be online, except for submission of original certificates for verification before the start of the academic sessions,” he said. Colleges have started receiving numerous enquiries from parents on admission formalities. Government and aided colleges will go by the directives of the universities concerned, while autonomous colleges, which conduct its own admissions, have already announced the procedures on their websites. Some autonomous college managements have specifically mentioned that they have not entrusted any agency with the task of offering helpline services on admissions. Parents should contact only authorised helplines, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-up-for-domestic-options-in-admissions/article32120038.ece
18 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Sarith in NIA custody for seven days||The special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) here on Friday sent P.S. Sarith, the first accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, to the agency’s custody for seven days. The investigation agency had earlier moved the trial court for arresting Sarith, who was arrested by Customs officials from Thiruvananthapuram, and had listed his name in the first information report. Sarith has been charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) along with Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair. The agency produced the car owned by Swapna before the court. The vehicle was allegedly used by her to flee from the State. Two more arrested Two more persons were held by the Customs on Friday in connection with the case. They were identified as Aboobacker Pazhedath and Abdul Hameed P.M. of Koottilangadi, Malappuram. The Ernakulam Additonal Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) Court on Friday sent the two accused in judicial custody for 14 days. The Customs also searched the house of Faisal Fareed, an accused in the case, near Kaippamangalam in Thrissur. The house had been remaining locked for the last one-and-a-half years. Officials got hold of the keys from his relatives .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sarith-in-nia-custody-for-seven-days/article32120065.ece
18 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||MPLADS: MP moves High Court||A writ petition was filed in the Kerala High Court on Friday seeking the Centre to release the pending instalment of money under the suspended Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) as on March 31, 2020 for the financial year 2019-20. The petition was filed by M.M. Ariff, Alappuzha MP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mplads-mp-moves-high-court/article32120056.ece
18 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Writ plea seeks SIT probe into microfinance schemes||The nephew of deceased former Secretary of Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam, Kanichukulangara union, has sought a directive from the Kerala High Court to constitute a Special Investigation Team to conduct an impartial probe into the irregularities in the microfinance schemes of SNDP. M.S.Anil, nephew of K.K. Mahesan said his uncle was the State coordinator of the SNDP Yogam's microfinance scheme. He was also a close associate of SNDP Yogam General Secretary Vellappally Natesan. The letter he wrote to Mr. Natesan immediately before ending his life had revealed that he took the extreme step in view of the efforts being made to frame him in the crime. There were attempts to make K.K.Mahesan as an accused to help Natesan escape from the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/writ-plea-seeks-sit-probe-into-microfinance-schemes/article32120040.ece
18 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Vellappally moves HC to remove probe officer||A petition was filed on Friday by Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan seeking a directive to remove the present investigation officer probing the alleged misappropriation of funds collected for the golden jubilee celebrations of the Kollam S.N. College during 1997-98. Mr. Natesan said in his petition that the present investigation officer and Superintendent of Police Shaji Suganan had showed haste in completing the investigation and had refused to consider the documentary evidence tendered by him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vellappally-moves-hc-to-remove-probe-officer/article32120042.ece
18 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 47 new cases||The district reported 47 COVID-19 cases and seven recoveries on Friday. The patients include 20 contact cases and nine persons with no travel history. Among the others, 13 persons came are from abroad and five have travelled from other Indian States including Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. Cases with no travel history have been reported from Kollam, Alappad, Sakthikulangara, Velinallur, Chithara and Poothakulam. The number of COVID-19 patients in the district first crossed 40 on July 16 and it hit 47 on Friday. Though most of the cases were from abroad earlier, the number of contact cases started going up after July 10. Priority “Saving lives is the priority of the government and we are hoping to control the spread of the virus by August-end,” said Fisheries Minister J.Mercykutty Amma here on Friday. As part of the containment measures, district administration has already arranged 2,113 beds and auditoriums in 13 panchayats will be soon converted into COVID-19 first-line treatment centres. Doctors, volunteers and sanitation workers working in the centres will be given special training and all panchayats have been instructed to set up minimum 100 beds. “Elderly persons living in containment zones will be given extra attention and it will be ensured that they have no difficulty in getting food. If needed community kitchens should be restarted for this,” said the Minister. She has also directed local bodies to arrange 10,000 beds by July 21.  Local bodies asked to arrange 10,000 beds by July 21||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-reports-47-new-cases/article32120081.ece
18 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Spike in cases in Kottayam||Kottayam on Friday reported the biggest single-day spike in cases with 39 persons being tested positive for the disease. According to health officials, nine persons, including two persons from the Ettumanur fish market, contracted the disease through local contact .Of the remaining persons, 17 landed from abroad while 10 persons came from other States. With this, the number of active cases in Kottayam rose to 218. The health workers who tested positive for the virus infection were a 44-year-old woman from Manjur who works at the Kurupanthara family health centre, a 40-year-old Bharanganam native who works as a driver at a Community health centre in Ullanadu and a 42-year-old Asha worker from Bharanganam. The contact source of the Asha worker is yet to be identified. The persons who contracted the virus through local contact were a 37-year-old who works at the Ettumanur fish market., a 60- year-old Onamthuruth native who works at the same fish market, a 63-year-old autorickshaw driver at Pravithanam Market Junction, a 39-year-old employee of the Manjur panchayat, a 40-year-old employee of the Kothanallur quarantine centre, 59-year-old Ettumanur native, 24-year-old Pathanamthitta native and a 20-year-old woman from Kadanad. Of these, the contact sources of all but the last three persons are yet to be identified. In view of the two workers at the fish market testing positive for virus infection, the Ettumanur municipality has decided to close down the market for an indefinite period. Further, as many as 11 wards across nine local bodies in the district have currently been marked as containment zones. Meanwhile, seven persons who recovered of the virus infection were discharged from the various hospitals here during the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spike-in-cases-in-kottayam/article32120082.ece
18 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Novelist Sudhakar Mangalodayam dead||Popular Malayalam novelist Sudhakar P. Nair aka Sudhakar Mangalodayam died of age- related ailments here on Friday. He was 72. Sudhakar, a native of Velloor, near Vaikom, shot to fame during the 1980s through his novels serialised in a handful of Kottayam-based weekly magazines. By the next decade, his novels became part of the popular reading culture and most people knew the author’s works intimately. Besides novels, he also penned screenplays for a handful of Malayalam movies, television serials and radio dramas. Paadasaram, Nandini Oppol, Ottakkolusu, Eeran Nilav, Chitta, Niramala, ChuttuvilakkuandKumkumappottuare among some of his popular works. The funeral will be held on the premises of his residence on Saturday. The deceased is survived by daughter Sreevidya. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan expressed condolences to the bereaved family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/novelist-sudhakar-mangalodayam-dead/article32120044.ece
18 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||More rural roads likely to be blocked in Kozhikode||More rural roads are likely to be blocked in the days to come as part of intensive measures being taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in Kozhikode district. Police squads have been asked to ensure strict enforcement of the regulations and to stop the movement of people from containment zones to other areas. Though inter-district travel is permitted, the movement of people from containment zones to other districts will not be allowed. Those who leave the district from other areas too have been asked to inform travel details to nearby rapid response squads. Station house officers of rural police stations have warned of stringent action in case violations of containment zone regulations are noticed. Incidents of people within containment zones using unblocked roads to interact with people in other areas have come to the notice of authorities. At the same time, measures have been taken to avoid restrictions on the movement of vehicles on national and State highways. Hospitals, shopping complexes, banks and the heads of private institutions too will be responsible for ensuring that no person from containment zones enter such institutions. Considering the increasing number of cases, directives have also been issued to temporarily stop the use of biometric punching systems in areas where containment zone regulations exist. The Civil Supplies Department will temporarily suspend biometric verification at local civil supplies outlets and ration shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-rural-roads-likely-to-be-blocked-in-kozhikode/article32120015.ece
18 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. gives back documents to housing beneficiaries||The Kozhikode Corporation has started giving away the property documents to those who were rehabilitated under the Integrated Housing and Slum Development Programme (IHSDP) in different parts of the city. The first set of documents are being distributed to those who had given up their properties for the approach road of Kothi bridge and were later rehabilitated under the IHSDP. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran on Friday gave away documents to five families among the total 62 at Kothi. The rest will be given away in the ward soon. T.K. Prakashan, Kudumbashree project officer of the corporation said that the civic body had purchased the land and distributed it among the evicted and later built houses for them under the programme, under the condition that the ownership of the plots and houses will not be transferred for 10 years. The documents were kept at the corporation office for this duration and is being given back now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-gives-back-documents-to-housing-beneficiaries/article32120026.ece
18 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||A wearable band to ensure physical distancing||A start-up incubated at the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode (IIMK) has come up with a unique user-friendly wearable device that sounds an alarm to help implement physical distancing norms. Known as the Veli Band, the wearable device has been developed by Qual5 India, a start-up mentored and funded by IIMK LIVE, the business incubator and entrepreneurship development centre at IIMK. The band helps to implement physical distancing norms and supports location and contact tracing. It momentarily vibrates, sounds buzzer, and flashes LED simultaneously to notify wearers that another band is within 3-feet (1-meter) distance, reminding them of the need to maintain physical distancing. The device to be worn on the wrist can anonymously keep track of interactions with other devices and thus not only help in maintaining a safer workplace but also aid in tracking employee movements in real time. The band is omnidirectional and comes with a rechargeable battery. Qual5 co-founders Kiranmayee Mallepaddi and Srinivasan Arumugam said the band was unlike mobile apps as not all employees had access to phones at workplaces, thus affecting the effectiveness of app-based solutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-wearable-band-to-ensure-physical-distancing/article32120023.ece
18 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Suspect in robbery, sexual abuse case held||A 45-year-old Kondotty native who was suspected of sexually abusing an elderly woman and snatching her gold ornament, was arrested by the Mukkom police on Friday. Mujeeb Rahman, the accused in the incident, was caught after a two-week-long investigation into the incident. The police said the man had abandoned the 65-year-old victim after the sexual assault and robbery in an isolated area near Mukkom on July 2. She had sustained serious injuries in the attack and was admitted to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. The woman was attacked while she was travelling by Mujeeb’s autorickshaw. She got into the vehicle believing that it was a taxi vehicle. The man who was convicted in more than 10 cases, was allegedly taking her to a remote area for the robbery and sexual assault. It was a few local people who helped the woman to reach the medical college for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suspect-in-robbery-sexual-abuse-case-held/article32120027.ece
18 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||87 cases in Pathanamthitta||The district witnessed the highest single-day spike in the number of new COVID-19 cases on Friday with 87 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. With this, the total number of active COVID-19 cases in the district touched 416. Fifty of the 87 new cases got the infection through contact while 30 came from other States and abroad. Seven tested positive for the viral infection during a Rapid Antigen Test drive on Friday. An official bulletin said 19 persons were cured of COVID-19 on Friday. A total of 425 quarantined persons, comprising patients and those having fever and other symptoms, have been placed under observation at the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district. Containment zones District Collector P.B. Noohu declared 11 wards in the grama panchayats of Aranmula, Chenneerkara, Aerath, Ezhamkulam, Ayroor and Pramadom as containment zones for seven days from Friday, in view of the increase in spread of COVID-19 in the areas. A total of 5,500 persons have been quarantined in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/87-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32120098.ece
18 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Total lockdown in capital’s coastal areas from today||Coastal Thiruvananthapuram is being brought under tighter restrictions including a total lockdown from Saturday, given the worsening COVID-19 situation and the government concluding that community spread has occurred in heavily-populated Poonthura and Pulluvila. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, briefing the media, outlined detailed surveillance and disease containment measures for the coast, even as the capital district on Friday reported 246 new COVID-19 cases, of which 234 persons were infected through contact. The Chief Minister said the coastal region would go under a lockdown from Saturday, given the ‘serious situation.’ Three zones For effectively enforcing the lockdown, the region has been divided into three zones, with District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay acting as special officer. Zone-1 comprises the northern stretch from Anchuthengu to Perumathura. Perumathura-Vizhinjam and Vizhinjam-Oorambu comprise the second and third zones. A special control room will be opened as part of operationalising the mechanism. SP (Traffic South) B. Krishnakumar is in charge of Zone-1, while SP (Vigilance) K. E. Baiju and K. L. Johnykutty, Principal, Police Training College, are in charge of zones two and three. Each of the three zones will have two senior IAS officers each as Incident Commanders: Harikishor S. and U. V. Jose (Zone-1), M. G. Rajamanikyam and P. Bala Kiran (Zone-2) and S. Venkatesapathy and Biju Prabhakar (Zone-3). The containment measures will be jointly enforced by the Health and Police Departments, the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and panchayats, Mr. Vijayan said. According to the Chief Minister, the disease was spreading at a brisk pace in the coast. Of the 97 samples tested in Pulluvila in Karumkulam panchayat, 51 have tested positive. In Poonthura, 26 of 50 samples tested positive, while 20 of 75 samples tested in Puthukurichi tested positive. In Anchuthengu, 15 of 83 samples have tested positive. Shops selling essential commodities will remain open for a specified period of time daily in the locked-down areas. Foodgrain supply will be ensured by the Civil Supplies Department. On whether the restrictions would be extended to city regions, the Chief Minister said, “There will be only cluster-based lockdown now and we are not thinking of a full lockdown. I can assure you that the situation was expected and we are prepared to handle it.” Meanwhile, 780 people were placed under disease surveillance on Friday in the district, even as 1,063 people completed the observation period without developing symptoms. As on Friday, 20,805 people are under COVID-19 surveillance in the district, including 18,144 people in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/total-lockdown-in-capitals-coastal-areas-from-today/article32120088.ece
18 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Curbs on sale of fish and fishing||With the COVID-19 caseload in coastal areas soaring to alarming levels, the Fisheries Department has issued detailed guidelines for fishing vessels and sale of fish. Roadside sale of fish and house-to-house sales have now been prohibited. COVID-19 safety protocols, including physical distancing and wearing of masks, are to be strictly followed in fish markets. Fish unloaded in harbours/landing centres within containment zones cannot be sold outside the zones. The department, in a July 16 order, has also banned the transport of fish to containment zones from outside. Fishing vessels have been banned from unloading their catch in harbours/land centres in other districts. The department has also banned the entry of other-State vessels onto the Kerala. Transportation of fish from regions outside the State where disease transmission has been reported is prohibited. Trucks from ‘safe’ regions elsewhere should undergo disinfection at check-posts. Fish traders have been directed to provide rest rooms and essential amenities for the crew. Traditional fishing craft including ring seiners can engage in one-day fishing under an odd-even system based on their registration numbers. Boats using seine nets, including Thattumadi fishing, should have a maximum length of 32 feet and an engine capacity of 25 HP. The number of crew is restricted to five for each boat. In the case of shore-seine fishing ( Karamadi ), a maximum of 12 people will be allowed on either end of the net. The department has reiterated that auctioning of the catch stands banned. Instead, they will be sold at prices fixed by the harbour management societies. Entry to harbours/landing centres will be restricted to boat crew, fisheries labourers, and traders. The local bodies concerned should ensure that harbours and landing centres are disinfected on a daily basis. The Fisheries Department has also directed the elderly in the coastal regions to observe reverse quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-on-sale-of-fish-and-fishing/article32120050.ece
18 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF gives notice for no-confidence motion||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) will make a political bid to move a motion of no-confidence against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government when the Assembly convenes for a day on July 27 to pass the Finance Bill. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said here on Friday that V.D. Satheeshan, Congress MLA, has given notice to the Secretary of the Kerala Legislature to seek the leave of the House to table the motion. He said gold smugglers, corrupt bureaucrats, anti-national elements, black-listed global consultancies, and shady big data analytics firms had a free run of the Chief Minister’s Office. The National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) probe into the smuggling of gold via the diplomatic channel of the UAE consulate appeared to edge closer to higher-ups in the government, he said. Notice against Speaker He said Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan had ‘lowered the esteem’ of the House by ‘incautiously’ attending a function sponsored by Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the case. The UDF had given the notice to allow a resolution seeking his removal from the chair. Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel had ‘accepted gifts’ from the UAE consulate without the approval of the Union government. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who held the IT portfolio, had no choice but to oust his Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar to save his skin. The grave national security implications of the gold smuggling case and Mr. Sivasankar’s ‘close association’ with the accused had become problematic for Mr. Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-gives-notice-for-no-confidence-motion/article32120059.ece
18 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Curbs tightened at Karumkulam||Restrictions were imposed in more coastal areas in the district on Friday with the COVID-19 caseload soaring to alarming levels. The Karumkulam grama panchayat, which has over 150 active cases, will be under ‘total lockdown amounting to triple lockdown’ for seven days from Friday. Pulluvila in Karumkulam panchayat is one of the two regions in the district where, according to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, community transmission of COVID-19 has occurred. Available services The district administration noted in a July 16 order that, in many of the cases detected in the panchayat, the source of infection remains uncertain. Grocery shops, milk booths and bakeries will be open from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. in Karumkulam. Medical services, water and electricity supply will be available round the clock. Further, the administration has declared all wards of the Kadinamkulam and Chirayinkeezhu grama panchayats as containment zones. The Powdikonam and Njandoorkonam wards of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; and Plathara, Mukkola, and Enikkara wards of the Karakulam grama panchayat also have been designated as containment zones. Crime Branch HQ shut The Crime Branch headquarters at Vazhuthacaud was shut on Friday after a female civil police officer working the crime section tested positive. She had worked in the Fort police station limits till July 7 and reported back for duty at the Crime Branch HQ on July 15. The office will remain closed till further orders. More COVID First-Line Treatment Centres (CFLTC) are nearing completion in the district, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. At present 13 are operational. Each CFLTC are provided a minimum of four doctors and three nurses in addition to support staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-tightened-at-karumkulam/article32120085.ece
18 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Foreign airlines come under DGCA scanner||Foreign carriers engaged in charter operations from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to Kerala are under scanner after the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has found that UAE-based airlines flouted charter standards, standard operating procedures and the agreement between the UAE and the Civil Aviation authorities for charter flight operations outside Kerala. The authorities are now keeping a close watch on Emirates, Etihad, Fly Dubai, and Air Arabia that are given the nod to operate flights to airports in the State for 15 days till July 26. As per the agreement, the airlines based in the UAE could sell tickets only in one direction. To operate chartered flights, they would need the approval of State governments and the Indian Embassy. Since June 25, institutions and organisations have been barred from applying directly to operate charters from foreign countries. Online tickets Despite such an agreement, the DGCA has found that the foreign carriers based in the UAE are selling tickets online for flights that are supposed to be chartered without taking NOC from the State governments and keeping the Indian Embassy in the dark. However, according to sources in one of the airlines, the charter flight operations to Kerala are as per norms and the agreement. Here, Emirates alone has been given permission to operate 50 chartered flights — 35 to Kochi and 15 to Thiruvananthapuram — to bring back the remaining Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs). “The State government here has been quick in handing over the nod to operate the flights till July 26 and to inform the approval granted to the Ministry of Home Affairs, Embassy and the DGCA. The mechanism in Kerala is well-organised,” they added. One flight They cited the poor load factor in return flights as a matter of concern. Emirates, which has got the nod to operate the Boeing 777-300 ER that can carry 482, is operating only one flight daily instead of two to Kochi. The main reason for this is the delay in getting the COVID-19 negative test result of the PCR test conducted not more than 96 hours before departure of flight. “The flight that arrived in Kochi had 142 passengers and 99 in the return journey. We hope the flights will be full by next week,” the sources said. Air India Express (AIE) is also operating 51 flights for those with valid United Arab Emirate’s Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship (ICA) entry permit and resident visa from the four airports to return to the emirates. Of the 51 flights to be operated till July 26, 21 are to Kochi, 15 to Kozhikode, nine to Thiruvananthapuram and six to Kannur. The last flight from Kerala will be from Kozhikode to Abu Dhabi (IX 1363) at 8 a.m. on July 26. In all, the AIE has been tasked to operate 98 flights from nine airports, including Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai, in the country to the UAE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/foreign-airlines-come-under-dgca-scanner/article32120045.ece
18 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DCC alleges negligence of Corporation, police||The District Congress Committee (DCC) has blamed the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and the police for allowing Ramachandran Hypermarket at Attakulangara to operate in violation of the COVID-19 safety norms. The DCC’s charge comes in the wake of 78 employees of the commercial establishment testing positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. DCC president Neyyattinkara Sanal on Friday demanded an investigation to ascertain how such a large number of employees contracted the infection when the government had issued stringent guidelines restricting the number of staff in shops and establishments. Action sought “This establishment has paved the way for the transmission of the disease on a dangerous level,” Mr. Sanal said, demanding stern action against the owner of the establishment. “The police are always seen managing the traffic outside the shop. They did not prevent the shop owner from violating the COVID-19 protocols due to the intervention of higher-ups,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dcc-alleges-negligence-of-corporation-police/article32120083.ece
18 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Diplomat’s gunman to be questioned as witness||The Customs will question the civil police officer who worked as the personal security officer of a top official at the UAE consulate here. The officer had gone missing after the official left the country for Dubai. He had deposited his official sidearm at the Armed Reserve camp here before his “disappearance”. The police later traced the officer and said he had attempted to injure himself by slashing his wrist. Officials said they would summon the officer as a “witness” in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diplomats-gunman-to-be-questioned-as-witness/article32120060.ece
18 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KEAM: cases against 600 people||The City Police have registered cases against 600 identifiable persons for breaching physical distancing norms at the venues of the Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical entrance exams (KEAM-2020) held on Thursday. Cases have been registered against 300 persons who breached the COVID-19 norms outside the Government Girls' School, Cotton Hill, and 300 others who crowded outside the St Mary's School, Pattom. CCTV footage Notices will be issued to the persons after examining the CCTV footage at the examination centres and the hall tickets of the students, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. Cases have been charged under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, Mr. Upadhyay said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keam-cases-against-600-people/article32120089.ece
18 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No nod for Vavubali in public places||The offering of Karkadaka Vavubali will not be allowed in public spaces, given the COVID-19 situation, ADM V. R. Vinod has said. Gatherings will not be allowed in temples or the traditional venues. The public should try to make the offering at their homes, he said. They can also book online for performing the rituals at temples. The temple priests can perform the rituals on their behalf. The police will ensure that private organisations and individuals do not organise bali offerings in temples and river banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-nod-for-vavubali-in-public-places/article32120090.ece
18 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Webinar on Ayurveda for immunity||The Hindu , in association with the Arya Vaidya Sala, Kottakkal, is organising a webinar on Ayurveda for building immunity as part of the wellness series at 4 p.m. on July 18. The panelists for the webinar include Nishant Narayan, senior physician, Arya Vaidya Sala, Kottakkal; P.M Madhu, Assistant Professor, Department of Roga Nidanam, Government Ayurveda College; and Vinod R. Varier, Associate Professor, Department of Kayachikitsa, Vaidyaratnam PS Varier Ayurveda College. The session will be moderated by Serena Josephine M., Special Correspondent, The Hindu . Link to register for free: https://bit.ly/2B1AzKW or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-ayurveda-for-immunity/article32120064.ece
18 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panel to study suicide by children||The State government has formed an expert committee to study the increasing cases of suicides among children and youth. The committee, headed by DGP R. Sreelekha, will have the Director of the Department for Women and Child Development as convener. Anil Prabhakar, head of the Government Medical College Hospital’s psychology department, child psychologist Jayaprakash, and gender adviser T.K. Anandi are the members. Contact district psycho-social support helpline or Disha helpline (1056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-study-suicide-by-children/article32120047.ece
18 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Answer key published||The answer key of the entrance examination for admission to Kerala Engineering/ Pharmacy courses held on July 16 at different centres in the State, Mumbai, Delhi, and Dubai has been published onwww.cee.kerala.gov.in. Complaints are to be forwarded to the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations along with supporting documents and a fee of Rs. 100 per question. The last date for receiving complaints is July 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/answer-key-published/article32120051.ece
18 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Holiday for banks on Saturdays||The government has declared holiday for all banks in the State on Saturdays as part of the COVID-19 containment measures. An order issued by the Chief Secretary on Friday directed bank managers to ensure strict adherence to social distancing and other prescribed health norms on all working days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holiday-for-banks-on-saturdays/article32120052.ece
18 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||32 cases each in Thrissur, Kozhikode||Thrissur recorded 32 COVID-19 cases, including 14 cases of local transmission, on Friday. The samples of a 46-year-old man from Pullur who died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, on July 15, were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. He was brought to the hospital with pneumonia. The body was cremated at the Thrissur Corporation crematorium at Kuriachira maintaining COVID-19 protocol. Two persons contracted the disease from a person working at Kerala Feeds, Irinjalakuda, who was tested positive earlier; three persons from a patient at Kunnamkulam; seven persons from a worker at Kerala Solvent Extractions, Irinjalakuda; one from a Cherthala native and another from a person who returned from Chennai. As many as 259 people are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district. A total of 13,635 people are under observation. In Kozhikode Thirty-two people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Friday. Fourteen are cases of local transmission. The infected include children — a seven-year-old and a 28-days-old. At present, there are 307 people under treatment in the district. Ten people recovered on Friday, while 486 more have been placed under observation. There are 14,636 people in quarantine in the district. Meanwhile, 1,706 samples were sent for testing on Friday. In Wayanad Twenty-eight people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Friday. According to an official bulletin, eight of the newly infected persons are contacts of patients and 20 others came from abroad and other States. As many as 3,532 people are under observation in the district. District Collector Adeela Abdulla declared Rattakkolly area in Division 18 of the Kalpetta municipality as micro containment zone and Ward 2 of Edavaka grama panchayat as containment zone. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 32 more people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. According to District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas, 22 of them contracted the disease through contact, while five persons arrived from abroad and three from other States. There are 6,266 people under observation in the district. Ten persons who were at various hospitals were tested negative for the virus after treatment. In the wake of increasing cases, Dr. Ramdas said the district had set up necessary medical facilities. At present, there are 606 in-patient facilities at COVID care centres in the district. The district administration and the Health Department have begun work to set up 1,000-bed treatment centres within two days. Dr. Ramdas said two hostel blocks of the Model Residential School near Chemmanad Paravanadu under the Scheduled Tribes Development Department had been converted into a First Line Treatment Centre. In Kannur Nine positive cases of COVID-19 were recorded in the district on Friday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said seven patients came from Bengaluru and two contracted the disease through contact. Eleven people who were under COVID-19 treatment have tested negative for the virus. Those who came from Bengaluru include six residents of Peralassery and two of Mokeri panchayat. A resident of Kathirur and a Vengadu resident were infected through contact. There are currently 22,298 people under observation in the district.  (With inputs from Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kasaragod and Kannur bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/32-cases-each-in-thrissur-kozhikode/article32120020.ece
18 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Police launch 24-hour ‘Red Button’ in Thrissur||The Thissur City police in association with the Thrissur Corporation have launched a 24-hour ‘Red Button’ facility in the city. Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen inaugurated the facility here on Friday. A person may press the red button set up at various places in the city to seek the help of the police. When a person presses the red button, a 360-degree camera in the system will send the photo of the person’s location and surroundings to the police control room. The person in need can also speak to the police officers at the control room over the hotline phone attached to the red button facility. The control room can convey the message to the patrolling team so that they can reach the spot without any delay.  The facility would be extended to other parts of the city, said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-launch-24-hour-red-button-in-thrissur/article32120017.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In deep waters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-deep-waters/article32120025.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Deathtraps||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deathtraps/article32120037.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festooned for none||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festooned-for-none/article32120055.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Customs unravels hawala trail||The accused had used the underground money transfer business to dodge banking regulators. The operators at the Dubai end used the funds to purchase gold and convert the bullion into concealable form in cargo shipments addressed to the consulate. The role of the hawala operator and the likelihood that the secretive money transfer channel could be used to send cash to finance terrorist activities had kindled the NIA’s interest in the smuggling case. Customs enforcers said the return of a consulate official to Dubai did not have any bearing on the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/customs-unravels-hawala-trail/article32120061.ece
18 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dairy industry falls on hard times||The dairy sector is reeling from an unprecedented financial crisis brought upon it by the coronavirus pandemic. A bulk of the demand for milk comes from restaurants, tea vendors, hotels and government schools for the midday meal programme. Now, with all sectors closed for several months, demand for milk has plummeted by 25%, say traders. A. Srinivas, a retailer of Dodla Dairy, used to sell over 160 litres of milk a day from a small outlet in Anantapur city. Now, he manages to barely sell over a 100 litres a day, as shops are being allowed to remain open only between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m., leading to a drop in customers. Vijaya Dairy hit In an indication of the crisis that the sector finds itself in, the Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development Cooperative Federation Limited milk processing unit (Vijaya Dairy) has seen its entire market of 3,500 litres a day getting almost wiped out. “We are currently processing only 400 litres a day from its capacity to process about 1 lakh litres a day,” said Dairy Development Deputy Director Sasankadhara. “Milk supply to schools was the mainstay of the unit since 2016, but COVID-19 has dealt a body blow to even this source of income,” he said. During the initial days of the lockdown, the administration had asked Vijaya Dairy to supply milk to the people living in containment zones, which kept their business going for two months. However, when the government stopped the supply of essentials in those areas, the Federation stopped procurement of milk altogether. Vijaya Dairy currently has 27 permanent staff in the six districts of Anantapur, Chittoor, Kadapa, East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna, but none of them are being paid their salaries for the past eight months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dairy-industry-falls-on-hard-times/article32120162.ece
18 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed test conducted on Gooty-Renigunta section||The Guntakal Division of South Central Railway(SCR) successfully conducted a Confirmatory Oscillograph Car Run (COCR) test, running a passenger train at a speed of more than 130 km per hour on the 280-km stretch of the Gooty- Renigunta section of the track. This will save 30 minutes of running time for all designated trains. A release from the Railways on Wednesday said that it was done to enhance the speed of the trains on this section up to 130 kmph and to check the worthiness of track.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speed-test-conducted-on-gooty-renigunta-section/article32120163.ece
18 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor in grip of anxiety as cases race toward 4,400-mark||Anxiety has gripped several parts of Chittoor district as the number of COVID-19 cases raced toward the 4,400-mark, with 331 fresh cases being reported on Friday alone.The district has reported 43 coronavirus deaths in the last three months. Medical and health officials are expressing serious concern at the growing number of positive cases in urban areas. Tirupati Municipal Corporation alone registered 250 cases on Friday. In spite of the partial lockdown measures undertaken by the corporations and municipalities, people can be seen moving around in large numbers, that too without wearing masks or abiding by social distancing norms. With just only one private facility available for COVID-19 tests in the entire district at Tirupati, government hospitals are said to be facing a herculean task in undertaking tests at primary health centres, cluster hospitals and COVID Care Centres in Tirupati. The medical officers on COVID-19 duty said that due to a heavy influx of public rushing to the government centres for COVID tests, a feeling of uncertainty is prevailing in laboratories. During the initial days of the pandemic spread, the results of the coronavirus tests used to be released within 24 hours. “Now, it is taking a week to ten days for the results to be out. During this period, the primary and secondary contacts of those testing positive are freely moving around in public, heightening the risk of community transmission,” a government medical officer said. Though there are 230 containment zones in Chittoor district, the unchecked movement of people continues to worry officials. The presence of the police at crowded places is also thinning each day, in the aftermath of several personnel testing positive for the virus. The death of a Circle Inspector in Tirupati on Thursday only led to further tension among the police force. A.P. Government Doctors’ Association secretary (Chittoor district) P. Ravi Raju said that Chittoor district has the best available COVID-19 hospitals in Tirupati and Chittoor under the government sector. “As the COVID-19 pandemic is now active all over the district, due to porous borders with Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, we need to have intensified surveillance on public movement. We also need COVID treatment centres at all Assembly constituencies. Unfortunately, violations of guidelines are being reported from everywhere, which is an area of concern. We urge the police to step up attention for strict adherence to guidelines by the public at this alarming stage. The public who come for tests should follow restraint and avoid moving in public till the results come,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-in-grip-of-anxiety-as-cases-race-toward-4400-mark/article32120165.ece
18 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rare pangolin rescued from smugglers, two held||A rare pangolin ( Mannis crassiscaudata ) was rescued from suspected smugglers in an undercover operation by the Forest Department. Two persons, Uyyala Siva Koteswara Rao and Uyyala Siva, accused of poaching one of the most endangered mammal poached for its scaly skin and meat, presumably used as a medicine to treat rare disorders, were arrested. Principal Chief Conservator of Forest and Head of Forest Force N. Prateep Kumar told mediapersons that the pangolin was allegedly poached by the two accused at Yadlapadu area near Chilakaluripet. Later, the accused posted the video on a social media site, which was noticed by an NGO working in area of animal trafficking and passed on the information to Additional PCCF Gopinatha. The Forest Department personnel then laid a trap and struck a deal with the alleged smugglers for Rs. 65 lakh. Two officers from Rajahmundry, Dharma Diskhit and Hanok Samson, began bargaining with the smugglers. The deal was to pay 50% as advance and the remaining after the animal was sold. As per the deal, the two along with two other accomplices, arrived at a private area and were trapped by the Forest Department personnel. While two suspected smugglers were nabbed, the other two managed to give the slip. Mr. Prateep Kumar said an investigation was on to find about the illegal trade in this area, and added that more arrests would be made in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rare-pangolin-rescued-from-smugglers-two-held/article32119631.ece
18 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strict curbs in Guntur district till month-end||Guntur district Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar on Friday issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 Cr.P.C which would come into effect from on Saturday. The restrictions would continue till July 31. According to the orders, movement of all vehicles shall be prohibited between 10 pm and 5 am, except for essential activities and medical emergencies. The Collector said shops and commercial establishments would be permitted to be function between 6 am and 11 am only. Accordingly, people should come out only during that period. The restriction applies to street hawkers also. Lockdown would be strictly implemented from 11 am to 6 am and night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am. Police have been ordered to enforce use of face mask and prevent pillion riding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strict-curbs-in-guntur-district-till-month-end/article32119711.ece
18 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Division-level nodal centres formed to combat COVID-19||With COVID-19 cases mounting in the district, the local administration has done some tweaking in the COVID-19 management by decentralising surveillance, contact tracing and containment strategies. Joint Collector and COVID-19 Nodal Officer A.S. Dinesh Kumar said the decision was taken after ascertaining the present position and training the personnel. The divisional nodal centres would be set up at Tenali, Narsaraopet, Gurazala, revenue divisions in addition to Guntur revenue division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/division-level-nodal-centres-formed-to-combat-covid-19/article32119708.ece
18 July 2020||GVR Subba Rao,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati JAC plans to take the battle to Delhi||Farmers who have been agitating for more than 200 days against the government’s three-capital proposal, have sought an appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek their intervention. They are hopeful that they will get the call before the commencement of the monsoon session of Parliament. The Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti Joint Action Committee (JAC), which is spearheading the movement, has sought the appointments to apprise the President and Prime Minister of the the latest developments. The plight of the farmers who gave up their land for the Capital would be brought to their notice. Their attention would also to be drawn to the development projects that have already come up in the Amaravati region. The Assembly recently passed the Bills on decentralisation and repeal of the AP Capital Region Development Authority Act, 2014. They were passed for the second time as the Legislative Council referred them to the Select Committee after they were passed in the Assembly for the first time. The Governor has to give his assent for the same. ‘Under court purview’ JAC member R.V. Swamy said the government passed the Bills again, though cases were pending in the High Court. The JAC is confident that the judgment would be in favour of the farmers, but it is making efforts to approach the Supreme Court irrespective of the outcome in the High Court. “Though general appointments were not being given by the offices of President and Prime Minister, we sought them. A couple of MPs are extending their support in this regard,” he said. It may be recalled that the JAC leaders met the President in February and submitted a memorandum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-jac-plans-to-take-the-battle-to-delhi/article32120182.ece
18 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land survey to begin for ONGC’s pipeline project||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Friday directed the officials of the forest, revenue, irrigation and fisheries departments to survey the land in the Katrenikona and I. Polavaram mandals for the proposed pipeline to be laid by the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC). “The pipeline that connects the offshore platform through the mouth of Gowthami river to the ONGC onshore plant at Mallavaram village goes through Yanam. The issues pertaining to the statutory clearances, land and crops have been discussed with the district authorities,” said the corporation’s Eastern Offshore Asset Executive Director Arvind J. Morbale. Mr. Muralidhar directed all the officials to prepare a detailed report on the availability of land that falls under the area chosen for laying the pipeline. District Forest Officer (Territorial) B. Sunil Kumar Reddy has been told to bring out a ground-level report, documenting the nature of land proposed for the pipeline. Mr. Muralidhar asked the ONGC authorities to prepare to begin the work after the monsoon is over. The pre-feasibility report (May 2019), submitted by the ONGC to the Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change states that the total length of the pipeline is 31 kilometers. District Revenue Officer Ch. Sattibabu, Joint Director of Fisheries P. Koteswara Rao, N.S.V.V.B. Vasantha Rayudu, and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-survey-to-begin-for-ongcs-pipeline-project-in-east-godavari/article32120167.ece
18 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||East Godavari registers 582 new virus cases||A total of 582 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in East Godavari district until Thursday morning, according to a health bulletin. In this background, Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Friday directed the officials concerned to arrange 20,000 COVID-19 treatment kits comprising medicines and other safety equipment to tackle the spread of the disease. In a teleconference with the district officials, Mr. Muralidhar has asked the medical and health service staff to stock the medicines to supply to those in the home quarantine. Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha has said that a total of 5,000 COVID-19 kits have been supplied to the Primary Health Centres by Friday. A helpline has been set up at the Collectorate to address the grievances pertaining to the treatment and facilities at the COVID Care Centres and other designated hospitals. The patients in the designated hospitals could lodge their grievances through the helpline: 9154202080 and 9154202255.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/east-godavari-registers-582-new-cases/article32120166.ece
18 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man, 2 children found dead in canal||A 34-year-old man and his two children were found dead under mysterious circumstances in a canal on Friday morning at Gadarada village under Korukonda police limits in East Godavari district. The victims have been identified as G. Srinu (34) and his children, G. Bala Durga (7) and G. Bhavana (4). Srinu is a daily wage worker. Reason unclear The Korukonda police said the reason for the deaths was not known and that a case had been registered. The bodies have been sent to District Government Hospital in Rajamahendravaram for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-2-children-found-dead-in-canal/article32120201.ece
18 July 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srisailam dam receiving good inflows||The Srisailam dam has been receiving good inflows for the past three days and on Friday morning, they stood at 74,886 cusecs with the Jurala project yielding an outflow of 1,03,820 cusecs. The outflow from the dam is likely to increase with good rainfall in the catchment area. Over 71,000 cusecs was being released from Jurala through the spillway and another 31,974 cuscs was being released to the Srisailam dam after power generation. The Srisailam dam site recorded a rainfall of 0.6 mm on Friday morning. Against the dam full reservoir level (FRL) of 885 feet, the current level was 827.80 ft. with a storage of 47.36 tmcft against its capacity of 215.80 tmcft. The storage increased by 7 tmcft from 40.99 tmcft on Thursday morning, when the reservoir level was 820.20 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srisailam-dam-receiving-good-inflows/article32120177.ece
18 July 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||14,238 seized liquor bottles destroyed||In a joint operation, the Krishna district police and the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) destroyed liquor worth about Rs. 75 lakh, at the Police Parade Grounds here on Friday. Eluru Range Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police K.V. Mohan Rao, SEB Director P.H.D. Ramakrishna, Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, SEB Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Vakul Jindal and other officers destroyed the liquor stocks. “We destroyed the liquor as per the AP Excise (Amendment) Act, issued on July 2. The district SP, SEB officials, Excise Deputy Commissioner, who are the district executive magistrate rank officers can destroy the seized stocks,” said Mr. Ravindranath. Mr. Ramakrishna said the stocks were seized in 312 cases in the last few days and praised the SEB ASP and his team for checking liquor smuggling. Vigil on TS borders “Instructions have been given to step up vigil on liquor and sand smuggling on the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana borders. The stocks wer seized under 10 police stations limits, particularly on the State borders,” said Mr. Mohan Rao. Mr. Jindal said the destroyed stocks included Non-Duty Paid liquor (NDLP) smuggled from the neighbouring State and some local brands. A report would be submitted to the court on the stocks destroyed along with the proofs, the official said. More raids “For the first time in the State we destroyed the liquor stocks after AP Excise Act was amended. More raids will be conducted on ID liquor manufacturing units and on illegal transportation of sand and liquor,” Mr. Ravindranath added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14238-seized-liquor-bottles-destroyed/article32119707.ece
18 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 deceased have right to proper funeral, says judge||Taking a serious note of instances of residents objecting to conduct of funeral of persons who had died of Coronavirus, Prakasam District Principal Judge P. Venkata Jyothirmayi has said that right to dignified funeral is a fundamental right of every human being. COVID-19 deaths in various parts of State as well as Prakasam district exposed the inhumanity and ignorance of the people in preventing the cremation of the bodies of the deceased. Every human being is entitled to a decent farewell to his or her corpse according to his or her religious rites as per Article 21 of the Constitution. The society prides itself on how it treats the dead, she said in a statement here on Friday. She appealed to the people not to fall a prey to false notions, and allow the funeral of such bodies in a humble and humane way, befitting human dignity. When the worried families were already grief-stricken, such behaviour of the public would further increase their agony. The families of the victims of COVID-19 pandemic could approach the Prakasam District Legal Services Authority for legal assistance and necessary action if any, said the DLSA Chairperson. She asked the para-legal volunteers to step up public awareness. She urged the public to ensure a dignified funeral to the deceased. The acts of the people were a gross violation of fundamental right, she said while making a mention of the rulings of the Supreme Court and Madras and Bombay High Courts. These acts are punishable under IPC Sections 297, 188, 341, 147 and 148. The Supreme Court had held that “right to dignity is not only available to a living man but also to his body after his death”. DLSA Secretary P. Srinivasa Rao underscored the need to maintain social distancing norms, use of masks, cleaning hands and premises frequently with sanitiser to ward off the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-deceased-have-right-to-proper-funeral-says-judge/article32120194.ece
18 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social activist held for ‘defaming’ govt., Minister in cash seizure case||The Prakasam district police have arrested a social activist, Vaddela Sandeep, on the charge of misusing the social media for running a malicious campaign against Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy and the State government in connection with the seizure of Rs. 5.22 crore cash by the Tamil Nadu police. When contacted by The Hindu , Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said Sandeep was arrested following a complaint lodged by a YSR Congres Party Ongole city president Singaraju Venkat Rao, and after taking legal advice under IPC Sections 120B, 153, 504, 505 and Sections 66 and 67 of the Information Technology Act. “A thorough investigation is on by fully following the procedure,” Mr. Siddharth Kaushal said. Meanwhile, a video recording, purportedly made by the youth alleging harassment by the police, went viral on the social media. Will approach court: Naidu Taking up the cudgels on behalf of the activist, TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu tweeted that Sandeep was targeted following pressure from the YSRCP leaders for “exposing on the social media the hawala money episode with alleged links to the Minister.” Mr. Naidu told the Chief Minister that “attacking social media activists by using police force will only spread your corruption and mafia stories far and wide.” “We will approach the court & NHRC to make sure that the culprits behind violation of Sandeep’s human rights are brought to book,” he added. The activist, Mr. Naidu said, had a simple question: “How did Mr. Srinivasa Rao’s hawala money pass through A.P. without getting caught by the State police even as their TN counterparts busted the entire operation?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-activist-held-for-defaming-govt-minister-in-cash-seizure-case/article32120180.ece
18 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Engage workers for 100 more days’||Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Workers Union(APAWU) in Prakasam district on Friday appealed to the Union and State Governments to provide wage employment for workers for another 100 days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme(MGNREGS) to tide over the economic situation triggered by the pandemic. Over 5.5 lakh workers had completed 100 days of work so far in the district and they needed work for at least another 100 days to eke out a livelihood under the most difficult times, the union’s district secretary K. Anjaneyulu said after submitting a memorandum to District Water Management Authority Project Director K.Seena Reddy. The MGNREGS should be extended to workers in uncovered villages on the outskirts of Ongole, including places like Pernamitta, Yerrajerla, Sarvereddypalem, Vengamukapalem, Pellur, Koppolu, Thuravaganta after their merger with Ongole Municipal Corporation. The amount provided to each worker should be enhanced from the present Rs. 237 per day to at least Rs. 300, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engage-workers-for-100-more-days/article32120168.ece
18 July 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Operation Muskaan' brings a smile on their faces||Operation Muskaan, a special drive being taken by the police to trace the missing children in Andhra Pradesh, reunited many children who separated from their parents. Some children, who were missing during journeys, kidnapped and those run away from homes due to poverty and disturbed family conditions, were stranded in the homes run by NGOs. Many of them were working as child labourers, bonded child labours in houses, garages, shops, restaurants and other establishments. "Following the directions of the Supreme Court to prevent children from abuse and exploitation, the sixth phase of Operation Muskaan has been taken up. Police have been conducting raids on many establishments for the last three days,” said Director- General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. “We rescued 2,546 children, of which 703 were girls, and restored 2,378 children to their parents. COVID-19 tests were conducted for 701 rescued children, and 31 child labours of other States were relieved from the clutches of their owners. In the last four year, police rescued nearly 11,000 children under the Operation Muskaan,” the DGP told The Hindu on Friday.  Reunited A nine-year-old boy, B. Srinivas, of Palakol of West Godavari district was rescued with the help of Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW), Police and ward mahila samrakshana karyadarsulu. Following the directions of SP K. Narayan Naik and Narsapuram DSP K. Nageswara Rao, a team, led by SI J.V.N. Prasad, reunited a boy, Srinivas, with his mother B. Sri Lalitha and brother, Prabhakar, in a Child Care Institution, in Vijayawada on Friday, said Palakol Town CI Ch. Anjaneyulu. The boy after seeing his mother hugged, kissed and broke out. I want to come back and stay with you, said Srinivas, who was studying fourth class. “We traced the boy, who was missing four years ago, with much difficulty. This is the first such case we tracked after joining the job. The reunion of the mother and the boy gave immense satisfaction to us,” said Palakol ward mahila samrakshana karyadarsulu S. Jyothi and B. Jahnavi. Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath said two siblings -- P. Kondababu and P. Pujitha -- who lost their parents, had stopped education due to poverty and had become labourers. “I was moved on hearing the pathetic story of the siblings, who want to study, and decided to adopt them. We admitted them in a CCI in Machilipatnam. The two children thanked the DGP for taking up the drive under ‘Operation Muskaan’ and giving a fresh lease of lives for them,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/operation-muskaan-brings-a-smile-on-their-faces/article32119719.ece
18 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan on Bhavanapadu port back to fore||After a gap of two years, there seems to be some activity on the Bhavanapadu port project in the district. The project, which was proposed in Santabommali mandal eight years ago, but relegated to the back burner for more reasons than one, including change of guard in the State, is aimed at creating employment opportunities and ensuring speedy progress of the Tekkali division. When enquired about the availability of land for the project, the district authorities informed senior officials, who included Chief Engineer (ports) Rajagopal, on Saturday that there was no problem on that front as it had been initiated long ago. The government had initially planned to acquire more than 5,000 acres. It, however, reduced the extent to 2,321 acres following resistance from the residents – 578 acres at Devunaltada, 1,439 acres at Marripadu, and 304 acres at Bhavanapadu. The government had offered the displaced persons compensation under the Land Acquisition Act of 2013, apart from ensuring a special package for fishermen as their livelihood would be affected. Rehabilitation colony The government also planned to construct an exclusive residential colony for all the displaced families, who included landless poor. A fishing jetty was also proposed. Many fishermen, however, insisted on payment of compensation on a par with those who had surrendered their lands for the atomic power plant proposed at Kovvada in the district. Members of the CPI and the CPI(M) have been opposing the project fearing loss of livelihood to thousands of families, including those from the fishermen community. The activists also fear that the ecology in and around the Naupada swamp will also be affected. The Left parties allege that the project is aimed at benefiting a few corporate companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-on-bhavanapadu-port-back-to-fore/article32120190.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deputy CM has set a bad example: CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has taken serious exception to the statement reportedly made by Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha that lack of facilities at the State COVID Hospital on the SVIMS campus dictated his decision to take treatment for the disease in Hyderabad. Sensing the repercussions, Mr. Basha retracted the statement, saying his family members were already undergoing treatment at a known hospital. However, it left the government thoroughly embarrassed and giving ammunition to the Opposition. “The statement shows the real state of affairs. When a Deputy Chief Minister goes to a neighbouring State, how can the common man go to the hospital confidently?” asked CPI Chittoor district Secretary A. Rama Naidu. The Chief Minister should immediately initiate steps to improve facilities in quarantine centres and isolation wards at the COVID hospitals, in view of not only the rise in cases, but also in the mortality rate. ‘Palle Bata’ call Party’s state Secretary K. Ramakrishna participated in the district committee meeting through ‘Zoom’ app organised on Friday, when he gave a call to the cadre to march to the villages. The ‘Palle Bata’ call slated for July 25 was made to understand the ground realities in the farm sector and the problems faced by agriculturists. This apart, the party would also distribute vitamin tablets and face masks to the villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deputy-cm-has-set-a-bad-example-cpi/article32120169.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govinda Dhamam steps up during COVID times||Govinda Dhamam, the city’s first gas-fired crematorium being run by Mahaprasthana Seva Samithi, a wing of the Rotary Club of Tirupati, has been rendering yeoman service during the current COVID-19 situation. Its scorecard for the period July 2019-June 2020 is impressive: 1,270 cremations, funeral rites for 111 abandoned bodies, body freezer assistance for 192 bodies and 525 service memorial meets for the departed. The newly elected body comprising Vemuri Jayaram Prasad as president and Adam Sudhakar Reddy as secretary was formally sworn in on Wednesday to administer the samithi, which has activities beyond running the crematorium. Govinda Dhamam honorary president Tenkayala Damodaram administered the oath to the members and Rotary Club President M. Hemachander introduced the new panel to the public. Civic administrators as well as hospital authorities prefer this gas-fired crematorium and Govinda Dhamam has been in the forefront in hygienic and total disposal of such bodies. Outgoing president M.N. Sivakumar explained how the organisation achieved a breakthrough by computerisation and automation in the maintenance of accounts. Green initiative The new members distributed vegetables to the ‘Maa Telugu Thalli’ senior citizens’ home and distributed automatic sanitiser dispenser. Workers at the crematorium were presented PPE kits. Taking the eco-friendly route, it was decided to distribute saplings to visitors and also jute bags to carry the ashes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govinda-dhamam-steps-up-during-covid-times/article32120191.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another Chittoor scribe succumbs to COVID-19||A journalist succumbed to COVID-19 in Tirupati on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Madhusudhan Reddy, a Kadapa-based staff reporter working for a media channel. Mr. Reddy was initially admitted to the COVID-19 hospital at Fatima College in Kadapa after he suffered from breathlessness. In an audio clip going viral on social media groups of working journalists, he had drawn attention to the lack of proper medical infrastructure at the hospital. After his condition worsened, he was shifted to the State COVID-19 Hospital operating out of the SVIMS campus in Tirupati, where he passed away on Friday. This is the second death of a journalist in the district. Earlier this week, M. Parthasarathy, a videographer working for a private television news channel, died of COVID-19. The two incidents happening in quick succession has shocked the media fraternity. Leaders of journalist unions have appealed to scribes to strictly follow social distancing norms in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-chittoor-scribe-succumbs-to-covid-19/article32120195.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD priest to be shifted to Chennai hospital||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) management has decided to shift a COVID-19 affected priest to Apollo Hospital in Chennai for better treatment. The priest, who was among the many who tested positive, already suffers from chronic diabetes and hypertension, Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal said, after a marathon review meeting with TTD and SVIMS authorities to review the COVID situation prevailing on Tirumala hills. Expressing concern over the COVID cases increasing by the day among TTD employees, he said the medication and nutritional diet provided to the employees would also be improved in consonance with the COVID protocol. He instructed the officials concerned not to compromise on best possible treatment and dietary supplement to the affected employees. Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy and Joint Executive Officer P. Basant Kumar took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-priest-to-be-shifted-to-chennai-hospital/article32120196.ece
18 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on usefulness of plants to mankind||Did you know that a bamboo plant releases 30-35% more oxygen into the atmosphere than any other forest plant? The plant also helps replace plastic in the form of bottles, cutlery and textiles. Marfatlal M. Kher, an academician in the Department of Biotechnology at GSFC University, Baroda, made this point at the webinar on ‘Plants for sustainable living of humankind’ organised by Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam. Dubbing bamboo as ‘green gold’, Dr. Kher saw a great opportunity to harness the market potential by increasing production and ensuring establishment of a proper value chain ecosystem, at a time when environmental protection have become concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-usefulness-of-plants-to-mankind/article32120170.ece
18 July 2020||VIAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APOSS defers SSC, Inter exams||The Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Intermediate public examinations - July 2020, scheduled to be conducted by the AP Open School Society ((APOSS) from July 18, have been postponed due to COVID-19. In a statement on Friday, APOSS Director Devananda Reddy asked the DEOs in the State to inform the same to the principals / headmasters / AI Coordinators of AP open schools in their respective areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aposs-defers-ssc-inter-exams/article32120185.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A leg-up for artisans in State||The Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with e-commerce giant Flipkart to promote the State’s arts, crafts and handloom sectors. The partnership, under the Flipkart Samarth programme, will enable local artisans, weavers, and craftsmen from the 13 districts of the State to showcase their hallmark products to a pan-India customer base. The focus will be on creating avenues to increase business and trade, and opportunities for the underserved segments of society, thereby adding further thrust to the ‘Made in India’ efforts. Flipkart Samarth seeks to break entry barriers for artisans by extending time-bound incubation support, which includes benefits in the form of onboarding, free cataloguing, marketing, account management, business insights and warehousing support. MD & CEO, APSSDC, Arja Srikanth, said the collaboration would help all producers like artisans and FPOs from remotest places in Andhra Pradesh in seamless marketing of their products in relevant markets. Wider market “Andhra Pradesh has always been at the forefront of economic growth and currently leads the charts when it comes to Ease of Doing Business. We are thrilled to partner with the Government of Andhra Pradesh to give the State’s artisans the opportunity to showcase and sell their products on a transparent platform; with a promise of wider market access,” said Rajneesh Kumar, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, Flipkart Group. He said with technology acting as a catalyst, the e-commerce store would build an ecosystem of partnerships. In a year since its launch, Flipkart Samarth had been supporting the livelihood of more than five lakh artisans, weavers and micro enterprises across India. Flipkart Samarth works closely with reputed NGOs and government bodies and livelihood missions to reach a large number of rural entrepreneurs, with a special focus on women-led enterprises, differently-abled entrepreneurs, artisans, and weavers. The government in the State has established the Department of Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Innovation (DSDEI) to coordinate and synergise skilling efforts of all departments. Under this department, the APSSDC was formed which today has more than 16 lakh students registered and it has skilled over 9 lakh young professionals, sending them into the formal workforce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-leg-up-for-artisans/article32119737.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quarantine centres to get quality check||The State Government has appointed IAS officer A.V. Rajamouli as Special Officer, Hospital Preparedness and Ex-Officio Secretary to the Government to ensure effective management of the COVID-19 pandemic and to ensure healthy conditions in quarantine centres, COVID Care Centres (CCCs) and District/State COVID-19 Hospitals. Mr. Rajamouli has been attached to the Health, Medical and Family Welfare (HMFW) Department, exclusively to monitor the arrangements of all State/District COVID-19 Hospitals. At a press conference on Friday, Principal Secretary, Department of Transport and R&B and State Coordinator for COVID-19 Task Force, M. T. Krishna Babu, said that he was appointed as the Nodal Officer, the State Control Centre, to monitor the non-medical requirements/facilities, sanitation, food, supply of medicines and other facilities at the quarantine centres and CCCs, in coordination with a team of officers from the HMFW Department. The Managing Director and CEO of the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) Arja Srikanth would be responsible for the monitoring facilities while Special Commissioner, Disaster Management, K. Kanna Babu, will monitor people coming to the State from other States using different modes of travel and ensure that their details are captured in Spandana portal. Mr. Krishna Babu said that a detailed review meeting was held with Collectors and Joint Collectors and the latter were asked to focus on improving facilities at the quarantine centres. Helpline set up He said that at the behest of the Chief Minister, a dedicated phone number — 1902 — was being made available to people who had any grievances relating to the facilities at the quarantine centres and the CCCs. People involved in running these centers had been asked to exhibit the menus of breakfast, lunch and dinner served to the inmates, prominently. Mr. Krishna Babu said that as on date, 20 active CCCs and 94 quarantine centres were functioning with an inmate strength of 3,071 and 6,727 people respectively. He said that the Chief Minister wanted a complete overhaul of sanitation, food supply and medical facilities at these centres in the next three days. Officials have been asked to call at least six inmates from the quarantine centres/CCCs for their feedback on the facilities and alert the district Collectors for follow-up action. He said that those found to be resorting to dereliction of duty would be dealt with stringently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quarantine-centres-to-get-quality-check/article32120198.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Treatment of suspected COVID patients appalling’||Telugu Desam Party national president and former Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Friday expressed concern over the way people suspected to have contracted COVID-19 were being treated by the government. Turning to Twitter on Friday, Mr. Naidu said, “Appalled to see the suspected COVID patients being herded into a waiting 108 ambulance like animals leading to wider spread. If all the 108 publicity amounts to this, then I’m afraid AP Govt will fail its people as numbers mount. God save Andhra Pradesh!” The TDP chief shared a video that showed how elderly man suspected to have contracted COVID refused to board a fully packed ambulance. But the 108 staff insisted on him to adjust in the vehicle. For some time, the person argued and tried to board the vehicle. As there were too many people inside, the elderly man was forced to stand on the stair leaving one door open. The ambulance staff did not bother to make another trip. They simply drove the vehicle ahead with its rear door still open and exposing the patients to risk. It may be recalled that people suspected to have contracted the virus were complaining about the late arrival of 108 ambulances in several instances leading to serious health risks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/treatment-of-suspected-covid-patients-appalling/article32120179.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP urges Governor to go by the book on capital Bills||TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Friday urged Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to “abide by the rule of law,” and if required, take the Attorney-General of India’s opinion before taking any action regarding the Bills on decentralisation and the Capital Region Development Authority Repeal Act. In a letter to the Governor on Friday, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said the Bills were pending with the Select Committee of the Legislative Council. He also reminded the Governor that the issues surrounding the Capital are sub judice. The AP Reorganisation Act clearly emphasises that the State of Andhra Pradesh is to have one capital and not more than that. Even according to the other enactments and the Constitution, a capital city gives no other meaning other than the meaning one capital. Hence, the Bills piloted by the present YSRCP government come in conflict with the reorganisation Act . Hence, it is obligatory on the part of the Governor to abide by the Constitution and the law of the land and send them to the President. Any deviation from the above said constitutional mandate would lead to a conflict between two constitutional authorities and the two governments of the same country, he said, and alleged the government was making all attempts to ruin the Capital city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-urges-governor-to-go-by-the-book-on-capital-bills/article32120184.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conduct exams in strict adherence to COVID-19 protocol, varsities told||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has asked Vice-Chancellors of the universities in the State to conduct examinations for the final year students in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol, as per the UGC guidelines. Addressing a meeting of the Vice-Chancellors and other administrators of the State universities through a video conference from Raj Bhavan here on Friday, the Governor, who is also the Chancellor of the State universities, said the higher education institutions were forced to opt for conduct of online classes in virtual mode because of the situation created by the COVID-19 pandemic. Admitting that online classes could not replace the traditional classroom teaching methodology, he said to overcome the challenges, the education institutions should restructure and redesign the curriculum to suit the conditions. After interacting with the Vice-Chancellors of 20 universities, the Governor expressed satisfaction over the innovative methodologies adopted by them to finish the syllabus of the previous academic year using technology and also the steps taken to commence the next academic year. ‘Fully prepared’ The Vice-Chancellors said they were fully prepared to conduct examinations for the final year students of undergraduate and post-graduate courses, as per UGC guidelines, either in off-line or online mode, duly following the COVID-19 protocols. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh said despite the unprecedented crisis generated by the pandemic, the government was doing all it could to uphold the sanctity of the education system and maintain integrity in the conduct of examinations. Chairman of the AP State Council of Higher Education K. Hemachandra Reddy, Secretary to the Governor Mukesh Kumar Meena, Special Commissioner, Collegiate Education, M.M. Naik, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conduct-exams-in-strict-adherence-to-covid-19-protocol-varsities-told/article32120187.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. neglecting Aarogyasri: TDP||The State government has failed to effectively implement the Dr. YSR Aarogyasri, its flagship healthcare scheme, Telugu Desam Party MLC P. Ashok Babu has alleged. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Ashok Babu said the government was not spending the allocations made for the scheme. “In fact, the expenditure has come down. It is betraying the people by showing higher budgetary allocations while spending less in reality,” Mr. Ashok Babu alleged. He said the government spent a mere Rs. 7,480 crore under the scheme against an allocation of Rs. 11,400 crore for 2019-20. On the contrary, the TDP government had spent Rs. 8,917 crore during 2018-19, he added. “Even YSRCP leaders are wondering why the Chief Minister is neglecting the health scheme,” claimed. The TDP government did not shelve the health scheme launched initially by former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, the TDP leader said, “ But the YSRCP government is ignoring it by not releasing funds.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-neglecting-aarogyasri-tdp/article32120183.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Several firms showing interest in Kadapa steel project: official||The State government has issued Expression of Interest for setting up an integrated steel plant in Kadapa district and several leading steel companies came forward to become partners in what is going to be a joint venture, according to Special Chief Secretary (Industries & Commerce) R. Karikal Valaven. Virtual meet Addressing a virtual conference on sustainability in steel sector with the theme ‘Sustainable business strategies--shaping the new normal’ organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry - AP on Friday, Mr. Valaven said the government was extending all possible support to the industries during the COVID-19 crisis and in re-starting their operations as the lockdown was eased. Safety norms Mr. Valaven urged industries to follow all the required COVID-19 protocols to ensure the safety of employees. He further said the government was coming up with one-stop shop solutions for investors. Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL) Chairman and Managing Director P.K. Rath said in the present disruptive scenario, technologies such as the Internet of Things attained importance in running steel plants and exuded confidence that the steel sector would eventually bounce back. CII national steel committee chairman and Jindal Steel CFO M.V.S. Seshagiri Rao, CII - Andhra Pradesh chairman D. Ramakrishna, CII Visakhapatnam zone chairman J. Srinivasa Raju and others took part in the conference.  Technologies such as Internet of Things have attained importance in running steel plants P.K. Rath RINL CMD||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/several-firms-showing-interest-in-kadapa-steel-project-official/article32120188.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to encourage solar, wind energy projects||The government has notified the Andhra Pradesh Renewable Energy Export Policy-2020 through G.O. MS No. 20 issued by Secretary (Energy) N. Srikant on Friday. It was stated that the policy was applicable to solar, wind and solar-wind hybrid projects, including equipment manufacturing. It was aimed at encouraging, promoting and developing renewable energy (RE) projects for exporting the energy outside A.P. without any obligation of procurement by the Discoms. Policy targets The policy targets to generate 120 Gigawatts of energy, for which five lakh acres of land is planned to be leased. If power is to be supplied within A.P. through the open access route, all charges levied by the A.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission will have to be paid by the developers and no energy - banking will be allowed. Any injection of energy between synchronisation and declaration of Commercial Operations Date will be treated as inadvertent power and no cost will be paid by any Discom. The allocation of renewable energy resource potential will be made to developers on ‘first come, first served’ basis, and priority will be given to project developers intending to set up the energy export projects along with manufacturing facilities in the State. The land leases for variable RE projects will be for 30 years. Green energy charge A significant feature of the policy is the obligation on the part of the developers to pay a green energy development charge of Rs. 1 lakh per MW of installed capacity for the entire life of the project starting from the commissioning of its first phase. It lays down guidelines for connection to AP-Transco network and central transmission network, and contains modalities of land allotment, O&M and other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-encourage-solar-wind-energy-projects/article32120175.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Encourage people to wear masks’||The government on Friday directed the district Collectors, Joint Collectors, Commissioners and Superintendents of Police, Municipal Commissioners, Sub-Collectors, RDOs, MROs and MPDOs to give wide publicity to the importance of wearing face covers/masks in public places, workplaces and while travelling, and to inculcate it as a habit in order to contain the spread of COVID -19. Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy said the government had framed guidelines for containment, of COVID-19 and instructed officials to strictly implement the orders of the Ministry of Home Affairs and those issued by the State government. Among the national directives was compulsory wearing of face covers / masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/encourage-people-to-wear-masks/article32120176.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Supply sand free of cost, CPI urges State govt.||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has asked the State government to supply sand free of cost. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said that sand scarcity surfaced in the State only after the YSR Congress Party came to power. . During the first four months of the YSRCP rule, 14 construction workers died due to unemployment triggered by non- availability of sand. The sand was sold in black market and the government whiled away four months saying that the new sand policy would be introduced, he said. Even after introduction of the new sand policy, a tractor load of sand was being sold at Rs. 5,000. Previously, a tractor load of sand was available for about Rs. 1,800. It seems that corruption to the tune of Rs. 500 crore took place in sand supply, the CPI leader alleged. “Ministers and MLAs have a role in the scam. To divert the main issue, new policies are being introduced and attempts made to establish a corporation for sand supply,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/supply-sand-free-of-cost-cpi-urges-state-govt/article32119712.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grievances invited from postal pensioners||Chief Postmaster General (Andhra Pradesh Circle) Ram Bharosa on Friday said postal pensioners could send in their grievances relating to the issues of pension, gratuity and other such matters, to be taken up at the 7th circle-level postal pension adalat for the half-yearly ending on June 30. In a statement, Mr. Ram Bharosa said the adalat would be conducted at his office. Owing to the existing COVID-19 pandemic, the date was not finalised but the grievances could be forwarded to the Assistant Accounts Officer, Accounts Branch, Office of the Chief Postmaster General, AP Circle, Vijayawada-520013, on or before July 24. Cases involving legal matters like succession, service matters/policy matters would not be taken up at the adalat, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grievances-invited-from-postal-pensioners/article32119713.ece
18 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre notifies consumer protection rules||The Central government has notified the Consumer Protection (Central Consumer Protection Council) Rules, 2020, and the Consumer Protection (Mediation) Rules, 2020, under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, in the Gazette of India. The rules will come into force from July 20. As per the Consumer Protection (Central Consumer Protection Council) Rules, 2020, a Central Council with not more than 36 members will be formed. The council will be headed by the Union Minister, in-charge of Consumer Affairs, and the Minister of State of Consumer Affairs in the Central government will be the Vice-Chairperson.  As per the Consumer Protection (Mediation) Rules, 2020, a mediation cell will be set up in every commission and each cell will have a panel of mediators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-notifies-consumer-protection-rules/article32119709.ece
18 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conduct more screening tests, Minister tells district officials||The State government is taking all measures for the control of COVID-19 in the district, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said. Speaking to the media here on Friday, he said that a meeting of the district-level Task Force was organised to take stock of the control measures. In view of the possibility of a rise in the number of cases, the officials were advised to conduct more screening tests. They were also directed to provide basic amenities, nutritious food and drinking water apart from ensuring proper hygiene. The lockdown guidelines have to be strictly implemented at all the containment zones. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that 2,530 positive cases have been registered in Visakhapatnam district so far. Of them, 1,521 were discharged and 963 active cases were being treated at the COVID Care Centres and notified hospitals in the city. A total of 46 patients had died. There were 129 very active clusters, 212 active clusters, 217 dormant and 39 denotified clusters. There were a total of 2,274 beds, 54 ventilators and three sample collection centres at the Government Chest Hospital and Andhra Medical College. Around 3,000 tests a day were being done at present and it was planned to increase them to 4,000 a day. As many as 2,000 staff including doctors, nurses and pharmacists were working round the clock at the COVID hospitals in the district. The tests were done free of cost to around one lakh people in the district so far. Both the Joint Collectors were overseeing the functioning of the COVID Care Centres and Quarantine Centres to avoid inconvenience to patients. Sanitation was being continuously done at the containment zones in the GVMC limits. He said that some traders have decided to voluntarily observe lockdown. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that lockdown was being strictly implemented in the containment zones. Decentralised COVID Care Centres were being opened in rural and tribal areas along with the urban areas as the pandemic was spreading to those places also. Truenat tests would be done at ward/village secretariats. The tests would be done in all suspected cases as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Tests were being done through Sanjeevani mobile buses at Paderu, Narsipatnam, Anakapalle, Payakaraopeta and the Government ENT Hospital. MLA Karanam Dharmasri, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, Joint Collector Arun Babu, AMC Principal P.V. Sudhakar and DM & HO S. Tirupathi Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conduct-more-screening-tests-minister-tells-district-officials/article32120204.ece
18 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus toll rises to 47 in Vizag with one more death||As many as 32 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district on Friday, taking the tally to 2,562 on Friday. One more person succumbed to COVID-19, taking the death toll to 47. As many as 123 persons, who were undergoing treatment, have been discharged from COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres, on Friday. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stands at 871 and the number of persons discharged is 1,644. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V Sudhakar, with the new cases, 16 new clusters, including Annamaraju Nagar, APSEB Colony, BC Colony (Yendada), Bindra Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Gandhivari Veedhi, Naidu Quarters (Gopalapatnam), Parvathi Nagar, Rajendra Nagar, Ramalakshmannapuram, Relliveedhi New, Sagisubbaraju Street, RK beach, were formed in the district. As on Friday, there are 173 very active clusters, 186 active clusters and 156 dormant clusters in the district. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-toll-rises-to-47-in-vizag-with-one-more-death/article32120210.ece
18 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jodugullapalem is new hotspot||Visakhapatnam district has been witnessing a concentration of COVID-19 cases in areas where people live in congested areas and in close proximity. In Visakhapatnam, the first major outbreak was in the Dandu Bazaar cluster, followed by Appughar, Jalaripeta, and Anakapalle. “In Dandu Bazaar, over 60 cases were reported within a span of 15 days. From Appughar and Jalaripeta combined, close to 300 cases have been reported so far. From Anakapalle, we got over 200 cases, which originally emanated from an electronics showroom,” said COVID-19 Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. At present, the hotspot is Jodugullapalem, from where already 70 cases have been reported. Authorities fear that Kobbarithota could be the next hotspot. The profile of all hotspots has been similar. The areas are thickly populated, and localities congested with houses and narrow bylanes where people live cheek by jowl. The resident do not abide by the basic protocols of wearing masks or social distancing. “We have already entered the community spread phase and it is important that COVID-19 norms are strictly followed to keep the virus from spreading. Just following the basic norms of wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing and sanitising the hands, can do wonders,” said Collector V. Vinay Chand. The 3 Ts However, according to Dr. Sudhakar, hotspots such as Appughar, Jalaripeta, Anakapalle and Dandu Bazaar have been brought under control by implementing the ‘3Ts’ programme (Trace-Test-Treat). Tracing of contacts plays an important role and once traced, testing is mandatory, he said. In all hotspots, 100% testing was done for all high-risk groups — such as direct contacts of positive persons, senior citizens and people with co-morbidities, said Mr. Vinay Chand. “Once tested, we isolate all positive cases and admit them either in hospitals or COVID Care Centres (CCCs),” said Dr. Sudhakar. There may be over 550 containment clusters in the district of whom around 250 are very active and active clusters, but the bulk of the cases come from the hotspots and our primary focus is on these hotspots, he said. Improved testing To improve the pace and reach of testing, the district administration has started testing at the Psychiatry Hospital, Regional Eye Hospital and RCD Hospital, apart from GHCCD and KGH. The district was allotted five Sanjeevani buses to speed up testing. Each bus will have eight counters and will be based near the hospitals to reduce the load at the hospital counters, and if required, they can conduct tests at containment zones, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jodugullapalem-is-new-hotspot/article32120213.ece
18 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC e-Spandana today||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) will conduct Online- Spandana on Saturday to receive complaints from the citizens. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation Commissioner G. Srijana will interact with people from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m in social media platforms. People can contact twitter account @gvmc_official and Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation in Facebook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-e-spandana-today/article32120212.ece
18 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make partial lockdown mandatory, Minister urged||The members the Kirana Merchants Association of Visakhapatnam met Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao here on Friday and requested him to represent to the government to make partial lockdown mandatory. The association has already voluntarily imposed partial lockdown and are operating from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. for the past few days and on Monday they met the Minister and requested him to make it mandatory so that all shops, including big shopping malls, remain closed after 2 p.m. “The cases are on the rise and we have already entered the community spread phase and this is the time we need to be more careful, that is why we have imposed voluntary partial lockdown and have represented the same to the government,” said R. Jagganadham, president, Kirana Merchants Association of Visakhapatnam. It may be remembered that tribals in Paderu and Araku in Visakha Agency had already imposed voluntary lockdown from the first week of this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-partial-lockdown-mandatory-minister-urged/article32120215.ece
18 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade unions protest against ‘privatisation of Railways’||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) Greater Visakha City Committee has called upon workers and the general public to oppose the alleged privatisation of Railways. The CITU along with other trade unions organised a protest at the railway station here on Friday as part of the nationwide agitation being organised, on the call given by various unions. CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao said that the Union government, which was supposed to come to the rescue of workers and the general public in times of the pandemic, was imposing greater burden on them through privatisation. The BJP government has hastened the process of privatisation to benefit the corporate companies. He alleged that the privatisation of the 150-year-old Indian Railways was already on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trade-unions-protest-against-privatisation-of-railways/article32120205.ece
18 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Motorists can avail 18 RTA services with OTP’||Here is good news for motorists going to the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) Office to avail of 18 different services offered by the Transport Department. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to maintain social distancing, the authorities have made certain changes in the software to allow motorists to avail of these services from the comfort of their homes. Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam said that the public had to come to the RTA Office to give their biometric details. The software change allows the generation of an OTP (one-time password), which would be sent to the registered mobile number of the motorist. The OTP would enable them to access 18 different services like change of vehicle ownership, NOC cancellation, address change, re-registration of vehicles, new permit and permit renewal. The OTP would be sent to the mobile number, linked to the Aadhaar card of the motorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/motorists-can-avail-18-rta-services-with-otp/article32120206.ece
18 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held on charge of illegal liquor sale||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) conducted raids and seized liquor which was being sold without valid licences here on Friday. The police seized 21 liquor bottles of various brands. Based on credible information, teams of the CTF, under the supervision of Assistant Commissioner of Police, (CTF) A. Trinad Rao, conducted raids at two places at Duvvada and Gurajada Nagar areas. The police arrested two persons G. Nanaji of Yendada and K. Apparao of Gurajada Nagar areas, while they were in possession of liquor bottles without licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-on-charge-of-illegal-liquor-sale/article32120211.ece
18 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy-sheeters counselled||To keep a tab on the activities of rowdy-sheeters, the rural police conducted a meet with them at various police stations in Visakhapatnam district on Friday. Following instructions from Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao, Sub Inspectors of Anakapalle (Rural), Devarapalle, Narsipatnam (Rural), Butchayyapeta, Nathavaram, Chodavaram, Kasimkota, Kotapadu and Golugonda police stations conducted a meet with rowdy-sheeters under their limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rowdy-sheeters-counselled/article32120208.ece
18 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Logo designing competition||Officials from Visakha Metro Region Development Authority (VMRDA) are conducting a logo designing competition for AP Natural History Park & Museum - Research Institute (APNHPM&RI). VMRDA Commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that interested candidates can upload their application on VMRDA official websitewww.vmrda.gov.in. He said that the logo for the APNHPM&RI should be creative and should be understood easily. The candidate winning the first prize will be awarded Rs 50,000, while second prize winner will be given Rs. 25,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/logo-designing-competition/article32120207.ece
18 July 2020||VISKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow COVID-19 protocols, police told||Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order Zone-I) Aishwariya Rashtogi held a meeting with police officials of Two Town Police Station here on Friday. He advised the staff of the police station to strictly follow the COVID-19 protocols, as there are a number of positive cases under the police station limits. He also motivated the men to take up normal policing along with COVID duty. SHO of Two Town Venkat Rao was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/follow-covid-19-protocols-police-told/article32120214.ece
18 July 2020||YANAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waterspout in Yanam leaves locals puzzled||A gigantic waterspout has formed in the shallow waters of an aqua pond at Farampeta in Yanam town,puzzling locals. According to locals who recorded videos, the waterspout formed at around 10 a.m. and disappeared after a few minutes. It began on the pond and ended there itself, causing the death of fish in the pond. This is the second waterspout recorded near Yanam, where a similar formation was sighted on the sea on June 4. A waterspout forms when cumulonimbus clouds descend downward, according to oceanography experts. In-depth study sought Retired Chief Scientist, National Institute of Oceanography (Regional Centre-Visakhapatnam) V.S.N. Murthy told The Hindu that there is a need to carry out an in-depth, detailed scientific study on the repeated occurrence of the waterspouts off Kakinada coast in recent times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waterspout-in-yanam-leaves-locals-puzzled/article32120193.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eco-friendly||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eco-friendly/article32120218.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Edge of the seat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/edge-of-the-seat/article32120172.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Throwing caution to the wind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/throwing-caution-to-the-wind/article32119717.ece
18 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Partially burnt body of woman found||A partially burnt body of a young woman was found in the bushes along the roadside at Bandrugonda village in Palvancha mandal late on Friday evening. Sources said that the body of the unidentified woman was found lying just a few meters away from the Bandrugonda-Pusugudem road near Bandrugonda village in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/partially-burnt-body-of-woman-found/article32120004.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Age-old stormwater drainage system to blame for OGH flooding||Heavy rain for two consecutive days recently has not caused much inundation in residential areas which otherwise had been prone to flooding as witnessed during the previous monsoons. Part of the reason is attributed to the stormwater drainage work taken up by GHMC at various locations in the city facilitating evacuation of flood water between lakes. However, flooding of the Osmania General Hospital, resulting in untold misery to patients and staff, has deprived the State government and GHMC of an opportunity to take pride in their work. It is learnt that this is the first time the hospital is flooded due to obstruction in the storm water drain. Passing the buck However, GHMC seems keen on evading the responsibility to overhaul the stormwater drainage system in this particular area, even while the same in the entire city is taken care by the corporation. A meeting convened by Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav over the flooding reportedly had the GHMC officials passing the buck to Telangana State Medical Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMIDC) under whose jurisdiction the hospital falls. While TSMIDC sure is responsible for the infrastructural requirements of the hospital, it is notable that the stormwater drainage system also receives flows from surrounding localities like Begum Bazar and Feelkhana. “The drainage system was built during the Asaf Jahi era, and located 20 feet underground. No blueprint exists, and nobody knows which pipeline goes where underneath. De-silting of the drain, which customarily takes place before monsoon, is next to impossible here for this very reason,” shared an official on the condition of anonymity. GHMC would have found a detour for the flood flow had there been any residential localities in the vicinity prone to flooding during rains. There were none, and the flood water would drain straight into Musi river, which had not been a problem. Illegal construction Rampant illegal construction activities around the hospital, in areas such as Afzalgunj, Begum Bazar and Feel Khana have increased the pressure on existing drains, say locals. “Multi-storeyed buildings with five to six floors have come up in the place of single unit dwellings built on 100 to 120 square yards in the area. The amount of drainage, too, has multiplied accordingly. But instead of taking connection to the sewage main line, the builders are connecting to stormwater network on the sly, which is increasing the pressure on the system,” says Anand Goud, a local leader. GHMC officials say that the solution lies in diverting the flow of storm water from surrounding localities directly to the Musi, while retaining the Nizam-era system only for the 25 acre spread of OGH. That requires coordinated effort by GHMC and TSMIDC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/age-old-stormwater-drainage-system-to-blame-for-ogh-flooding/article32119973.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR foodgrains transport goes up||There has been a considerable dent in the freight being carried by the South Central Railway (SCR) by 11.26 million tonnes (MTs) for the last three months — April, May and June — when compared to the same period last year due to lockdown. If it was 18.38 MTs of freight this financial year, last year it had been 29.64 MTs. However, the amount of foodgrains being carried has increased substantially during the same period by 1.72 MTs with 2.71 MTs transported in the last three months as against 0.99 MTs last year.  ‘Special efforts’ At the same time, the zone seems to be coming out of the lockdown effect with the freight showing gradual improvement — 4.81 MTs in April, 6.71 MTs in May and 6.86 MTs in June. Loading of granite, cement and fertiliser has shown considerable rise when compared to the previous years due to ‘special efforts’ put in by the staff, said General Manager Gajajan Mallya on Wednesday. Granites loading was 0.126 MTs more, cement 0.19 MTs more and fertilizer transportation 0.05 MTs more in the last three months (see chart). Senior railway officials detailed several measures which helped freight movement recover from the lockdown. These include sending nine trains towards Bangladesh carrying food items for the first time like chillies, turmeric and ginger, coordinating with the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and local traders for loading foodgrain wagons in places, including Nizamabad, Warangal, Kazipet, Miryalaguda, Karimnagar, Peddapalli and Khammam in the State and Rajahmundry, Samalkota, Nidadavolu, Eluru, Vijayawada, Gudivada, Machilipatnam, Tanuku and Palakollu in AP towards Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Running of 42 Jai Kisan specials where two freight trains (84 wagons with 5,200-tonne capacity foodgrains) were moved in a single path, increase in average speeds to 48.6 kmph as against the usual 18 kmph, track maintenance making use of limited services, etc. had put the goods traffic back on track.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-foodgrains-transport-goes-up/article32119977.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. announces mid-day meal for all junior, degree colleges||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday announced extension of the mid-day meal (MDM) scheme to all government junior and degree colleges from this academic year. Mr. Rao took this decision as it was found that the dropout rate went up in government colleges as students returned home from institutions by afternoon. Therefore, it was decided to introduce the scheme to overcome the situation and also provide nutritious food to students, the CM said at an official meeting in the context of a discussion on the setting up of a botanical garden by an enterprising lecturer at the government degree college at Jadcherla. Mr. Rao was informed that another lecturer at a junior college in the same town Raghuram arranged mid-day meals for students so that they spent longer hours in college. He later announced that the government recognised the need for MDMs at colleges, and announced a building for the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-announces-mid-day-meal-for-all-junior-degree-colleges/article32119992.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New housing projects hit||The COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown slowed down the revival of the Hyderabad residential market, a report of real estate consultancy Knight Frank has said. Sales hit the low of the decade in the first half (January-June) of 2020. Launch of new projects was lower by 19% compared to the corresponding period last year. Key factors Key contributing factors were halt in construction activity during the lockdown period, low sales on account of market uncertainties, scarcer credit availability for developers, hike in prices of inputs such as steel and cement and the lack of availability of construction workers in the post-lockdown phase, the report said. Residential unit sales recorded a 43% year-on-year fall with 4,782 units sold in the first half under review. A release on the report said this had been the lowest recorded sales figure for the city this decade. Demand had been strong until the pre-COVID period of January to March 2020 and was only restricted by the low availability of supply. Things, however, took a sharp turn in the aftermath of the pandemic and the lockdown. Some features of the residential unit sales in the first half include a rise in demand in the northern and eastern parts of the city, lower share of affordable housing units sold and an increased traction in the Rs. 50-Rs. 75-lakh category. West Hyderabad continued to dominate the residential market with a significant share in both launch of projects and sales. North and East Hyderabad picked up momentum on the back of affordable housing sales. Unsold inventory numbers saw a 5% YoY fall to 4,037 units in H1 2020. Branch Director (Hyderabad) of Knight Frank India Samson Arthur said “while housing activity appears uneven, we expect the recovery in residential markets to be relatively quick. The asking prices have remained stable though launch of projects took a hit and sales went down. However, the market hopes that prevalent demand, and a low ready inventory coupled with lowered interest rates will offer incentive to home-buyers.” Office space According to the report, office transactions in Hyderabad saw a 43% decline to 2.2 million sq ft in H1 2020, compared to the same period last year. The city also saw a decline of 32% YoY to 2.7 million sq ft in new office space completion. The pandemic and the lockdown appear to be the primary reasons for Hyderabad office market being subdued in the first half of the year. An immediate impact of COVID-19 was felt by the co-working industry and its absorption fell by a significant 75% year-on-year in H1 2020. Other services sector transactions were also adversely impacted. Information Technology (IT) and ITeS companies contributed 75% of the total transactions. In terms of absolute volumes, the IT/ITeS sector transaction volume grew 11% from 1.5 million sq ft in first half of 2019 to 1.6 mn sq ft in H1 of 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-housing-projects-hit/article32119979.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM for botanical gardens in all govt. degree colleges||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao directed the officials concerned to take steps to set up botanical gardens in all government degree colleges across the State. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao wanted officials to take the Jadcherla degree college as an inspiration in this direction and announced Rs. 50 lakh for further development of botanical gardens set up in that college. He congratulated the representatives of the college, led by assistant professor of botany Sadasivaiah, for their service, at Pragathi Bhavan on Friday. He also promised to hold a meeting of botany lecturers of all colleges shortly, to prepare an action plan for such gardens in all institutions. Mr. Sadasivaiah handed over a sapling specific to Telangana grown in the forest of Nallamala to the CM. Minister S. Niranjan Reddy, former Minister C. Lakshmaiah, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Education department special chief secretary Chitra Ramachandran and a few others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-for-botanical-gardens-in-all-govt-degree-colleges/article32119991.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Left parties, TJS slam govt. for apathy towards hospital||The Opposition Communist Party of India, CPI (Marxist) and the Telangana Jana Samiti (TJS) criticised the government for its “indifference” in fulfilling its promise of constructing a new complex for the Osmania General Hospital (OGH). They alleged that the government lacked commitment in developing and strengthening the infrastructure of the hospital which is catering to the poor. The government’s negligence could be seen from the fact that years after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced sanction of adequate funds for development of OGH, works were yet to be launched for the construction of the new complex. Interaction with patients CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy, TJS president M. Kodandaram, CPI (M) senior leader Julakanti Ranga Reddy and others visited the OGH on Friday. The report follows the entry of rain water as well as sewage water into the hospital premises earlier this week causing inconvenience to patients. The leaders interacted with the patients to get first-hand information about the situation in the hospital. ‘No commitment’ Speaking to reporters later, they condemned the statements of the Ministers attributing the sorry state of affairs at OGH to Opposition parties. The Chief Minister, in fact, had no commitment to develop the hospital and his Cabinet colleagues were passing the blame on to the Opposition parties, said Mr. Venkat Reddy, adding, “In what way are the Opposition parties responsible for overflowing drains that resulted in the current situation?” Prof. Kodandaram wanted the government to take up works to repair and strengthen the drainage network around the OGH so that such incidents do not recur in the future. He also recalled how the Chief Minister had assured huge amount of funds for the repair and maintenance of OGH and said no initiative had been taken in that direction thus far. COVID concern The leaders also expressed concern over the ever-increasing cases of COVID-19 in the State and demanded that the Central government impose a health emergency in the State.  The Chief Minister had assured huge amount of funds for the repair and maintenance of OGH, but no such initiative has been taken in that direction thus far. M. Kodandaram, President, Telangana Jana Samiti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/left-parties-tjs-slam-govt-for-apathy-towards-hospital/article32119971.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘MP remarks on Nizams offensive’||Hyderabad Deccan Democratic Alliance (HDDA), Voice of Telangana (VoT) and the Nizam Family Welfare Association (NFWA) have taken serious offence to the comments made by a Congress MP about the Nizams to “settle his political score with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao”, and asked him to desist from making such remarks. In a statement issued here on Friday, president of HDDA Chiranjeevi Kolluri, president of VoT L. Pandu Ranga Reddy and a grandson of the VIIth Nizam, Nawab Najaf Ali Khan, also president of NFWA, said that the Congress MP had alleged that the Nizam had squirrelled wealth beneath the Secretariat building. Without taking his name, they advised the MP not to drag the name of the Nizam in his “altercations with the CM”. The MP should know that Islam does not permit hoarding wealth and that too in the earth, they said, observing that the MP has a penchant for playing to the gallery. The MP had not only insulted the Nizams but also committed the sacrilege of Islam, they said in the statement. It was Mir Mahabub Ali Khan, the VIth Nizam, who built a summer resort (the heritage building in the Secretariat complex) at the ‘Shikam’ land of the Hussainsagar but when he was about to enter the new building, he noticed a chameleon at the entrance and regarded it as bad omen and abandoned the edifice, they explained. Abandoning the building (resort) without entering it would clearly indicate that the then Nizam did not hide any wealth there. After that the VIIth Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan, had turned the vacant building into the Secretariat – Bab-i-Hukumat – and he too did not bury any wealth there. Stating that the MP had hurt the feelings of a community with his fatuous comment, they said that he should render an unconditional apology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mp-remarks-on-nizams-offensive/article32119987.ece
18 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fear grips bankers as COVID-19 cases are on the rise||A sense of panic has gripped bank employees with no letup in COVID-19 cases, with some of them contracting the virus, and customers preferring branch banking to the safe and convenient digital alternatives. It is scary, is how bankers sought to sum up the situation for the employees, particularly those in customer facing tasks. The estimated number of bank employees in Telangana who tested positive for COVID-19 has been put at two hundred, if not more. This means strain on banks as branches whose employees contract the virus have to close down for 2-3 days and get the premises sanitised. Also, other staffers are tested and asked to remain under quarantine. The State Bank of India, Hyderabad Circle, which on Thursday had appealed to customers to refrain from visiting bank branches unless necessary, decided to shut its Local Head Office in Koti on Friday and Saturday to sanitise the premises after a few employees tested positive. It had initiated similar measures at many of its branches, sources said, adding that a few employees had died of COVID-19. SBI is not alone in this as other banks also are grappling with the issue. Sources in Punjab National Bank said at any point 2-3 branches of the bank were closed. United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) convenor for Telangana R. Sriram, who is also general secretary of the SBI Staff Union, Hyderabad Circle, said this was the time when managements should address safety concerns of employees. Also, the banks should go by the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and, if needed, revisit the guidelines. Some measures that could go a long way in addressing the situation are alternate day working for bank employees, limiting the working hours from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., and increasing customer service points. Sources in Andhra Pradesh Grameena Vikas Bank said ever since the lockdown was relaxed, people had started taking things lightly. In rural areas, managing the rush of customers was proving to be a challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fear-grips-bankers-as-covid-19-cases-are-on-the-rise/article32119982.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Entire machinery should function from same complex: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao declared on Friday that the entire administration, right from himself down to the secretaries of all departments, would function from the same complex of the new Secretariat, once it comes up, unlike in the past, when they were scattered all over. A separate complex for the heads of departments should also be constructed close by, he said. “This will ensure that the entire government machinery is at one place,” he said at an official meeting to review the situation hours after the High Court gave the go-ahead for the demolition of old Secretariat buildings. The new Secretariat complex should enhance the prestige of Telangana, and yet provide all the amenities required for the seat of administration in the State, the CM said. The dignity in the exteriors of the new Secretariat complex should match the convenience of the interiors with their facilities. The officials should finalise the accommodation of Ministers, secretaries, meeting halls, staff chambers, lunch halls, centralised strong room, record rooms and other facilities. They should also finalise places of worship, banks, creches, visitors room, parking lot and accommodation for security. Only after finalising these amenities, should tenders be invited for their construction, the Chief Minister added.  The new Secretariat should enhance the prestige of Telangana, and yet provide amenities required for the seat of administration in State. The dignity in the exteriors of the complex should match the convenience of the interiors. K. Chandrasekhar Rao||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/entire-machinery-should-function-from-same-complex-kcr/article32119993.ece
18 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vikramarka: TS debt will cross Rs. 6L crore||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka has questioned the spree of loans being raised by the government and feared the total debt of Telangana would cross Rs. 6 lakh crore by the end of this government’s term. Speaking to reporters along with Sangareddy MLA T. Jagga Reddy, he said that the government had got the Governor’s signature on the enhancement of FRBM’s limit and through it, another Rs. 30,000 crore will be raised for 2020-21 financial year. Going by the government’s estimates, he said that Rs. 1.5 lakh crore will be raised in the next three years. “Telangana has already been pushed into a dangerous debt trap but CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao wants to continue his loan spree,” he claimed. He said that in 2014-15, when Telangana was formed, the debt burden was Rs. 79,880 crore but in 2015-16, it increased to Rs. 97,992 crore, in 2016-17 to Rs. 1,34,738 crore, in 2017-18 to Rs. 1,51,133 crore, in 2018-19 to Rs. 1,80,239 crore and in 2019-20 to around Rs. 2 lakh crore. Mr. Jagga Reddy warned Ministers Srinivas Yadav and Srinivas Goud for criticising Congress saying they were there to cover up the failures of the government rather than serving people. “Mr. Goud flourished under the Congress rule and criticises it now,” he said. Meanwhile, Congress leader and AICC secretary Ch. Vamshichand Reddy asked the CM to focus on the lakhs of private school teachers and lecturers not been paid for the last four months despite the government’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vikramarka-ts-debt-will-cross-rs-6l-crore/article32119995.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||File a report on camel slaughter: HC||The Telangana High Court on Friday directed State government to file a report on slaughter of camels in the State and sought to know if the government formulated any plan for the protection of camels. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL plea on slaughter of camels in Hyderabad, asked government counsel about the inspections of butcher shops by authorities. The next hearing was posted for July 29. Justice G. Sri Devi of Telangana High Court on Friday granted anticipatory to bail former CEO of TV9 Ravi Prakash in a case registered by Enforcement Directorate. The judge directed Mr. Ravi Prakash to surrender before the Assistant Director (PMLA), ED, Hyderabad, within four weeks and furnish a personal bond of Rs. 1 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/file-a-report-on-camel-slaughter-hc/article32119980.ece
18 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vignan, DPS achieve 100% results in CBSE||Vignan institutes achieved outstanding results with 100% pass in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) 10th class results. Nara Shrestha topped the institutions with 490 marks, followed by Vamsi Raman 97.4%, Siddhi 97.2% and Mouna Rajesh 97.2%. Rani Rudrama Devi, vice-chairperson of Vignan institutions, said 30 students secured more than 470 marks and one-third students secured more than 85% marks. She said the school did not believe in rote learning but in concept-based teaching. As a result of thorough revision and frequent tests, the students fared well. The institutions gave prominence to character building, co-curricular activities and extra-curricular activities also. Delhi Public School, Nacharam, secured 100% results with all the 557 students clearing the papers. The school topper is Sasi Snigdha Yadavalli with 97.6% and Navya Mitnala was second with 97.2%. Other toppers are Rishab Natarajan with 97%, Bharat Goel with 96.8%, and Makam Nikitha with 96.4%. Sunitha S. Rao, principal, said 80 students scored centum while 28 students scored above 95%, 160 students scored above 90%, 369 students scored 80% and above. She said 430 scored distinction (75%). KV’s topper Sristi from Kendriya Vidyalaya, NFC Nagar, Ghatkesar, topped the KVS in the twin cities in the CBSE 10th class examinations scoring 592 out of 600 marks. An all-rounder, Sristi is a good singer, debater and mentor for juniors and her dream is to become a civil servant, according to Sreenivasa Rao, principal. He said Medchal district Collector V. Venkateshwarlu and Deputy Commissioner Sree Shasheendran’s immense support to the school that led to such good performance though the KV was in a sub-urban area. Oakridge International Schools (OIS) Gachibowli and Bachupally secured 100% pass percentage with 27% students securing 90% and above. Vasana Srinivasan from OIS Gachibowli was the topper with 495 out of 500 followed by Manaswini Bachalakura and Arnav Kamdar (488/500), Varsha Kuditipudi and Harsh Garg (487/500). From OIS Bachupally Priyanshu Goyal was the top scorer (485/500), said Hema Chennupaty, principal OIS Gachibowli.Army Public School, Ramakrishnapuram, too achieved 100% results in both CBSE 10th and 12th with 70% of students passing in distinction. School chairman Brig J.S. Bhinder congratulated the students on their good performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vignan-dps-achieve-100-results-in-cbse/article32119984.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Doctors hail pay revision, incentives for frontline staff||The Telangana Government Doctors’ Association, and the Joint Action Committee on Friday welcomed the pay revision, which they said was due for over four years, as well as the decision to pay incentives to the outsourced healthcare workers in the front lines of the COVID-19 battle, including nurses. Speaking to the media, the doctors said around 3,000 healthcare professionals in the State will stand to benefit from the move, and that the revision as per Pay Revision Commission (PRC) recommendations is due from January 2016. The continuation of the 10% incentive to frontline healthworkers was also hailed. They also pointed out that Osmania General Hospital building is in urgent need of an upgrade and demanded the construction of a new facility on a war footing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doctors-hail-pay-revision-incentives-for-frontline-staff/article32119974.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central govt. lauds Mission Bhagiratha||The Mission Bhagiratha programme, a unique initiative to ensure supply of drinking water to all households, has won accolades from the Central government that said that the programme addresses one of the major concerns involved in equitable distribution of water among households. Union Jal Shakti Ministry’s National Jal Jeevan Mission director Manoj Kumar Sahoo said that the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) launched by the Centre envisaged supply of 55 litres per capita per day through functional household tap connections to every household by 2024. The JJM guidelines mentioned about the necessity to reduce loss in the distribution system. One of the common losses encountered in distribution system was that of over-drawl of water from the system by individual households using small motors leading to inequities. The Mission Bhagiratha programme has addressed this issue by installing a flow control valve with design of five litres a minute at the household connection point. Installation of the valve would help in reducing the opening and would maintain same flow rate even if pumps were used. This would, in turn, discourage individuals from installing private pumps to draw water. Mr. Sahoo, in a letter addressed to other State governments, advised them to consider installing such flow control valves in the distribution network to ensure equity and efficiency in water supply. A team of technical officers could study the Telangana model or any other model that could be successfully deployed in their respective states. The cost of the valve could be included as part of the estimate prepared in consonance with the village action plan. “This effort will go a long way in imbibing the spirit of rational and equitable use of water,” Mr. Sahoo said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/central-govt-lauds-mission-bhagiratha/article32119989.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Steady flow continues to Jurala||As the flood of over 90,000 cusecs continued into Jurala project, the discharge of the same from it to the river course was over 1.03 lakh cusecs helping the storage of Srisailam reservoir improve steadily. The water storage in Srisailam was over 53.1 tmc ft against its capacity of 215.8 tmc ft at 9 p.m. on Friday as the project was getting flood of over 99,000 cusecs. According to the flood monitoring engineers, discharge of the flood from the 10 crest gates of the spillway was over 64,000 cusecs and another 35,000 cusecs was being released to the river after power generation from the four units of 39 mw each at the power house there. The two power houses have generated over 15.4 million units of energy from July 14 to 16, with the help of sustained flood to the Jurala. Similarly, all the six generation units with 40 mw each at the Lower Jurala power house were also continuing generation of energy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/steady-flow-continues-to-jurala/article32119988.ece
18 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Breakthrough soon: DGP||DGP M. Mahender Reddy on Friday visited Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district and took stock of the situation in the backdrop of Maoists’ movements in the area. He exuded confidence that soon police would achieve a breakthrough in the anti-Maoist operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/breakthrough-soon-dgp/article32120005.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Arvind Kumar on Central panel||Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration & Urban Development Arvind Kumar has been chosen by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs to be among the steering committee members for the Prime Minister Street Vendors Atma Nirbhar Nidhi (PMSVA Nidhi). The decision was announced during a video conference by MoHUA on Friday. This is in recognition of Telangana's proactive measures for enrolment of 1.8 lakh street vendors from across the State, sources said. The PMSVA Nidhi is planned by the Centre as micro credit facility for street vendors hit by COVID-19 crisis, and offers interest subsidy of 7 % for those who avail loan under the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arvind-kumar-on-central-panel/article32119981.ece
18 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Suicide BRF||A sexagenarian couple succumbed at the Nalgonda district hospital on Friday, hours after they were rushed there for consuming pesticide. Munugode police said that Sarikonda Janakamma, 60, and her husband Saidulu, 65, were found unconscious at their house around 1.30 p.m. It was suspected that the duo consumed an unknown chemical substance to end their lives. According to preliminary investigation, police said that Janakamma had been suffering from an illness for the past five years, and that was possibly a reason they were depressed. (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: 040-66202000 or 66661117).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suicide-brf/article32119986.ece
18 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Atma Nirbhar Bharat loans reach Sangareddy||Shaik Fareed is a small vendor in the distrct headquarters town. The spread of corona pandemic turned his life upside down and he does not know what to do as taking loan from outside will cost him huge interest. Luckily, a ray of hope came his way. He was one among the few who attended a programme held at Collectorate on Friday where Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has extended a loan of Rs. 10,000 to each vendor under Atma Nirbhar Bharat, which was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi few weeks ago. Under this scheme, loans are being extended to street vendors in urban areas. Now Shaik Fareed, aged 50, who sells onions and potatos, wants to sell vegetables too after getting the bank loan. Union Bank of India, State Bank of India and Andhra Pradesh Grameen Vikas Bank have came forward to extend loans to the street vendors. Each vendor will be extended a loan amount of Rs. 10,000 on interest rate of 7%. The vendors have to repay the amount within in one year in 12 instalments with each instalment coming to about Rs. 945. e district administration has identified as many as 5,978 small vendors as eligible for these loans. This can be extended to another 1,500 vendors. “These loans are aimed at bringing life into the lives small vendors. Use the loans for a purpose and repay them in time. The bankers will be ready to double your loan amount once you repay the old loan. Do not waste the money. Rs. 6 crore is ready for this purpose,” said Mr. Harish Rao while addressing the meeting. The Minister directed the officials to create QR code for each vendor so that they can make digital transactions. The Minister informed the vendors that every 200 digital transactions a day will get them a bonus of Rs. 100 from the banks. The Minister urged Additional Collector Rajarshi Sha to identify the beneficiaries and extend loans. Lok Sabha member B.B. Patil, MLA Ch. Kranthi Kiran, Collector M. Hanumantha Rao, Zilla Parishad Chairperson P. Manju Sree and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/atma-nirbhar-bharat-loans-reach-sangareddy/article32120002.ece
18 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRFs||Some unidentified persons attacked the house of Banur vice sarpanch Mahesh Goud on Friday and damaged the furniture and other belongings. His wife Kalyani and father Lakshma Goud were injured and a car damaged. The injured were shifted to government hospital at Sangareddy. Indrakaran police registered a case and are investigating.    A family taking rest on the roadside was looted by unidentified persons in the wee hours of Friday. According to Circle Inspector Sridhar Reddy, one Bhupal Kense Gouda from Karnataka and his family were on their way to Hyderabad for some work at the passport office. As it was too late in the night, they stopped on the road side to take rest. Around 4.30 a.m., some miscreants threatened them and looted 14 tolas of gold and Rs. 26,000 cash. Sadashivapet police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brfs/article32119998.ece
18 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF-Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said on Friday that one should not neglect COVID but at the same time, need not worry, as long as all precautions were put in place. Along with Collector M. Hanumantha Rao and MLA Ch. Kranthi Kiran, he visited the special COVID block at MNR Hospital at Fasalwadi and examined the arrangements.He said that a 24x7 control room was established at the block with emergency number - 85000 54446 and manager on duty at 8147404627, 8985869633 and patient contact number 8500054446.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf-harish/article32119997.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Top Maoist ‘stuck’ in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad forest?||Is CPI-Maoist leader Mailerupu Adellu alias Bhaskar still moving in deep forests of Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district? Chances of he and his squad, who escaped thrice from police parties recently, slipping back to Chhattisgarh are less with the massive combing operations going on, say police sources. Adellu, CPI-Maoist State committee member, intelligence officials say, was spotted moving in the district. Searches on Along with squad members, he escaped after an exchange of fire in Thokkuguda of Thiryani mandal three days ago. Following this, local and special police parties stepped up their searches. Meanwhile, police got an alert that another squad of Maoists was moving in interior parts of Bhupalpally and Mulugu districts and surrounding areas. Police top brass decided not to leave anything to chance and launched massive combing operations while teams of Greyhounds, the elite commando force of the State, were deployed for launching field operations in case of a specific input. Special police parties have been deployed at all the ferry points along Pranahita river crossing which the Maoists enter these districts from Chattisgarh. “Most of the time, Maoists enter our areas from these ferry points. With our teams deployed there, chances of they returning by the same points are remote,” said a police officer unwilling to be named. Similarly, entry and exit points of all important routes and bridges were also secured by the police. No person can pass by these routes without being subjected to checking. “Maoists are unlikely to take these routes with searches all around. Yet a close surveillance has been kept on the bridges and roads,” the local police said. CPI-Maoist statement Meanwhile, the CPI-Maoist said that while it was observing self-restraint by not indulging in attacks in the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic, the governments of Central and State were trying to eliminate its members. It appealed to people to condemn the “arrests of people and attacks by Greyhounds” on Maoists. In a statement issued by Telangana State Committee spokesperson Jagan, the CPI-Maoist said in the recent past police have killed 20 revolutionaries in fake encounters in Dandakaranya. If attacks on people and ‘dalams’ are not stopped, leaders of TRS and BJP would not escape punishment in the hands of people, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/top-maoist-stuck-in-kumaram-bheem-asifabad-forest/article32119999.ece
18 July 2020||Mumbai,||State to check black marketing of remdesivir and tocilizumab||State Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Minister Rajendra Shingne on Friday said FDA officials have been instructed to check the black marketing of remdesivir and tocilizumab, two drugs essential for treatment of COVID-19 patients, and ensure that they are not sold at high prices. Mr. Shingne, who chaired a meeting of manufactures and distributors of both the medicines, said a toll-free number 1800222365 has been opened to lodge complaints regarding the black marketing of the medicines. The State government also said the availability of the two drugs will be increased in the coming days as their production is set to rise. The State will also be making public information on the rates and availability of all drugs used in the fight against the novel coronavirus. Officials said presently, both the drugs are manufactured outside Maharashtra. Remdesivir is manufactured at Hetero Healthcare in Hyderabad and Cipla in Goa while tocilizumab is imported by M/s Rosch and Cipla distributes it. The minister said since the import of tocilizumab is limited, there is an equivalent to it — itiozulmab from Biocon. “This other medicine can be used on doctor’s prescription. Since the medicines are in shortage, we have directed that these are used only for critical patients,” Mr. Shingne said. He said production of remdesivir is set to increase from Gujarat through Hereto Healthcare. “Another company called M/s Moylon from Gujarat is also going to bring remdesivir to market,” Mr. Shingne said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-to-check-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-and-tocilizumab/article32119944.ece
18 July 2020||Mumbai,||Aaditya urges Gadkari to save a 400-year-old tree||State Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray has written to Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways, requesting him to save a 400-year-old peepal tree from being cut in the construction of a national highway. This comes days after the State government wrote to the Centre to safeguard a sanctuary in Vidarbha from being part of a coal field and protect the core area of Melghat tiger reserve from the changing gauge of railway track.While thanking Mr. Gadkari for the ongoing construction work of the Ratnagiri-Kolhapur-Miraj-Solapur National Highway number 166, Mr. Thackeray said, “The road passes through Bhose village where a 400-year-old peepal tree, which is in front of the Yellama Goddess temple, falls in its path. The tree spread over 400 square meters is not only historical but also an abode to thousands of birds.” “Considering the importance of this tree, I request you to kindly alter the road construction plan,” Mr. Thackeray stated in his letter sent on Friday. This is the second letter from the Environment Minister to the Centre in four weeks. On June 22, he had written to Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar, expressing his opposition to the auctioning of proposed coal blocks in Tadoba-Andhari tiger reserve as they fall in the tiger corridor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aaditya-urges-gadkari-to-save-a-400-year-old-tree/article32119941.ece
18 July 2020||Mumbai,||Gonsalves, Teltumbde move HC for COVID-19 testing||After P. Varavara Rao, 81, tested positive for COVID-19, co-accused Vernon Gonsalves, 61, and Anand Teltumbde, 68, in the Bhima Koregaon case have moved the Bombay High Court urging the court to conduct a swab test on them, too, as they had been in close proximity with Mr. Rao inside Taloja Central Jail. Mr. Gonsalves was assigned to take care of Mr. Rao at Taloja Jail and was in close contact with him. The petition filed through advocate Devyani Kulkarni states the duo are at grave risk and there is danger to their lives. They are under an imminent threat of contracting COVID-19 virus or have already contracted the same as fellow co-accused Mr. Rao has tested positive. Mr. Gonsalves is a writer and a columnist and suffers from hypertension, high blood pressure and bleeding piles. Mr. Teltumbde is a professor and was the managing director and CEO of Petronet India Ltd. He suffers from chronic bronchitis asthma, chronic cervical spondylitis, supraspinatus tendinosis and postrtomegaly. The plea says they are both senior citizens and have underlying health ailments and are vulnerable to contracting the virus. It adds they ought to be shifted to a hospital and immediately tested for COVID-19 and kept in isolation for the safety of others. The matter is likely to come up for hearing on July 20 before a single Bench of Justice S.S. Shinde||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gonsalves-teltumbde-move-hc-for-covid-19-testing/article32119945.ece
18 July 2020||Mumbai,||Building collapse death toll rises to 9||The death toll in the building collapse in Fort area of Mumbai has gone up to nine with one of them, a 17-year-old boy, succumbing to his injuries at J J Hospital here on Friday, civic officials said. Two people were killed after a corner portion of a six-storey building, Bhanushali, caved in around 4.45 p.m. on Thursday. Three others, rescued from the site, were declared dead at the hospital around midnight on Thursday. A 62-year-old woman, who was taken out from the debris and taken to J J Hospital, died on Friday morning, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said. Two others — a 35-year-old man and a 23-year-old woman — were later pulled of the rubble and shifted to J J Hospital, where they were declared brought dead on Friday afternoon, the officials said. Two others injured in the collapse are undergoing treatment, the officials said. The building had been partly vacated for repairs by MHADA, BMC sources said. In 2019, MHADA had applied for Intimation of Development which the BMC granted, and thereafter it was MHADA’s responsibility to get the building vacated and repair it, Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mumbai-building-collapse-death-toll-rises-to-nine/article32119938.ece
18 July 2020||Mumbai,||State calls for keeping Bakri Eid celebrations low key||The Maharashtra government on Friday appealed to people to keep the Bakri Eid celebrations a low-key affair and avoid crowding by following physical distancing norms. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh urged people to offer namaz at home instead of going to a mosque or at a public place. Mr. Deshmukh said currently-operating livestock markets shall remain closed and that if citizens want to buy animals, they will have to do so online or by telephone. “Citizens shall make symbolic sacrifices if possible. The restrictions imposed in the containment areas will remain in force. There will be no relaxation on the occasion of Bakri Eid. Citizens shall not crowd any public place or gather on the occasion,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-calls-for-keeping-bakri-eid-celebrations-low-key/article32119942.ece
18 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||COVID-19 patient allegedly rapes woman at quarantine centre||The Panvel Taluka police have booked a 25-year-old COVID-19 patient for raping a 40-year-old woman at a quarantine facility at Indiabulls at Kon village in Panvel. The police said on July 15, the accused brought food for his brother, who is quarantined on the fifth floor of the facility, but he accidentally entered the woman’s room. After a brief conversation with the woman, he left her room. The next day, the accused was also placed under quarantine on the second floor of the facility as he was a close contact. The police said the accused entered the complainant’s room at 7.30 p.m. and told her he was a doctor. “He enquired about her health and she told him she had body aches. The accused said she needed a massage and made her undress. He then raped her,” assistant police inspector Nitin Pagar said. The woman said in her complaint that the accused dragged her into the bathroom and covered her mouth with his hand to prevent her from raising an alarm. However, the accused has claimed that the act was consensual, the police said. The woman complained to the authorities at the centre and an FIR was registered on Friday. Senior police inspector Ashok Rajput said, “Their swab samples were taken, but their reports are awaited. The accused was then made to undergo a rapid antigen test and he tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. We have not arrested him. He is still under quarantine at the centre .” The woman and the accused had been placed under quarantine by the Panvel Municipal Corporation . The NMMC has clarified that it has not placed any women under quarantine at the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-patient-allegedly-rapes-woman-at-quarantine-centre/article32119939.ece
18 July 2020||Pune,||‘Pune district heading towards medical catastrophe’||Siddharth Shirole, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Pune, has alleged that both the State government and the Pune administration have failed to address the critical issue of shortage of ICU beds and ventilators in the district hospitals. Warning that Pune was hurtling towards a medical catastrophe, Mr. Shirole sought the Centre’s intervention to ramp up the medical infrastructure. In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, the MLA stressed that neither the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government nor the Pune administration had come up with any concrete plan to set up a 10,000-bed Covid care treatment centre. “Pune city is days away from a medical cataclysm. Pune district is among the three highly-infected districts in the country. Yet, neither the administration has any foresight nor has the State government any political will to deal with the crisis,” he said, adding that the Chief Minister had not paid a single visit to the city to oversee the preparedness. Mr. Shirole’s letter comes after a noted city-based scientist Dr. P. Lakshminarasimhan, recently retired from the Botanical Survey of India, died on Wednesday allegedly owing to lack of ICU beds at the State-run Sassoon General Hospital. “The administration is misleading citizens with data on bed availability while the State government has abandoned Pune’s citizens to fend for themselves,” said Mr. Shirole, stating that the purpose of his letter of appeal to the Centre was not to indulge in politics but to alert the State government of Pune’s dire situation. He pointed out that the administration was banking on private hospitals which were sorely overstretched. Pune district meanwhile, reported 1,300 cases on Friday, taking the total case tally to 46,276 with over 16,000 active cases. The Pune civic body has issued show cause notice to 25 private hospitals for not correctly displaying bed management information on the dashboard. Deputy Chief Minister and Pune Guardian Minister Ajit Pawar also urged the administration to ensure that patients received treatment on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pune-district-heading-towards-medical-catastrophe/article32119937.ece
18 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra tally crosses 2.9 lakh with 8,308 cases||Maharashtra reported 8,308 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, its second-highest single-day jump yet, taking its tally to 2,92,589. A surge of 258 deaths was also recorded, pushing its toll to 11,452. This is the third time in a week that a single-day spike of over 8,000 cases has been recorded in the State. Mumbai’s case load has risen to 99,164, with 1,214 new cases, while 62 more deaths have raised its toll to 5,585. The city accounts for 23,948 of the 1,20,480 active cases in the State. Maharashtra’s tally of recoveries has surged to 1,60,357, with 2,217 patients being discharged. Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, “The State’s recovery rate stands at 54.81%, while its case fatality rate is 3.91%.” While Health Department officials said Pune’s case load rose to 49,037, with over 3,000 new cases, the district administration’s figures till evening put its tally at 46,276, with a surge of 1,300 cases. The district has reported 45 deaths, taking its toll to 1,282. 25 deaths in Nashik Nashik reported 25 more deaths, taking its toll to 353, while nine deaths raised Solapur’s toll to 377. Nashik also reported a surge of 466 cases, taking its total case tally to 8,640, of which 3,392 are active cases. High fatality surges were also reported from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, with Thane district reporting 11 fatalities to take its total death toll to 827. Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli reported 14 deaths each, pushing their respective tolls to 334 and 271. Vasai-Virar reported 11 deaths to take its total to 200. Thane tally crosses 27,000 Thane also reported a surge of 631 cases, pushing the district’s total case tally past the 27,000 mark. Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 461 new cases, taking its case load to 17,122. Navi Mumbai added 262 new cases, pushing its tally to 12,266. Ulhasnagar reported 241 cases to take its tally to 5,504. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar reported 241 and 255 more cases, pushing their total case tallies to 6,581 and 9,054 respectively. Raigad district saw a big spike of 251 fresh cases, raising its total tally to 5,441. Panvel reported a sharp spike of 151 new cases, taking its tally to 5,017. Aurangabad district, a virus hotspot in the Marathwada region, reported a big surge of 255 new cases. Its total tally has now reached 9,195, of which 3,892 are active cases. With five more deaths being recorded on Friday, the district’s death toll has touched 360. 38,000 samples tested Dr. Awate said, “Till date, of a total of 14,84,630 laboratory samples, 2,92,589 (19.7%) have tested positive. Nearly 38,000 samples were tested across the State on Friday.” He said that 7,24,602 people across the State are in home quarantine, while 44,284 are in institutional quarantine.  The State’s recovery rate stands at 54.81%, while its case fatality rate is 3.91% Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-tally-crosses-29-lakh-with-8308-cases/article32119940.ece
18 July 2020||Beijing,||U.S. officials have ‘lost their minds’: China||U.S. officials have “lost their minds and gone mad” in their dealings with Beijing, China’s Foreign Ministry said on Friday, in the latest verbal salvo between the two superpowers. Tensions between Washington and Beijing have run high this year and some of the most outspoken critics of China in American Congress were this week hit with sanctions, days after the U.S. imposed visa bans and asset freezes on several Chinese officials. U.S. Attorney General Bill Barr added fuel to the fire on Thursday when he accused Beijing of mounting an “economic blitzkrieg” to replace Washington as the world’s pre-eminent power and spread its political ideology around the world. Comments that distract But Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said Mr. Barr and other American officials were criticising China to distract from domestic political problems. “These people, for self-interest and political gain, do not hesitate to hijack domestic public opinion... to the point where they have lost their minds and gone mad,” she said. Ms. Hua added that China had no intention of challenging or replacing the U.S. and said she hoped that Washington could “return to rationality” in its China policy. “A sparrow cannot understand the ambition of a swan,” she said. “This is a serious misjudgment and misunderstanding of China’s strategic intent.” Mr. Barr accused hackers linked to the Chinese government of targeting American universities and businesses to steal research related to COVID-19 vaccine development, levelling the allegation against Beijing hours after Western agencies made similar claims against Russia. “The People’s Republic of China is now engaged in an economic blitzkrieg — an aggressive, orchestrated, whole-of-government (indeed, whole-of-society) campaign to seize the commanding heights of the global economy and to surpass the United States as the world’s preeminent technological superpower,” Mr. Barr said. Mr. Barr’s speech amounted to a wide-ranging condemnation of what he said were Beijing’s tactics to gain an economic upper hand in the 21st century, and to engage in influence campaigns touching diverse corners of American life, including business, politics and even entertainment. Multiple accusations Mr. Barr warned that universities which welcome Chinese-funded initiatives could unwittingly lose control of academic research. Numerous Trump allies have issued strongly worded messages over China in recent days, coming at a time when bilateral relations have fallen to their lowest point in decades over issues from accusations of technology theft to China’s claims in the South China Sea. “Because everyone knows that China is in a leading position in the research and development of new coronavirus vaccines, we have first-class scientific research personnel, and we do not need to gain a leading position with theft,” Ms. Hua said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-officials-have-lost-their-minds-china/article32119606.ece
18 July 2020||Islamabad,||Taliban makes big changes ahead of talks with Kabul||The Taliban has put the son of the movement’s feared founder in charge of their military wing and added several powerful figures to their negotiating team, Taliban officials said. The shake-up, one of the most significant in years, comes ahead of expected talks with Kabul aimed at ending decades of war in Afghanistan. As head of a newly united military wing, 30-year-old Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob brings his father’s fiercely uncompromising reputation to the battlefield. Equally significant is the addition of four members of the insurgent group’s leadership council to the 20-member negotiating team, Taliban officials said. The shuffle, overseen by Taliban leader Mullah Hibatullah Akhunzada, is meant to tighten his control over the movement’s military and political arms, the officials said on condition of anonymity. Analysts say the shake-up could be good news for negotiations with the Afghan leadership, and a sign of how seriously the Taliban are taking this step in a deal Washington signed with the insurgents in February. Positive development “I’d say it appears to be a positive development because the Taliban are creating a delegation that seems more senior and more broad-based than they’ve used to date, or than might be strictly necessary for the opening stages of talks,” said Andrew Wilder, vice president of the Asia Program at the Washington-based U.S. Institute of Peace. When the U.S. signed the deal with the Taliban on February 29, after more than a year and a half of negotiations, it was touted as Afghanistan’s best chance at peace in four decades of war. It was also seen as a road map for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan, ending America’s longest war. On Monday, four-and-a-half months since the signing, chief U.S. negotiator Zalmay Khalilzad tweeted that “a key milestone in the implementation of the U.S.-Taliban agreement” had been reached as American troop numbers dropped to 8,600 from about 12,000 and five bases were closed in Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-makes-big-changes-ahead-of-talks-with-kabul/article32119604.ece
18 July 2020||United Nations,||UN blacklists Pak. Taliban leader Noor Wali Mehsud||The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) terror group’s leader Noor Wali Mehsud has been designated as a global terrorist by the UN for participating in the financing, planning and perpetrating acts on behalf of and in support of entities associated with al-Qaeda. The UN Security Council’s 1267 ISIL and Al-Qaeda Sanctions Committee added Mehsud, 42, to the ISIL (Da’esh) and Al-Qaeda Sanctions List on Thursday, subjecting the Pakistani national to an assets freeze, travel ban and arms embargo.  Became chief in 2018 In June 2018, Mehsud was named the leader of Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, following the death of former TTP leader Maulana Fazlullah. The TTP was blacklisted by the UN on July 29, 2011 for its association with al-Qaeda. Under Noor Wali’s leadership, TTP has claimed responsibility for numerous deadly terrorist attacks across Pakistan, including an attack targeting Pakistani security forces in North Waziristan in July 2019 and a bomb attack against Pakistani soldiers in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in August 2019, the Sanctions Committee said. The group had claimed responsibility for an attempted bombing in Times Square on May 1, 2010, and in April 2010, it had launched a multi-pronged assault against the United States Consulate in Peshawar, killing at least six Pakistanis and wounding 20 others, the Committee added.  Designated a terrorist The U.S. State Department’s Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs (SCA) said in a tweet that it welcomes the addition of Mehsud by the UN to the sanctions list. The TTP is responsible for many deadly terrorist attacks in Pakistan. The U.S. domestically designated Noor Wali as a terrorist in September 2019, it said in the tweet. Blacklisting by the Security Council entails that all states are required to freeze without delay the funds and other financial assets or economic resources of designated individuals and entities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-blacklists-pak-taliban-leader-noor-wali-mehsud/article32119611.ece
18 July 2020||Washington,||Pompeo gives divisive speech at report’s release||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo delivered a divisive speech Thursday calling for the U.S. to ground its human rights policy more prominently in religious liberty and property rights. Mr. Pompeo’s speech, at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia, came as he announced the release of a report created by a panel he commissioned last year to suggest how U.S. human rights policy could better reflect the “nation’s founding principles.” “It’s important for every American, and for every American diplomat, to recognise how our founders understood unalienable rights,” Mr. Pompeo said. “Foremost among these rights are property rights and religious liberty.” Human rights scholars have criticised Mr. Pompeo’s panel since its inception, noting it was filled with conservatives who were intent on promoting views against abortion and marriage equality. Critics also warned that it sidestepped the State Department’s internal bureau responsible for promoting human rights abroad. Experts have said that Mr. Pompeo’s efforts to prioritise religion in particular above other ideals in U.S. diplomacy could reverse the country’s long-standing belief that “all rights are created equal” and embolden countries that persecute same-sex couples or deny women access to reproductive health services for religious reasons. Culture war At the event on Thursday, which opened with a religious invocation from Cardinal Timothy Dolan, the archbishop of New York, Mr. Pompeo also waded into the culture war against what President Donald Trump recently called “a merciless campaign to wipe out our history, defame our heroes, erase our values and indoctrinate our children.” Since naming the Commission on Unalienable Rights, as his panel is called, Mr. Pompeo has expressed confidence that it would create a document that enshrines religious freedom as a central tenet of U.S. human rights policy. But human rights scholars cautioned that this could set a global precedent for other nations to define human rights on their own terms. The commission is led by Mary Ann Glendon, a Harvard Law School professor and a prominent anti-abortion activist. The commission’s draft report will undergo a two-week public comment period before it becomes final.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pompeo-gives-divisive-speech-at-reports-release/article32119619.ece
18 July 2020||Frankfurt am Main,||Security agencies can’t have unfettered access to online data: German court||Germany’s highest court on Friday said security services had too much unfettered access to people’s online data and ordered legislation to be revised to set higher hurdles. German intelligence services and police agencies currently have the right to ask telecom and Internet companies for user info ranging from names and birth dates to passwords and IP addresses, to help their investigations. But the Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe agreed with complaints brought by privacy activists that the access to data was excessive and an unconstitutional violation of citizens’ right to telecoms privacy. In their ruling, judges said the current powers to retrieve data were “disproportionate”. Judges said they agreed that intelligence bodies sometimes needed to pull personal data from smartphones or other devices to maintain public security. But they said this should only be done in cases of “a specific danger” or “an initial suspicion of criminal conduct” in the context of an investigation, and not to facilitate investigators’ work “in general”. German legislators have until the end of 2021 to amend the telecommunications law to include “thresholds for the use of these powers”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/security-agencies-cant-have-unfettered-access-to-online-data-german-court/article32119607.ece
18 July 2020||Jerusalem,||Israel announces new COVID-19 restrictions||Israel announced sweeping new restrictions on Friday in response to a new surge in COVID-19 cases, including weekend closures of many businesses and limiting restaurants to take-out and delivery. The government announced the restrictions after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said “interim steps” were needed to avoid another lockdown.  Stores, malls, barber shops, beauty salons and tourist sites will be closed on weekends. Public gatherings will be limited to 10 people indoors or 20 outside. The Cabinet approved the new measures pending approval by Israel’s Parliament, but said they would take effect on Friday. By late May, Israel had largely contained its outbreak following a two-month lockdown. But cases have soared in the weeks since restrictions were lifted, with Israel reporting around 1,900 new cases on Thursday alone. At least 384 people have died since the outbreak began, out of a total of more than 45,000 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-announces-new-covid-19-restrictions/article32119609.ece
18 July 2020||New York,||Suspect held in grisly killing of U.S. tech entrepreneur||The personal assistant of a young tech entrepreneur who was found decapitated and dismembered in his Manhattan apartment this week was arrested early on Friday and is expected to be charged in the grisly killing, according to two officials briefed on the matter. The entrepreneur, Fahim Saleh, 33, was discovered dead on Tuesday afternoon by his sister inside his $2.25 million condo, police said. She found a gruesome scene: Saleh’s head and limbs had been removed, and parts of his body had been placed in large plastic bags. An electric saw was still plugged in nearby. The personal assistant, Tyrese Devon Haspil, 21, was expected to be charged with second degree murder and other crimes. Detectives believe that the motive for the killing stemmed from Saleh having discovered that the assistant had stolen tens of thousands of dollars from him, despite the fact that Saleh had not reported the man and had set up what amounted to a repayment plan for him to return the money, one of the officials said.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/suspect-held-in-grisly-killing-of-us-tech-entrepreneur/article32119615.ece
18 July 2020||Moscow,||Moscow, July 17, 2020 (AFP) -||President Vladimir Putin has ordered snap military drills involving 1,50,000 personnel and hundreds of aircraft and naval vessels to ensure “security in Russia’s southwest,” the Defence Ministry said on Friday. Earlier this month, Mr. Putin oversaw a vote that amended the Constitution.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-july-17-2020-afp/article32119612.ece
18 July 2020||Oslo,||Oslo, July 17, 2020 (AFP) -||A British national was arrested on Friday after a Ryanair plane flying from London to Oslo received a bomb threat, Norwegian police said, the second threat against a Ryanair flight in a week. Fighter jets from neighbouring Denmark escorted the plane to the Norwegian capital, where it landed safely.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/oslo-july-17-2020-afp/article32119614.ece
18 July 2020||Tokyo,||Tokyo, July 17, 2020 (AFP) -||A Japanese rocket carrying the first Arab mission to Mars will blast into space on Monday, after being delayed by bad weather, the launch company said on Friday. The lift-off of the UAE’s ‘hope’ probe, originally planned for Wednesday, is now set for 6.58 a.m. on Monday from Tanegashima Space Centre in southern Japan, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tokyo-july-17-2020-afp/article32119613.ece
18 July 2020||Atlanta,||Rev. C.T. Vivian, key civil rights leader, has died at 95||The Rev. C.T. Vivian, a civil rights veteran who worked alongside the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and later led the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, has died. Mr. Vivian, 95, died at home in Atlanta of natural causes on Friday morning,said his friend and business partner Don Rivers. President Barack Obama had honoured Mr. Vivian with the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2013.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rev-ct-vivian-key-civil-rights-leader-has-died-at-95/article32119617.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Telangana’s COVID trials and tribulations||Around 8 a.m. on June 27, a distressed health volunteer sat next to his sick younger brother outside the Government General and Chest Hospital in Hyderabad. The brother, a software engineer, had had nine days of fever and shortness of breath. Suspecting COVID-19, the family rushed him to hospital. Two hours had passed since they reached the hospital, which had 308 beds, including 105 designated for those suspected of having COVID-19. But there was no information on whether he could be admitted. “He desperately needed oxygen support, but no one from the hospital told us how much time it would take to admit him,” the health volunteer said. The family spent several hours in agony. Finally, the 34-year-old techie was admitted a little after 10 p.m. Many other patients and attendants who wanted to get admitted at other government hospitals in the capital reported similar complaints. The beginning COVID-19 didn’t seem much of a threat to the Telangana government even when the first patient suspected of having the disease was detected in the last week of January. A 34-year-old postdoctoral research scholar in chemistry, who was studying at a laboratory in Wuhan, China, returned to Hyderabad on January 20. He was admitted at the Sir Ronald Ross Institute of Tropical and Communicable Diseases. The State health department officials sent his samples for testing to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. At the same time, they chalked out plans on where COVID-19 patients could be admitted. Everyone breathed a sigh of relief when the research scholar tested negative. As days passed, more people suspected of having the disease were detected and more samples were sent to the institute for tests. All of them tested negative. More than a month later, on the afternoon of March 2, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare announced that a techie from Telangana with a travel history to Dubai had tested positive for COVID-19. That was the first case in the State. The 24-year-old from Hyderabad, who was working in Bengaluru, had developed symptoms a few days after returning from Dubai. He was admitted in State-run Gandhi Hospital and was diagnosed with pneumonia. The State government got down to tracing the techie’s contacts. Gandhi Hospital, where he was admitted, was later turned into the largest isolation centre in the State. It has been designated as a ‘Centre of Excellence for COVID Care’, but several issues, such as of COVID-19 patients on oxygen support waiting for hours for their soiled diapers to be changed, are hampering its reputation. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao spoke of the techie in the State Assembly on March 7 and tried to allay fears. Quoting some doctors, he said a paracetamol tablet was sufficient to fight COVID-19. He called the techie a “ sannasi daridrudu (unfortunate nincompoop)”. He also claimed that the virus cannot survive in temperatures above 22 ° C, despite the fact that there is no scientific basis for this claim. Coming under flak for his comments, Rao later said on record in the Assembly that it was a scientist who had told him that paracetamol would cure fever induced by COVID-19. He added that the statement had been blown out of proportion. Police high-handedness Soon after appealing to the people to remain calm, Rao announced a complete lockdown in the State from March 23 to March 31. Telangana was among the first States to announce a lockdown. The number of cases in the State then stood at 21. The government closed the inter-State borders during the period. No vehicles, except goods vehicles carrying essentials like medicines, were allowed into the State. The State government also suggested to the Union Health Ministry that all international passengers be stopped from entering as a majority of those who had tested positive until then had returned from abroad. The decision to impose a lockdown was largely welcomed by everyone, but questions remained. During the initial days of the lockdown, a string of press conferences were held where some of these questions were raised. A reporter asked if the lockdown would resemble a curfew. Rao asserted that a lockdown was not a curfew, even as the Director General of Police issued new orders for a curfew-like bandobast. As day gave way to night, people began complaining about police excesses, especially in the three urban police commissionerates — Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda — of the State capital. Over the next few days, videos and photographs of police personnel chasing people on the roads and beating them mercilessly emerged on social media. In Wanaparthy, a man was assaulted by the police in front of his 12-year-old son, which forced IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao to intervene and direct the District Superintendent of Police, Apoorva Rao, to personally meet and apologise to the child. On the first day of the lockdown, several journalists were roughed up by the police despite showing their identity papers. In Khammam, a woman doctor who was on her way to the hospital was abused and assaulted by an Assistant Commissioner of Police. Police officers told The Hindu that they had received instructions from their seniors to use force and create an atmosphere of fear. “The zonal officers were asked not to take calls from influential personalities. Our men were told to control any situation using batons,” said a senior police officer. “It was a tough time. Every senior officer gave us different instructions,” an inspector with the Hyderabad City Police said. “We were very confused. We all did whatever we felt was right according to the situation on the ground. Some of our men used their batons to control the situation and keep people inside. Many people were injured in the process.” In a recent counter affidavit filed in the Telangana High Court on allegations that the Falaknuma police personnel had damaged vehicles parked outside homes in a residential area, the Hyderabad Police Commissioner, Anjani Kumar, submitted: “The police had checked the vehicles using police lathis in order to see whether coronavirus was present or not”. Though this statement was widely condemned on social media, no action has been taken against the lathi-wielding policemen. The migrant crisis While contact-tracing of foreign returnees as well as those who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi was being done, a new crisis began unfolding, like in the rest of the country. Abruptly left without any means of livelihood, food and money following the imposition of the lockdown, migrant workers began their exodus from Hyderabad. Over days and weeks, thousands of workers, clutching their belongings and their children, were seen walking in Hyderabad and other districts bordering Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. They were all desperate to go home. Even a month later, the scene did not change. Workers walked hundreds of kilometres to reach homes as far away as in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The Chief Minister’s attempts to woo them back with 12 kg rice and Rs. 1,500 in cash for each family did little to stop them. According to officials, there were more than 7 lakh migrants in the State. While some of them did choose to stay back after receiving help from the police, members of civil society and NGOs, the rest left. Those who chose to stay back were not happy either. On April 29, for instance, more than 2,000 migrant construction labourers stationed in the premises of IIT-Hyderabad erupted in agitation against their employer, the construction firm L&T, for forcing them to live in poor conditions during the lockdown. They claimed that they were left to fend for themselves, without any pay or help. Clashes with the police caused injuries to at least one police officer and damage to one police vehicle. The incident changed the State government’s policy towards the workers. Two days later, on May 1, the Telangana government started sending back the workers home in special trains. Till June 10, the South Central Railway in coordination with the State government ran 146 special trains to send back more than 1.88 lakh migrants to their hometowns in Bihar, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Assam and Manipur. On May 23-24 alone, 41 trains took workers to five different States. The workers began going back, but many of them also carried the virus with them to the districts. Lack of transparency Though it was among the first States to impose a lockdown immediately after the Janata Curfew, Telangana started conducting fewer and fewer tests. Worse, it stopped sharing information on cases and samples tested, in its daily medical bulletin, from March 25 to June 15. Doctors attending to COVID-19 patients in the State started comparing the State medical bulletin with the medical bulletins of other States on WhatsApp groups or on Twitter to ask why the Telangana health department was not releasing day-wise data on tests conducted. Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender and officials in the health department responded to the criticism by saying that the tests were being conducted according to the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research. “When we strictly follow ICMR guidelines, we get more cases. Our accuracy of tests is greater. More tests can be conducted, but what purpose will it serve if tests are not focused and less positives are detected,” asked officials in the health department. As criticism for conducting fewer tests mounted, the State government, on June 14, decided to conduct 50,000 tests in 10 days in 30 Assembly constituencies of Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Vikarabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Sangareddy districts. Tests and treatment at private laboratories and hospitals were allowed. On the Chief Minister’s directions, charges for tests at private establishments were capped at Rs. 2,200. For samples collected from homes, the rate was fixed at Rs. 2,800. A huge surge in positive cases was observed after the initiative was launched, from June 15. Besides RT-PCR tests, rapid antigen tests too were used from around July 8 to detect COVID-19 cases. The health department’s June 16 and June 17 bulletins published information about the number of tests conducted, but this information again disappeared from the June 18 bulletin only to reappear the next day. After the health department started to conduct rapid antigen tests, questions were raised again about the break-up of tests and cases between RT-PCR and the antigen tests, which was not mentioned. Reasons for spread of virus The lack of data was especially a problem given that by the end of May, there was a spike in cases. Though people had their theories for this, they sought answers from the government. On May 30, the State’s Director of Public Health, Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao, said increased movement of people following lockdown relaxations in May had led to the spike. Officials blamed the people for the surge in cases. The numbers in rural Telangana also went up rapidly when workers who had migrated for work to Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and other States started coming back home. “The influx of migrant workers was very high, especially in the Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, Mancherial and Jagtial districts. Thousands of them were coming back every day, many with the infection. But cautious villagers and the strategy of the police department helped us in containing the spread of the virus,” said an IPS officer. According to the officer, the infection came to Telangana in three waves: first, with the foreign returnees; next with the Markaz returnees; and then with the migrant workers, before community spread started. “Many people who went to Cancer Hospital and other hospitals in Hyderabad for their regular treatment also returned with the infection. A few workers died within days of coming back to their native places,” the officer said. While harsh measures were used to control the pandemic, politicians continued with their meetings. “A large number of politicians, party workers and officials gathered together when the Chief Minister launched the sixth phase of Haritha Haram, the tree plantation programme, in Medak recently. There was no physical distancing and many were not even wearing masks,” the officer said. Whether that made any difference to the number of cases or not, only time can tell. The Home Minister of Telangana tested positive for COVID-19 and was under treatment in a private hospital. He has now been discharged. Problems in private labs The cumulative positivity rate till July 15 was 18.85%, one of the highest in the country. Health department officials said there were discrepancies in private laboratories which had led to the high test positivity rate. Four teams inspected 16 private laboratories in Hyderabad in the last week of June. They suspected that a few labs had been conducting pool sampling. Instead of testing each sample in a pool, if even one sample in a pool tested positive, all samples were declared positive. Other discrepancies too were observed in the private labs. However, the officials did not provide precise data on the number of samples tested at government and private labs, which helps determine whether private labs have contributed to the high test positivity rate. The State government also came under criticism for another reason. From July 7, old Secretariat buildings began to be demolished in order to construct a new Secretariat. These buildings could have been used to accommodate more COVID-19 patients, people and Opposition parties said. Struggle in hospitals Four and a half months after the first COVID-19 case was detected in Telangana, 39,342 cases were detected as on July 15, the seventh highest number of cases in the country. Telangana has among the lowest test rates (tests per million people) in India and the lowest in south India (5,722 per million people). Hospitals are struggling not only with beds but also with other infrastructural and manpower-related issues. On Wednesday, rainwater from storm water drains gushed into the in-patient block of Osmania General Hospital where patients were undergoing treatment (those suspected of having COVID-19 are treated in the out-patient block). Doctors said rather than recovering, patients were likely to contract new infections in such unhygienic conditions. They are worried that such a situation, if it were to occur in the out-patient block, might cause a grave health crisis. In Gandhi Hospital, over 600 outsourced staff comprising patient care providers, sanitation workers and others boycotted duties from Tuesday demanding regularisation of job and hike in salaries. They draw only Rs. 9,500 per month. They called off the protest on Wednesday after daily incentives and one week of quarantine after one week of work was assured to them. In the District Hospital, King Koti, people have complained that lack of a help desk or signboards has left them clueless, forcing them to spend time waiting for help among scores of other COVID-19 patients. Private hospitals are filling up; many are not admitting patients. Meanwhile, in one of the private hospitals, the techie’s brother is gasping for breath. The techie has fully recovered but his brother is now struggling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/telanganas-covid-trials-and-tribulations/article32119602.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Iran ties need quiet diplomacy||Recent reports that Iran’s Transport and Urban Development Minister Mohammed Eslami had launched the track laying programme for the 628 km long rail link between Chabahar and Zahidan last week sparked concerns that India was being excluded from the project. Iran has since clarified that it is not the case and India could join the project at a later stage. This keeps the door open for Ircon International Limited (IRCON) which has been associated with the project even as India continues with the development of Chabahar port. Connectivity for Afghanistan Providing connectivity for Afghanistan through Iran in order to lessen its dependence on Karachi port has enjoyed support in Delhi, Kabul and Tehran since 2003. Chabahar port on Iran’s Makran coast, just 1,000 km from Kandla, is well situated but road and rail links from Chabahar to Zahidan and then 200 km further on to Zaranj in Afghanistan, need to be built. With Iran under sanctions during the Ahmadinejad years (2005-13), there was little progress. IRCON had prepared engineering studies estimating that the 800 km long railway project would need an outlay of $1.6 billion. Meanwhile, India concentrated on the 220 km road to connect Zaranj to Delaram on the Herat highway. This was completed in 2008 at a cost of $150 million. Things moved forward after 2015 when sanctions on Iran eased with the signing of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or the Iran nuclear deal. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed with Iran during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Tehran in 2016 to equip and operate two terminals at the Shahid Beheshti port as part of Phase I of the project. Another milestone was the signing of the Trilateral Agreement on Establishment of International Transport and Transit Corridor between Afghanistan, Iran and India. In addition to $85 million of capital investment, India also committed to provide a line of credit of $150 million for port container tracks. Phase I was declared operational in 2018 and India’s wheat shipments to Afghanistan have been using this route. A special economic zone (SEZ) at Chabahar was planned but re-imposition of U.S. sanctions has slowed investments into the SEZ. India was given a waiver from U.S. sanctions to continue cooperation on Chabahar as it contributed to Afghanistan’s development. Despite the waiver, the project has suffered delays because of the time taken by the U.S. Treasury to actually clear the import of heavy equipment such as rail mounted gantry cranes, mobile harbour cranes, etc. With regard to the rail-track project, a financing MoU was signed under which India undertook to provide $500 million worth of rolling stock and signalling equipment including $150 million of steel rail tracks. In fact, the railway tracks currently being laid are those supplied by IRCON. Iranian responsibility was for local works of land levelling and procurement. The MoU between IRCON and Iran’s Construction and Development of Transportation Infrastructures Company (CDTIC) expired last year. Further, Khatab al Anbiya, the Iranian company undertaking some of the works, was listed by the U.S. as special designated entity, leading IRCON to suggest to the Iranians to appoint another contractor. Meanwhile, Iran has ambitious plans to extend the railway line from Zahidan to Mashad (about 1,000 km) and then another 150 km onwards to Sarakhs on the border with Turkmenistan. Another plan is to link it with the International North-South Transport Corridor towards Bandar Anzali on the Caspian Sea. In 2011, a consortium of seven Indian companies led by Steel Authority of India Limited had also successfully bid for mining rights at Hajigak mines in Afghanistan that contain large reserves of iron ore. However, developments at Hajigak remain stalled because of the precarious security situation in Afghanistan continues. Why Iran needs China In January 2016, just as sanctions were eased, Chinese President Xi Jinping visited Tehran and proposed a long-term comprehensive, strategic partnership programme that would involve Chinese investment in Iranian infrastructure and assured supplies of Iranian oil and gas at concessional rates. Reluctant to be tied into too close a Chinese embrace, Iran kept the negotiations going for years. China patiently permitted a limited barter trade; China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (SINOPEC) prolonged its negotiations on developing the Yadavaran oilfield while China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) pulled out of the South Pars gas project last year, after initially promising to take over the French company Total’s stake. Meanwhile, tensions in the region have been growing since last year with missile strikes in Saudi Arabia claimed by the Houthis and a U.S. drone strike in January killing Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) chief Gen. Qassim Soleimani. During the last four weeks, there have been more than half-a-dozen mysterious explosions including at the ballistic missile liquid fuel production facility at Khojir, the advanced centrifuge assembly shed in Natanz and the shipyard at Bushehr. Reports attribute these to U.S. and Israeli agencies in an attempt to provoke Iran before the U.S. elections. In May, the U.S. announced that it wanted the UN Security Council (UNSC) to continue the ban on Iranian acquisition of conventional weapons. UNSC Resolution 2231 was adopted in July 2015 by consensus to endorse the JCPOA and contains a five-year restriction on Iran’s importing conventional weapons that ends on October 18. Even though the U.S. unilaterally quit the JCPOA, it is threatening to invoke the automatic snapback of sanctions provisions of JCPOA. The United Kingdom and France have criticised the U.S.’s duplicity but are unlikely to exercise a veto. At the same time, Iran hopes that November may bring about a change in the White House that opens options for dialogue. Tehran’s balancing act Just as it has been a tricky exercise for India to navigate between the U.S. and Iran to keep the Chabahar project going, the Rouhani administration has found it a difficult balancing act to manage the hardliners at home while coping with Trump administration’s policy of ‘maximum pressure’. Russia and China are the only countries to veto the U.S.’s moves in the UNSC. Even so, the Iran- China comprehensive, strategic partnership road map has run into opposition in the Majlis. After the recent elections, the Reformists are down from 120 seats to 20 while the Principlists (Conservatives) are up from 86 to 221 seats in a house of 290 members. A former IRGC Air Force commander, Mohammed Bagher Ghalibaf, former Mayor of Tehran who ran unsuccessfully for president against Mr. Rouhani in 2013 and 2017 has been elected the new Speaker. Hard liners have accused Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif of undue secrecy surrounding the agreement amid rumours that China may be taking over Kish island and that Chinese troops would be stationed in Iran to secure Chinese companies and investments. Advantages and a lesson Iran may well be considering a long-term partnership with China, but Iranian negotiators are wary of growing Chinese mercantilist tendencies. It is true that China has greater capacity to resist U.S. sanctions compared to India but Iran realises the advantage of working with its only partner that enjoys a sanctions waiver from U.S. for Chabahar since it provides connectivity for land-locked Afghanistan. Iran and India also share an antipathy to a Taliban takeover in Afghanistan. This is why Iran would like to keep the door open. Nevertheless, India needs to improve its implementation record of infrastructure projects that it has taken up in its neighbourhood. There are numerous tales of Indian cooperation projects in Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, etc suffering delays and cost overruns that only make it easier for China to expand its footprint in India’s neighbourhood. The key is to continue to remain politically engaged with Iran so that there is a better appreciation of each other’s sensitivities and compulsions. Rakesh Sood is a former diplomat and currently Distinguished Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/iran-ties-need-quiet-diplomacy/article32119595.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||University examination guidelines that score low||The University Grants Commission’s (UGC) guidelines of July 6, 2020 on conducting final-year examinations for university students have created a storm. The commission’s insistence on online or pen-paper or a blend of the two modes in conducting examinations, albeit with a much delayed timeline, has been widely criticised. Punjab, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Odisha and Tamil Nadu have already raised objections. Uttar Pradesh has announced that its universities will hold examinations. Delhi University students have termed the decision arbitrary and discriminatory, and have challenged it in the Delhi High Court. The guidelines state that performance in examinations is necessary for “reflection of competence, performance and credibility that is necessary for global acceptability”. In the latest UGC communication, 182 universities have already conducted the examinations and 234 are planning to hold them in August and September. Ground realities It is a matter of concern that our education system continues to be examination-centric and these guidelines fail to take into account the fact that the validity of examinations fundamentally depends on their reliability. Most examinations in India merely test an ability to recall facts or information rather than an understanding of those facts or an ability to use them in practical situations. Most teachers too are not trained in setting good papers particularly for online open-book examinations. Certification through examination is important but cannot and should not be the sole goal of education. Hundreds of our students every year take unfortunate steps because of examination stress. A one size fits all cannot apply to our universities as we have all kinds of universities, i.e. unitary, affiliating, private and subject specific. There is nothing like the UGC in the United States. The UGC was fundamentally meant to be the fund granting institution as is clear from its nomenclature. But the UGC Act 1956 does confer on it the power of ‘coordination and determination of standards’ in universities as well and, therefore, it has become the regulator of higher education. Today, the higher education sector is overregulated and underfunded. The present government at the Centre wants to replace the UGC with a higher education commission. The United Progressive Alliance too had introduced a bill on similar lines. Since universities are autonomous bodies, in these testing times this autonomy can help us in finding solutions keeping in view the specific situation of each university. In fact the first set of guidelines regarding examinations and academic calendar was issued by the UGC on April 29 and was demonstrative of UGC Chairman Prof. D.P. Singh’s flexible and inclusive approach, allowing universities to promote students not in their final year, on the basis of a combination of internal evaluation and marks/grades in previous semesters. These guidelines gave much flexibility to universities and were welcomed. However, this scheme was not extended to final-year students. Before the new UGC guidelines were released, Rajasthan, Haryana and Maharashtra had already cancelled examinations for final-year students. Let the cooperative federalism rather than ego guide us in this matter. While the decision has been justified by reference to other universities across the world, the systems that these universities are following are largely accommodative of students’ concerns. In fact in foreign universities, each teacher has the freedom to devise his own evaluation mechanism. The shadow of the virus India has just attained the dubious distinction of having one million cases of the novel coronavirus and a number of States are bringing back lockdowns of various types; so, the September 2020 deadline does not inspire much confidence. If the virus continues to spread, no university administration will be in a position to announce examinations, and students will continue to be in a limbo about their future. While the guidelines state that the decision has been taken keeping in view the future of the students — jobs and higher education — these prospects are, in fact, harmed by this decision. In normal circumstances, examinations would have been conducted and either results announced or provisional certificates given by this time. These help students who are graduating confirm their admissions in institutes of higher education or report at their places of employment by furnishing proof of them having completed the course. The current system does not provide for any such possibility. Although universities which are smaller in size of student intake have started online classes, big traditional universities and the colleges affiliated thereto already lack the assurance of starting of the next academic year. More discrimination possible In case the infection does not subside (which seems to be the real prospect as per the World Health Organization’s latest communication), it would mean that the UGC either extends the deadline further or universities are forced to conduct online exams. In the latter case, the UGC would have imposed a patently discriminatory policy on the students — issues with access to the Internet, electricity and study materials, as well as a lack of a study environment in homes would go unaddressed — and it would only manifest the disparity prevalent in the education system. In the former case, it only furthers the uncertainty, and even if the UGC decides to allow universities not to conduct examinations, this entire exercise would be pointless. In any case, the period of four to six months would have impacted students differently. The elite, with the privilege of being unaffected by the crisis caused by the infection as well as its economic ramifications will be much better placed than their peers without the same level of assuredness. The whole purpose of university acting as an equaliser will be lost. Students from a humble background, from remote areas and those with doctors/health workers as parents or are coronavirus positive in families would be at a disadvantage. Finally, what is baffling is the idea that just one semester of examinations will be determinative of the integrity and value of a degree for which students would have worked hard for six to 10 semesters, and have also appeared for internal examinations for the sixth or 10th semester. It is difficult to understand why the last semester examination is so sacrosanct when our curriculum follows the cumulative rather than the hierarchical system. We expect that better sense will prevail and the UGC will eventually take the decision that would be equitable, fair, pragmatic and beneficial and not one that is risky and exclusionary of any set of students. Unprecedented times call for bold steps and unprecedented decisions, and the UGC must act accordingly. Let the voices of sanity be taken into account and results be declared taking into account student performance in earlier semesters and internal evaluation of the final semester. Let the mental health of students and their anxieties be taken into account. Heavens are not going to fall if we discard the examination-centric view, at least in this emergency for just one semester. Faizan Mustafa is Vice-Chancellor of NALSAR University of Law. Sughosh Joshi is a student at NALSAR. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/university-examination-guidelines-that-score-low/article32119598.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Milestone of a million||India was hoping that the extended lockdown alone might help it win the battle against the novel coronavirus, but the microbe has been spreading with renewed vigour. So much so that on July 16, the number of confirmed infections and deaths crossed grim milestones — one million and 25,000, respectively. If it took 109 days to reach 1,00,000 cases but just 15 days to double, the days taken to add each additional one lakh cases have been shrinking; the last two additions of one lakh cases to reach one million took just three days each. While the rising fresh cases reported each day could be ascribed to increased testing, the underlying reason for the case rise is undoubtedly the wide spread of the virus in the community. With surveillance not being commendable, the 10.3% test positivity rate nationally in the last few days shows that a very large pool of infections remains undiagnosed. Though the number of tests done daily has now crossed three lakh, the high test positivity rate underscores the need to increase the number of daily tests, by at least a few-fold. Any delay in tracing, testing and isolating the infected and their contacts will only lead to an unimaginable spread of the virus. As already seen in a few Indian cities, a cascade of events beginning with a delay in disease detection can overwhelm the health-care system to negatively impact the case fatality rate, which is currently very low. Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, which initially appeared to have contained the virus spread, have seen sharp surges. If Bengaluru bucked the trend in the early stage, it has become a standing example of how the cookie crumbles when cases spike and the system is not fully geared for the challenges. Aggressive tracing and testing helped Chennai reduce the surge. But the coming days will reveal if its 12-day lockdown in June had greatly contributed to this. While Delhi appears to have hammered down the test positivity rate in recent weeks, over-reliance on rapid antigen tests, which have low sensitivity, raises concerns about true case detection. Maharashtra appears to have pulled off a coup in Dharavi through outstanding work, but like Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, the State has been witnessing a spike in other districts. With a 9.1% test positivity rate, Gujarat has made no attempts to greatly increase daily tests but instead appears to be disingenuously limiting the number of daily tests to keep fresh cases per day under check. Telangana too, with a test positivity rate of 18.4%, has made no great effort to increase daily tests, which have crossed 13,000 only in the last couple of days. Telangana defies the trend of rising cases during the pandemic, raising serious concern about its numbers. Examples such as New York have shown that it is never too late to bend the curve. But for that, States need to fight the virus, not manage the data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/milestone-of-a-million/article32119590.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Beyond the pale||The emergence of purported evidence of horse-trading to engineer a split in the Rajasthan Congress and the subsequent moves by the camps of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot have shown that there are always fresh tricks up the sleeves of Indian politicians. The opposing sides have presented varying accounts of what led to the political crisis that continues to play out, but some elementary facts appear increasingly self-evident. Mr. Pilot has been acting in tandem, if not in connivance, with the BJP, though there can be a dispute regarding the endgame. A charitable view of his actions is that he merely wanted to increase the pressure on the Congress central leadership to intervene in the prolonged turf war he has been fighting with Mr. Gehlot. And it is certainly not beyond comprehension, though a bit startling, that he and the BJP have been colluding to knock down the government he himself was part of until a few days ago. The pattern of activities and the characters all point to the overlap between his plans and the BJP’s. Even before Mr. Pilot made public his displeasure with Mr. Gehlot, the MLAs supporting him were rounded up in a resort in BJP-ruled Haryana. Raising a grievance within the party, whether with the central leadership or in the legislature party, did not need such a step. His subsequent moves only reinforced the suspicion that Mr. Pilot had it all planned out, for a journey out of the Congress, though his destination may still appear foggy. Unlike in Madhya Pradesh, where a similar sequence of events led to the collapse of the Kamal Nath government, the Congress managed to limit the damage. The State police filed an FIR against an alleged middleman, BJP Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, and an MLA who has since been suspended from the Congress. The Rajasthan police have set out to procure voice samples of MLAs housed in Haryana who allegedly feature in audio clips that apparently incriminate them in the conspiracy. The Speaker has issued notices to Mr. Pilot and 18 MLAs under the anti-defection law for defying the party whip and not attending legislature party meetings. In a plea by the Pilot camp, the Speaker has informed the High Court that the time to reply to the notice will be extended till July 21. Altogether, this has set the scene for multiple, potentially ugly, confrontations — between two States, a State and the Centre and the judiciary and the legislature. Regardless of the final outcomes of the legal and legislative processes, there is no moral or political justification for this unscrupulous attempt to dislodge a democratically elected government. That this is happening a second time in the midst of an advancing pandemic, a border conflict and an economic slowdown is beyond the pale. That this gets passed off as a fight for inner party democracy or recognition of talent is just preposterous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/beyond-the-pale/article32119591.ece
18 July 2020||MANCHESTER,||Stokes, Sibley put England in charge||Ben Stokes piled on the agony for the West Indies with a century in the second Test at Old Trafford on Friday after Dom Sibley’s painstaking hundred finally came to an end. England was 378 for five at tea on the second day, with Stokes 172 not out in a match the host needs to win to level the three-Test series. He put on 260 for the fourth wicket with Sibley. Sibley’s hundred was one of the slowest in Tests by an England batsman, the opener batting for 471 minutes to complete a 312-ball century featuring just four fours. But the 24-year-old’s second hundred in eight Tests was a valuable innings all the same. Run-scoring was difficult against the swinging ball and a sluggish outfield, with even the normally fluent Stokes taking nearly six hours and 285 balls to reach his 10th Test century. But, significantly, Stokes’ third fifty came off just 46 balls and, having given Sibley a ‘head start’ of 31.2 overs, he overtook his teammate’s score. After England resumed at 207 for three, with on Sibley on 86 and Stokes unbeaten on 59, West Indies made a wayward start with Shannon Gabriel bowling several wide deliveries. Sibley reached his hundred before lunch while Stokes was unbeaten on 99 at the break. The latter went to three figures with a cheeky reverse-swept four off off-spinner Roston Chase. Delightful strokes Holder delayed taking the new ball until the 94th over, perhaps concerned it would make run-scoring easier for England. As if proving that point, Stokes promptly clipped the paceman through midwicket for four. Stokes surpassed that shot when he check-drove a Alzarri Joseph delivery for six over midwicket. Having batted for over nine hours, Sibley holed out to deep midwicket off Chase on 120. Stokes had moved to 157 when a diving Shai Hope failed to hold a tough chance at gully off Gabriel. Ollie Pope then fell leg-before to give Chase, the spinner’s fourth wicket.  England 469-9 declared England declared at 469 for nine in 162 overs in its first innings. Stokes was dismissed by Roach for 176. Bess (31) and Broad (11) remained unbeaten||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stokes-sibley-put-england-in-charge/article32119728.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ness’ magic touch gets Pranjala back on course||A lower back injury had kept Y. Pranjala away from the courts for nearly a year. A timely visit to Melbourne, before lockdown around the world, and efficient care from Paul Ness, a renowned physio who deals with elite athletes including top tennis players regularly, has set her career back on course. After Pranjala won all her three matches at a UTR event in Melbourne, it was interesting to catch up with Ness to get his perspective. “Pranjala had injured her lower back when she overstretched for a return. The back had become stiff. Her usual treatments and exercises were not able to loosen it up. She lost strength around the area and general fitness,” says Ness. He was able to put her into a routine to relieve her from the trouble. “The first part was to make her flexible again. As her movement improved, we worked on strengthening, starting with basic core exercises. “We then added general strengthening and tennis-specific exercises. Pranjala has a fantastic work ethic. We worked out a programme to make her lighter and faster on her feet,” says Ness. The physio, who along with his wife Stacy, has taken care of Pranjala since February was happy with the progress. It was coach Stephen Koon who suggested that Pranjala approach Ness. Go Sports Foundation took care of the expenses, as Pranjala obtained a fasttrack visa to reach Melbourne. “Pranjala has put in a huge effort to develop the strength and fitness a professional tennis player needs. It was a long process and she did not lose focus. We had small setbacks along the way, which is normal, and her level now is better than it has ever been. I am hopeful that she will be able to compete at a very high level,” says Ness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ness-magic-touch-gets-pranjala-back-on-course/article32119869.ece
18 July 2020||Johannesburg,||du Plessis bats for Black Lives Matter||Former South African captain Faf du Plessis on Friday came out in support of Black Lives Matter and said a comment he made in January that “we don’t see colour” had been a mistake. The BLM issue has shown up racial divisions in South African cricket, with 30 black former international players claiming earlier this week that racism remained a factor in the game, 29 years after the formation of a single controlling body. Du Plessis, who resigned as captain of the national team in February but remains available as a player, said in an Instagram post that his support for BLM came at a time when there were many injustices in South Africa. “If we wait only for the ones that attack us personally, we will always live for ‘my way versus your way’ and that way leads us nowhere,” he said. Some white South Africans, including former players, have linked the BLM issue with the murder of white farmers, claiming that all lives matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/du-plessis-bats-for-black-lives-matter/article32119865.ece
18 July 2020||TOKYO,||Olympic Games schedule remains the same||Next year’s Tokyo Olympics will follow an almost identical competition schedule as the one planned for this year before the event was postponed due to the novel coronavirus pandemic, organisers said on Friday. The new date for the opening ceremony at the newly-built National Stadium — July 23, 2021 — had already been announced but the full schedule was pending final approval until Friday when the Tokyo 2020 organising committee made a presentation to the IOC Session in Lausanne. “Today we are able to report that we have confirmed both the competition schedule and the use of all venues originally planned for this year, including the venue for the athletes village and the main press centre,” said Tokyo 2020 CEO Toshiro Muto. The new schedule means women’s softball will kick-off competition in Fukushima on July 21, two days before the Games officially open, with all events taking place a day earlier than the 2020 schedule. There have also been some minor changes to session times. The Games are set to be the biggest ever in terms of events, with a record 339 medals available, before the closing ceremony on Aug. 8. The marathon and race walking events will remain in the northern city of Sapporo after being controversially moved out of Tokyo because of the anticipated scorching summer heat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-games-schedule-remains-the-same/article32119863.ece
18 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Deccan Chargers axing deemed illegal||Deccan Chronicle Holding Ltd. — the owner of the now defunct Deccan Chargers — has been awarded a compensation of Rs. 4814.67 crore plus 10% interest from 2012, by a Bombay High Court-appointed arbitration tribunal, on Friday. According to a statement released by the law firm Dhir and Dhir Associates, ‘the tribunal found illegal the termination of the Deccan Chargers IPL team by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI).’ The statement added: “The dispute arose in the fifth IPL season, when the BCCI issued a show-cause notice for termination.” It remains to be seen whether the BCCI will challenge the verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deccan-chargers-axing-deemed-illegal/article32119722.ece
18 July 2020||Madrid,||Real dethrones Barcelona, wins 34th LaLiga title||Real Madrid was crowned LaLiga champion for the 34th time on Thursday after Karim Benzema scored twice in a 2-1 victory over Villarreal which clinched the title with one game to spare. Benzema’s double included a second-half penalty at the empty Alfredo di Stefano Stadium as Madrid moved seven points clear to end Barcelona’s two-year hold on the trophy. Barca had to prevail against Osasuna at home and hope Madrid slipped up but its fading challenge ended with a 2-1 defeat at Camp Nou, despite a brilliant Lionel Messi free-kick.   The results:   Premier League: Crystal Palace 0 lost to Manchester United 2 (Rashford 45+1, Martial 78); Everton 1 (Walcott 87) drew with Aston Villa 1 (Konsa 72); Leicester 2 (Perez 29, Gray 79) bt Sheffield United 0; Southampton 1 (Ings 66) drew with Brighton 1 (Maupay 17).   LaLiga: Eibar 3 (Bigas Rigo 21, Inui 28, De Blasis 90+2-pen) bt Valladolid 1 (Guardiola Navarro 71); Athletic Bilbao 0 lost to Leganes 2 (Guerrero 81, Assale 90+4); Barcelona 1 (Messi 62) lost to Osasuna 2 (Jose 15, Torres 90+4); Real Betis 1 (Loren 90+4) lost to Alaves 2 (Joselu 53, Ely 77); Celta Vigo 2 (Mina 36, Aspas 45+1) lost to Levante 3 (Bardhi 11, 28, Mayoral 52); Getafe 0 lost to Atletico Madrid 2 (Llorente 54, Partey 80); Real Mallorca 1 (Cucho 20) lost to Granada 2 (Diaz 45+1, Fernandez 69); Real Madrid 2 (Benzema 29, 77-pen) bt Villarreal 1 (Iborra 84); Real Sociedad 0 drew with Sevilla 0; Valencia 1 (Gameiro 17) bt Espanyol 0.   Serie A: Torino 3 (Bremer 31, Lukic 76, Belotti 90) bt Genoa 0; SPAL 0 lost to Inter Milan 4 (Candreva 37, Biraghi 55, Sanchez 60, Gagliardini 73).   I’m not too expressive. But inside, I am very happy. So you can see my most beautiful smile. Today we can be happy Zinedine Zidane Real Madrid manager||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-dethrones-barcelona-wins-34th-laliga-title/article32119731.ece
18 July 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI apex panel meeting: no major decisions taken||The apex council of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) preferred to play the waiting game on the numerous issues surrounding Indian cricket during a marathon four-hour meeting on Friday. While none of the office-bearers was available for an official reaction, The Hindu understands that the Indian men’s team’s revised FTP and domestic cricket schedule, two crucial issues on the agenda, have been postponed for finalisation. While it was discussed that the domestic season could not start before December, as reported in these columns on Friday, the council decided to wait for the government advice regarding resumption of international cricket. Even though the fate of the Indian Premier League wasn’t on the agenda, the issue was discussed with the United Arab Emirates being an alternate venue in case the T20 World Cup in October-November is postponed and the Indian government allows the BCCI to stage the IPL overseas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-apex-panel-meeting-no-major-decisions-taken/article32119721.ece
18 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Humpy in final||Koneru Humpy stunned Hou Yifan 6-5 to enter the final of the fourth Grand Prix leg of the FIDE Chess.com Women's Speed Chess Championship on Friday. It was an exciting semifinal that went down to the wire. The scores were level 5-5 going into the last game. In the nerve-wracking finale of the one-minute-plus-one-second game, Humpy prevailed. In Sunday's final, she will meet Alexandra Kosteniuk of Russia, who defeated Sarasadat Khademalsharieh of Iran 7.5-3.5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/humpy-in-final/article32119720.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘There is no bidding war for content between different OTT platforms’||With Netflix announcing a slew of new direct-to-digital arrivals on its platform, expectations are sky-high as the competition with other OTT services in India grows steadily. Vice-President of Content at Netflix India Monika Shergill underlines the platform’s focus on creating more original content in the country.  Granted the pandemic and subsequent lockdown is a factor, but how are big Bollywood stars convinced to release their films on OTT platforms? If you look at our upcoming Originals, we have a whole slew of our own commissioned films with the likes of a Kajol or Anil Kapoor coming on board, that Netflix has been heavily investing in. In the west, we have had Chris Hemsworth’s Extraction and more recently, Charlize Theron’s The Old Guard . This proves that stars coming on board for a digital release isn’t a challenge really. For us, as a full-scale entertainment service, our perspective has always been about casting the right talent. The recent line-up of content announced has no south Indian content; is that a vertical the platform plans to focus on eventually? Our regional cinema titles, especially in south India have gotten great response on the service. Vijay’s Sarkar , Rajinikanth’s Petta and Allu Arjun’s Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo are some of the titles that have done exceedingly well in recent times. We are definitely very invested in finding stories from down south and there is a lot of interest towards adding more and more to it. When a big-budget film is up for acquisition, does a bidding war happen between platforms? I can safely say that all the different services have a tremendous appetite for content and the consumers are eager for more. There’s no bidding war as such; the first choice always lies with the creator as to where they wish to go and which platform their story will best fit. I can’t speak for the other sites, but the team at Netflix is very conscious that we want to work with the best, and so have no qualms reaching out to filmmakers and asking them to collaborate with us too. How do you handle situations such as the recent ‘#BoycottNetflix’ controversy in the wake of the release of Telugu film Krishna and his Leela ? There are many consumers out there who liked all the kinds of content we put out. We certainly don’t intend to hurt anyone’s sentiments, and we all thought KAHL was a wonderful film. It’s important for viewers to have choice and control; that’s why we have trailers, synopsis and maturity ratings. We are constantly working with the government as well as industry peers to ensure that the consumers’ freedom is not impacted, and that artistic freedom and excellence is at the forefront of what we do. Netflix India has been supporting many female filmmakers in recent times, could you elaborate on that? Our consistent focus area is to bring to light original and passionate voices — and this is also determined by a lot of women executives here at Netflix, who have sought to work with first-time women filmmakers such as Ruchi Narain ( Guilty ) and Anvita Dutt ( Bulbbul ). It makes for a really interesting and joyful experience. What has been Netflix’s biggest learning or takeaway from this lockdown? We feel extremely fortunate, almost humbled that we have been a meaningful service to people during these tough times. Stories are the way to connect to one another, and provide an escape, comfort or distraction. Our major learning is that people are always hungry to discover new things. We have always had accessibility issues, or challenges such as people not having the time to explore the platform and not being keen to try content in different languages; we are seeing that change now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/there-is-no-bidding-war-for-content-between-different-ott-platforms/article32119862.ece
18 July 2020||Lausanne,||Hockey: Indian men to begin against NZ||The Indian men’s hockey team will open its campaign against New Zealand in the Tokyo Olympics on July 24 next year. The women’s side will be up against the Netherlands in its first match on the same day. India has been clubbed alongside Australia, Argentina, Spain, New Zealand and host Japan in a tough Pool-A. In the women’s competition, India is in Pool-A with the Netherlands, Germany, Great Britain, Ireland and South Africa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/hockey-indian-men-to-begin-against-nz/article32119724.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 08:02 IST,||Sudoku - July 18, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-18-2020/article32120551.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Books to eat||A book waved out to me from the dusty corner of a bookshelf last week. I pulled it out, recalling that it was a part of a series by Lawrence Sanders that had given me great pleasure once upon a time. The books were about simple mysteries solved by a character called Archy McNally. What had me totally gripped, though, was the description of sandwiches that McNally periodically created in his kitchen. The thought of the sandwiches opened up the floodgates of sandwich memories. Whenever I think of sandwiches, I first think of Novelty Dairy and Store, as it is formally called, though aficionados also know it as Hawker’s House. It is at the corner of Birbal Road in Jangpura (phone: 011-43584168). The shop has been around since 1951, and I first tasted their sandwiches more than 25 years ago; I have been a die-hard fan ever since. I looked up the Net to see if they were delivering their sandwiches, and, to my utter joy, I found that they were, and in my neck of the woods, too. So our dinner one night consisted of sandwiches that came from Hawker’s House. We asked for three plates of chicken sandwiches in white bread (Rs. 100 for a packet of four triangles), chicken burger (Rs. 130), tuna sandwich in brown bread (Rs. 130), and sugar-free cold coffee (Rs. 150). The sandwiches were deliciously soft, and the stuffing, as always, was moist and tasty. They use a layer of a special mayo, and then fill it with sliced chicken, chicken salami, or mashed tuna. This is served with a tart green chutney and tomato ketchup. We tried out their chicken burger, too — a thick chicken patty flanked by onion and tomatoes nestled in the largish bun. The bun was soft, the patty crisp — and the two complemented each other well. I found it a bit salty though. The delivery menu also includes mutton burger (Rs. 130) and mutton burger with cheese (Rs. 150). There are other kinds of sandwiches, too: chicken toasted in brown bread (Rs. 120), vegetable sandwiches (Rs. 90), cheese sandwich (Rs. 100), pork ham sandwich (Rs. 100) and tuna in white bread (Rs. 120). The normal cold coffee (much loved at home) costs Rs. 90. They also deliver omelettes: the chicken cheese omelette with two slices of bread costs Rs. 130. Shanti Swarup ji, who ran the store, is no more, but his son and family have ensured that the standards are still high. The mayo that is added to the sandwiches is spiced up in the kitchen, and the chutney is prepared with fresh coriander leaves, onion, garlic and a bit of mint. A family member tells me a strict hygiene protocol is being maintained — the staff is tested for body temperature every day and they have a sanitizing machine. I finished the last crumbs of the chicken sandwich and thought fondly of Archy McNally. Time I pulled out the other Lawrence Sanders. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/books-to-eat/article32119895.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown music videos go mobile||Dheer Momaya of Jugaad Motion Pictures is an “empathetic producer” and a provider of “tender visual design” in the video credits of singer-songwriter Prateek Kuhad’s latest release ‘Kasoor’ — which has over a million views on YouTube. It was director Dar Gai’s way of injecting a little fun for her team who had sifted through over 500 crowdsourced videos sent in by fans as well as comedian Kunal Kamra, singers Jonita Gandhi and Kavya Trehan and actors Jim Sarbh and Zoya Hussain. Momaya says that the complicated emotions that we see up-close in the music video were prompted by questions that Gai sent out to the participants, based on her own interpretation of the song. ‘Think about your first love’, goes one question. ‘Your hardest break-up’, is another. You almost forget this is phone and laptop-camera footage. The concept, he says, stemmed from the fact that right now everyone is looking at each other through a digital screen. The newest music videos to emerge during the pandemic, despite repeated lockdowns curtailing movement, are an exercise in creativity. While some singers continue to have minimal involvement in the process, leaving it up to the experts, many are releasing either animated or lyric videos, or recording material on their mobile phones. Of course, such phone-shot videos are by no means a new phenomenon. Pre-lockdown, rapper Divine’s music video for ‘Jungli Sher’, was shot entirely on an iPhone. For artistes like progressive rock band Coshish, it would have been considered a strategic partnership to create footage on a phone. Pune-based post-rock band Aswekeepsearching teamed up with OnePlus over three years ago to create tour performance videos (although none of their music videos were fully shot on a phone). In January 2020, they released a video for ‘Aitbaar’ off their 2019 album Rooh , completely shot on OnePlus phones. Storytelling over tech Today, there are examples a plenty. Kolkata rock band Pelican Shuffles had a really fun video featuring animal companions for their song ‘Foolish Beings’, while Ritviz’s video for ‘Thandi Hawa’ is also crowdsourced as fans and dancers show off their moves. Mumbai rock band Pull called on their fans to give them footage from their pre-lockdown travels for their new music video ‘Ticket’. Composing duo Rahul Kannan and Kaushik Ramachandran released ‘Akele’ on June 23, a minimal yet hopeful track about the future. Hosted by media platform Terribly Tiny Tales as part of their ‘Songs from Home’ music series, a monochrome video portraying home life was filmed by Srinivas Sunderrajan and Prerana Manker (of Mumbai-based Enter Guerrilla Films). While it was shot on a 2017 model Google Pixel 2 XL, Sunderrajan (also known as Vaas, bassist for hardcore band Scribe) says he’s “old school” enough to want to put it through an editing software like Final Cut, which he downloaded on an old laptop. Sunderrajan has previously worked on music videos but had been focussing more on films. All he used was a selfie stick, experimenting with focus and frames to tell the story of ‘Akele’. “I think phones are the perfect thing for lockdown. It works much better than a drone or any other camera you may not have easy access to at this time. It doesn’t matter if it isn’t 4K resolution. At the end of the day, it is what you want to shoot,” he says. Momaya says the medium of filming has never mattered much to the team at Jugaad either, whether they use a DSLR camera or drones or big sets or even visual effects. “It is always the story and the concept, and really, the attitude that lends itself to a certain type of treatment,” he says. A one-off experiment? Bengaluru folk-fusion band Swarathma’s heartfelt new song ‘Mushkil Mein Jeena’ also feature the band members (and their families) in a DIY music video. They shuffle through cue cards with lyrics, making a simple idea effective. Interestingly, Swarathma caught up with an already increasing side-effect of phone shot videos — the vertical viewing format (see box). Also based in Bengaluru, Jammu-origin artist Rohit Singh Bhau released a Dogri song ‘Kelli?’ (‘Why?’) in April, with a VFX and filter-adorned video. Unlike the amount of planning and storyboarding that goes into a regular music video, Bhau tells us that shooting free-range on the phone allowed the conceptualisation process to be “on the spot and a lot of fun.” He adds, “My roommate, Oran Brahma, shot it with his Android phone, mostly at dawn to avoid people. I had to do a lot of experimentations with the overlay graphics and stop-motion animations.” At present such music videos work for indie musicians on a budget. But production houses might see it as a one-off, not wanting to be limited by a phone. With Jugaad often busy with movie projects, Momaya says they’re “very selective” about the videos they do, not just due to budget demands, but also the constraints of the format. “Then there are the caveats, especially with the bigger labels. Their singer needs to be featured, so you can’t tell a story which is completely independent of the artiste,” Momaya says. Nevertheless, this is the team that also put together Kuhad’s ‘Cold/mess’ and shot on phone for producer-singer Ritviz’s ‘Raahi’. Momaya recommends flexibility when it comes to shooting. “The videos we’ve designed are around the limitations that we faced during the pandemic and the Indian version of lockdown. We wrote these stories lending themselves to be shot on anything. We try to find what fits best for that specific time,” he concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lockdown-music-videos-go-mobile/article32119546.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Uncorked: India’s wine teachers online||During the extended lockdown, online has been the one way to go. But what do wine aficionados and hospitality students do once they have done clocking countless virtual wine tastings, daily wine webinars and round-the-clock Insta wine chats? The answer is move on to something productive and career-oriented online, like expanding their wine learning. While many educational biggies worldwide have successful online wine courses, the big lockdown news is that top Indian wine pros have now jumped on the bandwagon: Sonal Holland has launched her own online course, while sommeliers Magandeep Singh and Gagan Sharma have launched the IWBS (Institute of Wine & Beverage Studies) course. Both are affordable and great for beginners and budding professionals. Sonal Holland’s 60-Minute Wine Pro  Duration: 1 hour; cost: Rs. 2,200 inclusive of taxes  For Holland, jumping into creating an online crash course on wine was “a natural progression” of her teaching and consultancy career. India’s first and only Master of Wine, Holland has spent 10 years training classrooms full of hospitality professionals, but “groups like ITC have properties all around the country, and classroom teaching isn’t easy to access due to distances and travel times,” she says. While the course had been in prep for a while, Holland took her time releasing it, to build a “global curriculum suited to the Indian market”. She says, “Developing content takes time. Quality, format, design and the technology content don’t happen overnight.” She launched last month and saw an immediate, enthusiastic response: 72 courses were registered for on day one. The beauty of the course, she explains, is that “it says 60 minutes [yes, it is short and zippy] but it is intense”. I agree. The information is clearly laid out, concise and easy to follow. The level of learning can be benchmarked against the venerable WSETs (Wine & Spirit Education Trust, the world’s most authoritative wine school) Level 1 and some of Level 2, for a fraction of their cost. The course is divided into 10 modules, consisting of images, graphics and Holland’s voiceover explanations. She expounds on the concept of terroir and what makes a good wine great, explains the difference between New and Old World wines, describes the eight dominant grape varieties, discusses wine and food pairings, service and storage, and busts some common myths. The content is clear and concise, with good production values. She is also not afraid to call things to account: in the section on Indian wines, besides listing top producers, she mentions how they “struggle with consistency over vintages”. In the much-needed section on myths, she explains how not every wine is ageworthy — 95% have a two-three year shelf life, and that screwcaps do not indicate inferior quality. After completing the modules, participants must take and pass a multiple-choice quiz based on the course content, after which they are awarded a certificate. Details: sonalholland wineacademy.com  IWBS’ Learn From Home Series - Wine with Magandeep Singh and Gagan Sharma Duration 7.5 hours; Cost Rs. 2,500 inclusive of taxes SommeliersMagandeep Singh and Gagan Sharma have a solid 25 years of wine knowledge between them and a long association with top Indian hotels. But when they decided to take their teaching online, they looked at the course from a unique perspective. Primarily targeting the hospitality industry, they realised that most students were either below the drinking age or came from backgrounds that did not permit alcohol at home. Taking learning online and thereby removing the physical tasting element made it universally accessible. Their 7.5-hour course, Learn from Home - Wine, devised and released last month and presented by both, serves to educate “budding professionals and curious amateurs” by providing content that is “simple and easy-to-absorb, but is intense, rather than a quick reckoner”. Given that international accredited courses are expensive (WSET starts at Rs. 8,000++ for Level 1, the French Wine Scholar and CMS accreditations from Rs. 60,000), this course is affordable and a snapshot of their lengthier, successful two-day classroom-based Certificate 1 course (Rs. 8,000, including a tasting of 23 wines) conducted primarily for hotel staff. It comprises 12 modules (three months of unlimited access) with downloadable study materials on viticulture and vinification, climate and international grape varieties, wine service and pairing (complete with banter between the ‘two bald men’, as the somms call themselves). There is also a 50-minute session on Indian wines, added after Sharma’s trip this March to India’s Nashik-based wineries. The tone is casual and relaxed, and the accent on wine service from pros in the business is much-needed for hotel students. Each section ends with a mini quiz. There is no final test; after 100% completion of the sections, a certificate is awarded. The duo has plans to polish the material, change shoot locations, and add/subtract material post-lockdown, including Sharma’s idea of style-specific wine modules by guest professionals. “The course is made by Indians for the Indian context,” says Singh. “Even at seven hours, it is just a taste of what we can teach.” Earlier, when the IWBS taught WSET courses, they found a gap in both their relevance and affordability for Indian students. Singh says, “At the end of the day, it all comes down to one thing – can I get a job? With our names on the certificate, I hope at least they get a seat at the interview table.” Details: courses.iwbs.in/ home/courses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/uncorked-indias-wine-teachers-online/article32119553.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Doll mein kuch kaala hai||I have been sleeping in the guest bedroom. My ouster coincides with the day I received my long-awaited Kangana Ranaut Doll. I’m proud, nay, ecstatic to say that I was a recipient of this priceless piece from the very first consignment of Kangana Dolls issued. A few years from now, this first edition, dressed in resplendentManikarnikafinery, will be worth twice as much as Sage Durvasa’s Aadhaar that I won after a nasty online bidding war. My wife, not the most patriotic of women, told me that if I wanted the Kangana Doll on my bedside table, I’d have to move to the guest bedroom. Now it would be just me, Kangana and dreams of a New India. That night, I fell into a deep, velvety slumber staring hypnotised at my Kangana Doll. Subsequently, things took a somewhat ominous turn. On Night Two, as I dreamt of riding pillion on Kangana’s wooden steed and slaying British invaders with the knife I use to chop chow chow and carrots, I heard an unmistakeable voice in the dead of the night. ‘Hey, nepotist, wake up, nepotist,’ the voice in the dark said. It was my Kangana Doll, glowing a phosphorescent saffron from my bedside table. ‘My queen,’ I said, even as I peed a little in my sheep-print pyjamas. ‘Is it you?’ ‘Who do you think it is, idiot?’ said the Doll. ‘Tapsee Pannu?’ ‘No! Which fool would mistake one for the other, your... er... Patriotic Curly Highness,’ I said, trying to clench my sphincter. ‘Why are you such a ghatiya nepotist, then?’ said the Doll. ‘Me? A nepotist, Kangana ji ?’ I quavered. ‘How?’ ‘Who is that senior citizen you make scrambled eggs for every morning?’ she said. ‘The one who makes a face when he eats it.’ ‘That... er... is my father, Your Illustrious Queenliness,’ I said. ‘Isn’t that nepotism?’ she said. ‘Feeding your own father when there are so many more deserving fathers in need of scrambled eggs – even if horribly made?’ ‘I guess so, Your Imperial Manikarness,’ I said. ‘Okay, here’s what you do now,’ said little Kangana. ‘Write an open letter in your column about the urgent need to put a Rangoli Doll in the market. It’s getting kind of lonely.’ ‘Er... isn’t that nepotism, Your August Excellency?’ I mumbled. A tiny arrow embedded itself in my forehead. ‘Do you work for the Roshans?’ screeched miniature Kangy. ‘Do you? Or are you a closet Mughal?’ ‘Sorry, sorry, Your Royal Manali-ness,’ I said, trying to pull out the arrow. ‘May I do it tomorrow?’ ‘Tomorrow? Do it now, tukde-tukde fellow,’ she screeched. ‘Tomorrow I have another task for you.’ The third night, with the prospect of going back to my own bedroom remote, I put the Kangana Doll in a cupboard and locked her up. In the middle of the night, I heard a thunderous crash. Miniature Kangana had broken out of the cupboard. She was attired in martial arts gear and twirling a tiny but lethal nunchaku. ‘You thought you’d keep me in?’ she said, cackling. ‘What a lovely outfit, My Empress,’ I said, trying to buy myself time. ‘Oh, you didn’t know?’ she said. ‘Rangoli is directing my next film. It’s about a feisty Anglo-Indian woman from Calcutta who beats the living noodles out of present-day Chinese invaders.’ ‘What’s it called, Your Grandiose Lordliness?’ I said. ‘ 36th Chamber of Chowringhee Lane . Now get off the bed and let’s get the residual nepotism out of you.’ Does anyone know if there is an on-off switch on this doll? Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/doll-mein-kuch-kaala-hai/article32119558.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A little cancel goes a long way||When JK Rowling, Salman Rushdie, Margaret Atwood and Noam Chomsky are among 153 signatories to an open letter to Harper’s Magazine, it’s quite an event. The letter — coming on the heels of a storm of abuse that came Rowling’s way for what was perceived as her transphobia — warns of a rapidly spreading climate of “censoriousness” that is leading to “intolerance of opposing views”. It speaks also of a growing fad of “public shaming and ostracism”. The letter, and the reams of support and abuse it has in turn received, brings us back to the basics, makes us re-examine values we once took for granted — a journey that much of political, social and cultural life is forcing us to undertake today. The circling back to first principles is not bad, but the process comes with pain, anger and hurt on all sides. The letter writers say they are fighting to defend, in Rowling’s words, “a foundational principle of a liberal society: open debate and freedom of thought and speech”. They object to what has been nicknamed ‘cancel culture’ — the quick, ruthless elimination of anyone who speaks or acts in a way that is considered politically incorrect. Cancel culture has led to public shaming, trolling, demands for social boycott, and even job losses. As the letter says: “editors are fired for running controversial pieces; books are withdrawn for alleged inauthenticity; journalists are barred from writing on certain topics; professors are investigated for quoting works of literature in class...” As during the #MeToo movement, there’s been some attempt to portray the conflict as one between old and new gen influencers; one columnist describes the letter as a reaction to “political narratives being wrested away from traditional actors”. I doubt the explanation is so facile. Nor do I agree with the letter-writers dismissing all cancel culture as leading to “panicked damage control”. Were it not for Twitter outrage, the white woman in New York who threatened to call the police on a black man because he wanted her dog leashed would not have been forced to apologise. Unfortunately, she also lost her job, but had her threat worked, the black man would have likely lost much more. In India, Twitterati did not just condemn Shubham Mishra’s foul rape threats against a stand-up comedian but also tagged the Vadodara police repeatedly, leading to his quick arrest. From customers turning away delivery staff because of their religion to policemen assaulting vegetable vendors, when an incident is uploaded on social media, cancel culture has taken over and ensured action against the offender. It’s by no means a universal or magical solution but for many people on the margins — like delivery boys and domestic workers — an apology or an oppressor’s takedown would not have come so swiftly in a pre-cancel era. The problem begins when cancel culture becomes as oppressive as anything it seeks to replace. It recognises no degrees — ignorance or lapses are tarred by the same brush used for grievous crime. ‘Cancellers’ insist that ‘punishments’ must be for a lifetime when the law awards even a murderer parole. They refuse to support urgent causes because a ‘cancelled’ person also supports it. They crush people for using wrong terminology. Politically correct phraseology changes every day. When does one replace ‘women’ with ‘people who menstruate’? When do you use womyn or womxn? We have moved from LGBT to LGBTQ to LGBTQ+ to LGBTQIA+. When people err with these terms, it doesn’t necessarily indicate an absence of empathy, so why not be more tolerant? Why not create awareness and take people along slowly rather than cancel them out altogether? This intolerance was highlighted recently when a three-year-old talk by dancer Aranyani Bhargav on the origins of Bharatanatyam became the target of a furious attack, with Bhargav being called a ‘savarnaapologist’ and an ‘appropriator of marginalised voices’. Bhargav’s failure to use the currently correct phrase — ‘hereditary courtesan dance community’ — didn’t come from malice but oversight. She has consistently fought the upper-caste appropriation of Bharatanatyam and to attack her is to attack a supporter. More importantly, why attack when she could have simply been asked to update the terminology. And that is my problem with cancel culture — it tends to shoot first. And it shoots more people on its own side than on the other. As the names on that letter show. A little less cancel and a little more compassion could win it far bigger battles in the long run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-little-cancel-goes-a-long-way/article32119549.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Bringing back Dynamo||Back in 2018, when illusionist and magician Steven Frayne was hospitalised for complications arising from Crohn’s disease and arthritis, he started writing ideas in a book. Better known by his stage name, Dynamo, he used the time thinking up over 200 tricks that he had never done before. “Doctors were telling me that I might never be able to gain back the dexterity of my hands. I needed to come up with ways in which I could keep my magic going,” says the 37-year-old, as we speak on Zoom (he is even wearing a mask for our call). After his recovery, the ideas were turned into a three-part series. When coming up with a name for the show, he remembered what was written on his notebook. “It said ‘Beyond Belief’. The fact that I was even able to be back on TV, living my dream, had seemed impossible at one point, so I felt that it summed up the experience perfectly,” he says. Small screen comeback  Dynamo: Beyond Belief marks his return to television after a five-year hiatus. While the earlier show, Magician Impossible (between 2011 and 2014), was a four-season, fly-on-the-wall documentary series, this one chronicles his health struggles and how he worked through them. We also see him travelling across the world — Tokyo, Chiba, Dubai, Moscow, Mexico City, San Miguel, London and Los Angeles — showcasing his brand-new illusions. While he did not make it to India this time, he says he is eager to tour the country once normalcy returns. “I loved filming in Varanasi during Holi forMagician Impossible. It took me days to get the colour out of my hair,” he recalls. There were some interesting encounters along the way, he says. “We met a geisha in one of the episodes and, as the trick progressed, we could see her composure slowly cracking as she got amazed. It takes a lot to make a geisha break character, so I was glad I could do something that had that effect on her!” In another, he makes vodka shots turn to ice — where else but in Russia. Being a car fiend and a fan of the Fast & Furious movie franchise, one of Dynamo’s favourite experiences was being part of an underground Tokyo Drift -style car meet in Japan. “I won’t spoil it for you, but it was one of the most dangerous tricks I have attempted. If it had not gone as planned, I would not be here speaking to you today,” he laughs. Ideating for the future Dynamo has spent the past few months in lockdown at home with his wife and two dogs, a Newfoundland and a bulldog. “I love taking long walks in the woods with them and discussing my ideas. If they could talk, my career would be over — they know all my secrets,” he quips. He is still thinking up new ideas, this time, ones that can be executed on a virtual platform. With over 900K followers on Instagram, close to 950K on TikTok and 322K on YouTube, he has a ready audience online. “I find social media a great way to interact with fans and other magicians across the world. They share their work with me and I am always amazed by what they come up with,” he concludes. Dynamo: Beyond Belief will air on History TV18 as a three-part special every Saturday, starting July 18 at 9 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/bringing-back-dynamo/article32119556.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||TT’s Insta showcase||On Thursday evening, Tarun Tahiliani’s Instagram handle was the place to be. Over 8,000 people logged in globally, grabbing front-row seats (is there any other nowadays, when the entry ticket is your phone?) at India’s first-ever, full-length digital fashion show. As the heart emojis streamed non-stop — and comments praised an embroidered skirt here and a classic drape there — seven models walked on antique carpets dressed in kaftans, easy-to-wear jumpsuits, column dresses,sherwanisandkurtas. “I’ve showcased 80 pieces from the A/W’20 ‘Pieces of You’ collection, with a lot of vibrant colours. The outfits are completely ‘non-crush’ as they feature perma pleating in the [Greek] Fortuny Style. There is also an array of options for brides, who are the most active shoppers at the moment,” says the master couturier, adding that simpler prints and easier pieces will be put out in the coming days that are more suited to ‘pandemic-living’. The 25-minute video was shot in Tahiliani’s atelier in Gurugram. “Keeping in mind the space needed to put on a fashion show, we picked the mood-board room and painted it completely to match the concrete walls,” he says. Miniature paintings went up and a selection of Indian, Mughal and Persian carpets from The Carpet Cellar cushioned the floor. “In a way, doing the show digitally was easier because the models had more time between looks,” says Tahiliani, explaining that they shot with three cameras. Social distancing wasn’t a problem either. “Since we have a lot of rooms around the courtyard, each model was given his/her own room. And the hair and make-up teams were provided with hazmat suits and face shields.” What’s next? Never one to rest on his laurels, the designer is focussing on strengthening his omni channels and increasing his online presence. Outfits from Rs. 50,000 onwards. Catch the show on @taruntahiliani’s IGTV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/tts-insta-showcase/article32119563.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||What image are you?: Most Instagram trends make no sense at all, but are fun and whimsical nevertheless. In the latest craze, pages with the format ‘What (blank) are you’ are dedicated to pairing names with pictures of cows, frogs, and even singer Harry Styles. Simply DM your name to be featured! Some moderators are encouraging those who request a pairing to donate to causes like education, homelessness and Covid-19 relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article32119565.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s in your skincare?||For clean beauty options, Sublime Life offers a curation of products. From Australian carbon-neutral label, Sukin, and sulfate-free UK brand Cowshed, to no-plastic ampoules from Martiderm, Spain, and home-grown Indian brands like Disguise Comestics and Ruby’s Organic. Details: sublimelife.in. Meanwhile, check your skincare ingredient list with The Good Face Project’s iOS app. Links to latest research reports are frequently updated based on AI-led searches through scientific journals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/whats-in-your-skincare/article32119567.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||On the music bus||Today, treat yourself to an evening of classical music with the Symphony Orchestra of India. As part of the NCPA @ Home lineup, their rendition of Saint-Saëns’Violin Concerto No. 3will be streamed on the NCPA YouTube channel at 6 pm. Join artistes Harrdy Sandhu, Jassie Gill, Indian Ocean, Javed Ali, Jeet Gannguli and Revanth on theMusic Bus. The show, now streaming on Hungama Music and Hungama Play, shows the singers travelling across six cities to collaborate with local artistes, culminating in a mega concert each episode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/on-the-music-bus/article32119569.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Quarantine book club||When the countrywide lockdown was declared, Roli Books announced a short story contest. The 10 winning entries have been compiled into an e-book titledLockdown Longings: 10 Stories of Love and Recollection. At Rs. 150. Another launch,Every Creature Has a Story(HarperCollins) has Janaki Lenin uncovering the surprising, sometimes bizarre, ways in which animals work. From snails entombing parasites into their shells to elephants developing immunity to cancer, you’ll never look at nature in the same way again. At Rs. 599.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/quarantine-book-club/article32119571.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||San Diego Comic-Con: What was to be a fabulous celebration of 50 years of Comic-Con has now shifted to the virtual world. The At Home lineup includes pre-recorded panels fromThe Walking Dead,Bob's Burgersand more. There is even space for cosplay: check out the Virtual Masquerade Costume Competition featuring entries from around the world. From July 22 to July 26. Details on comic-con.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article32119573.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Click, edit, repeat||The CPB Foundation is organising a free workshop with France-based documentary photographer, Philip Blenkinsop. This is an open call to emerging photographers/photo artists from across South Asia, who are yet to produce their work in a book format. They will learn the process of editing and narrative building. From July 25 to August 2. Or learn photography workflow in Photoshop, for beginners on July 18 and advanced classes on July 25. Limited seats available. For details and to apply, visit chennaiphotobiennale.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/click-edit-repeat/article32119579.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Tomorrow, join columnist and wellness expert Vasudha Rai in conversation with Anna Chandy, chairperson of Live Love Laugh Foundation (founded by actor Deepika Padukone). They will talk about anxiety during lockdown, its triggers and acceptance. Plus exercises to reduce symptoms and long-term solutions. On July 19 at 5 pm @thehinduweekend. From earlier this week, watch Bharatanatyam dancer Mavin Khoo discussing the conundrum of whether to perform or just be, with Akhila Krishnamurthy on our IGTV channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lockdownwithweekend/article32119581.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Fashion on sale||We may not have had the FDCI Fashion Week this year, but you don’t have to miss out on their Designer Stockroom. The fourth edition of this sale goes online, where over 100 designers will retail their collections at up to 70% off. From July 31 to August 2, on fdci.org. Rewanta, a sustainable fashion social enterprise, has launched the #ReclaimKhadiinitiative. They’re calling consumers to pledge to purchase at least one khadi item, to create demand for the humble hand-spun fabric. Details: reclaimkhadi.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/fashion-on-sale/article32119575.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Digital date with art||InKo Centre, in association with the Indian Art Museum in Seoul, Korea, is hostingEmerging Canvas, an e-compendium that will showcase 132 emerging artists from India and Korea over six editions of curated exhibitions. The ongoing first edition can be viewed at inkocentre.org. For amateur artists from five years to 60 years, there isChitram,an old-fashioned drawing competition. Themes include play, education, nature and responsibility. Register for c200 on insider.in. Details on chitramart.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/digital-date-with-art/article32119577.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Doll mein kuch kaala hai||I have been sleeping in the guest bedroom. My ouster coincides with the day I received my long-awaited Kangana Ranaut Doll. I’m proud, nay, ecstatic to say that I was a recipient of this priceless piece from the very first consignment of Kangana Dolls issued. A few years from now, this first edition, dressed in resplendentManikarnikafinery, will be worth twice as much as Sage Durvasa’s Aadhaar that I won after a nasty online bidding war. My wife, not the most patriotic of women, told me that if I wanted the Kangana Doll on my bedside table, I’d have to move to the guest bedroom. Now it would be just me, Kangana and dreams of a New India. That night, I fell into a deep, velvety slumber staring hypnotised at my Kangana Doll. Subsequently, things took a somewhat ominous turn. On Night Two, as I dreamt of riding pillion on Kangana’s wooden steed and slaying British invaders with the knife I use to chop chow chow and carrots, I heard an unmistakeable voice in the dead of the night. ‘Hey, nepotist, wake up, nepotist,’ the voice in the dark said. It was my Kangana Doll, glowing a phosphorescent saffron from my bedside table. ‘My queen,’ I said, even as I peed a little in my sheep-print pyjamas. ‘Is it you?’ ‘Who do you think it is, idiot?’ said the Doll. ‘Tapsee Pannu?’ ‘No! Which fool would mistake one for the other, your... er... Patriotic Curly Highness,’ I said, trying to clench my sphincter. ‘Why are you such a ghatiya nepotist, then?’ said the Doll. ‘Me? A nepotist, Kangana ji ?’ I quavered. ‘How?’ ‘Who is that senior citizen you make scrambled eggs for every morning?’ she said. ‘The one who makes a face when he eats it.’ ‘That... er... is my father, Your Illustrious Queenliness,’ I said. ‘Isn’t that nepotism?’ she said. ‘Feeding your own father when there are so many more deserving fathers in need of scrambled eggs – even if horribly made?’ ‘I guess so, Your Imperial Manikarness,’ I said. ‘Okay, here’s what you do now,’ said little Kangana. ‘Write an open letter in your column about the urgent need to put a Rangoli Doll in the market. It’s getting kind of lonely.’ ‘Er... isn’t that nepotism, Your August Excellency?’ I mumbled. A tiny arrow embedded itself in my forehead. ‘Do you work for the Roshans?’ screeched miniature Kangy. ‘Do you? Or are you a closet Mughal?’ ‘Sorry, sorry, Your Royal Manali-ness,’ I said, trying to pull out the arrow. ‘May I do it tomorrow?’ ‘Tomorrow? Do it now, tukde-tukde fellow,’ she screeched. ‘Tomorrow I have another task for you.’ The third night, with the prospect of going back to my own bedroom remote, I put the Kangana Doll in a cupboard and locked her up. In the middle of the night, I heard a thunderous crash. Miniature Kangana had broken out of the cupboard. She was attired in martial arts gear and twirling a tiny but lethal nunchaku. ‘You thought you’d keep me in?’ she said, cackling. ‘What a lovely outfit, My Empress,’ I said, trying to buy myself time. ‘Oh, you didn’t know?’ she said. ‘Rangoli is directing my next film. It’s about a feisty Anglo-Indian woman from Calcutta who beats the living noodles out of present-day Chinese invaders.’ ‘What’s it called, Your Grandiose Lordliness?’ I said. ‘ 36th Chamber of Chowringhee Lane . Now get off the bed and let’s get the residual nepotism out of you.’ Does anyone know if there is an on-off switch on this doll? Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/doll-mein-kuch-kaala-hai/article32119882.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Uncorked: India’s wine teachers online||During the extended lockdown, online has been the one way to go. But what do wine aficionados and hospitality students do once they have done clocking countless virtual wine tastings, daily wine webinars and round-the-clock Insta wine chats? The answer is move on to something productive and career-oriented online, like expanding their wine learning. While many educational biggies worldwide have successful online wine courses, the big lockdown news is that top Indian wine pros have now jumped on the bandwagon: Sonal Holland has launched her own online course, while sommeliers Magandeep Singh and Gagan Sharma have launched the IWBS (Institute of Wine & Beverage Studies) course. Both are affordable and great for beginners and budding professionals. Sonal Holland’s 60-Minute Wine Pro  Duration: 1 hour; cost: Rs. 2,200 inclusive of taxes  For Holland, jumping into creating an online crash course on wine was “a natural progression” of her teaching and consultancy career. India’s first and only Master of Wine, Holland has spent 10 years training classrooms full of hospitality professionals, but “groups like ITC have properties all around the country, and classroom teaching isn’t easy to access due to distances and travel times,” she says. While the course had been in prep for a while, Holland took her time releasing it, to build a “global curriculum suited to the Indian market”. She says, “Developing content takes time. Quality, format, design and the technology content don’t happen overnight.” She launched last month and saw an immediate, enthusiastic response: 72 courses were registered for on day one. The beauty of the course, she explains, is that “it says 60 minutes [yes, it is short and zippy] but it is intense”. I agree. The information is clearly laid out, concise and easy to follow. The level of learning can be benchmarked against the venerable WSETs (Wine & Spirit Education Trust, the world’s most authoritative wine school) Level 1 and some of Level 2, for a fraction of their cost. The course is divided into 10 modules, consisting of images, graphics and Holland’s voiceover explanations. She expounds on the concept of terroir and what makes a good wine great, explains the difference between New and Old World wines, describes the eight dominant grape varieties, discusses wine and food pairings, service and storage, and busts some common myths. The content is clear and concise, with good production values. She is also not afraid to call things to account: in the section on Indian wines, besides listing top producers, she mentions how they “struggle with consistency over vintages”. In the much-needed section on myths, she explains how not every wine is ageworthy — 95% have a two-three year shelf life, and that screwcaps do not indicate inferior quality. After completing the modules, participants must take and pass a multiple-choice quiz based on the course content, after which they are awarded a certificate. Details: sonalholland wineacademy.com  IWBS’ Learn From Home Series - Wine with Magandeep Singh and Gagan Sharma Duration 7.5 hours; Cost Rs. 2,500 inclusive of taxes SommeliersMagandeep Singh and Gagan Sharma have a solid 25 years of wine knowledge between them and a long association with top Indian hotels. But when they decided to take their teaching online, they looked at the course from a unique perspective. Primarily targeting the hospitality industry, they realised that most students were either below the drinking age or came from backgrounds that did not permit alcohol at home. Taking learning online and thereby removing the physical tasting element made it universally accessible. Their 7.5-hour course, Learn from Home - Wine, devised and released last month and presented by both, serves to educate “budding professionals and curious amateurs” by providing content that is “simple and easy-to-absorb, but is intense, rather than a quick reckoner”. Given that international accredited courses are expensive (WSET starts at Rs. 8,000++ for Level 1, the French Wine Scholar and CMS accreditations from Rs. 60,000), this course is affordable and a snapshot of their lengthier, successful two-day classroom-based Certificate 1 course (Rs. 8,000, including a tasting of 23 wines) conducted primarily for hotel staff. It comprises 12 modules (three months of unlimited access) with downloadable study materials on viticulture and vinification, climate and international grape varieties, wine service and pairing (complete with banter between the ‘two bald men’, as the somms call themselves). There is also a 50-minute session on Indian wines, added after Sharma’s trip this March to India’s Nashik-based wineries. The tone is casual and relaxed, and the accent on wine service from pros in the business is much-needed for hotel students. Each section ends with a mini quiz. There is no final test; after 100% completion of the sections, a certificate is awarded. The duo has plans to polish the material, change shoot locations, and add/subtract material post-lockdown, including Sharma’s idea of style-specific wine modules by guest professionals. “The course is made by Indians for the Indian context,” says Singh. “Even at seven hours, it is just a taste of what we can teach.” Earlier, when the IWBS taught WSET courses, they found a gap in both their relevance and affordability for Indian students. Singh says, “At the end of the day, it all comes down to one thing – can I get a job? With our names on the certificate, I hope at least they get a seat at the interview table.” Details: courses.iwbs.in/ home/courses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/uncorked-indias-wine-teachers-online/article32120067.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A little cancel goes a long way||When JK Rowling, Salman Rushdie, Margaret Atwood and Noam Chomsky are among 153 signatories to an open letter to Harper’s Magazine, it’s quite an event.The letter — coming on the heels of a storm of abuse that came Rowling’s way for what was perceived as her transphobia — warns of a rapidly spreading climate of “censoriousness” that is leading to “intolerance of opposing views”. It speaks also of a growing fad of “public shaming and ostracism”. The letter, and the reams of support and abuse it has in turn received, brings us back to the basics, makes us re-examine values we once took for granted — a journey that much of political, social and cultural life is forcing us to undertake today. The circling back to first principles is not bad, but the process comes with pain, anger and hurt on all sides. The letter writers say they are fighting to defend, in Rowling’s words, “a foundational principle of a liberal society: open debate and freedom of thought and speech”. They object to what has been nicknamed ‘cancel culture’ — the quick, ruthless elimination of anyone who speaks or acts in a way that is considered politically incorrect. Cancel culture has led to public shaming, trolling, demands for social boycott, and even job losses. As the letter says: “editors are fired for running controversial pieces; books are withdrawn for alleged inauthenticity; journalists are barred from writing on certain topics; professors are investigated for quoting works of literature in class...” As during the #MeToo movement, there’s been some attempt to portray the conflict as one between old and new gen influencers; one columnist describes the letter as a reaction to “political narratives being wrested away from traditional actors”. I doubt the explanation is so facile. Nor do I agree with the letter-writers dismissing all cancel culture as leading to “panicked damage control”. Were it not for Twitter outrage, the white woman in New York who threatened to call the police on a black man because he wanted her dog leashed would not have been forced to apologise. Unfortunately, she also lost her job, but had her threat worked, the black man would have likely lost much more. In India, Twitterati did not just condemn Shubham Mishra’s foul rape threats against a stand-up comedian but also tagged the Vadodara police repeatedly, leading to his quick arrest. From customers turning away delivery staff because of their religion to policemen assaulting vegetable vendors, when an incident is uploaded on social media, cancel culture has taken over and ensured action against the offender. It’s by no means a universal or magical solution but for many people on the margins — like delivery boys and domestic workers — an apology or an oppressor’s takedown would not have come so swiftly in a pre-cancel era. The problem begins when cancel culture becomes as oppressive as anything it seeks to replace. It recognises no degrees — ignorance or lapses are tarred by the same brush used for grievous crime. ‘Cancellers’ insist that ‘punishments’ must be for a lifetime when the law awards even a murderer parole. They refuse to support urgent causes because a ‘cancelled’ person also supports it. They crush people for using wrong terminology. Politically correct phraseology changes every day. When does one replace ‘women’ with ‘people who menstruate’? When do you use womyn or womxn? We have moved from LGBT to LGBTQ to LGBTQ+ to LGBTQIA+. When people err with these terms, it doesn’t necessarily indicate an absence of empathy, so why not be more tolerant? Why not create awareness and take people along slowly rather than cancel them out altogether? This intolerance was highlighted recently when a three-year-old talk by dancer Aranyani Bhargav on the origins of Bharatanatyam became the target of a furious attack, with Bhargav being called a ‘savarnaapologist’ and an ‘appropriator of marginalised voices’. Bhargav’s failure to use the currently correct phrase — ‘hereditary courtesan dance community’ — didn’t come from malice but oversight. She has consistently fought the upper-caste appropriation of Bharatanatyam and to attack her is to attack a supporter. More importantly, why attack when she could have simply been asked to update the terminology. And that is my problem with cancel culture — it tends to shoot first. And it shoots more people on its own side than on the other. As the names on that letter show. A little less cancel and a little more compassion could win it far bigger battles in the long run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-little-cancel-goes-a-long-way/article32120066.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Bringing back Dynamo||Back in 2018, when illusionist and magician Steven Frayne was hospitalised for complications arising from Crohn’s disease and arthritis, he started writing ideas in a book. Better known by his stage name, Dynamo, he used the time thinking up over 200 tricks that he had never done before. “Doctors were telling me that I might never be able to gain back the dexterity of my hands. I needed to come up with ways in which I could keep my magic going,” says the 37-year-old, as we speak on Zoom (he is even wearing a mask for our call). After his recovery, the ideas were turned into a three-part series. When coming up with a name for the show, he remembered what was written on his notebook. “It said ‘Beyond Belief’. The fact that I was even able to be back on TV, living my dream, had seemed impossible at one point, so I felt that it summed up the experience perfectly,” he says. Small screen comeback  Dynamo: Beyond Belief marks his return to television after a five-year hiatus. While the earlier show, Magician Impossible (between 2011 and 2014), was a four-season, fly-on-the-wall documentary series, this one chronicles his health struggles and how he worked through them. We also see him travelling across the world — Tokyo, Chiba, Dubai, Moscow, Mexico City, San Miguel, London and Los Angeles — showcasing his brand-new illusions. While he did not make it to India this time, he says he is eager to tour the country once normalcy returns. “I loved filming in Varanasi during Holi forMagician Impossible. It took me days to get the colour out of my hair,” he recalls. There were some interesting encounters along the way, he says. “We met a geisha in one of the episodes and, as the trick progressed, we could see her composure slowly cracking as she got amazed. It takes a lot to make a geisha break character, so I was glad I could do something that had that effect on her!” In another, he makes vodka shots turn to ice — where else but in Russia. Being a car fiend and a fan of the Fast & Furious movie franchise, one of Dynamo’s favourite experiences was being part of an underground Tokyo Drift -style car meet in Japan. “I won’t spoil it for you, but it was one of the most dangerous tricks I have attempted. If it had not gone as planned, I would not be here speaking to you today,” he laughs. Ideating for the future Dynamo has spent the past few months in lockdown at home with his wife and two dogs, a Newfoundland and a bulldog. “I love taking long walks in the woods with them and discussing my ideas. If they could talk, my career would be over — they know all my secrets,” he quips. He is still thinking up new ideas, this time, ones that can be executed on a virtual platform. With over 900K followers on Instagram, close to 950K on TikTok and 322K on YouTube, he has a ready audience online. “I find social media a great way to interact with fans and other magicians across the world. They share their work with me and I am always amazed by what they come up with,” he concludes. Dynamo: Beyond Belief will air on History TV18 as a three-part special every Saturday, starting July 18 at 9 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bringing-back-dynamo/article32119881.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||TT’s Insta showcase||On Thursday evening, Tarun Tahiliani’s Instagram handle was the place to be. Over 8,000 people logged in globally, grabbing front-row seats (is there any other nowadays, when the entry ticket is your phone?) at India’s first-ever, full-length digital fashion show. As the heart emojis streamed non-stop — and comments praised an embroidered skirt here and a classic drape there — seven models walked on antique carpets dressed in kaftans, easy-to-wear jumpsuits, column dresses,sherwanisandkurtas. “I’ve showcased 80 pieces from the A/W’20 ‘Pieces of You’ collection, with a lot of vibrant colours. The outfits are completely ‘non-crush’ as they feature perma pleating in the [Greek] Fortuny Style. There is also an array of options for brides, who are the most active shoppers at the moment,” says the master couturier, adding that simpler prints and easier pieces will be put out in the coming days that are more suited to ‘pandemic-living’. The 25-minute video was shot in Tahiliani’s atelier in Gurugram. “Keeping in mind the space needed to put on a fashion show, we picked the mood-board room and painted it completely to match the concrete walls,” he says. Miniature paintings went up and a selection of Indian, Mughal and Persian carpets from The Carpet Cellar cushioned the floor. “In a way, doing the show digitally was easier because the models had more time between looks,” says Tahiliani, explaining that they shot with three cameras. Social distancing wasn’t a problem either. “Since we have a lot of rooms around the courtyard, each model was given his/her own room. And the hair and make-up teams were provided with hazmat suits and face shields.” What’s next? Never one to rest on his laurels, the designer is focussing on strengthening his omni channels and increasing his online presence. Outfits from Rs. 50,000 onwards. Catch the show on @taruntahiliani’s IGTV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tts-insta-showcase/article32119883.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||7 months on, probe drags on in lawyer-policeman clash case||Seven months after a policeman was allegedly assaulted by a lawyer at Saket Court premises — an incident that led to massive protests outside Delhi Police headquarters — investigating officers seem to have made no progress in the case. A senior officer on Friday said the case is under investigation and appropriate action will be taken against the accused. On November 4 last, a lawyer had thrashed a policeman, who at that time had come to the court on his two-wheeler and the incident was recorded on a mobile camera. Video goes viral Soon, the video went viral on social media and on November 5, scores of policemen staged massive protests in uniform outside the Delhi Police headquarters at ITO. At that time, the then Delhi Commissioner of Police, Amulya Patnaik, had tried to pacify the crowd but to no avail. However, the accused lawyer seen in the video has not been called for questioning yet. “We are yet to call the man [lawyer], who was seen in the video, for questioning. The statement of the victim [policeman] has been recorded. The investigating officer in the case will be asked to finish the probe at the earliest,” added the officer. He also said two separate FIRs were registered in the case under various sections of IPC, including assault and using criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty, at Saket police station. “The victim was posted in South District and had filed a complaint," the officer added. On November 2, a clash had broken out between lawyers and the police over an alleged parking issue at Tis Hazari court. High Court order The Delhi High Court had ordered a judicial inquiry by one of its retired judges and ordered the transfer of Special Commissioner (in-charge of Law and Order) Sanjay Singh and Additional DCP Harinder Singh during pendency of the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/7-months-on-probe-drags-on-in-lawyer-policeman-clash-case/article32119880.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Indian Matchmaking’ review: The big fat desi wedding stereotype||A couple of episodes into Netflix’s latest original show, Indian Matchmaking , I was convinced that it was a satire or parody of crazy rich desis fantasising over weddings and finding a life partner through a neighbourhood aunty. But more episodes in, the docu-series-cum-reality-show continues to take itself seriously, at points frustratingly so, advocating for some archaic ideas of marriage, while white-washing all inherent flaws. What could have been ironically fun and an enjoyable archetype of trashy television, begins to feed into the various stereotypes, and borders on being didactic. The characters say and believe in some of the most atavistic ideals of marriage, and the show, in its glossy demeanour, endorses it. The high level of cringe is not even the worst aspect of the show. Created in the U.S., the series follows a Mumbai-based matchmaker Sima Taparia (“I’m Sima from Mumbai,” she introduces herself to every new client), who flies between India and the U.S., bringing upper-class and upper-caste singles together. We see her several clients in various parts of the States and three in Mumbai. Parental pressure, issues of compatibility, love vs. career, ageing and past relationships are a few recurring themes. Terms like ‘adjustment’, ‘compatibility’, ‘good nature’, ‘compromise’ and ‘traditional’ are thrown around in abundance. In one of the episodes, the show highlights some faux feminist ideas of ‘modern’ woman and ‘liberation’ and low-key endorses classist and casteist behaviour, and discrimination disguised as ‘preference’. It’s interesting to see that the Indian diaspora and upper-class Mumbai share similar pressures, expectations and value systems. Or so the show tells us. While capturing Mumbai, the series — as expected — has an exotic gaze, almost making the city and its inhabitants unrecognisable. It’s shot like a person from the West capturing Mumbai from the airport to their fancy hotel. While the creators may argue that the format and content are meant for fluffy entertainment, it is hard to overlook the latent messaging and mainstreaming of problematic conservatism. Even in the ‘entertainment’ department, barring a few snide remarks in the first three episodes and unintentional humour, the structure of the show meanders and arbitrarily includes and excludes its subjects. The series has picked protagonists who are naturally fascinating and some frustrating, but the telling is haphazard and scattered, lendingIndian Matchmakinga distracted tone. Sima, the narrator of Indian Matchmaking , is the purpose of this series. She embodies a long-standing tradition of older relatives finding a suitable spouse for an eligible bachelor or spinster. Although her clients call her ‘Aunty’ (even the Indian diaspora youth), she is a professional who charges a fee for her services. Although she occupies centre stage and one would be very curious to know her fees, the series never reveals it, and one is kept wondering how she flies around the world setting people up. As compared to her Delhi-based colleague, Geeta, she is more traditional and subscribes to astrology, face-reading and the age-old ideology that marriage is between two families. The series tells you that the wedding industry in India is ginormous, and fairly clinical in the way two people decide to get married. We see couples who have stuck around together for decades, and the series tries hard to demonstrate that ‘arranged marriage’ may not be a bad idea after all. There are moments when the show makes some pertinent observations about desire and companionship among millennials, but those are fleeting. Under all the gloss, fluff, and mush, the series panders to the age-old stereotypes of Indian weddings, customs, and traditions, which may not be untrue, but are surely incomplete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/indian-matchmaking-review-the-big-fat-desi-wedding-stereotype/article32119900.ece
18 July 2020||Bhopal,||Another Congress MLA resigns in M.P., joins BJP||Yet another Congress MLA in Madhya Pradesh, Nepanagar legislator Sumitra Devi Kasdekar, resigned from the Vidhan Sabha on Friday continuing a string of exits that has rocked the party since March. Assembly pro-tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma accepted the resignation of the first-time legislator from Burhanpur district, said a Vidhan Sabha order, which further pulls down the Congress strength in the Assembly to 90. The BJP boasts a 107-member-strong band of legislators. Hours later, she joined the BJP at the party office here in the presence of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and party State president V.D. Sharma. Welcoming her to the party fold, Mr. Chouhan said, “People are suffocating in the Congress. It is a sinking ship.” On July 12, Congress MLA Kunwar Pradyumna Singh Lodhi joined the BJP within hours of resigning as a legislator. He was later appointed as Chairman of the State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd. and accorded a Cabinet rank. In March, 22 Congress MLAs, including 19 supporters of former Union Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, resigned to bring down the 15-month-old Congress government. Currently, 26 Assembly seats lie unoccupied. Ms. Kasdekar didn’t respond to phone calls despite several attempts. Accusing the BJP of attempting to lure Congress MLAs to cross over, State Congress spokesman Abhay Dubey said, “The BJP is aware the public perception is against them. It has betrayed the public, which knows about its tricks.”  ‘Digvijaya to blame’ Denying the charge, BJP State media in-charge Lokendra Parashar accused Congress Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh of sabotaging his own party. “He is doing this as the State is not in his hands. Under pressure from Mr. Singh the decisions Kamal Nath is taking — of being the State Congress president and the Chief Minister in the past — and the way he has throttled democracy, will only yield such results,” Mr. Parashar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/another-congress-mla-resigns-in-mp-joins-bjp/article32119930.ece
18 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Doubling time of cases slows down in Gurugram||The COVID-19 situation in Gurugram continued to improve with the doubling rate decelerating and positivity rate declining, said Chief Medical Officer Virender Yadav said on Friday. The cases of infection in the district are now doubling every 44 days. He was addressing a weekly joint press conference with Divisional Commissioner Ashok Sangwan and Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri. Mr. Yadav claimed that around 3,000 rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests were being conducted in Gurugram every day, the highest in Delhi-NCR. He added that 26,125 rapid antigen and 14,133 RT-PCR tests were conducted in the large outbreak region (LOR) over the past 16 days. He informed that only 697 people who took rapid antigen tests were found positive. Dr. Yadav said the administration aimed at conducting the maximum number of tests to identify the infected persons and contain the spread of COVID-19. Recovery rate The Chief Medical officer said that the recovery rate had been gradually increasing and was around 85% now. He added that there were 150 patients admitted in various hospitals for the treatment of COVID-19 and only 17 of them needed critical care. The positivity rate had also declined from around 11% to 9.6% and was expected to fall further to 9% next week. He said that 154 camps would be held inside the LORs over the next two weeks. Dr. Yadav said that special camps could also be organised inside the group housing societies to conduct tests in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/doubling-time-of-cases-slows-down-in-gurugram/article32119920.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Olympics 101||“I was really looking forward to being at my fourth Olympics and bringing home a medal that [Rohan Bopanna and I] missed out on at Rio in 2016,” says Sania Mirza. The tennis player, who was scheduled to represent India at the summer games in Tokyo, has been preparing for her comeback since the beginning of the year. She will be putting her Olympian training to use in Airbnb’s curation of online experiences, along with 100 other athletes from the Olympics and the Paralympics. The line-up includes swimmer Yusra Mardini of the IOC Refugee Olympic Team Rio 2016, who will talk about building resilience to overcome obstacles, while Tatyana McFadden (athletics, USA) will host an inclusive training session. Discuss sneaker culture with Japanese basketball player Rui Hachimura, try beachside Zumba with Brazilian athlete Tom Hintnaus or get a glimpse into two-time Grand Slam-winning Naomi Osaka’s quarantine training. The five-day festival begins on July 25. Some sessions — like Simidele Adeagbo (skelton, Nigeria) on the art of reinvention and positive thinking with Paralympic hero Stephen Miller (athletics, Great Britain) — will be available regularly. Mirza is the only Indian athlete in the marquee. “When I was approached, I found it very exciting as a way for me to connect with my fans. This was an Olympic year, so in that spirit, I wanted to share my experience of working on my mental and physical health,” she says on the phone from Hyderabad, where she is currently staying. She will be talking about her training routine, which includes strength, agility and plyometrics, apart from a couple of hours of practice on her in-house tennis court. “I converted my ‘trophy room’ into a home gym,” Mirza says, adding, “Even 20 to 30 minutes of exercise can make you feel good. I always feel content after my workout.”   Bookings open on July 22; Rs. 2,257 for Sania Mirza’s session and approximately Rs. 1,881 for other athletes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/olympics-101/article32119898.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Work starts on underground section of Phase IV project||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) started work on the underground section of the Janakpuri West – RK Ashram corridor under its Phase IV project on Friday. The 28.92 kilometre Janakpuri West – RK Ashram corridor will be an extension to the existing Magenta Line, which connects Botanical Garden and Janakpuri West. The new corridor is projected to have 22 stations. Construction of a D Wall (diaphragm walls that are constructed in deep excavation based projects) and casting of tunnel segments of the corridor has formally started, DMRC officials said. “The work commenced for the construction D Wall at the Krishna Park Extension Metro station and the tunnel segments shall be used for tunnelling with tunnel boring machines on a 1.4 kilometre stretch between Janakpuri West and Keshopur,” said Anuj Dayal, DMRC spokesperson. Further, Mr. Dayal added, “The approximately two kilometre stretch will also have the Krishna Park Extension station in between as well as a 365 metre cut and cover ramp near Keshopur leading to the elevated section.” Approximately 7.74 kilometres of the Janakpuri West – RK Ashram corridor will comprise of underground lines, officials said. “The work was awarded in the month of December last year. In spite of all constraints like shortage of labourers and materials due to the lockdown, the milestone could be achieved on time. The tunnel segments are being cast at the casting yard in Mundka,” said Mr. Dayal. The casting work of U-girders for the corridor had started on June 24, according to the DMRC. Two more corridors Apart from this corridor, Maujpur to Majlis Park and Aerocity to Tughlakabad are the two other corridors which have been approved. Under the Phase IV project, approximately 62 kilometres of new metro lines are projected to be added to the already operational network of 389 kilometres. Additionally, 45 stations will be added to the DMRC’s 285 existing stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/work-starts-on-underground-section-of-phase-iv-project/article32119918.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE students place govt. schools ahead of private ones||Garv Sachdev, a Delhi government school student who scored 95.2% in CBSE Class X examination, said that it was the concept of having tests every Monday at the School of Excellence, Dwarka Sector 22, that helped him stay updated and score high marks. Garv wants to be an engineer and study at one of the IITs. He hopes that the practice of taking regular tests will help him prepare for engineering entrance examinations. “I studied in a private school till Class VIII and then my parents decided to shift me to my current school because the teachers were not regular,” said Garv. He said his teachers cleared his doubts even if it was over the phone after school hours. He added that entrepreneurship class every week is a lot of fun and many of his classmates switched from private schools because the teachers at government schools were better. Delhi government schools saw an improvement in pass percentage from 71.6% in 2019 to 82.61% this year, with the government attributing the same to better infrastructure being provided at its schools and a focus on teachers’ training and learning techniques. For Damini Thakur, who scored 84% with a perfect score in Maths, it was the guidance she received from her teachers when she moved from a private school in Class VIII to a government school that helped her. She said that personality development classes have also helped her speak English. “Coming from a poor family, I have always dreamt of speaking in English, but never had the confidence. It was only after taking lessons to help develop personality skills when I switched to GGSS Mayur Vihar Phase 3 that I got the confidence,” she said. Damini wants to become a computer engineer and wants to stand by her parents who have struggled to support her studies. Varun Kumar from the School of Excellence, Kalkaji, who scored 95.6% said that his results have given him the confidence to study science and prepare for JEE for admission at the IITs. “My father is a driver and my mother is a housewife. Coming from a poor family, I never imagined that it would be possible for me to study science,” he said. He added that his parents and teachers have given him the confidence to work hard and his dream is to buy a house for his family in Delhi.  My teachers and parents have given me the confidence to work hard Varun Kumar Student||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cbse-students-place-govt-schools-ahead-of-private-ones/article32119924.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Foreign national arrested for duping people||A 37-year-old foreign national was arrested for allegedly duping people on the pretext of making them business partners, police said on Friday. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said that the accused has been identified as Chidubem Gabril Okafor from Nigeria. He had duped four to five people during the lockdown. Modus operandi Police said that the accused used to feign as a trader and asked people to send him herbal seeds, oils, etc. from India. The accused told them that they will be treated as partners and will get profit share for each sale. Okafor, his girlfriend Monica, and their accomplice used to ask them to deposit money in their bank accounts for ED clearance and excise duty, police said, adding that these bank accounts were opened on the basis of fake names and addresses. Mr. Thakur said that Okafor was arrested based on a tip-off on Wednesday evening. A total of Rs. 1,90,000, two ATM cards and four mobile phones were recovered from his possession. Police received details of seven bank accounts from his mobile and it was revealed that transactions of over Rs. 2 crore were made within six months, the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/foreign-national-arrested-for-duping-people/article32119874.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi event: over 300 foreign nationals may return home soon||Over 300 foreign nationals — who had come to India to take part in a religious congregation in Nizamuddin four months ago but ended up facing legal action and travel restrictions — may finally be able to return home. Earlier this week, the look-out circulars (LOC) against 318 of the 956 foreigners — who had come to attend the Tabhlighi Jamat event in Hazrat Nizamuddin — was revoked by the Ministry of Home Affairs.  Court order This was done after a court allowed the foreigners to walk free on payment of a fine. The return, however, won’t be without riders as they would remain blacklisted for allegedly violating visa norms. A senior official with the Ministry of Home Affairs has confirmed that the LOCs issued against these foreign nationals has been withdrawn after they were freed by the court. “They have written to their respective Embassies asking them for the travel plan of each foreign national who was in the LOCs list. Following health protocols, the members will start leaving the country by next week,” said the officer. Those blacklisted He added that foreign nationals from 35 countries — who were detained for violating visa norms will continue to be blacklisted. The LOCs of remaining foreign nationals will be revoked as per the court orders. The list and instructions have been given to the Immigration Department. On April 1, the police had registered an FIR against foreign nationals for attending the religious gathering and violating guidelines issued in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak in the country. The investigation was later transferred to the Crime Branch. The police have submitted 47 chargesheets against 956 foreign nationals. During the period of around four months, the foreign nationals were detained at several locations in the city. On Friday, a Delhi court allowed 34 foreign nationals from Thailand to walk free on payment of different fines after they accepted mild charges under the plea bargain process. PMCARES The court directed the foreigners to deposit their fines at the PMCARES since they have been found guilty of violating government orders pertaining to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-event-over-300-foreign-nationals-may-return-home-soon/article32119878.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 recoveries nearing 1 lakh mark||The Capital on Friday recorded 26 deaths due to COVID-19 and saw more recoveries than new cases in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The number of new cases in the past 24 hours was 1,462, which takes the overall total to 1,20,107. More encouragingly, the number of recovered patients have inched towards one lakh mark (99,301 recoveries). A total of 1,608 of these happened in the past 24 hours. The number of people who have died due to the virus stands at 3, 571. Currently, there are 17,235 active cases, out of which 9,596 are in home isolation. Out of the 15,474 available hospital beds, 3,696 are occupied. The government said that Dedicated Covid Care Centres and Dedicated Covid Health Centres have 6,980 and 376 vacant beds. The bulletin added that 6,270 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 14,194 rapid antigen tests were conduced in the past 24 hours. The total number of people tested in the Capital is at 7,77,125, which is 40,901 tests per million.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-recoveries-nearing-1-lakh-mark/article32119923.ece
18 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||AMU firms up final-year exam marks scheme||Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) announced on Friday that 70% marks for the final year examinations of undergraduate and postgraduate courses for the 2019-20 academic session have been evaluated by various means and the remaining 30% marks will be given on the performance of students in viva voce conducted through online modes. According to Mujib Ullah Zuberi, Controller of Examinations, the tentative schedule of the examinations will be sent to the respective departments of studies, faculties and colleges for verification after which the schedule will be uploaded. He added that the evaluation work of the viva voce will be done by the internal examiners. “In case there are a large number of students appearing for a particular paper, the chairman of the departments can decide to have more examiners for smooth conduct,” said Mr. Zuberi. ‘Smartphones not must’ Shafey Kidwai, the official spokesperson, said viva voce could also be conducted over an ordinary phone call if the student didn’t have a smartphone. Meanwhile, an official release said teaching for 2020-21 academic session will commence from August 5 through online mode and students will not be allowed to stay in hostels for the time being. The university has also urged those students who are still residing in hostels to vacate and leave for their home towns in a safe manner to prevent the COVID-19 spread. The university has also made arrangements for online teaching through Moodle Cloud for which teachers will be provided with hands-on-training by the Prof. M. N. Farooqui Computer Centre. “Notes of lectures will be uploaded, preferably in PPT form with an embedded voice on web pages and virtual teacher-student interactive sessions will also be conducted,” said Prof. Kidwai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amu-firms-up-final-year-exam-marks-scheme/article32119935.ece
18 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||38-year-old man arrested for killing mother-in-law, injuring 3 others||A 38-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing his mother-in-law and injuring three others in Dwarka’s Mohan Garden after his wife left him and did not return, the police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said that the accused has been identified as Ravi (38), a resident of Mohan Garden, who allegedly murdered his mother-in-law Shashi Bala using an ice pick. Police said that around 12.30 a.m on Thursday, they received an information that a man has assaulted his mother-in-law and inflicted multiple blows on her with an ice pick. He injured others who intervened as well. All the injured were rushed to hospital where Shashi Bala was declared brought dead. Three others were taken to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital where they are undergoing treatment. The accused Ravi was overpowered and arrested. The weapon was later recovered from his possession, said the police During interrogation it was revealed that Ravi was arrested on rape charges in 2019 and was in jail for nine months. At this time, his wife and daughter had shifted to his mother-in-law’s house and they were unwilling to come back. It angered him and he believed that his mother-in-law was behind it, the DCP said. So the accused decided to kill Shashi Bala, he added. On Wednesday night, the accused attacked the victim when she had come out of the house to see off her relatives, the police said. When her relatives came to her rescue, they were also attacked, police added.  The accused attacked the victim when she had come out of the house to see off her relatives. When her relatives came to her rescue, they were also attacked. The weapon was later recovered from him Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/38-year-old-man-arrested-for-killing-mother-in-law-injuring-3-others/article32119875.ece
18 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Slums a worry in fight against virus||Detection of people infected with COVID-19 from 10 major slums of Bhubaneswar has left the administration worried. Odisha capital’s virus count crossed the 1,000 mark following 124 new cases on Friday — the biggest single day spike in for the city so far. On June 30, the total positive cases in the city were 324. The COVID-19 cases increased by more than three times to reach 1,043 in the past 17 days. While 457 recovered from the disease, 574 were active cases. Of the new 124 cases, 72 cases were detected in quarantine centres, 52 were from the community. As per the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), community cases were reported from 10 major slums, including Salia Sahi, Halidipadia, Maa Mangala Basti and Mahisakhai Basti. The Unit-4 fish market — city’s largest — has been shut down after some vendors were found infected with the virus. Trinatha Basti continued to be a containment zone. Similarly, Sitapur Basti has also been declared as a red zone. On July 14, after detection of nine cases in Laxmi Bazzar Basti, the BMC had declared it as a containment zone too. Serological survey Last week, a serological survey was taken up in Bhubaneswar to monitor the transmission of COVID19 in the general population and high-risk groups of the city. This was carried out across all the wards of the city, findings of which would help assess the extent of spread. Strict surveillance continued in Bhubaneswar with focus on the slum areas. “Each person in the slum areas is being checked repeatedly in a phase-wise manner and if any symptoms are found they are being tested. Now, the team is into the sixth round of surveillance,” said the BMC. As many as 436 teams carried out surveys in Bhubaneswar. Meanwhile, the police announced to implement 14-days of lockdown in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack beginning from Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/slums-a-worry-in-fight-against-virus/article32119933.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal visits Laxmi Nagar demolition site||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday visited east Delhi’s Laxmi Market area where the Municipal Corporation of Delhi has been undertaking the demolition of illegally constructed buildings for over the last three days as per the East Laxmi Market Master Plan road. All the buildings that are being demolished are residential and the demolition has been continuing since Wednesday. “Many jhuggis have been demolished here on the directions of the Delhi High Court. I have directed the officials to begin an in-depth study of the order of the High Court, and on how a court order for demolition can be issued in the time of this pandemic,” he said. “After the analysis of the court order, we will explore all options and try to find a permanent solution to the issue. We will also arrange temporary shelter for the people by either erecting tents on nearby land or providing lodging facilities in schools, where all necessary arrangements related to food, water, and sanitation will be made,” the Chief Minister said. The demolition drive was restarted on Monday in the light of the old directions of the High Court to remove encroachments on the service road, which is also known as the Master Plan Road in the Laxmi Market area. Until now, more than 60 structures have been demolished which served as houses for the families in East Laxmi Market area, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-visits-laxmi-nagar-demolition-site/article32119925.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||NGT no to alternative ways of cremation plea||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has dismissed a plea seeking directions to install alternative methods of cremation to curb air pollution and contain the spread of COVID-19. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson refused to entertain the plea, which even sought the conversion of at least one-third of the number of pyres at all cremation grounds.  ‘CO2 released’ “It is stated that presently wood is being used from which [carbon dioxide] is released. We do not find the issue raised to be a substantial question of the environment to be gone into under relevant sections,” the Bench said. The Bench, however, specified that the applicant was free to raise the issue before appropriate authorities. The observations came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Pramod Kumar Bhatia, who sought alternative methods to the general ones used for cremation purposes. According to the plea, several reports published over the years had indicated that wood-based cremation contributed significantly toward air pollution. It further added that alternative modes of cremation were required keeping in view the prevailing pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-no-to-alternative-ways-of-cremation-plea/article32119871.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||Consider reopening lawyers’ scheme registration: court||The Delhi High Court on Friday told the city government to consider reopening the window for registration for lawyers, who are residents of Delhi and could not sign up for the Chief Minister Advocates Welfare Scheme, which includes medical and life insurance cover, for two weeks. The court also asked the government to complete the process of receiving financial bids by insurance companies and award the contract to the successful bidder so that the firm can start issuing policy to those who have registered for the scheme. On the issue of including NCR-based lawyers in the welfare scheme, Justice Prathiba M. Singh said that if a decision is not taken till the next date, then it will hear the submissions and pass an appropriate order. The High Court remarked that young lawyers are facing difficulties as regular functioning of courts has been suspended and only urgent matters are being taken up. It was hearing a batch of petitions, including a plea by Bar Council of Delhi (BCD), seeking grant of mediclaim and term insurance for advocates registered with it. Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) President K.C. Mittal said that as of June 30 this year, there are 94,822 advocates enrolled with the Bar, excluding those who are suspended, expired or fake. Of these, Mr. Mittal said, 29,098 have applied for the CM Advocates’ Welfare Scheme. Mr. Mittal said that out of the 65,724 advocates, who have not applied for the welfare scheme, 49,593 are Delhi residents and 12,524 are NCR residents. The BCD, in its plea, said that their grievance relate to the 49,593 advocates who are Delhi residents and have been deprived of the benefits of the CM Advocates’ Welfare Scheme because the portal for registration was closed on April 19, 2020. ‘Closure arbitrary’ “The closure of the registration is totally arbitrary, unjustified, illegal and against the principle of natural justice and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution,” Mr. Mittal said. The court will hear the case again on August 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/consider-reopening-lawyers-scheme-registration-court/article32119916.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Selective safety||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/selective-safety/article32119873.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||See if workers’ registration can be verified online: court||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the AAP government to see if registration of workers with the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare (BOCWW) Board can be verified online as the applications were made online. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar also said that there should be “no laxity” in registration of workers with the Board through which they could get ex-gratia of Rs. 5,000 during the pandemic. It suggested that the registration or renewal of the workers to the Board, which comes under Delhi government, could be done online to minimise human-to-human contact. The workers, who are applying for registration/renewal, are required to provide employment certificate for at least 90 days in the year preceding the application for registration/renewal. The construction workers, by their very nature, are nomadic, and they move from site to site for their work, and also move their residences to a place close to their construction site, the court had said. “Even if they produce any one or more of the first 15 documents enlisted, it is likely that they would not correctly reflect their present address, looking to their financial background, and the nature of their avocation and the lives that they lead,” the court had remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/see-if-workers-registration-can-be-verified-online-court/article32119876.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP protests against ‘loot’ in power bills||The Delhi BJP on Friday began its “Bijli Jan Andolan” from power offices in all the 70 Assembly constituencies here against what it alleged was “loot” in electricity bills being issued by distribution companies in collusion with the Delhi government. Delhi BJP President Adesh Gupta, LoP Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, MPs Dushyant Gautam, Manoj Tiwari, Meenakshi Lekhi, Ramesh Bidhuri, Gautam Gambhir along with senior State leaders participated in the protests. Representatives of RWAs, industrial associations, traders’ association were also a part of the stirs. The party handed over a memorandum to Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) Chairman S.S. Chauhan regarding the problems being faced by citizens due to huge electricity bills. “Arvind Kejriwal, who came to power with the promise of Paani Maaf, Bjili Half, is sending huge bills by imposing power purchase charge, pension surcharge, fixed charge and other surcharges in collusion with discoms,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “The Delhi BJP will not tolerate the injustice done to the people by the Kejriwal government,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-protests-against-loot-in-power-bills/article32119877.ece
18 July 2020||Noida,||Virus claims one more life in Noida||Gautam Buddh Nagar on Friday reported one more death linked to COVID-19, while 84 more people were found to be infected. The death toll in the district reached 38 and the number of people who have so far tested positive for COVID-19 rose to 3,940, according to data released by the U.P. Health Department for a 24-hour period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/virus-claims-one-more-life-in-noida/article32119926.ece
18 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||‘No dress code’||In the ongoing controversy regarding alleged harassment of a girl student with comments on social media that suggest she will be forced to wear hijab, AMU clarified on Friday that there was no dress code in the university. Spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said: “No official dress code was applicable on the campus.” On the harrasment incident, Prof. Kidwai clarified that “such incidents have no place in AMU and society”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-dress-code/article32119928.ece
18 July 2020||New Delhi,||DU cultural societies stand against axing of ECA quota||Nearly 150 cultural societies belonging to various colleges of Delhi University signed an open letter and took to social media on Thursday evening calling for the restoration of the extracurricular activities quota scrapped in the admissions process this year. “We the students of the pan-DU Extra Curricular Circuit stand together in solidarity against the university of Delhi’s decision...,” the open letter to the Vice-Chancellor reads. It argued that while challenges posed as a consequence of the pandemic were understandable, the university should have consulted stakeholders such as ECA aspirants and beneficiaries before revoking the quota. “The move rips apart the university’s cultural fabric and creates a void that engulfs any scope for artistic growth at the college level and beyond,” the letter, signed by various societies from colleges such as Miranda House, Ramjas College, Sri Venkateshwara, Hindu College, LSR and others read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-cultural-societies-stand-against-axing-of-eca-quota/article32119927.ece
18 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Village head shot dead in Haryana||A village head (sarpanch) was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Haryana’s Rohtak district on Friday. Police said 75-year-old Balkrishan, village head of Chidi, was killed on Thursday night after motorcycle-borne assailants shot him inside his house. “At least two assailants opened fire at him. The sarpanch was taken to PGIMS in Rohtak, where he was declared brought dead,” Superintendent of Police Rahul Sharma told The Hindu . “We have a few leads, which point out that the killers were from the same village. So far, no one has been arrested but we hopeful of making early arrests,” he said. The Congress hit out at the ruling BJP-JJP government and accused it of being responsible for “complete breakdown of law and order” in the State. Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the situation in the State has reached a point where criminals have lost all fear of the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/village-head-shot-dead-in-haryana/article32119931.ece
18 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||348 new cases reported in Punjab||Punjab recorded 348 new COVID-19 cases on Friday and reported nine more deaths taking the toll to 239, according to an official statement. The major chunk of new cases, 78 and 62 were reported from Jalandhar and Ludhiana districts respectively. The number of positive cases has reached 9,442 in the State. The Health department said the active cases are 2,830 and 6,373 patients have so far been cured. 795 cases in Haryana In Haryana, 795 fresh cases surfaced on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 24,797. The State also reported five deaths taking the toll to 327. The major chunk of new cases, 160 and 156 were reported from Faridabad and Rewari districts respectively. The active cases stand at 5,752.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/348-new-cases-reported-in-punjab/article32119934.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||From the therapist’s couch to yours||In early May, Mani S (name changed), a Chennai-based writer and journalist, found himself talking to an empty chair. ‘Imagine a friend seated there, going through your emotional crisis, and talk to him,’ said his therapist’s calming voice over a WhatsApp call from Bengaluru. Though initially awkward with the exercise — especially now in our socially-distanced reality — Mani soon found that the new perspective helped him deal with his anxiety. “I thought in-person sessions were better, but I’ve had no trouble [with teletherapy] because my psychologist is aware of the medium’s limitations and helps me with specific instructions,” says the 32-year-old, who first got help last October to cope with his divorce. “During lockdown, I realised that medicines alone were not helping my depression, so I turned to teletherapy.” In New Delhi, the fortnight after the first lockdown saw a spike in COVID-related phone calls at IWill Therapy, the online specialist therapy company. The first week was spent addressing anxiety from both first-timers and existing clients. “With lay-offs, pay cuts and mounting bills, everyone is facing some issue now. But our callers have been triggered to a point where their depression or anxiety is painful,” says Nayamat Bawa, 32, head psychologist, adding that they’ve seen a 65% jump in sessions between May and June. Even social media platforms are upping their game. This week, Snapchat rolled out its ‘Here For You’ feature. While there are no teletherapists, its content covers a range of topics including eating disorders, anxiety and how to identify distress in a loved one.  Help’s just a tap away  Though teletherapy has been around for years, the pandemic has most certainly brought the psychotherapist home. Teenagers, millennials and people in their 40s are reaching out the most, to address concerns such as job insecurity, couple discord, behaviour issues with children, sleep disorders and loneliness. “Anxiety and depression as clinical conditions have seen a strong spike. This is because the pandemic has created stressful conditions for people with no pre-existing issues as well as those with an existing risk for burnout,” says Bawa. One of her first sessions, she recalls, was a client in his 40s whom she’d been seeing for a couple of years. “His business was overseas and he had to shut shop. He was experiencing suicidal thoughts. I had to use positive coping mechanisms and cognitive behaviour therapy, such as thought restructuring, to help him,” she says. In Chennai, psychiatrist Dr Vijay Nagaswami, has also noticed a much higher incidence of anxiety and irritability over the last four months. “Many couples haven’t spent as much time in direct contact with each other as they have now. So the cracks that were once papered over are now opening and people are realising that they can’t delay addressing the issues any longer,” he says.  Need for privacy  For those who’ve never had therapy, teletherapy is an easy introduction. “Many first-timers find video sessions more comforting as they remain in their own environment,” says Dr Nagaswami, who has been taking online sessions since 2013. Moreover, taking 50 minutes out of one’s day is far easier than travelling a couple of hours to get to a therapist’s office. “Virtual sessions are more convenient for someone with anxiety as the smallest of things, such as traffic or bad roads, can seem impossible to handle,” says Mani. But convenience and flexibility aside, there are challenges too. Therapists have to be alert for non-verbal cues. They also have to judge the baseline for a new client’s anxiety. “I talk this through at length with patients, but mostly we go by how long the problem has been persisting and how badly it affects their daily life,” says Jessica Gold, Assistant Professor at Washington University’s Department of Psychiatry (St Louis), who has authored articles on issues faced by therapists. “Where I need to check their heart rate or blood pressure [for those on stimulants for ADHD, etc], I’ve been asking them to use Fitbit or other ways to get their own measurements,” she adds. Another constraint: lack of a ‘safe space’. When you pay for therapy, you pay for the psychotherapist’s knowledge and the space — where you can open up without the risk of interruption or being overheard. “For those living with large families, privacy is a concern. They will prefer to wait for in-person sessions, unless their issues are too compelling and require urgent intervention,” says Dr Nagaswami. This explains why many opt for sessions on WhatsApp or the chat platform. Poornima Bhola, faculty at the Department of Clinical Psychology at NIMHANS (National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences), recalls a 19-year-old who found it challenging to speak to a psychologist because his family didn’t know he was in therapy.  Let’s talk money  Price is a concern, too. Especially since no insurance company covers therapy (though the 2017 Mental Health Act provides for the inclusion of mental illness cover). Last month, Delhi-based feminist researcher Radhika Radhakrishnan, 26, tweeted about the exorbitant cost of therapy in India. With over 2,000 retweets and 10,000 likes, it resonated with many. “A session with a psychologist costs between Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 2,000 for an hour, and psychiatrists cost more, close to Rs. 3,000. This, added with the cost of medicines, is a high expense every month,” she says. Finding the right specialist takes time too, says Radhakrishnan, who has consulted four psychologists and two psychiatrists in the last five years. Then there are the bad experiences no one talks about. “I once had a psychologist who disagreed with me during a session, stopped midway and then blocked me on WhatsApp!” Unfortunately, at the moment, such cases can’t be reported. “There is no governing body that regulates psychotherapists and counsellors in the manner that the Indian Medical Council regulates doctors,” says Dr Nagaswami. Expert speak Of course, teletherapy has been a learning curve for therapists too. Gold says making the virtual switch in March wasn’t easy. “It can be really exhausting to go from person to person on Zoom or Skype all day,” she says, adding that some things simply can’t be done over video or phone, like handing someone “a tissue if they are crying”. But what they all agree on is that teletherapy will be the new normal in tackling the mental health crisis — albeit as a hybrid version. “It will not replace traditional sessions entirely; there will be a mix of the two. It will give us the opportunity to reach out to more people, especially those in rural and semi-urban areas,” says Bhola. As more glitches get fixed and more experts join the expanding roster of online resources, this will mean help at hand for anyone, anywhere. If you are in distress, call Aasra’s 24x7 helpline at 9820466726  Over the last four months, the need for seeking professional help has gone up. People from all walks of life are grappling with anxiety and need help to cope. This is propelling them to open up more NAYAMAT BAWA IWill Therapy   Connectivity is a sore point. As many people don’t have a broadband connection and use 3G or 4G, the video/audio quality is often variable. Staring at pixelated images can be trying Dr VIJAY NAGASWAMI Psychiatrist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/from-the-therapists-couch-to-yours/article32119896.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||What image are you?: Most Instagram trends make no sense at all, but are fun and whimsical nevertheless. In the latest craze, pages with the format ‘What (blank) are you’ are dedicated to pairing names with pictures of cows, frogs, and even singer Harry Styles. Simply DM your name to be featured! Some moderators are encouraging those who request a pairing to donate to causes like education, homelessness and Covid-19 relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article32119884.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s in your skincare?||For clean beauty options, Sublime Life offers a curation of products. From Australian carbon-neutral label, Sukin, and sulfate-free UK brand Cowshed, to no-plastic ampoules from Martiderm, Spain, and home-grown Indian brands like Disguise Comestics and Ruby’s Organic. Details: sublimelife.in. Meanwhile, check your skincare ingredient list with The Good Face Project’s iOS app. Links to latest research reports are frequently updated based on AI-led searches through scientific journals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/whats-in-your-skincare/article32119885.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||On the music bus||Today, treat yourself to an evening of classical music with the Symphony Orchestra of India. As part of the NCPA @ Home lineup, their rendition of Saint-Saëns’Violin Concerto No. 3will be streamed on the NCPA YouTube channel at 6 pm. Join artistes Harrdy Sandhu, Jassie Gill, Indian Ocean, Javed Ali, Jeet Gannguli and Revanth on theMusic Bus. The show, now streaming on Hungama Music and Hungama Play, shows the singers travelling across six cities to collaborate with local artistes, culminating in a mega concert each episode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/on-the-music-bus/article32119886.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Quarantine book club||When the countrywide lockdown was declared, Roli Books announced a short story contest. The 10 winning entries have been compiled into an e-book titledLockdown Longings: 10 Stories of Love and Recollection. At Rs. 150. Another launch,Every Creature Has a Story(HarperCollins) has Janaki Lenin uncovering the surprising, sometimes bizarre, ways in which animals work. From snails entombing parasites into their shells to elephants developing immunity to cancer, you’ll never look at nature in the same way again. At Rs. 599.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/quarantine-book-club/article32119887.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||San Diego Comic-Con: What was to be a fabulous celebration of 50 years of Comic-Con has now shifted to the virtual world. The At Home lineup includes pre-recorded panels fromThe Walking Dead,Bob's Burgersand more. There is even space for cosplay: check out the Virtual Masquerade Costume Competition featuring entries from around the world. From July 22 to July 26. Details on comic-con.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article32119888.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Fashion on sale||We may not have had the FDCI Fashion Week this year, but you don’t have to miss out on their Designer Stockroom. The fourth edition of this sale goes online, where over 100 designers will retail their collections at up to 70% off. From July 31 to August 2, on fdci.org. Rewanta, a sustainable fashion social enterprise, has launched the #ReclaimKhadiinitiative. They’re calling consumers to pledge to purchase at least one khadi item, to create demand for the humble hand-spun fabric. Details: reclaimkhadi.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fashion-on-sale/article32119889.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Digital date with art||InKo Centre, in association with the Indian Art Museum in Seoul, Korea, is hostingEmerging Canvas, an e-compendium that will showcase 132 emerging artists from India and Korea over six editions of curated exhibitions. The ongoing first edition can be viewed at inkocentre.org. For amateur artists from five years to 60 years, there isChitram,an old-fashioned drawing competition. Themes include play, education, nature and responsibility. Register for c200 on insider.in. Details on chitramart.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/digital-date-with-art/article32119890.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Click, edit, repeat||The CPB Foundation is organising a free workshop with France-based documentary photographer, Philip Blenkinsop. This is an open call to emerging photographers/photo artists from across South Asia, who are yet to produce their work in a book format. They will learn the process of editing and narrative building. From July 25 to August 2. Or learn photography workflow in Photoshop, for beginners on July 18 and advanced classes on July 25. Limited seats available. For details and to apply, visit chennaiphotobiennale.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/click-edit-repeat/article32119891.ece
18 July 2020||July 18 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Tomorrow, join columnist and wellness expert Vasudha Rai in conversation with Anna Chandy, chairperson of Live Love Laugh Foundation (founded by actor Deepika Padukone). They will talk about anxiety during lockdown, its triggers and acceptance. Plus exercises to reduce symptoms and long-term solutions. On July 19 at 5 pm @thehinduweekend. From earlier this week, watch Bharatanatyam dancer Mavin Khoo discussing the conundrum of whether to perform or just be, with Akhila Krishnamurthy on our IGTV channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdownwithweekend/article32119892.ece
