19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. nod mandatory for FDI from neighbouring countries||In a move that will restrict Chinese investments, the Centre has made prior government approval mandatory for foreign direct investments from countries which share a land border with India. Previously, only investments from Pakistan and Bangladesh faced such restrictions. The revised FDI policy is aimed at “curbing opportunistic takeovers/acquisitions of Indian companies due to the current COVID-19 pandemic,” said a press release from the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade on Saturday. ‘With land borders’ “A non-resident entity can invest in India, subject to the FDI Policy except in those sectors/activities which are prohibited,” says the new policy. “However, an entity of a country, which shares land border with India or where the beneficial owner of an investment into India is situated in or is a citizen of any such country, can invest only under the Government route.” Pakistani investors face further restrictions in requiring government approval for FDI in defence, space and atomic energy sectors as well. India shares land borders with Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Myanmar. Investors from countries not covered by the new policy only have to inform the RBI after a transaction rather than asking for prior permission from the relevant government department. With many Indian businesses coming to a halt due to the lockdown imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic and valuations plummeting, a number of domestic firms may be vulnerable to “opportunistic takeovers or acquisitions” from foreign players. Last week, housing finance company HDFC informed the stock exchanges that the People’s Bank of China now holds a 1.01% stake in the company. This was an instance of portfolio investment through the stock market and not FDI. The official statement added that a transfer of ownership of any existing or future FDI in an Indian entity to those in the restricted countries would also need government approval. The decisions will become effective from the date of the Foreign Exchange Management Act notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-nod-mandatory-for-fdi-from-neighbouring-countries/article31379560.ece
19 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Man dies three days after being ‘beaten up’ by police||A 22-year-old daily wage worker, Rizwan Ahmed, died in Uttar Pradesh’s Ambedkar Nagar district on Saturday, three days after he was allegedly thrashed by police when he had stepped out during the lockdown to purchase food. In his complaint, Rizwan’s father Israil said his son had stepped out in the Chajjapur locality of Tanda town to buy some items of daily use on April 15 around 4 p.m. A relative said he had gone to buy biscuits as he was hungry. When Rizwan reached the local post office, he was intercepted by a woman inspector and some constables, said Mr. Israil. “The police beat him with sticks,” said Mr. Israil, adding that when Rizwan came home, his body was blue with injury marks. Afraid of the police and the lockdown, the family treated Rizwan with home remedies. When his condition did not improve, they shifted him to a hospital in Asopur but the doctors there referred him to the district hospital where he died at 2 a.m., said Mr. Israil. Additional SP Avanish Kumar Mishra said the allegations against the police are being probed. “After the post-mortem is done and on the inspection of the CCTV footage, the allegations made by the family will be investigated and action taken,” Mr. Mishra said. Woman dead in Budaun A 35-year-old woman, who fell sick while standing in a queue at a shop in U.P.’s Budaun district to collect free ration, died at a hospital, officials said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday. Police have sent the body for post-mortem, they said. “It is being said that she died of heart attack. Once the [post-mortem] report comes, her family will be helped,” District Magistrate Kumar Prashant said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-dies-three-days-after-being-beaten-up-by-police/article31379736.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi to use rapid test kits from today||The Delhi government on Saturday received 42,000 rapid antibody test kits from the Centre. It will start using these kits in containment zones in the city from Sunday, said Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain. “We have received 42,000 rapid [antibody] testing kits. Training is going on now for technicians. We will start testing through these kits in all containment zones from tomorrow [Sunday],” he said. The rapid antibody test uses blood samples of a person and gives results in less than 30 minutes. Testing through these kits will be done free of cost, said officials. Earlier, the Delhi government had said it was trying to purchase 1 lakh test kits, but the deal did not work out. “We had placed the order to an ICMR-approved vendor. It’s not just us, no State in India has got rapid testing kits from them yet. We will ask the Central government for more kits,” a Delhi government official said. Testing for COVID-19 in city hospitals is done using RT-PCR (real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test, which uses nasal or throat swab as sample. The RT-PCR test results come out much later. The rapid antibody test, though faster, will not replace the RT-PCR test, but will be used as a “supplementary tool”, stated a PIB tweet. According to Indian Council of Medical Research, the RT-PCR test is more accurate and the rapid antibody test will be used for surveillance and monitoring whether COVID-19 hotspots are increasing or decreasing, and not for diagnosis. Till now, 21,409 tests have been done in Delhi using RT-PCR tests. The city government plans to conduct more than 21,000 tests using rapid antibody kits in April, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-to-use-rapid-test-kits-from-today/article31379735.ece
19 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Four test positive, two cured of COVID-19||Four persons on Saturday tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, while two patients, who had been undergoing treatment, were cured of the disease. Three of the cases were reported in persons who had returned from Dubai, while one case was that of a person who had developed the infection through contact. Three cases are located in Kannur, while one is in Kozhikode. Of the 399 COVID-19 cases reported so far, only 140 are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals. A total of 257 persons have recovered from the disease, while the State had lost two persons to the disease. District-wise figures The number of persons currently under surveillance has dwindled to 67,190, of whom 66,686 are in home quarantine. Only 504 persons with mild symptoms are isolated in hospitals The district-wise figures of COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment now are as follows: Thiruvananthapuram 2, Kollam 5, Pathanamthitta 6, Alappuzha 2, Ernakulam 2, Thrissur 1, Palakkad 2, Malappuram 7, Kozhikode 13, Wayanad 1, Kannur 50, Kasaragod 49. In a bid to ramp up testing facilities, four more medical colleges have been equipped with real-time PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction ) laboratories. The lab at the Ernakulam Government Medical College started functioning on Saturday, while those at the Kottayam, Kannur and Manjeri medical colleges are awaiting clearance, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said. As on Saturday, a total of 11 government laboratories are conducting tests for COVID-19. Two private laboratories in Kozhikode and Ernakulam are also part of the testing network. The new labs were equipped with the 10 real-time PCR machines procured to speed up the pace of testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-test-positive-two-cured-of-covid-19/article31379836.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR reports a huge spike in infections in a single day||The number of COVID-19 cases in India climbed to 14,792 and the death toll rose to 488 on Saturday, with 957 new cases and 36 deaths in the past 24 hours. According to the Union Health Ministry, the country currently has 12,289 active cases, while 2,014 persons have recovered so far. “An encouraging trend has been noted in 47 districts across 23 States with no positive cases being reported over the past 28 days. This includes 22 new districts in 12 States that have not reported any fresh case during the past 14 days,” Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said. The ICMR in its update said that as on April 18 till 9 p.m. it had tested 35,494 samples of which 2,154 were positive for SARS-CoV-2. Speaking about the difference in the positive cases of over 1,500 a Union Health Ministry official maintained that the COVID-19 numbers first come to ICMR network and are then updated to the Ministry. The Health Ministry said the mortality rate in the country is currently around 3.3%. “An age-wise analysis indicates that 14.4% deaths have been reported in the age group of 0-45 years. Between 45-60 years it is 10.3%, between 60-75 it is 33.1% and for 75 years and above it is 42.2%,” Mr. Agarwal said. He added that 83% of the cases had co-morbidities. According to reports from State Health Departments, the nationwide death toll stood at 522, with 12, 874 active cases out of 15,667 positive cases. With 3,105 active cases, Maharashtra leads the tally followed by Delhi (1,778) and Gujarat (1,230).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/icmr-reports-a-huge-spike-in-infections-in-a-single-day/article31379556.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru/Vijayapura,||42-year-old who died on April 16 tests positive||Karnataka reported its 14th death after a 42-year-old driver from Vijayapura, who died of a heart attack on April 16, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The driver had accompanied P-306 and P-308 to Bengaluru and suffered a heart attack on hearing that they had tested positive. Overall, 25 new cases were reported on Saturday taking the total number to 384. This includes 14 deaths and 104 people who have been discharged. While briefing the media on the death of the Vijayapura driver, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said: “He had no other symptoms. When he saw in the media that the persons whom he had ferried had tested positive, he could not bear the shock”. Meanwhile, the Vijayapura district administration is in a fix on what to do with the mortal remains. Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil said that according to the doctors, prima facie , the person died of cardiac arrest after hearing the news that he came into contact with those who had tested positive. “The death rate is high among those with comorbidities. This person had no comorbidities and prima facie doctors think that he has died of heart attack. However, this is what the doctors suspect, and the actual cause of death can be ascertained only after an autopsy. As it is a unique case, we have sought the State government’s suggestion on our next move,” he said. He however claimed that family members of the driver have not demanded any autopsy. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said the district administration has to follow the Government of India’s protocol. “We will advise the administration to dispose of the body as per protocols,” he said. Of the 25 new cases reported on Saturday, seven each have been reported from Bagalkot and Mysuru, three from Bengaluru Urban, two each from Kalaburgi and Vijayapura, and one each from Belagavi, Dharwad, Mandya, and Gadag. Most of those who tested positive on Saturday are secondary contacts of previously tested positive persons. Sixteen people, including 10 from Mysuru, were discharged on Saturday taking the total number of discharged persons to 104.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/42-year-old-who-died-on-april-16-tests-positive/article31379602.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Pharmacies to keep track of fever ‘patients’||Medical shops now would collect details of people buying medicines for cough, fever, or others symptoms similar to COVID-19. This is to identify people possibly suffering from the infectious disease. Samples would be collected and tested depending on the symptoms to check whether they have coronavirus. Top GHMC officials and additional collectors were told to instruct medical shop owners, their associations, to take contact details of those who buy such medicines. The association members said that they have started collecting details from Saturday. Memo issued Principal secretary of Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MAUD) Department Arvind Kumar issued a memo in this regard on Friday. stating that people suffering from symptoms similar to coronavirus are going to medical shops on their own and asking for medicines. “It is imperative that in a pro-active manner, we follow up on cases with fever and other symptoms similar to COVID. We should be able to contact these patients and get a test conducted depending on the symptoms,” the principal secretary stated. Shopkeepers were asked to inform people that details are collected for their benefit. “We received instructions and started to collect details,” said CH Janardhan Rao, president of Telangana Chemists and Druggists Association. The details would be sent to officials who will maintain a directory of the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pharmacies-to-keep-track-of-fever-patients/article31379786.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,||49 fresh cases, all from containment zones||On Saturday, Tamil Nadu reported 49 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases in the State to 1,372. Eighty-two more persons were discharged from hospitals across the State. “For the last three days, fewer persons have tested positive, while the number of persons who have recovered with treatment has increased. With 82 persons discharged today, a total of 365 persons have been discharged so far,” Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar told reporters.  There have been no deaths in the last two days, the Minister said. The State lifted 5,363 samples in a day. So far, 35,306 samples have been lifted and 29,997 individuals tested. “As of now, positive cases are occuring within containment zones,” he said. The State received 12,000 rapid testing kits on Saturday, this time from the Centre. It is expecting another consignment of testing kits by the weekend, officials said. The State expanded the expert committee, which is to formulate the guidelines for a phased exit from the lockdown, and included three more members — Commissioner of Revenue Administration, Director of the National Institute of Epidemiology and a representative of Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/49-fresh-cases-all-from-containment-zones/article31379653.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Source of 30 cases could not be traced’||The Krishna district administration has cautioned the people about the risks of community transmission in Vijayawada and other mandals where COVID-19 cases have been reported, though the source of transmission in about 30 cases reported in the past couple of days couldn’t be traced. Collector A. Md. Imtiaz and Commissioner of Police Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala released video messages through which they alerted the public about the rise in the number of cases where persons with no travel history or relation with patients contracted the virus. “So far, in the district, 69 cases have been reported, and about 59 are from Vijayawada and surrounding areas. Initially the transmission was through foreign returnees and later Delhi returnees, and there are 35 such cases. But in about 30 cases, we were unable to find out where the patients got exposed. This is an alarming development, and everyone should follow social distancing and lockdown norms to contain the spread,” the Collector said. There are 17 containment zones in the city covering 95% of the municipal corporation area, he added. “Nobody should step out of their houses unless it is an emergency until May 3. The transmission of the virus could be because of violation of social distancing norms,” he added. Meat shops closed In view of this, the Collector asked the police department to ensure that no meat and seafood shops are opened in the red zones. Mr. Tirumala Rao said the source of transmission in many cases couldn’t be traced. “Some patients say they have only gone to Rythu Bazaars and grocery stores. In one case, the patient visited medical shops and hospitals to supply saline bottles, but where he got exposed to the virus is not known,” he said. “In another recent case, a foreign returnee tested positive after nearly 28 days. His mother too tested positive after two days and later, six of his neighbours tested positive. In that particular colony, there are 10 cases now. This is a highly alarming situation,” Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/source-of-many-cases-in-vijayawada-untraced/article31379540.ece
19 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat sees steepest single day jump in cases||Gujarat on Saturday reported an increase of 277 new COVID-19 cases, the sharpest single day jump, and 12 deaths, taking the State’s total to 1,376 cases and 53 deaths. The outbreak has now covered 25 of the State’s 33 districts, with fatalities reported from 12 districts. Gujarat now has 10 people on ventilator support, while 1,220 patients are under treatment and stable. So far, 93 persons have recovered and been discharged from hospitals. According to the Health Department, so far 26,102 samples have been tested, out of which 1,376 tested positive. Ahmedabad is the worst hit, contributing more than 50% of the total positive cases in the State. As on Saturday, Ahmedabad had recorded 862 cases, out of which 25 patients have succumbed, while 27 have recovered and been discharged. On Saturday, the city reported 239 new infections and four deaths. Within the city, almost 95 % of the cases have emerged from slums and congested pockets, spurring concerns of community transmission of the disease. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has increased testing, with almost 1,000 samples being collected per day.  Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi said there was no need to panic over the sharp increase in cases as authorities had expected the number to rise in the wake of the State’s decision to adopt a more aggressive testing strategy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujarat-sees-steepest-single-day-jump-in-cases/article31379558.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Mirror image||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mirror-image/article31379733.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||43 more cases reported in Telangana||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana touched 809 as 43 more cases were reported on Saturday. No more deaths were recorded. Out of the 809 cases, 605 were active, 186 discharged and 18 have died. Of the 43 new cases, 31 were from GHMC area, 7 from Gadwal, 2 from Sircilla, 2 from Rangareddy and 1 from Nalgonda districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/43-more-cases-reported-in-telangana/article31379787.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Flip-flop over lockdown relaxation||The State government on Saturday decided to partially relax the lockdown conditions from April 20. The decision, however, was marked by confusion with the government rolling back some of the provisions by late evening. Soon after a meeting on Saturday morning, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had announced that IT/BT companies will be allowed to function with a third of their workforce. He also said that two-wheeler riders, without pillion, would be allowed to ply without passes. Modifications However, by late in the evening, these were modified. While two-wheeler movement will continue to remain banned till May 3, IT/BT firms will continue to largely work from home. Only “essential services” in IT/BT sector will work with a third of the workforce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flip-flop-over-lockdown-relaxation/article31379601.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||Onus on States to expand PDS net: Paswan||As lakhs of stranded migrant workers in the cities face hunger and starvation, Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan shifted the blame on State governments for not enlisting more beneficiaries under the PDS scheme and failing to launch his Ministry’s ambitious ‘one nation-one ration card’ project. New scheme The Union government had been planning to launch the one nation-one ration card scheme from June 1 to enable beneficiaries to get their entitlement of subsidised foodgrains even if they are not in their home State or Union Territory. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Paswan said only 12 States had joined the project, pointing out that U.P. and Bihar, two States with maximum migrant populations, are yet to come on board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/onus-on-states-to-expand-pds-net-paswan/article31379561.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Two more die in State||The State reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 31 new cases from six districts during the last 24 hours as of Saturday morning. The tally went up to 603 and 16 persons succumbed to the disease so far. In all, 42 recovered and got discharged till date. A total of 545 patients were being treated in hospitals, a bulletin issued by the Health Department said. As many as 3,891 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 21,450. Krishna district reported 17 fresh cases and one death taking the district’s tally to 70.Kurnool reported six new cases and one more death. Nellore reported three new cases and Prakasam and East Godavari two each. West Godavari reported one new case. As per the latest bulletin, Kurnool has 132 cases and Guntur 125 cases. They are followed by Krishna (70), Nellore (67), Prakasam (44), Kadapa (37), West Godavari (35), Chittoor (28), Anantapur (26), Visakhapatnam (20) and East Godavari (19).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-more-die-in-state/article31379564.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||26 Navy personnel test positive||In the first instance of COVID-19 in the Navy, 26 personnel have tested positive at INS Angre , a shore-based logistics and administrative support establishment of the Western Naval Command in Mumbai. “There has so far not been a single case of COVID-19 on board any ship, submarine or air station,” the Navy said in a statement on Saturday. “The detection of these cases is a result of meticulous contact tracing and aggressive screening/testing carried out by Western Naval Command after one sailor tested positive on April 7. All these sailors continue to remain asymptomatic and are being monitored at INHS Asvini under the care of the best medical professionals,” the Navy said. Separately, a woman medical officer of the Army tested positive at Dehradun, taking the total count in the Army to nine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/26-navy-personnel-test-positive/article31379565.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sharjeel Imam chargesheeted for ‘Jamia riots’||Delhi Police on Saturday said that a supplementary chargesheet has been filed against JNU PhD student Sharjeel Imam for allegedly giving seditious speech and abetting “Jamia riots”. Delhi Police Public Relations Officer M.S. Randhawa said the first chargesheet was filed against rioters earlier by an SIT and a supplementary chargesheet in continuation of the earlier one has now been filed in a Saket court. Mr. Randhawa said according to the FIR against Sharjeel, he was arrested for “instigating and abetting the Jamia riots due to his seditious speech delivered on December 13 last year”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sharjeel-imam-chargesheeted-for-jamia-riots/article31379737.ece
19 April 2020||Srinagar,||3 CRPF jawans killed in militant attack at Sopore||Three CRPF jawans were killed and two injured in a militant attack at Sopore in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. A CRPF spokesman said the attack took place between 5 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. when the personnel were withdrawing from checkpoint duty at the Ahad Baba crossing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-crpf-jawans-killed-in-militant-attack-at-sopore/article31379740.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 186 new cases, one death||One death and 186 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Saturday, taking the toll to 43 and the total number to 1,893, stated a government health bulletin. Of the total patients, 207 have recovered while 1,643 are active cases. The Delhi government also added eight more areas to its list of containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-186-new-cases-one-death/article31379739.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,||For firms, PM CARES a bigger draw than CMRF||The State government, trying to raise money for COVID-19 relief efforts, seems to be experiencing some trouble in attracting funds to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-firms-pm-cares-a-bigger-draw-than-cmrf/article31379603.ece
19 April 2020||Chennai,||Expert panel discusses exit strategy||The 21-member expert committee, constituted by the State government to formulate an exit strategy from the lockdown, met on Saturday. The panel was of the opinion that all gains of the containment efforts made during the lockdown should not be wasted when restrictions are relaxed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/expert-panel-discusses-exit-strategy/article31379651.ece
19 April 2020||Perambalur,||All police personnel in Perambalur to be tested||All police personnel in Perambalur district have been asked to get themselves tested for COVID-19, after a policeman tested positive. The policeman, attached to the V. Kalathur police station, has been admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-police-personnel-in-perambalur-to-be-tested/article31379650.ece
19 April 2020||Chennai,||Asymptomatic patients to be monitored||Asymptomatic patients in the high-risk category, including the elderly and those with co-morbid conditions, will be monitored in high-dependency units. Many patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu are asymptomatic. So far, 15 patients have died in the State. Doctors have been monitoring their lung signs and oxygen saturation levels .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/asymptomatic-patients-to-be-monitored/article31379649.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Clarify e-commerce rule: Cong.||The Union Home Ministry should clarify if e-commerce companies are allowed to sell only essential items or they can sell non-essential commodities too from April 20, the Congress said on Saturday. In a videoconference with presspersons on Saturday, senior party leader Ajay Maken highlighted the plight of retail traders during the lockdown. He said the new guidelines of the Ministry for limited economic activities denied a level playing field for the traditional traders. “For the essentials items, traders have been allowed to open their shops and sell, but for non-essential items, if only the e-commerce companies are allowed, then the traders are being not given a level playing field,” he said. “What we are asking from the government is first they should clarify their April 15 order and then it should come forward to rescue these traders and ensure that they don’t have to pay fixed electricity charges. Some amount of help should be given so that they can pay salaries and the property taxes should also be not collected at commercial rates from the shopkeepers,” Mr. Maken added. As per the 6th economic census of 2013, after agriculture, retail trade was the most dominant economic activity and accounted for 35% of the total economic activities. “As far as the employment generation is concerned, retail trade accounts for one-fight of the total employment in India. It gives employment to 2.72 crores families in the entire country. So, it is one of the biggest employment generator, second only to the manufacturing sector,” he noted. Traders had closed their shops for the past one month and earlier suffered due to demonetisation, e-commerce competition and the GST, he said. Other State governments should follow the Congress-ruled Punjab and Rajasthan where fixed charges for electricity for non-domestic connections had been deferred by two months, Mr. Maken said. Tewari seeks panel meet In a related development, Lok Sabha member and senior party leader Manish Tewari wrote to the Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance Jayant Sinha, demanding a meeting of the committee to discuss the situation arising out of COVID-19. “Even before the lockdown that commenced on the 24th of March 2020, the Indian economy was not in the pink of the health. However, the last 25 days have demonstrated how fragile our economy is and the poor have been the worst sufferers of this tragic spectre,” Mr Tewari wrote, while asking for a meeting post April 20 when some of the restrictions are set to be relaxed. Relief package ‘peanuts’ Separately, senior leader M. Veerappa Moily, slammed the Centre for the relief package of Rs 1.72 lakh crore announced earlier. “The government should have ensured at least a package of 9% of GDP, which works out to Rs 17.5 lakh crore. What the government and RBI has done is only peanuts, which will not allow the economy to stabilise, forget about taking off”, he said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clarify-e-commerce-rule-cong/article31379488.ece
19 April 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra records 328 fresh cases||Maharashtra recorded 328 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, making it the third-highest single-day jump for the State. The total number of cases touched 3,648. With 11 more deaths, the death toll in the State touched 211. Mumbai alone accounted for nearly 62% of the State’s cases and 60% of the deaths. Health officials said that of the 11 deaths reported on Saturday, five were from Mumbai, one each from Thane and Aurangabad, four from Pune. “Out of the 11 deaths, six were men and five women. Five of the deceased were over 60 years and six were in the age group of 40-60,” said an official. Nine of the 11 deceased had multiple co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease, the official said. To tackle the increasing number of cases and the high mortality rate, the State government had appointed two expert committees: one for Mumbai and the other for the rest of Maharashtra. Both committees are ready with their draft recommendations. “The draft will be submitted to the government, and it will be finalised in a day or two. The final document will be the standard treatment protocol aimed at early diagnosis, early treatment and reducing mortality,” said Dr. Subhash Salunkhe, technical adviser to the government on pandemic control. Clinical management He said the draft consisted of overall clinical management of patients. “There is also an emphasis on prone positioning for ventilation for better results, along with other important aspects that can stop the patients from deteriorating rapidly,” Dr. Salunkhe said. The final treatment protocol would be released soon. The State has carried out 67,468 tests so far. As many as 82,299 people are under home quarantine and 6,999 people are under institutional quarantine. So far, 365 patients have recovered, and have been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-records-328-fresh-cases/article31379500.ece
19 April 2020||Kolkata,||HC tells Bengal to do more tests||Observing that the West Bengal government should take a deeper look at undertaking more COVID-19 tests on a “war footing”, the Calcutta High Court said the guidelines of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) should be followed by all stakeholders. “We are of the view that WHO and ICMR being expert authorities in the field, their guidelines and advisories are required to be followed by all stakeholders including the State Administration and we are sure the same shall be done,” Chief Justice Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee ruled on Friday. The court’s order came in response to a clutch of PIL pteitions in which the petitioners had raised issues including the need for more testing, ensuring the protection of medical professionals and the State’s decision to set up an audit committee to look into all deaths of COVID-19 positive cases. “We are of the view that it is necessary that the official respondents give a deeper look to the requirement of more number of samples being collected and subjected to tests on war footing,” the bench ruled. The State’s response as recorded in the order states: “there are seven testing laboratories (including 5 government and 2 private) in the State and there are several more which are in the process of being developed. It is a matter of record that currently, as a result of the rise in the number of ICMR approved laboratories, more than 300 samples are being tested daily. This figure is expected to increase.” Among the petitioners were Communist Party of India (Marxist) member Fuad Halim and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ritesh Tewari. The State had raised objections about maintainability stating that the petition was “actuated with political motives”. The court, however, overruled the objection asserting that “this is not an occasion or time for us to consider the maintainability of this writ petition and this is not a matter which should be thrown out at the threshold”. The court has asked the State to file an affidavit on the issues raised by petitioners. The matter will come up for hearing on April 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-tells-bengal-to-do-more-tests/article31379524.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI/CHENNAI,||South Asia remains an outlier in infections||Not just India but the SAARC region as a whole is seeing a slower increase in novel coronavirus infections, particularly in terms of critical cases. If the trend persists, this may be worth a deeper study, experts say. While low testing rates are clearly one reason for the low figures, experts are pointing to the need to study the effects of immunity and the strict lockdown and social distancing measures adopted in India and other South Asian countries — Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and the Maldives. “All governments in South Asia have responded rapidly to the crisis, but their task is daunting. Governments have imposed social-distancing measures, introduced relief packages to secure access to food, and provided for delays in payments on taxes, rent, utilities and debt service,” said a “South Asia Economic Focus” study, published by the World Bank this week. The study predicted a sharp fall in the economic growth rates of all SAARC countries, even as it recorded much lower infection rates in the region. According to the latest figures, the eight SAARC nations account 1.1% approximately of the world total of 22,65,727 COVID-19 cases. In terms of fatalities, the SAARC total is 0.49% or 768 of the total of 155,145 people who died of the infection. India has the largest number of cases in the region at 14,651 with Pakistan next at 7,481 while Bhutan has the lowest number with just five cases in the subcontinent. The numbers are particularly low when one considers that South Asia accounts for a fifth (21%) of the world’s population, living in dense conditions on 3% of the world’s land mass. “It appears that our neighbourhood has shown very low number of cases and fatalities per million population as well,” P.S. Raghavan, Convener of the National Security Advisory Board, told The Hindu . “It is worth studying the causes for this trend in South Asia. Is it efficient handling by the governments, low testing rates or are there other underlying reasons for this,” he asked. Experts worldwide have pointed to the low testing rates in the region as a valid reason to question the idea that South Asia has fewer infections. A look at the testing figures by The Hindu ’s data team shows that as opposed to countries such as the U.S., which has tested 10,874 per million people of its population, and Italy, which has tested 20590 per million people, India has only tested about 247 persons per million. Pakistan (369.5 per million people), Bangladesh (132) and Sri Lanka (220), also record considerably lower testing figures. Yet a study tweeted by the NITI Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant pointed out that the number of positive cases from the tests are also much lower in India. While the U.S. showed 19.8% positive cases, France showed 41.8% and Italy showed 15.1% positive cases, according to the NITI Aayog study, India showed about 4.7%.  The Hindu tracked the number of positives among tests in Pakistan (9.54%), Bangladesh (10.06%) and Sri Lanka (5.12%), again recording figures much lower than those in Europe and the U.S., although experts point out that as the number of tests increase, the positive percentage might also increase. The NITI Aayog CEO also pointed to the slower rate of growth in infections. While Italy, the U.S. and India all saw their first COVID-19 cases within 10 days of each other, cases in Italy were “1,300 times” India’s daily cases on Day 46, and on Day 65, the U.S. daily cases were 25 times India’s cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/south-asia-remains-an-outlier-in-infections/article31379516.ece
19 April 2020||Kolkata,||Left leaders arrested for protest||Leaders of the Left parties, including the State Secretary of the Communist party of India (Marxist) Surjya Kanta Mishra and Left Front chairperson Biman Bose, took to the streets against the “failure of the State government to contain the spread of COVID-19”. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Mohammad Salim, leader of Left Legislature party Sujan Chakraborty and leaders of other Left parties demanded testing of a larger number of people. They also said that there were irregularities in the distribution of rations to beneficiaries of the public distribution system. The police arrested the leaders and released them later in the day. Two more deaths due to COVID-19 were confirmed by the West Bengal government on Saturday taking the death toll in the State to 12. Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said that 23 new cases of COVID -19 were recorded in West Bengal in the past 24 hours and the total number of active cases of the State as on April 18 has increased to 178. According to the Ministry of Health Affairs, the cumulative number of COVID -19 cases since the outbreak of the disease in the State is 287, of whom 55 have recovered. Mr. Sinha said the State was doing adequate testing. He said that there were reports that some labs could do as many as 1,000 tests in day but he clarified that no lab could do more than 100 tests in a day. Mr. Sinha added that a total of 4,630 samples have been tested in the State. “We have crossed the level of 400 sample testing per day. A new testing lab at the Malda Medical College and Hospital would become functional on Sunday with capacity of doing 50 tests per day, further increasing the number of samples that can be tested,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-leaders-arrested-for-protest/article31379522.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Centre has not stopped States from increasing list of PDS beneficiaries’||Ram Vilas Paswan ,  Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution, while detailing the efforts of his Ministry in distributing foodgrains across the country, blames State governments for the gap in enrolling beneficiaries under the Public Distribution System and failing to embrace the one nation, one ration card scheme.   What are the steps taken by your Ministry to handle the ongoing crisis?  I would like to thank all the officials of Food Corporation of India (FCI) from the CMD to the labourers, who have been working round the clock. We have no shortage of food grains. But there could have been logistical problems. The FCI has met the challenge head on. Till now 1,404 rail rakes carrying 39.41 LMT food grains have been transported. We have a stock of 588.9 lakh tonnes of foodgrains. And monthly we need 60 lakh tonnes. And there will be additional procurement now of the rabi crop that is being harvested. We have fixed wheat at Rs. 21/kg and rice at Rs. 22/ kg for the State governments to procure, which is far lower than the MSP rate. We have told the State governments to procure as much as they want. Even those who are conducting relief work can approach us and take the food grains from us. This includes the National Disaster Management Authority or State Disaster Management Authority.  Many have pointed out that the quota for foodgrains have been fixed as per the 2011 census, which is why the State governments are reluctant to issue fresh ration cards. Are you addressing this problem?  As per 2011 census, 50% of urban population and 75% rural population have to be covered under Public Distribution System (PDS). As per the census, there should be 81,34,9400 beneficiaries. It is the State governments’ responsibility to enroll beneficiaries. As per our report on Thursday evening, the State governments could have added 39.89 lakh ration cards going just by the 2011 census figures. Only 15 States and UTs have utilised their quota. These include Andhra Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Goa, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, M.P., Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, West Bengal, Lakshadweep and Ladakh. But a few States that lag behind like Bihar can issue 14.5 lakh additional ration cards or Tamil Nadu could have had 7.36 lakh more ration cards and so on. I spoke to Sushil Modi, Deputy CM of Bihar, and he assured me that the State government is stepping in. I am writing to all the State governments to fill in this gap. The Centre has not stopped the States from increasing the list of beneficiaries. They need to be held accountable for this lapse.  Your Ministry for long has been talking about the one nation, one ration card system, which would have helped migrant workers get ration wherever they were stranded. What is the status of this project?  The project has been halted now because of the pandemic. Yes, this project would have helped: say a Bihari migrant who is working in Gujarat, could have availed PDS. This is made possible by e-pos machines and hundred percentage linkage of ration cards with Aadhaar card. So far, 12 States have embraced the project including Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, MP, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Telangana and Tripura. U.P. and Bihar, have not so far installed e-pos machines in all the fair price shops. We have been sending repeated reminders to the State governments. The Union government can only nudge — it’s for the State governments to implement the scheme.  The ongoing lockdown has severely crippled the economy and from all projections, it will have a longer impact. In such a scenario, would you make PDS universal?  This is a larger policy decision that my Ministry alone can’t take. We will have to brainstorm such a proposal with all stakeholders and at all levels. It’s ultimately for the Union Cabinet to take a call. Personally, I think it will be akin to opening a Pandora’s box. We have a huge population and PDS can be extended only for the needy.  Lakhs and lakhs of migrants workers are stranded in the cities, shouldn’t the government have arranged transport to ferry them back home?  Every one wants to reach home and rightly so. Those who are hundred of miles away from home will have all sorts of anxieties. Even if they get food, that alone is not enough, they may need soap, oil... so on. But the government rightly brought the lock down at the hour that it did. Even a few days delay could have been fatal. And transporting the migrant workers is no mean task. We saw what happened in Bandra, Mumbai. Just on the basis of a rumour that a train is plying thousands of workers collecting, forgetting all about social distancing norms and other precautions.  We have a huge population, and the Public Distribution System can be extended only to the needy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-has-not-stopped-states-from-increasing-list-of-pds-beneficiaries/article31379526.ece
19 April 2020||Bhopal,||Confusion over source of infection in Indore||District Collector, Indore, Manish Singh has blamed passengers who flew in from abroad and the protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act within the city for the COVID-19 outbreak locally. Though not one of the 892 patients in the city has had an international travel history and health workers are grappling to locate the source of infections, Mr. Singh said, “There is no other medium. As many as 5,000-6,000 people returned from abroad and there were agitations going on in the city in which several people took part.” Indore was one of the major centres of the protests within Madhya Pradesh where the police had on one occasion reportedly roughed up some participants too. “Mainly this [novel coronavirus] has come through flights, the medium being the airport. The situation has come to be because of passengers who came here in January and February,” Mr. Singh said. According to the World Health Organization, most estimates of the incubation period, the time between catching the virus and beginning to have symptoms of the disease, range from one to 14 days, most commonly around five days. The first case in Indore was reported on March 22. The city makes up 65% of the 1,360 cases and 68% of the 69 deaths in the State. Since he was not there in Indore back then, he did not know what exact measures were in place, Mr. Singh said. “Now, what directions were there then, what actions were taken, I couldn’t find the time to find out,” he said. Indore has the third highest number of cases after New Delhi and Mumbai. Recently, the case fatality rate in the city, the largest and the most populous in the State, soared to 12%, the highest in the country. ‘Claims unjustified’ Refuting the claim made by Mr. Singh, a health expert involved in studying the pattern of the disease’s spread in Indore, requesting anonymity, said limiting the source of infection to international travel was unjustified. “It does not suffice for Indore, but may be applicable to New Delhi, Mumbai or Kerala which have several flights abroad. Indore has just one to Dubai.” The virus was obviously imported into Indore, he said. Therefore, the generation of it, as a single point of source, remains outside, as it does for any place in India. During contact tracing, experts were going over the possibility of an outbreak effected by a carrier’s indirect contact with someone with international travel history in another city. “Such carriers may have had domestic travel history, bringing the infection from some other city,” he said. Once the virus crept into the community, it transmitted furiously in certain areas that are overcrowded. “The medium of transmission has been strong,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/confusion-over-source-of-infection-in-indore/article31379512.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||Humanity will overcome pandemic, says Modi||Humanity will surely overcome the COVID-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, as he hailed the efforts put in by various Ministries to help people during the lockdown. “The world is fighting COVID-19 together. Humanity will surely overcome this pandemic,” Mr. Modi said in reply to a tweet by the Indian Embassy in Switzerland. “Indian Tricolour of more than 1,000 meters in size projected on Matterhorn Mountain, Zermatt, Switzerland to express solidarity to all Indians in the fight against COVID-19. A big thank you to @zermatt_tourism for the gesture,” the tweet by the Indian Embassy said. Mr. Modi also responded to tweets by various Ministries and his Cabinet colleagues on the work they were undertaking. “Proud of the Indian Railways team. They’ve been continuously helping our citizens in this crucial hour,” Mr. Modi said in response to a tweet by Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. He said that while passenger trains had stopped, the Railways had not stopped relief efforts. Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan tweeted that he has thanked gas cylinder delivery personnel for carrying out their responsibility in fulfilling people’s needs during the lockdown. Mr. Modi responded with, “Kudos to all those working round the clock, across the nation, to ensure India’s energy needs are met.” The Income Tax department said that as a relief to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), income tax refunds of Rs. 5,204 crore have been issued in the last 10 days to nearly 8.2 lakh small businesses. Mr. Modi tweeted that the department was committed to helping dynamic small and medium businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/humanity-will-overcome-pandemic-says-modi/article31379483.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Most online content on child sexual abuse from India||In a global compilation of reports of child sexual abuse material (CSAM) found online, India stands right on top of the list, with 11.7% of the total reports or at 19.87 lakh reports, followed by Pakistan, which contributes 6.8% of all reports (11.5 lakh reports). Bangladesh comes in fourth with 5.5 lakh reports and a share of 3.3%. The National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) urges people to report CSAM found online across the world annually, on their online platform CyberTipline. This year, the Centre received a total of 1.68 crore reports. The material thus reported by the members of the public and electronic service providers, principally comprises still pictures and videos depicting children in a clear sexual angle. Three of the top four countries were in South Asia, raising concerns among child rights activists about the online safety of children in the region. The NCMEC adds that the reports include geographic indicators related to the upload location of the child sexual abuse material, but country specific numbers may be impacted by proxies and anonymisers. John Carr, a member of the Executive Board of the UK Council on Child Internet Safety, says, “It has long been suspected that India was very high (as CASM source) but the data wasn’t being published before now so I guess nobody on the inside track will be surprised. Their suspicions have merely been confirmed.” Mr, Carr added, “I am not going to venture any guesses as to why India is the world’s number 1 but it is astonishing that three out of the four top countries — India, Pakistan and Bangladesh — are all in the same part of the world.” Vidya Reddy of Tulir Centre for Prevention of Child Sexual Abuse, raised concerns about the fact that the reports only account for material that has been uploaded. “We are not even talking of downloading or browsing. We need to focus on finding out whether this is re-uploading content already circulating on the net, or whether it is new content being uploaded,” Ms Reddy said. Pointing out that the numbers are consistent with Google searches on sexual content across the world, she said, “We need to look at the South Asian region with great interest and concern, at their interest in using children’s pictures for sexual stimulation.” Lockdown impact There is also concern that the lockdowns across the world will lead to an exacerbation of the situation. Mr. Carr says: “Police and child welfare experts around the world are all expressing great anxieties about the impact of the mass lockdown. Paedophiles who work online are seeking to exploit the situation, looking for bored children. It might be some time before official figures show any increase in arrests or harms to children. That’s unavoidable but also, sadly, inevitable.” “The coronavirus pandemic has led to an unprecedented rise in screen time,” said Howard Taylor, of Global Partnership to End Violence Executive Director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/most-online-content-on-child-sexual-abuse-from-india/article31379491.ece
19 April 2020||Kota,||3,000 students return home in U.P. from Kota||Nearly 3,000 students stranded in Kota due to the ongoing lockdown left for their homes in 100 buses sent by the Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday, while another 7,000 were waiting for their turn in the Rajasthan city. The U.P. government had sent 250 buses to Kota on Friday, estimating the total number of students to be around 7,500, but more students gathered at the three boarding points in the city after learning about the travel arrangement. Some of the students were accompanied by their parents. Officials now fear the buses available could be inadequate to accommodate all the students willing to return home. But Kota Public Relations Deputy Director Hariom Gurjar said that the U.P. government has assured them that more buses would be arranged if there is a shortfall. The Kota administration had prepared the list of students based on information received from coaching institutes and did not account for those studying in the city without enrolling in any institute, officials said. The 100 buses with around 3,000 students left for U.P. early on Saturday, Additional Superintendent of Police Rajesh Mill, overseeing the exercise said. The process to send the remaining students whose names are in the list is underway, Mr. Mill added. Asked about the students who are not listed, he expressed the inability of the Kota administration in arranging more buses, saying, “It would not be possible at our level. The resources have to come from there [State government] and we can only cooperate and maintain social distancing while sending the students back home.” He said he “cannot comment” on what additional resources would be needed and who would arrange them. The remaining 7,000 students largely belong to the Agra division, said Nitesh Sharma, a member of Allen Career Institute. “We have asked some students enlisted for departure to not move out of the hostels until more buses are arranged.” The students had started a social media campaign #SendUsBackHome on Tuesday, following which the U.P. government decided to bring them back. The move earned praise from Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who said other State governments should follow Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3000-students-return-home-in-up-from-kota/article31379503.ece
19 April 2020||Bhopal,||Survey team members complain of assault||A team of three women surveying the residents of a locality in Indore for influenza-like illnesses and severe acute respiratory illnesses was allegedly attacked by some people on Saturday. Though the team supervisor said they were assaulted, the police said there was no physical contact and the accused only broke a mobile phone of a schoolteacher in the team. Vinod Dixit, in charge of the Palasia police station, said the team was caught in a dispute between neighbours in Vinoba Nagar. “The accused suspected they were being filmed and that the team was calling the police. They were using their phones as part of the survey.” The survey is being conducted using an application-based questionnaire. One of the accused was accused of selling liquor illegally and two of his neighbours had put up streetlights near his house. This caused a scuffle between them in the morning, in which one of them was hurt. The survey team was near the spot, said Mr. Dixit. “One of the accused is absconding,” he added. “The team was not physically assaulted,” Jaiveer Singh Bhadoria, Assistant Superintendent of Police, East (Zone-I), said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/survey-team-members-complain-of-assault/article31379514.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Airfare refund order will help only a few passengers||The government order directing airlines to refund passengers who booked tickets after the start of the lockdown leaves out a vast majority who had booked tickets before flights were banned. Such passengers will have to be content with credit notes issued by different airlines, though this violates the refund rules of the Directorate-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). As large-scale flight cancellations became the norm in the days leading up to the ban on flights, airlines offered credit shells to passengers. SpiceJet says these will be valid till February 28, 2021. IndiGo’s credit notes can be redeemed until a year after they were issued and Vistara’s and GoAir’s till December 30. It may seem the money is safe with the airlines, but the fallout of the collapse of Jet Airways and Kingfisher Airways is still fresh in the minds of thousands of passengers who had lost their money paid for tickets on flights that never took off. The financial health of most Indian carriers today, except IndiGo, does not inspire much confidence. Rule violation The order issued by the Civil Aviation Ministry requires airlines to refund money within 30 days for tickets booked during the first lockdown period (March 25-April 14) for travel during the second lockdown period (April 15-May 3). Airlines themselves have said bookings during this short period were minuscule, which means this will benefit only a small number of passengers. By restricting its order to these dates, the government has essentially allowed airlines to deny passengers refunds for tickets booked before March 25, though it is a violation of the DGCA’s rules. The Civil Aviation Requirement (CAR) says, “The option of holding the refund amount in credit shell by the airlines shall be the prerogative of the passenger and not a default practice of the airline.” The government directive is flawed on several counts, including allowing the airlines 30 days after receiving a passenger’s request for a refund, when the CAR requires the airlines to refund on the same day in case of a cash transaction and seven days for credit card purchases. Only if a passenger booked a ticket on a travel portal could the airlines take 30 days. Moreover, there is no need for a passenger to request a refund because it is the duty of the airlines to start the process immediately after a flight cancellation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/airfare-refund-order-will-help-only-a-few-passengers/article31379521.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||Manmohan to head Cong. group on virus||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will head a consultative group of the Congress on COVID-19, the party said on Saturday. Party chief Sonia Gandhi formed the 11-member consultative group which includes former party chief Rahul Gandhi, former Union Finance Minister P. Chidamabaram, Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari, party general secretary K.C. Venugopal and its Data and Technology wing chief Praveen Chakravarty. Randeep Surjewala will be its convener. Financial journalist-turned-party spokespersons Supriya Shrinate and professor Gourav Vallabh are also its members. Daily meetings “The consultative group will virtually meet every day to deliberate on matters of current concern and formulate views of the party on various issues,” Mr. Venugopal said in a statement. Ever since the lockdown began, Congress leaders, including Ms. Gandhi, have been writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union government. Mr. Gandhi said at a press conference on Thursday that though he continued to disagree with Mr. Modi it was time to be united in fighting the virus. “You might be feeling that this is a very scary experience, we have never been locked up in our house, what is going to happen to us. I want you to know that this country is bigger than any disease,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manmohan-to-head-cong-group-on-virus/article31379497.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||RT-PCR only confirmatory test, says govt.||The Union Health Ministry has said that the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) is the gold standard frontline test for COVID-19 and that rapid antibody test cannot replace it. The statement comes after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s national taskforce issued guidelines on testing strategy to all States, following a review of the worldwide testing methodology. “The Rapid Antibody Test gives us an idea about prevalence of disease in a particular area and thus is used for epidemiological studies and surveillance purpose in hotspots. It can also be used in districts which are not hotspots to study emerging trends,” Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said on Saturday. He added that data generated by surveillance through rapid testing can be used for contact tracing if any positive case arise in an area. Presently, the government is using the RT-PCR tests to detect novel coronavirus from samples of throat or nasal swabs of people with symptoms or high-risk individuals who might have come in contact with positive patients. The Ministry has noted that to make all data of Rapid Antibody Test available for surveillance at State, district and national levels, an order has been issued to register in the portal: covid19cc.nic.in/icmr before conducting rapid antibody test, so that the information can be made available at all levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rt-pcr-only-confirmatory-test-says-govt/article31379505.ece
19 April 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi death toll increases to 11||The death toll in Dharavi jumped to 11 after an 80-year-old woman died at Sion Hospital. The woman, a resident of Sanaulla Compound, has been labelled as an independent case from the area and officials are investigating the source of infection. “This is the first case from the compound. We have not found any contact so far,” said Kiran Dighavkar, Assistant Commissioner of the G North Ward. He said the woman was admitted to the hospital on Thursday, and she died the next day. “She had multiple co-morbid conditions,” he said. Dharavi reported 17 new cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 118. A 40-year-old ward boy of an urban health centre was among those who tested positive. An 18-year-old woman who tested positive is the niece of a man who had come in contact with a Tablighi Jamaat congregation attendee. The man later died. A 15-year-old boy was the youngest of the new positive patients from the slum area. According to Mr. Dighavkar, Dharavi has 34 containment zones, where nearly 52,800 people are under quarantine. An additional 191 are under institutional quarantine. Till Saturday, 600 people were tested and 40,000 screened for symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharavi-death-toll-increases-to-11/article31379508.ece
19 April 2020||Srinagar,||3 CRPF jawans killed in militant attack||Three CRPF jawans were killed and two injured in a militant attack at Sopore in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. A CRPF spokesman said the attack took place between 5 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. when the personnel were withdrawing from the checkpoint duty at the Ahad Baba crossing.  Head constable Rajeev Sharma from Bihar, constable C.B. Bhakare from Maharashtra and constable Parma Satyapal Singh from Gujarat died of injuries. They belonged to the CRPF’s 179 Battalion. “The driver and another jawan were injured and shifted to hospital,” the spokesman said. The Jammu and Kashmir government allowed the families of two slain militants in Shopian to exhume their bodies from a graveyard in Baramulla on Monday, after women protesters cut off electricity in the area. The two militants were killed in an operation by the security forces at Dairoo-Keegam in Shopian on Friday. Two families wanted to identify the bodies of the militants who they said were locals. But the police denied them permission, the families said. Their bodies were buried 110 km away from Shopian, in a hillock graveyard in Baramulla where most of non-local militants are buried.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-crpf-jawans-killed-in-militant-attack/article31379486.ece
19 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||12 Myanmar traders arrested in Mizoram||The security forces in Mizoram have arrested 12 Myanmar traders for illegally entering the State since the lockdown began on March 25. Officials said that the traders, arrested under the Foreigners Act of 1946, were in a district jail in Champhai near the border with Myanmar. They were put in jail after completing a 14-day stay in a designated quarantine centre. Other foreigners detained before the pandemic struck the country include more than 30 Rohingya women, six members of the Myanmar-based extremist group Arakan Army and a Chinese national, Inspector General of Prisons Maria C.T. Zuali told newspersons in Mizoram capital Aizawl. The Arakan Army has been in conflict with the Myanmar government since its formation in April 2009. Among its opponents is the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army. Ms. Zuali said the Arakan Army members were in a district jail in Lawngtlai while the Chinese traveller who entered the State without valid documents was in the Aizawl central jail. “The Rohingya women, who are suspected to be victims of human trafficking, are being detained at a facility in Vairangte on the Assam-Mizoram border. Efforts are on to send them to a corrective home before deportation,” Ms. Zuali added. Ms. Zuali said 327 prisoners were released on parole after the Centre sought a de-congestion of jails to minimise the risk of COVID-19 infection. Of these, 48 were nearing the completion of their prison term.  The Rohingya women detained at a facility in Vairangte are suspected to be victims of human trafficking Maria C.T. Zuali Inspector General of Prisons||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/12-myanmar-traders-arrested-in-mizoram/article31379493.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||No new cases in 47 districts for 28 days||Continuing to give a break-up on the cases related to a religious gathering in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin area in March this year the Health Ministry noted that out of the 14,792 cases in the country 4,291 (29.8%) cases are related to this single single source. “This has spread to 23 States and UTs. 84% cases in Tamil Nadu, 63% cases in Delhi, 79% cases in Telangana, 59% cases in U.P. and 61% in Andhra Pradesh are related to the event,” said Mr. Agarwal. The Health Ministry also showcased how Kasargod district in Kerala successfully contained COVID-19. “The district faced many challenges due to foreign travel, geography and large number of expatriates, but the district addressed the challenges well. Out of 168 cases, 113 cases have recovered. With special focus on clinical management, not even one person died. Remaining 55 active cases too are being monitored actively,” said Mr. Agarwal. Speaking about Kerala’s strategic approach, he said the State administration appointed a special officer to coordinate and monitor effective containment. “Along with a 100% house-to-house survey, a very effective campaign called “Break The Chain” was done and Kasargod used drones for surveillance and GPS for tracking people on home quarantine and did aggressive testing,” the Ministry said. Replying to a question on hydroxychloroquine trial, Dr. R. Gangakhedkar of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said around 480 patients have been enrolled in an 8-week observational study on efficacy of the drug. “ICMR has launched another study on side-effects of HCQ on health care workers, using data of some health care workers who had started taking HCQ. He informed that AIIMS is conducting studies on assessing both prophylactic and therapeutic impact of HCQ on COVID-19 - i.e. the ability of the drug for both prevention and healing. Some adverse reactions like abdominal pain have been reported in health care workers,” he said. Responding to a question on the efficacy of another drug remdesivir in treatment of COVID-19, Dr. Gangakhedkar said studies show that in 68% of COVID-2019 patients, use of Remdesivir reduces oxygen demand. He noted that the manufacturer Gilead Sciences says that it is likely to be beneficial adding that “data on the interim analysis being done by them is not yet available”. “If in coming weeks we come to know that remdesivir is beneficial in treating COVID-19, it will either go into patent pooling or otherwise if it becomes available, India too can start doing its trials. Besides, WHO Solidarity Trial, in which India too is participating, has an arm on remdesivir.’’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-new-cases-in-47-districts-for-28-days/article31379484.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. nod mandatory for FDI from neighbours||“Given the macro situation, it is a measure to protect vulnerable companies, with possibly low valuations, from takeovers. However, while the DPIIT has set out its policy stance, the Non Debt Rules that the Ministry of Finance will publish in this regard is awaited, as that will set out the different scenarios which will trigger the Central Government approval requirement and other considerations regarding foreign investments from our neighbours,” said Aarthi Sivanandh who specialises in corporate law at Partner, J Sagar Associates. China’s footprint in the Indian business space has been expanding rapidly, especially since 2014. A recent report from Brookings India showed that net Chinese investment in India until 2014 stood at $1.6 billion, mostly coming from state-owned players in the infrastructure space. Three years later, total investment had increased five-fold to at least $8 billion according to Chinese government data, with a shift from a state-driven to market-driven approach. The total current and planned Chinese investment in India has now crossed $26 billion, according to estimates in the March 2020 report, titled “Following the Money: China Inc’s Growing Stake in India-China Relations”. The single biggest Chinese acquisition has been in the pharmaceutical space, with Shanghai-based Fosun paying $1.09 billion for a 74% stake in Hyderabad-based Gland Pharma. However, major Chinese investments in India span a range of sectors. A 2017 survey of Chinese enterprises in India by the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China’s Mumbai branch found that 42% were in the manufacturing sector, 25% in infrastructure and others in telecom, petrochemicals, software and IT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-nod-mandatory-for-fdi-from-neighbours/article31379490.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||26 Navy personnel in Mumbai test positive||Since the sailor tested positive, the entire premises had been sealed off. Containment zones and buffer areas have been designated and frequent disinfection was being carried out as per protocol to contain the spread by breaking the chain of transmission, the Navy said. “Naval assets continue to be mission-deployed in three dimensions, with all the networks and space assets functioning optimally,” it added. Ninth case in Army On the latest case, sources in the Army said contact tracing was being done. All primary contacts at Dehradun were under home quarantine. One officer who travelled with her had tested negative. Rest of the contacts would be tested between day 5 and 14 of contact with her, the sources said. While other doctors were symptomatic, as a precautionary measure, they were being quarantined at their respective stations for 14 days before they started working in hospitals, the sources added. Of the eight positive COVID-19 cases earlier, two are doctors and one nursing assistant. Earlier this month, in a video message to the rank and file, Navy chief Adm. Karambir Singh said the challenge was not over yet and it was only going to intensify in the days and weeks ahead. He also outlined the priorities, one of which was to ensure that operational assets, specifically ships and submarines, remained free from the virus. “It is a very difficult task because physical distancing on board ships, and especially submarines, is very tough… but physically, we will maintain the required distance of six feet,” he had stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/26-navy-personnel-in-mumbai-test-positive/article31379498.ece
19 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Active cases in Meghalaya linked to deceased doctor||Meghalaya has recorded 10 active COVID-19 positive cases in less than a week, all linked to the family of the 69-year-old doctor who died on April 15 within 48 hours of infection. “Two more positive cases have been detected, taking the total to 10 active cases in the State. Both are from the house of the first patient – one is a family member and the other a helper,” Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma said. Meghalaya was the last of the contiguous northeastern States to record the first COVID-19 positive case on Monday evening, that of Dr. John L. Sailo Ryntathiang. He underwent quarantine and died in the Shillong-based Bethany Hospital that he had founded. Most members of his family and helpers who tested positive have been quarantined in the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/active-cases-in-meghalaya-linked-to-deceased-doctor/article31379510.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||AI opens booking on some domestic routes from May 4||Air India has opened bookings on select domestic and international routes from May 4 and June 1 respectively. “In the light of the ongoing global health concerns, we have currently stopped accepting bookings on all domestic flights till May 3, 2020, and on all international flights till May 31, 2020,” a notification on Air India’s website said on Saturday. “Bookings for select domestic flights for travel from May 4, 2020, and for international flights for travel from June 1, 2020, are open,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ai-opens-booking-on-some-domestic-routes-from-may-4/article31379517.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rahul thanks govt. for new FDI policy||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Saturday thanked the Union government for “taking note” of his warning and amending the foreign direct investment (FDI) policy to check hostile takeovers of distressed Indian companies amid the COVID-19 pandemic. “I thank the government for taking note of my warning and amending the FDI norms to make it mandatory for government approval in some specific cases,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala took to twitter to give credit to Mr. Gandhi for the government move. “Glad that govt. has positively responded to @RahulGandhi’s suggestion of protecting our corporates from hostile takeovers. The amendment in FDI Policy is welcome and will plug creeping acquisition of any Indian entity. Hope that this constructive engagement shall continue,” Mr. Surjewala tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-thanks-govt-for-new-fdi-policy/article31379489.ece
19 April 2020||Mumbai,||Teltumbde’s NIA custody extended||A special court set up to hear cases investigated by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday extended the custody of activist Anand Teltumbde till April 25. Dr. Teltumbde, an engineer and Indian Institute of Management graduate who used to teach at the Indian Institute of Technolog in Kharagpur, was booked in the Elgar Parishad case for his alleged links to the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). He was remanded in the custody of the NIA till April 18 after he surrendered in Mumbai on April 14. Special Public Prosecutor Prakash Shetty informed the special court of the developments that had occurred while Dr. Teltumbde was in custody. He said the agency needed more time to analyse the electronic data recovered from his computer and other devices. It also wanted to question Dr. Teltumbde about the evidence gathered from the devices and various social media posts. The court was also informed that Gautam Navlakha was sent to custody for seven days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teltumbdes-nia-custody-extended/article31379492.ece
19 April 2020||Beijing,||3 lakh Chinese rapid test kits sent to India||Three lakh more Rapid Antibody Test kits used for the quick detection of the novel coronavirus have been dispatched to India from Guangzhou, the Indian envoy here said on Saturday, as India ramped up the global hunt to procure more kits to tackle the rising cases of the infection. The kits were airlifted to Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, India’s ambassador to China Vikram Misri said. Great work on ground by our team, he tweeted. This is in addition to the 6.50 lakh antibody and RNA Extraction Kits China sent earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-lakh-chinese-rapid-test-kits-sent-to-india/article31379501.ece
19 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||One dead after ‘assault’ by U.P. police||Rizwan Ahmed, 22, a daily wage worker, died in U.P.’s Ambedkar Nagar district on Saturday three days after he was allegedly thrashed by police when he stepped out during the lockdown period. In his police complaint, Rizwan’s father Israil said he had stepped out in the Chajjapur locality of Tanda town in Ambedkar Nagar to buy essential items on April 15 at around 4 p.m. According to a relative, he went to buy biscuits as he was hungry. When Rizwan reached the local post office, he was intercepted by a woman inspector and some constables, said Mr. Israil. The police got down from their vehicle and “beat him with lathis,” said Mr. Israil, adding that Rizwan was badly injured. Mr. Israil told presspersons that when Rizwan had come back home, his body was blue with injury marks. Afraid of the police and the lockdown, the family treated Rizwan with a ‘desi’ remedy at home. Since his condition did not improve, they shifted him to a hospital in Asopur but doctors there referred him to the district hospital where he died at 2 a.m., said Mr. Israil. Avanish Kumar Mishra, Additional SP, said the allegations against the police were being probed. “After the post mortem is done and on the inspection of the CCTV footage, the allegations made by the family will be investigated,” Mr. Mishra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-dead-after-assault-by-up-police/article31379506.ece
19 April 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra bans delivery of newspapers||A day after exempting a number of economic activities and goods transport services after April 20, the Maharashtra government on Saturday prohibited door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines while allowing them to continue printing. A notification signed by Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta issued on Saturday said, “Print Media is hereby exempted from lockdown from 20 April, 2020. However, given the extent of the spread of COVID-19, door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines is prohibited.” The move has attracted the ire of the newspapers and journalist unions and media houses. In Maharashtra, newspaper vendors had said they would not be able to deliver newspapers. Many cities, including parts of Mumbai, do not get the hard copies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-bans-delivery-of-newspapers/article31379509.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||Plea in SC against using ‘foreign’ apps||Former RSS ideologue K.N. Govindacharya has moved the Supreme Court raising concerns over the use of foreign-based software and Internet applications for videoconferencing by the judiciary and government departments, claiming it to be a high security risk. The plea said it would be best for the government and courts to utilise the videoconferencing software provided by the National Informatics Centre (NIC). It said that most courtrooms as well as government departments were using Internet-based applications like WhatsApp, Skype and Zoom for work-related communication and videoconferencing. It said the transfer of data, especially of the government and the judiciary, outside India might impact national security and affect the sovereignty of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-against-using-foreign-apps/article31379518.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||BEL to make 30,000 ventilators||Defence Public Sector Undertaking (DPSU) Bharat Electronic Limited (BEL), on the directions of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, has taken up manufacture and supply of 30,000 ventilators within two months for Intensive Care Units (ICU) in the country, the Defence Ministry said on Saturday. In addition, another DPSU Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) is also developing a ventilator which is to be tested soon. “BEL is likely to start manufacturing of ventilators between April 20-24, 2020. As per tentative schedule, BEL is expected to manufacture 5,000 units in April, 10,000 in May and 15,000 in June 2020. It is also making efforts to indigenise these components with the help of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO),” the Ministry said in a statement. The design of these ventilators was originally developed by DRDO and was improved upon by Skanray of Mysore, which collaborated with BEL. Separately, Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) is working with a private start-up in Pune to develop a prototype of ventilator which is likely to be tested and certified by the first week of May. The Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), too, has taken up repairs of ventilators in addition to manufacturing 5,870 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bel-to-make-30000-ventilators/article31379519.ece
19 April 2020||Srinagar,||Stranded Kashmiris post videos for help||Jammu and Kashmir’s regional parties have demanded transportation for stranded Kashmiris in cities across the country after scores of SOS videos surfaced online on Saturday. In one such video, 34 Kashmiri labourers, working in a cold storage, claimed to be been stuck in Barabanki, Uttar Pradesh, without money. “We have no work at hand due to the lockdown. A colleague’s mother died. All her four sons were here and could not participate in the burial. Similarly, another colleague lost his wife and could not see her face one last time. We appeal to the government to help us return home as the holy month of Ramzan is near,” said a man in the video. Over 230 students and pilgrims airlifted from Iran and quarantined in Rajasthan have also made videos on their isolation. “It’s our fifth week of quarantine. We have already gone for tests twice. They were negative but we have not been allowed to return home,” said a student, pursuing an MBBS from Tehran University, who has been kept in a quarantine centre in Jaisalmer. Nasir Khuehami, a member of the J&K Students’ Association, on Saturday started a Twitter campaign to force the J&K administration to shift stranded Kashmiri students from across the country. “The aim is to press the government to evacuate Kashmiri students,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stranded-kashmiris-post-videos-for-help/article31379741.ece
19 April 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||She turns popular with Tik Tok video||Tik Tok video clips of a 25-year-old woman, the district’s first COVID 19 positive patient, narrating her experience at the hospital and thanking the doctors and nurses for their care, have gone viral in social media. At the Ariyalur GH, as the only positive patient, the woman spent time watching and making Tik Tok videos among other things. Her followers increased from around 50 to 26,000 during her stay at the GH. The woman was working at a store in a mall in Velachery, Chennai when she contracted the virus from one of the customers, she claims. “In the last few weeks, several tourists from abroad visited our store. It must have been one of them,” she says. She had taken up the job in Chennai only three months ago. On May 19, she travelled back home in Ariyalur, days before the Janata Curfew. “I felt feverish and had a terrible headache for at least two days. On March 20, my dad took me to the GH and I was immediately admitted there,” she said. The hospital staff were supportive and took good care of me. They gave her new sets of clothes to wear as she could not go bring any from home. They also gave me several sheets of paper so I could sketch and write poetry. I asked for a diary in which I could pen my thoughts and they immediately obliged, she said. “The women doctors understood my needs and arranged sanitary napkins too,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/she-turns-popular-with-tik-tok-video/article31379933.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Migrants run out of money, face eviction||Over 600 migrants stuck in small lodges in the lanes around Puratchi Thalaivar MGR Central Railway Station since the lockdown began are facing eviction as they have run out of money to pay rent. Appealing to the State government to ensure food and continuance of their stay until public transportation resumes, the workers demanded that the governments in their home States should make arrangements for their return at the earliest. While a majority of the affected people are daily wage earners from West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkand working in construction sector in Kerala, a small number of them are in Chennai for medical and other reasons. Rabiul Sheikh from Paschim Bardhaman district of West Bengal said he and a large group of workers boarded train on March 21 from Kozhikode soon after the announcement of ‘ Janta curfew ’  with the hope of reaching home. “However, on reaching Chennai on March 22, the trains were stopped,” he said. At least 4,500 people from other States were stranded at Chennai Central Railway on March 22. While more than 1,100 were accommodated by the Greater Chennai Corporation in community halls, Rabiul was among the few hundred who moved to nearby lodges. The lodges charge them Rs. 100 to Rs. 150 a day per person. “We were initially paying. However, we could not pay for the last four or five days as we ran out of money. We depend on volunteers for food,” said Qaiyum Ansari, another daily wage earner. He alleged that in at least one lodge, electricity and water supply were cut off on Thursday and restored only after the activists and the authorities intervened in the matter. Gayathri Khandhadai, a Chennai-based lawyer, who is part of a collective that is running a helpline for migrant workers, blamed the authorities for failing to ensure food and for not talking to the lodge owners until Thursday despite several representations made to them. No freebies The manager of a lodge, speaking on anonymity, said that it was becoming difficult to supply water and electricity free of cost. “The Corporation is willing to move them to shelters. Why cannot they move,” he asked. Santosh Haldar from West Bengal, who is here with his brother and mother for treatment at a charitable eye hospital, said that they did not want to move to shelters for fear of crowding, poor hygiene and lack of adequate toilets. “This is a tough situation. The government must help us to continue to stay here,” he said. Greater Chennai Corporation on Friday clarified that its officials met lodge owners and asked them to take care of the migrant workers staying at their places until lockdown ends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrants-run-out-of-money-face-eviction/article31379662.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Barricaded, life goes on with loads of help||On Saturday morning, S. Sabapathy and his neighbours in Chintadripet heard the whirring sound of a drone flying overhead. Announcements were being made at regular intervals about the importance of social distancing. “Barricades were placed at the end of our street yesterday (Friday), and we then came to know that a person living on the street had tested positive for COVID-19. We have been advised not to venture out, and no one is allowed to enter our street either,” Mr. Sabapathy said. While restrictions have become an integral part of the daily lives of residents living in containment zones earmarked by the Greater Chennai Corporation, support from the police and civic officials in their respective areas has helped them get by. Deliveries with curbs On April 14, Ananth RamBhaskar, a resident of Kodambakkam, said he had noticed Corporation workers disinfecting the area before barricades were put up to seal the street he lives on, which is now a containment zone. “After positive cases were detected on our street, the police stopped allowing domestic workers and delivery persons into the area. We have been asked to go to the barricade and pick up our food delivery parcels there,” he said. Pushcart vendors In several containment zones, Corporation officials have ensured that pushcart vendors selling vegetables are available near the barricades for the benefit of residents. “In our area, there is a small grocery store that has been kept open. As regards any other essentials that we may need, the Corporation officials and workers who monitor our area procure them and drop them at our doorstep,” said V. Rajasekar, a resident of Palavakkam. Families in his area, he said, had been advised to remain indoors as much as possible, and were complying with these rules. “While people can walk on the [sealed] street, we’ve asked senior citizens and children in particular to remain indoors.” Mr. Rajasekar added. With the barricades at the entry and exit points of these streets becoming pick-up points for parcels, washbasins with soap have been installed in several areas. Large posters stating that entry into the area is restricted have been hung on the barricades, where police personnel are on duty throughout the day, fielding queries from residents.  Close surveillance “While residents have been informed about the protocols that have been put in place, Corporation officials monitor the areas falling under containment zones in two shifts,” said P. Akash, Regional Deputy Commissioner (North). Stating that the public were being encouraged to reach out to the authorities if they had any emergency needs, Mr. Akash noted that a few days ago, a resident inside a containment zone had sought medical help for his pregnant wife, and the zonal officials had helped him get access to a hospital. “Every containment zone has different challenges, and field-level officials are playing a large part in ensuring that the needs of residents are addressed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/barricaded-life-goes-on-with-loads-of-help/article31379656.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘All fresh cases are contacts of patients who had tested positive’||Of the 49 cases of COVID-19 reported in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, Tiruppur alone accounted for 28, while Chennai recorded seven. There were four cases in Tenkasi, three each in Dindigul and Perambalur, two in Tirunelveli and one each in Thanjavur and Coimbatore. All these patients were contacts of persons who had tested positive earlier, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. With seven new cases, Chennai’s tally stood at 235, followed by Coimbatore with 128 and Tiruppur with 108. The Minister said the recovery rate in T.N. was among the highest in the country. The total number of testing facilities had increased to 31, including 21 in the government sector and 10 in the private sector. The Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai and the Institute of Vector Control and Zoonoses, Hosur were among the institutions that had been approved for testing, he said. “We have automated RNA extraction equipment at the Public Health Laboratory. This was received from the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University. It has the capacity to test up to 1,000 samples a day. We had placed orders for four pieces of automated RNA extraction equipment, of which the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital has received one,” he said. The Minister added that by testing persons with Influenza-Like Illness in containment zones and those with severe acute respiratory infection, the authorities were ensuring that they were not missing anyone. He said the Indian Council of Medical Research had given the preliminary approval for convalescent plasma therapy, and the State was awaiting the final nod. In the meantime, studies on prevention and drugs had been initiated at the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University, he added. As of date, 23,702 persons were under active home quarantine, and were being monitored using an application, the Minister said.  By testing persons with Influenza-Like Illness in containment zones, authorities are ensuring that they are not missing anyone C. Vijayabaskar Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-fresh-cases-are-contacts-of-patients-who-had-tested-positive/article31379685.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Asymptomatic, high-risk patients to be monitored||Asymptomatic patients in the high-risk category, including the elderly and those with co-morbid conditions, will be monitored in high-dependency units. Many patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu are asymptomatic. So far, 15 COVID-19 patients have died in the State. Doctors involved in the treatment of patients have been monitoring their lung signs and oxygen saturation levels to prevent sudden deterioration. “The State’s COVID-19 mortality rate is 1.1%. The objective is to reduce the mortality rate through effective clinical management of patients. We do an immediate death audit and based on feedback, we are improving treatment protocols,” said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. Special care “Now we have planned to monitor asymptomatic patients in the high-risk category, in high-dependency units. This will include older patients and those with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and obesity. Doctors will provide special care to them,” he added. A senior doctor said even if a COVID-19 patient may be asymptomatic, he/she is monitored. “All routine investigations are done for them. Many of them are asymptomatic, but we come across findings when a chest X-ray or CT scan is done,” he said. If a person tests positive and is normal, he/she is admitted to a separate isolation room, he said, adding: “If they are asymptomatic and have co-morbid conditions such as diabetes or even asthma, we will keep them under observation in the high-dependency units.” The Minister said that the government was doing more tests across the State now, and that testing facilities were also increasing. “Each testing facility in the government sector has a capacity of 270 samples a day — 90 a shift, in three shifts. The testing capacity of private laboratories is 100 a day. The Public Health Laboratory in Chennai, which has also been approved for COVID-19 testing, can test up to 1,000 samples a day. We are testing more now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asymptomatic-high-risk-patients-to-be-monitored/article31379674.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New protocol suggested for patients requiring cardiac care||The Tamil Nadu Accident and Emergency Care Initiative-Myocardial Infarction Management Programme has issued recommendations for cardiac management of patients, in light of the COVID-19 outbreak. Officials said that cardiology departments of hospitals were told to alter their style of functioning during COVID-19. “We cannot treat patients as we normally do. Any patient who comes into the emergency should be considered a potential COVID-19 patient. Only emergency and life-saving interventional procedures should be done, and conservative management should be followed as far as possible. All elective procedures can be postponed,” an official said. He added that tele-consultation was being encouraged. Patients usually collect medications for two weeks. In this situation, departments have been told to issue medications for one or two months, so that patients can travel less, he said. In the list of recommendations, G. Justin Paul, State heart disease nodal officer, has recommended that routine outpatient consultation visits and routine outpatient investigations such as treadmill exercise test and routine imaging such as chest X-ray and cardiac CT be avoided/postponed. Postponing scheduled hospitalisations for elective procedures at the OP level was also recommended. Only life-saving emergency procedures should be done in the cardiac catheterisation laboratory. It should be disinfected after a procedure on a patient who has not been ruled out for COVID-19 infection. The programme has laid down specific recommendations for patients suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 as well as confirmed COVID-19 patients. For in-patients with cardiac emergencies, they should be treated in dedicated COVID ICUs/wards with dedicated cardiac equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-protocol-suggested-for-patients-requiring-cardiac-care/article31379679.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More establishments to be allowed to resume operations||In a bid to strengthen delivery of essential services during the lockdown for COVID-19, the Chennai Corporation has decided to permit a few more establishments to resume operations. At present, the Corporation has permitted 652 commercial establishments to deliver essential services in the city. On Saturday, the civic body announced that companies could get clearance online atwww.chennaicorporation. gov.in. “Applications will be processed and finalised on the same day. All activities permitted under the government orders will be allowed. Passes given under such categories are valid till May 3. Further clarification can be given only after the government’s announcement on Monday,” said G. Prakash, Commissioner, Greater Chennai Corporation. The Corporation has permitted various service providers, including commercial establishments, autonomous bodies, factories and Central government agencies to resume operations. These include private establishments serving the Chennai Metro Rail communication systems and companies manufacturing masks, medical equipment, pharmaceutical products and food processing equipment. Nearly 5,000 employees of the 652 companies have been allowed to venture out. Once the Corporation allows more companies to resume operations, the number of workers on the streets is expected to exceed 25,000. The Corporation officials said around 25% of the companies and commercial establishments in the city were eligible to get permission to operate under the essential services category. The city has more than 75,000 commercial establishments employing over 10 lakh people. In the past few days, transportation of employees had become a major challenge. On Friday, many Corporation employees were not allowed to board MTC buses from various parts of the city. “We were not allowed to board the special bus operated for government employees. They asked us to get down, claiming that the buses were only for Secretariat staff,” said an employee of the Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-establishments-to-be-allowed-to-resume-operations/article31379654.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donation of funds, testing kits continue to come in||Sterlite Copper has donated Rs. 5 crore to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to support efforts to battle COVID-19. The company’s employees have voluntarily donated their one-day’s salary to support health and sanitation workers in Thoothukudi and have helped raise a total amount of Rs. 15 lakh, according to a statement. Sterlite said it had tied up with 10 Self Help Group (SHG) partners comprising 150 members to manufacture and distribute masks and personal hygiene items across 20 villages in Thoothukudi. About 30,000 masks (out of a total target of 50,000) have been distributed to 5,200 households and also to truck drivers operating in the district, it said. Larsen & Toubro said it had planned to donate COVID-19 diagnostic kits, PPEs, N95 masks and other medical equipment worth Rs. 40 crore. L&T said it had already handed over 100 semi fowler beds with matresses, 2 ventilators, 7 bipap ventilators and 20 multiparameter monitors to the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research, Chennai and further 8 ventilators will be provided. The Akshaya Patra Foundation said in Chennai it had provided 29,025 meals as of April 18. Aid India said it had supplied a total of 240 N-95 masks and 37,050 surgical masks to the Royapettah Government Hospital, Stanley and MMC GH, 4 government hospitals in Coimbatore, general public, PHCs, police and sanitation workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donation-of-funds-testing-kits-continue-to-come-in/article31379670.ece
19 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Staff of govt. pleader’s office tests negative for COVID-19||A court hall in the Madras High Court as well as the chambers of two judges were sanitised on Saturday after an Office Assistant attached to State Government Pleader’s office was initially feared to have tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. However, a confirmatory test on Saturday evening found him negative for COVID-19 much to the relief of judges, lawyers, court staff, policemen and others. Immediately after the initial report was conveyed to him on Saturday morning, Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi called for an urgent meeting of the administrative committee comprising top seven judges of the court and held discussions with them as well as officials from the health department. Since the Office Assistant had attended court proceedings on Wednesday and Thursday when a case filed by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam against the restrictions imposed by the government on distribution of relief materials by volunteers was heard, it was decided to sanitise the entire court campus. A decision was also taken to test the law officers, court staff as well as others who were present for the hearing on Wednesday and Thursday. It was also decided to extend till May 3 a decision already taken by the court to hear extremely urgent cases through video conferencing. Further, the summer vacation, due in May, for all courts in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry was also postponed sine die.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staff-of-govt-pleaders-office-tests-negative-for-covid-19/article31379669.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Relaxations to come with stiff conditions||The 21-member expert committee, constituted by the Tamil Nadu government to formulate an exit strategy, which met on Saturday, was of the primary opinion that all gains of the COVID-19 containment efforts made during the lockdown should not be wasted if and when the restrictions in place are partially relaxed after April 20 and post-national lockdown on May 3. Following the meeting, which went on for more than two hours at the Secretariat, draft guidelines were being prepared, said officials. The guidelines will be in tune with those issued by the Centre and endorsed by the State government last week. Sources said that the State government was looking at imposing strict guidelines, even if certain industries were allowed to operate. “For instance, even if an industry is allowed to function, it will be between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. and not for the entire day. Even after May 3, many members felt that opening of malls and cinemas should not be allowed for some more time,” one of the members said. In the absence of public transportation during the lockdown, the movement of workers to various units will be a challenge, it was felt. “If there were specific requests, they could request for chartered bus services,” said a member. Rural industries Only industries that are located in rural areas and are not labour-intensive or do not have employees working in close proximity under a roof are likely to benefit from the guidelines to be issued by the panel on Monday. “As mentioned in the guidelines of the Centre and State governments, any operation with regard to agriculture, poultry, horticulture, animal husbandry will be allowed. Even construction activity, if undertaken by ensuring physical distancing, could be allowed, the committee felt,” another member said. Industry experts too felt that even if the restrictions were relaxed, mobilising human resources from far off locations would be a major concern. The panel is scheduled to submit its report to the government on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relaxations-to-come-with-stiff-conditions/article31379677.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘One lakh more rapid test kits on the way’||Tamil Nadu is expecting to receive one lakh more rapid test kits by next weekend, said Health Department officials. With questions being raised regarding the cost of procuring these kits, the officials clarified that they were purchased from firms approved by the Union government, at a rate fixed by the Centre. Documents showed that the State had procured the kits for Rs. 600 each. A day after receiving the 24,000 antibody-based testing kits that it had ordered through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC), the State obtained 12,000 rapid test kits from the Government of India’s consignment early on Saturday. TNMSC is handing over the kits to the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine for deployment on the field, said officials. The State government had placed an order for five lakh rapid test kits. “We expect [to receive] one lakh kits before next weekend. However, there is uncertainty. There is no clear information from China on the fixed schedules for clearing and shipping out consignments. However, as of now, it is an adequate number, more so when the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has restricted the use of these tests to limited scenarios,” an official said. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said ICMR guidelines on rapid test kits was conveyed to deputy directors of health services and joint directors of medical and rural health services. “Testing using these kits has commenced in Chennai, Salem and Coimbatore,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-lakh-more-rapid-test-kits-on-the-way/article31379682.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Secretariat finds ways to dispose of used masks, incinerator in place||Officials in the Secretariat have found ways to safely dispose of used masks, as several government departments on the Fort St. George campus in Chennai continue to function with skeletal staff, who report for work wearing masks. The pile of used masks has gotten bigger with the number of meetings being held, albeit following physical distancing norms. Separate bins have been placed on all floors of buildings on the Secretariat campus to collect used masks from staff and visitors so that they are not mixed with other disposables. Conservancy workers collect the used masks and dispose of them separately. “Our employees come from far off places and it is easy if we keep separate bins on all floors,” a senior official said. For employees Besides, a napkin incinerator has been installed on the third floor of the old building for the benefit of employees. K. Ilangovan, proprietor of E.R. Ventures, that installed the incinerator on the campus, told The Hindu : “The incinerator can be used only for cloth masks. Masks that have rubber parts or elastic parts cannot be used.” The State government is also procuring masks from the Tamil Nadu Ex-Servicemen Corporation (TEXCO) under the Public Department to ensure that all employees undertake precautions. Officials are already encouraging employees to wear cloth masks since they are easy to dispose. Masks are also being procured from the Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women. With the Secretariat campus continuing to see footfall even during the lockdown, officials are on their toes, ensuring that public health norms are being complied with. “We use disinfectants every day. Greater Chennai Corporation workers ensure that the norms are followed inside the campus. About three to four meetings are held every day, some even with the Chief Minister,” an officer said. Physical distancing is strictly followed during meetings and disinfectants are sprayed before and after meetings. Thermal scanners are used regularly, a senior officer told The Hindu . “Hand sanitisers are provided to all employees and house-keeping staff are given gloves,” the senior officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/secretariat-finds-ways-to-dispose-of-used-masks-incinerator-in-place/article31379681.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4 held for making arrack||With Tasmac shops remaining shut due to the lockdown, two youth in the city decided to make arrack, only to be nabbed by the police. They were later let off with a warning. Rahul, an IT staff, and his friend Vinodh Raj, a marketing executive, were habitual tipplers. “They decided to make arrack in their house. The duo watched videos on YouTube and other online platforms and procured grapes, jaggery and other materials to make arrack,” said a police officer.  The Teynampet police also arrested a duo who prepared arrack after watching TikTok videos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-held-for-making-arrack/article31379675.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kapali temple puja to be streamed live on YouTube||Devotees of Lord Kapaleeswarar and Goddess Karpagambal can watch the pradhosha kaala puja on Monday evening live on the internet. Temple authorities have made arrangements for live-streaming of the 75-minute puja that will include abhishekam , special arati to the Pradhoshamurthis , singing of padhigams by the Odhuvamurthi and nagaswaram performance by the temple musician. “There are devotees who visit the temple twice daily but are unable do so now due to the COVID-19 lockdown. It is for them that this arrangement is made” said an official. Interested devotees can watch thepradhosha kaala pujafrom 4.30 p.m. on April 20 athttps://www. youtube.com/channel /UCw5l4gl5-Ys TQQLCSTLtXjA/live.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kapali-temple-puja-to-be-streamed-live-on-youtube/article31379657.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK demands transparency||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday said Tamil Nadu should take a cue from Chhattisgarh and release the details on the purchase of coronavirus testing equipment. “Chhattisgarh Minister has revealed the details on how many equipment purchased and the price relative to the cost in the market. While the country is fighting to save lives, the administration should have transparency,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-demands-transparency/article31379664.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No necessity to hide facts, says Minister||Senior AIADMK leader and Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar on Saturday said that there was no necessity for the State government to hide facts with regard to COVID-19. Replying to a claim of Opposition parties that the State government was hiding data, Mr. Jayakumar pointed to the release of medical bulletin regarding COVID-19 cases by the government, every evening. “There is no necessity for our government to hide data. COVID-19 transmission is still in stage-II in our State,” he said. Detection, testing and medical treatment were the three significant stages and the State government was taking steps against community transmission, Mr. Jayakumar said  To a query on meetings chaired by Chief Minister and others, Mr. Jayakumar said there was a difference between administrative meetings and meetings held by various political parties. He also pointed out that physical distancing norms were being observed at all meetings held by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-necessity-to-hide-facts-says-minister/article31379676.ece
19 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||BU preparing new syllabus for all subjects, says V-C||Bharathiar University is in the process of preparing new syllabus for all subjects, in keeping with Chancellor-Governor’s vision document. Vice Chancellor P. Kaliraj told The Hindu that after Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit held a meeting of all State University Vice-Chancellors in Udhagamandalam to prepare a Vision Document 2030 to align education to Industry 4.0, the university was engaged in preparing new syllabus for all subjects. The objective of the syllabus preparation was to incorporate internet of things (IoT), big data, data analytics, robotics and animation, artificial intelligence, machine learning, augmented reality, virtual reality and cloud computing in all disciplines. As a first step in this direction, Mr. Kaliraj said, the university had called for suggestions from faculty in all State universities and industry experts. Once the draft syllabus was ready, the University would circulate the same for feedback from academics and industry experts and after finalisation would place the syllabus for approval from the boards of studies. Alongside the syllabus preparation, the university was also engaged in helping its faculty and those in its affiliated colleges learn the basics of the topics to ensure that they were equipped to teach those subjects. To help the faculty learn, the Department of Computer Applications had prepared modules and they were available for faculty on open learning platforms and from webinars. Mr. Kaliraj said while the first few chapters of one or two subjects in the new syllabus would be on the basics of topics, the last two or three chapters would be on the application of the technology in the respective domains. The university was looking to introduce the subjects in the new syllabus from the second semester onwards for both the undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. He also said that the university would also introduce a postgraduate programme on cyber security as it was an essential component of going digital. To prepare the syllabus for the course, the university had tied up with academics and industry experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bu-preparing-new-syllabus-for-all-subjects-says-v-c/article31379697.ece
19 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Demand for hand sanitisers brings opportunities to sugar companies||For the sugar companies in the State, COVID-19 has opened a new avenue as there is a spurt in demand for hand sanitisers. Several sugar mills that have distilleries in the country, including a few in the State, have got into hand sanitiser production. Palani G. Periasamy, president of South India Sugar Mills' Association, says getting into production of hand sanitiser is only an additional step for the sugar companies as they already supply ethanol. According to R. Varadarajan, wholetime director of Rajshree Sugars and Chemicals, the government had given temporary licence to sugar companies that have distilleries to produce hand sanitisers. The sugar mills supply ethanol to fuel companies and alcohol to bottling plants. A minor volume of alcohol was supplied by some to the pharma sector too. With the market for hand sanitisers expanding with COVID-19, the sugar mills have got into production of the sanitiser. They do not have to invest in additional facilities and the production norms are prescribed by the government. The distribution channel is also in place and there is no shortage in availability of molasses or alcohol. Several institutions buy hand sanitisers in bulk quantities. If the market for hand sanitisers continues to expand in the coming months, there is a possibility of some mills getting into this vertical on a permanent basis, he says. “Definitely, this is an opportunity to get into another byproduct. But, how long the demand will last will be known only in the post-COVID period. That will determine how many (sugar) companies will pursue doing hand sanitisers. If there is an opportunity, they can certainly re-arrange their portfolios. Most of the sugar companies in Tamil Nadu have distilleries and have the capacity and capability to get into hand sanitiser production,” Mr. Periasamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-hand-sanitisers-brings-opportunities-to-sugar-companies/article31379701.ece
19 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tamil author helps woman deliver baby||Tamil author M. Chandrakumar alias ‘Auto’ Chandran helped in delivering the baby of a migrant worker from Odisha in Singanallur here on Thursday. Mr. Chandrakumar’s novel ‘ Lock Up’ was adapted to the movie ‘ Visaranai [Interrogation]’ by director Vetrimaaran in 2015, which ended up as India’s official entry to the 89th Academy Awards. The issue came to light following the post by his daughter Jeeva Chandrakumar on Facebook on Friday and the subsequent viral videos of Mr. Chandrakumar attending to the labour. Mr. Chandrakumar told The Hindu that the woman, Baladevi (26), was the wife of a construction worker at the Coimbatore Institute of Technology and were staying behind the college hostel along with other migrant workers from Odisha. When she went into labour on Thursday morning, Ms. Baladevi’s husband Ananda carried her and reached the Communist Party of India (CPI) office by foot for nearly one km. seeking help, he said. “I was delivering food to migrant workers at a school, which was about one km. away, when I got a call,” Mr. Chandrakumar said. Upon reaching the CPI office at Thulasiammal Layout, he said that Ms. Baladevi was bleeding profusely. There was a delay in the arrival of the 108 ambulance and the parturition had already begun. “There were no women [to attend to the labour] around, so I went ahead,” Mr. Chandrakumar said. However, the ambulance arrived after the boy was born. In her post on Facebook about this incident, Ms. Jeeva wrote, “Meanwhile the doctor asked dad to hold the placental cord tightly to cut it ,after that they clipped it safely too. Then the doctor took a deep breath and ask people to bring a white cloth. Then in order to remove the cord from the women, dad asked me to hold the baby, I took a step closer to hold the baby, saw the tiny cute face with full of blood and suddenly I heard his first cry [sic].” According to G. Manickam, a CPI member who helped admitting the mother in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Thursday, Ms. Baladevi’s husband carried her along with the help of a woman name Hamsaveni to the office. “Other migrant workers have already vacated and only this family was staying there,” he said, due to the announcement of COVID-19 lockdown. It was Ms. Hamsaveni, who was an acquaintance of the CPI members as well as the family, suggested to visit the CPI office, Mr. Manickam said. R. Manonmani, Professor and Head of Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at CMCH, told The Hindu on Saturday that Ms. Baladevi and the baby were in good health. “They are still under observation,” she said, adding that they could be discharged on either Sunday or Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-author-helps-woman-deliver-baby/article31379702.ece
19 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Unions demand action against industries||The Coimbatore district mill workers and engineering workers unions affiliated to AITUC have appealed to the State government to take action against industries that are not paying full wages to the workers during the lockdown period. The unions pointed out that according to the government directions, the industries should pay full wages to the workers for the lockdown period. But many units had not paid full wages for March. The Labour Department had not taken action against such industries. Further, if the industries opened on April 20, the workers should not be forced to return to work, the unions said. The industry managements should organise transport facilities for all workers as public transport would not be available. The industries should take the measures required to ensure health and safety of the workers when they returned to work, the unions said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unions-demand-action-against-industries/article31379692.ece
19 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore gets 2,000 rapid test kits||Coimbatore on Saturday got 2,000 anti-body based rapid test kits for COVID-19 testing, mainly to check possible community spread of the disease in places that are demarcated as containment zones. Minister of Municipal Administration and Rural Development S. P. Velumani launched the use of rapid test kit at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Saturday. Blood samples from two persons were collected and tested using the single use kit on CMCH campus and both results were negative. Mr. Velumani said that 26 persons out of 127 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore returned home after recovering from the disease. He said that 2,075 persons were tested for COVID-19 in the last two days in Coimbatore and samples of two persons were positive. According to him, the district has seven testing facilities in Government and private sectors that were able test 1,000 swab samples a day. They were handling such samples from Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and Tiruppur districts. “While testing of swab sample using a PCR machine consumes five to six hours for the result, rapid test kit gives the result in 10 to 15 minutes. The test kit checks the presence of antibody generated against the virus (SARS CoV2) in the blood,” CMCH Dean P. Kalidas said. The Health Department is planning to use rapid test kit to test people from containment zones who develop fever or symptoms of influenza like illness. Coimbatore, one of the red zone districts in Tamil Nadu, has 18 containment zones of which 10 are in city limits and eight are in rural areas.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:  The first set of 1,000 rapid anti-body test kits arrived at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Saturday. Lab technicians dressed in PPE kits took samples of suspected patients at the Hospital here. Dean of the Hospital R. Balajinathan said, “as instructed by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, we have received first batch of 1,000 rapid anti-body test kits. Using this, we would be able to identify whether a person is affected with COVID-19 within 30 minutes.” Dr .Balajinathan said, “It is a simple test and we would able to find results faster.” Tests were conducted for symptomatic persons who have completed seven days at the Hospital, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-gets-2000-rapid-test-kits/article31379708.ece
19 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Walk-in Sample Kiosk comes up at CMCH||A Walk-in Sample Kiosk (WISK) for safe and easy collection of swab samples from those with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 became functional at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Saturday. People, who come to the outpatient ward of CMCH and get detected with symptoms of influenza like illness, will be directed to the WISK where lab technician will collect swab sample test from them. Those who willingly comes to the hospital with symptoms of COVID-19 for testing will also be directed to WISK. WISK ensures the safety of the technician, who collect the swab sample, as he or she sits inside a glass kiosk and extends hands through two holes. While a pair of gloves is attached to the hole, which can be disinfected after each sample collection, the technician wears another pair of disposable gloves from inside. One person wearing personal protective equipment will remain outside the WISK for assistance. Minister of Municipal Administration and Rural Development S. P. Velumani and District Collector K. Rajamani inspected the facility on Saturday. CMCH Dean P. Kalidas said that swab samples collected from the WISK will be tested at the three PCR machines at the hospital which together can test up to 400 samples a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/walk-in-sample-kiosk-comes-up-at-cmch/article31379711.ece
19 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries submit demands to committee||Some of the industry associations here have placed their demands to the committee formed by the State government to decide on industries that will be permitted to operate from April 20. According to the Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association, majority of the farmers are dependent on pumps for irrigation, especially during summer. Similarly, local bodies are dependent on pumps for drinking water supply in their areas during summer. Considering the requirement for pumps, the government should permit opening of shops that sell pumpsets and accessories. It should also permit movement of pumps and accessories from the warehouses to the dealers and limited operation of manufacturing units. The Southern India Mills’ Association has said that it has drafted a code of conduct regarding healthcare of workers at the mills and circulated it to the units. It has also submitted it to the committee. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association has said that the MSMEs should be permitted only after the COVID-19 curve flattens. The government should clarify the difference between red category and hot spots. The association or units will not be able to give any undertaking regarding the health of the workers. If manufacturing units are permitted, the entire supply should be allowed to permit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-submit-demands-to-committee/article31379691.ece
19 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special parcel trains extended to Shoranur||Southern Railway on Saturday announced the extension of two pairs of Daily Parcel Express Special train services from Coimbatore to Chennai to facilitate the transport of essential commodities amid the COVID-19 lockdown. According to a release, train no. 00653 Dr. MGR Chennai Central - Coimbatore Daily Parcel Special train service will be extended to Shoranur from April 19. The train will leave Chennai at 8 a.m. and reach Shoranur at 10.15 p.m, on the same day, with stoppages at Jolarpettai, Karuppur, Salem, Erode, Uthukuli, Tiruppur, Coimbatore and Palakkad. Train No. 00654 Coimbatore - Dr MGR Chennai Central Daily Parcel Special train service will leave Shoranur at 3.30 a.m. and reach Chennai at 4.45 p.m. For parcel bookings, commercial inspectors of Salem Division shall be contacted at 90039 56955 (Coimbatore), 96009 56238 (Tiruppur), 96009 56231 (Erode) and 90039 56957 (Salem).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-parcel-trains-extended-to-shoranur/article31379694.ece
19 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Chicken shop sealed||District administration on Saturday sealed a chicken shop at Masakalipalayam after Coimbatore Corporation officials found the shop owner violating lockdown order. A release from the district administration said after Corporation Zonal Sanitary Officer K. Chandran and Sanitary Inspector Rajendran found the owner, Ravikumar, found selling chicken in violation of the lockdown order issued on April 11, they reported it to Collector K. Rajamani, who ordered the shop to sealed. The release said the Corporation officials seized and destroyed 150 chicken. The administration also initiated legal action against Mr. Ravikumar. The Collector had on April 11 ordered closure of all meat, chicken and beef stalls until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chicken-shop-sealed/article31379698.ece
19 April 2020||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||Former Minister accused of violating physical distancing norms||In clear violation of physical distancing norms AIADMK cadres led by former Minister Balakrishna Reddy was widely seen “distributing relief” without protective masks and gloves in Hosur. The AIADMK cadres were also seen crowding to provide relief in many places. The past many days has seen attempts by the local ruling party cadres bidding to gain traction and visibility at the time of the pandemic, even as the State government attempted to centralise relief distribution. However, the High Court relaxed the orders, and allowed three persons to distribute relief with adequate safety protocols and prior permission from the local authorities. Early last week, an attempt was made by a local AIADMK cadre claiming allegiance to Mr. Balakrishna Reddy to scuttle relief work by volunteers of an organisation, who were distributing food from Amma canteen to the migrant worker colonies, duly approved by the Hosur Municipal Commissioner. According to an official source of the Amma canteen in Hosur, a former AIADMK counsellor had called the Canteen to ask “under whose authority was food being supplied through other volunteers, when Mr. Balakrishna Reddy was supplying food to over 2,000 people with his own funds”. Around the same time, one of the volunteers was also heard defending the food distribution work to the former counsellor over phone.    The Hindu was on the spot at that time and also verified if there was food distribution under way by Mr. Balakrishna Reddy, but no such distribution was found in any place for such a vast gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-minister-accused-of-violating-physical-distancing-norms/article31379700.ece
19 April 2020||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||People make a mockery of physical distancing norm||Physical distancing on account of the COVID-19 pandemic went for a toss at a school here on Saturday when a large gathering of women swarmed to collect five-kg free rice from Minister G. Baskaran. By 8 a.m., about 500 men and women had gathered though policemen on duty told them that the distribution would begin around 11 a.m. But they did not disperse and by 10 a.m., the crowd swelled to more than 1,200. By 12.30 p.m., the Minister, accompanied by Collector J. Jayakanthan and office-bearers of a rice mill owners association arrived. And the distribution started. The women jostled with one another to go near the dais and collect the rice bag. The very few police personnel could not manage the big crowd. Many did not wear a mask. Though the State government had permitted people to move out from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m., many women were seen waiting on the school campus beyond 1.30 p.m. hoping that the organisers would return with rice bags for those who were unlucky to get it the first time. Only two days ago, when the opposition parties and non-governmental organisations objected to the State government’s order that no doles shall be handed over directly to the needy by political parties or any organisations, citing COVID-19 pandemic control measures, the blatant violation happened right in the presence of a Minister and the top brass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-make-a-mockery-of-physical-distancing-norm/article31379902.ece
19 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Mini wholesale shops on East Masi Street begin operation||Around 300 mini wholesale shops on East Masi Street began functioning in a phased manner from Friday night after being shut down for over 20 days. The move was taken after Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar met heads of several associations regarding smooth sale of essential commodities on April 13. Members of different associations demanded functioning of these shops as they sold essential kitchen condiments including oil, spices and papads to smaller provision stores in each person’s area. Revenue Minister approved the plan to allow these shops to function with restrictions after discussing the issue with officer in-charge of Zonal Task Force, Collector, officials from the corporation and police department. Collector T. G. Vinay said that these shops could function from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. As many as 300 shops on East Masi Street cater to around 4,000 provision shops across the district. If we ask provision shop owners to come in their vehicles, East Masi Street would be packed. So, all orders should be taken over the phone. They could be delivered by these mini shop owners in their private vehicles. The district administration has permitted two workers in each shop to undertake delivery service,” he said. Owners should not sell products directly to consumers and all shops should follow personal distancing norms strictly, Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-wholesale-shops-on-east-masi-street-begin-operation/article31379910.ece
19 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||1,600 PPEs donated||In the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, Dhan Foundation with the support of HCL Foundation gave away 1,600 sets of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs), costing Rs. 8.3 lakh, to Madurai Corporation Commissioner. According to a release from Dhan Foundation, the organisation will approach the current crisis in three phases - providing relief material for the next three months, restoration and rehabilitation of families for the next three years, and working on their sustained resilience in the long run. Through DHAN Foundation’s Kalanjiam community banking programme relief measures were undertaken for poor families. A package consisting of groceries, including 10 kilograms of rice was delivered at the doorstep of around 1,000 families. Telemedicine consultations were held by the doctors of SUHAM Hospital, a subsidiary of DHAN Foundation. With closure of liquor outlets, alcoholics tend to become violent and women face domestic violence. So, field-level health workers of the hospital also offered counselling to women. The organisation has also decided to study the impact of lockdown in the lives of poor families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1600-ppes-donated/article31379914.ece
19 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rapid test kits arrive||Frontline health workers operating near the containment zone in Anna Nagar were tested with the new rapid test kits that arrived here on Saturday. District Collector T. G. Vinay said that Madurai district received 1,000 kits from the Tamil Nadu Government. “The kits only require 15 minutes to check whether one is COVID-19 positive or negative. The first couple of frontline workers tested negative,” he said. He added that with more rapid test kits, testing for the disease can begin at primary health centres and taluk-level hospitals too. He added that there was no clarity on when more such test kits will arrive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rapid-test-kits-arrive/article31379911.ece
19 April 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door screening under way in Nagapattinam district||A total of 945 government servants, including doctors, para-medical staff and anganwadi workers are engaged in screening residents for COVID-19 symptoms in 12 containment zones in the district, Collector Praveen P. Nair said here on Saturday. With the number of positive cases touching 40 as on Friday, the administration has declared 12 places around residences of positive patients as containment zones. The zones are located in Nagapattinam town, Kadampadi, Nagore, Thittacheri, Sirkazhi and Mayiladuthurai, besides Poravacherry, Thirukalacherry, Virkudi, Puthur (Sirkazhi taluk), Thirukadaiyur and Perunthottam. Essential commodities are being supplied to residents at their doorstep. They have been barred from venturing out, unless for emergencies, for 28 days. At present, 50 doctors, 40 nurses, 133 health workers and 600 anganwadi employees, supported by 122 police personnel, are engaged in conducting door-to-door screening of residents in the zones for symptoms of COVID-19. Of the 3,383 families, mostly comprising persons with travel history, placed under home quarantine, 2,744 have completed the 28-day self-isolation period. At present, 639 families are under home quarantine. Colour-coded passes for residents to venture out to purchase essentials on specified days in a week have been issued on experimental basis in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai municipal areas. So far, 886 blood samples have been lifted, with 39 testing positive. One other person, who went for treatment at Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital, has tested positive. While 238 samples have tested negative, results are awaited for the remaining 609. Out of a total 4,70,844 families, 4,66,954 have received government relief of Rs. 1,000. The remaining will receive it in a day or two. The helpline (18004250111) for persons with disabilities is also functioning effectively, with 107 out of 110 callers provided with assistance, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-screening-under-way-in-nagapattinam-district/article31379926.ece
19 April 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Three discharged in Salem||Three persons, who were undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital for COVID-19, were discharged on Saturday. The patients aged 29, 41 and 55 were from Mettur and they were attendees of the Delhi event at Nizamuddin. Doctors said that they were admitted to hospital on April 2. R. Balajinathan, Dean of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, P.V. Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent, Rani, Resident Medical Offficer, Suresh Kanna, Head, General Medicine, J. Nirmalson, Deputy Director of health services, and other officials were present and cheered them as they boarded the ambulance to return homes. Officials presented them with discharge summaries and advised them to be in quarantine at home for 14 days. Dr. Balajinathan advised the patients to take necessary precaution and they were provided them with safety gadgets. The patients said that they received good care at the hospital and the treatment was at par with private hospitals. Officials also advised their family members to exercise caution during the period. Till Saturday, 10 patients have been discharged from the hospital. Dr. Balajinathan said that there are 14 positive cases undergoing treatment at the hospital and nine persons have been quarantined here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-discharged-in-salem/article31379709.ece
19 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||RDO directive on containment areas||The revenue district officer of Namakkal has banned functioning of offices, banks and businesses in the containment zones. According to an order issued by N. Kottaikumar, RDO, Namakkal, all the government offices, and banks located within containment zones at Lathuvadi, Majid Street and Dr. Sankaran Road here must remain closed until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rdo-directive-on-containment-areas/article31379695.ece
19 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Labourers in dire straits’||The Thanjavur district executive committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has claimed that the COVID-19 virus pandemic has pushed agriculture workers and other labourers into a state of penury. In a memorandum addressed to Collector M. Govinda Rao on Saturday, CPI(M) district secretary G. Neelamegam said the workers relied on daily wages for their livelihood and the lockdown had dealt a blow to their finances. The cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 had not reached all beneficiaries, particularly those with one-member ration cards, old age pensioners and destitutes, in several parts of the district. Farmhands were not able to get regular employment due to the lockdown. Further, non-disbursement of Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme wage benefits for the past 10 weeks had compounded the problem. Hence, the government should sanction Rs. 5,000 during the second phase of relief. Urging the district administration to ensure that MNREGS works began from April 20, as announced by the Centre, he said relaxation in regulations should apply to a major portion of the district which was not affected by COVID-19 virus. Further, two persons should be allowed to travel on motorcycles since it was announced that small, medium and certain other industries would start functioning from April 20. Arrangements should be made to help people avail vehicle passes for emergency purposes at the taluk level, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/labourers-in-dire-straits/article31379922.ece
19 April 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Theni administration takes care of migrant workers||Having travelled from Nanded district in Maharashtra, 103 farm labourers including women and children have been camping in Cumbum for the last two months cutting sugarcane for a private sugar mill. Due to the lockdown since March 24, these workers were unable to return to their homes. With the private sugar mill taking care of boarding and lodging for these workers, health officials screened them for COVID-19 virus. On Saturday, Collector M. Pallavi Baldev visited the private school in Cumbum where they were staying. After making enquiry about the facilities and food provided to them, she conversed with them in Hindi and assured them of all assistance by the government to return to their homes as and when the situation improved. A senior official said that the farm workers were paid Rs. 500 daily for cutting 750 kg of sugarcane. The mill provided food and accommodation. Every year during the cutting season, the workers would arrive here with their families. After completing the harvest, they would go home. As the curfew was announced, they were held up here. The officials gave them wheat, onion, oil and other vegetables. It has been decided to shift 71 among them to a school at Devadanapatti on Sunday. The Collector visited a few Amma Unavagams and inspected the hospital in the town. At a briefing with the health workers, she urged them to be vigilant for another 10 to 15 days and strictly follow the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-administration-takes-care-of-migrant-workers/article31379908.ece
19 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi hospital gets COVID-19 testing lab||Minister for Information ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju inaugurated Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction laboratory at Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday. Established on an outlay of Rs. 80 lakh to test 70 samples a day, the facility will ensure analysis of blood and throat swab samples taken from COVID-19 suspects within six hours against the 24 hours it took when the samples were sent to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. The lab will be manned by two doctors and four lab technicians on turn basis. Though 1,347 persons were screened in Thoothukudi district, only 26 tested positive for COVID- 19, the minister said. Earlier, the minister handed over COVID-19 relief of Rs. 1,000 to 185 third genders and rice and dhal to conservancy workers. He received 1,250 kg of rice and cheque for Rs. 2 lakh from representatives of SPIC for procuring mattresses for the Thoothukudi hospital. Collector Sandeep Nanduri, Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan, Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan, Dean Thiruvasagamani, Resident Medical Officer Silas Jayamani and MLAs were present. Meanwhile, Corporation officials sealed six saloons as they were opened on Saturday in violation of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoothukudi-hospital-gets-covid-19-testing-lab/article31379899.ece
19 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Bloodstain leads to the arrest of four||The Thoothukudi Central Police have arrested four persons for stealing liquor bottles from a TASMAC oulet on V.E. Road here recently. Police said the four had stolen liquor bottles from the shop on April 14. Shop supervisor Parthiban had lodged a complaint. When the police visited the spot, they noticed a footprint with bloodstain and started investigating about anti-social elements who sustained injury in the foot recently. When the police zeroed in on R. Charles, 30, of Indra Nagar in Thoothukudi, he confessed to the crime. Charles said he and his friends A. Antony, 33, of Vannar Street in Shanmugapuram, J. Michael Raj, 39, of George Road, C. Praveen, 30, of Muniyasamypuram stole the liquor bottles. Charles said they bought intoxicating tablets from one David, who is running a pharmacy at Kandasamypuram. As they could not get the ‘desired high,’ they decided to steal liquor bottles. When they were taking the liquor bottles packed in cartons at the shop, one of the cardboard cartons could not bear the weight and brode. A few bottles fell down and broke and Charles stamped on the glass pieces and sustained a deep cut injury in the instep. Despite the bleeding injury, Charles and his associates packed the liquor bottles in gunny bags and escaped. Pharmacy sealed The police have sealed the pharmacy of David for selling drugs without prescription given by a qualified physician. The licence of the pharmacy is likely to be cancelled, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bloodstain-leads-to-the-arrest-of-four/article31379895.ece
19 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Deer dies after a chase by dogs||A spotted deer that strayed into the town on Saturday died after it sustained head injury when street dogs tried to hunt it down. The deer was roaming in Meenakshipuram near Old Bus Stand on Saturday morning when it was chased by the dogs. It tried to scale the compound wall of a house in a bid to escape but hit the wall and died of head injury. Alerted by the residents, Forest Range Officer Mahesh and his team rushed to the spot and retrieved the dead deer. Since there was no vehicular movement due to the lockdown, the deer is suspected to have strayed into the town from its habitat on the Kayathar -Ottapidaaram stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deer-dies-after-a-chase-by-dogs/article31379896.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rapid test kits reach Tiruchi GH||Following the arrival of the rapid test kits in Tamil Nadu on Friday, the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (MGMGH) was handed over 1000 kits on Friday morning and that were put to use immediately. The doctors first tested frontline workers, including police personnel, healthcare providers and nurses working at the isolation ward at the GH. Collector S. Sivarasu said that 15 tests were taken and all of them were negative. The kits will also be distributed to the Department of Public Health where tests will be conducted in containment zones, he said. The rapid test detects whether a person has developed antibodies to fight the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes COVID-19. The results of the test take around 30 minutes, official sources at the MGMGH said. “It is like a diabetes test. A needle is used to prick a finger of a patient, and a drop of blood is put on a designated location on the tester. The test will immediately show one bar for negative and two bars for positive,” a doctor said. It is also easier to perform and can be done with little or no additional equipment. This is, however, only a screening test, the doctor insisted. In case a test indicates positive, a throat swab will immediately be lifted, they said. The test will speed up the screening process, especially in containment zones and hotspots. The doctor said more kits are expected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rapid-test-kits-reach-tiruchi-gh/article31379935.ece
19 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Age cannot wither their fortitude, poise||‘Self-isolation’ and ‘social distancing’ are not new concepts in an increasingly ageist society. But the restrictions on movement in public places during the ongoing nationwide lockdown are testing the strength of the social networks (the offline kind) that nurture relations between neighbours and friends in a locality, especially for old people living independently or in care homes. “We are getting along with the help of prayer and our well-wishers,” says mridangam, kanjira and konakkol exponent Tiruchi R Thayumanavan, 91, who shares his home ‘Guru Anugraham’ in Woraiyur, with his wife Kanakambujam, an octogenarian. “We have stopped watching news on television because it’s all about coronavirus, and my wife gets upset. I meditate for long periods, and practise my music as best as I can.” A domestic worker comes early in the morning to attend to the dish-washing and cleaning, and leaves within an hour. Since the couple is unable to venture out for groceries, a well-wisher prepares lunch gravies and side dishes for them and delivers the meal by 9 a.m. “I make the rice to accompany the gravies daily. By God’s grace, it is our friends and students who are helping out in this difficult time,” said Mrs. Thayumanavan. For retired professor S. Sankaran, 74, the lockdown has forced him to recalibrate his daily movements in keeping with the timings specified by the authorities. “I used to go out for a walk early in the morning and buy milk for coffee every day on the way back. This is no longer possible, so I have had to adjust when I leave my home,” said Mr. Sankaran, who lives alone in a 2-bedroom apartment in Cantonment. While he usually gets a light breakfast at home, Mr. Sankaran goes out for lunch and dinner. “I’m not very upset by the lockdown’s rules, but I do hope things will return to normal soon,” he said. Unable to meet anyone socially, he has taken to catching up with his siblings and their families, through regular phone calls. As an academic in industrial microbiology, Mr. Sankaran is interested in the current focus on COVID19. “There are many theories about how it was first transmitted to the human population. But we are still to find a cure for it. I hope we will work through this crisis soon,” he said. Life continues to be quiet for those in old age homes, where the lockdown has meant a ban on visitors. “Most senior citizens suffer from age-related depression, so they are not really aware of what’s happening during the lockdown,” said P. Karthikeyan, who runs Shree Sayee Old Age Home in Srinivasa Nagar. All the 20 seniors living here are above 80 years, and are being given immunity-boosting food to help them avoid any viral infections, said Mr. Karthikeyan. “We have stopped visitors during the lockdown to protect the health of our home’s members. But since only four or five of our seniors are aware of the world outside, they are not unduly upset by the pandemic or the lockdown.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/age-cannot-wither-their-fortitude-poise/article31379927.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Colleges to function as quarantine centres||The office of the Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education is understood to have sought the details of buildings and sanitary infrastructure from institutions in the region, indicating that the facilities could be put to use by the district administrations during the lockdown period for containment of COVID 19 virus. The Tiruchi district administration has already been using the facilities of Jamal Mohamed College for quarantining people detected with symptoms of COVID 19 virus. Other colleges are also in a state of preparedness to offer their facilities. “We have provided the details of the classrooms in academic blocks, the number of rooms in the hostel, the toilets in each building and other such particulars to the office of the Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education and the district administration,” R. Sundararaman, Principal of National College, said. Likewise, the St. Joseph's College has also in a state of preparedness to provide its facilities, said Principal Rev. Fr. M. Arockiasamy Xavier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-to-function-as-quarantine-centres/article31379928.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Restrict Mettur water usage only to seasonal crops’||Amidst calls for stepping up the discharge from the Mettur dam from a section of farmers to meet the requirements of standing crop in some places, the Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association has urged the government to ensure that the Cauvery water was used only for the seasonal crops of kuruvai, thaladi and samba in the delta and not for summer crops. The association, which has been contending that summer crop should be raised only in places with good groundwater potential, also called upon the State government to issue an order to this effect. A section of farmers, pointing to the good storage position at the Mettur dam this year, has been demanding stepping up the discharge from the dam. Mannargudi S. Ranganathan, Secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, told The Hindu on Saturday that there were demands for release of water summer cultivation of paddy in Salem, Tiruchi and Tiruvaiyaru belt of Thanjavur district. This, however, should not be encouraged, he said. “Cauvery being a deficit river which cannot fully satisfy the requirement of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, only the existing seasonal crop should be irrigated with the river water. Summer crop can be raised only in places wherever ground water was available. Cauvery water should not be drawn for additional crops other than kuruvai, thaladi and samba. You cannot squander the available water,” Mr.Ranganathan said. A G.O. should be issued that Mettur water should exclusively used for three crops and in between them pulses may be allowed. But no additional crops should be allowed, he said. Mr.Ranganathan also had a word of caution on tapping groundwater as it could be lead to shortage of drinking water during summer. “Already the groundwater table is not very encouraging. Sea water incursion was also happening in the delta,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restrict-mettur-water-usage-only-to-seasonal-crops/article31379940.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel in Perambalur told to get themselves tested||All police personnel in Perambalur district have been asked to get themselves tested for COVID-19, after a policeman in the district tested positive for the virus. The policeman, attached to the V. Kalathur police station in the district, tested positive for COVID-19, and has been admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH), where he has been undergoing treatment since Friday night, said Superintendent of Police Nisha Parthiban. The head constable’s samples were taken after he reported symptoms of fever and cough. The test report arrived on Friday evening, after which he was sent to the Tiruchi hospital. The patient is undergoing treatment at the MGMGH and is responding well, said doctors in Tiruchi. “He has no travel history to any other State or abroad. He is likely to have come in contact with a patient who tested positive,” said R. Yeganathan, medical superintendent, MGMGH. Ms. Parthiban said that about 260 police personnel in the district have since been ordered to get tested as a precautionary measure. Police personnel in V. Kalathur and nearby areas will be given priority for the time being, she said. Authorities also said that the V. Kalathur police station has been sanitised and sealed. A. Amalraj, Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, told The Hindu on Saturday that all police personnel attached to the V. Kalathur station would be subjected to compulsory testing. They would be taken off front line duty until further notice. A batch of police personnel will be posted in place of them for the time being. All contacts of the head constable will be put under quarantine. All front line police personnel in the zone have been asked to subject themselves for COVID-19 testing, in batches, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-personnel-in-perambalur-told-to-get-themselves-tested/article31379672.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Schools advised to avoid Zoom meeting platform||The School Education Department has advised institutions using the Zoom Meeting Platform for engaging class X students to prepare them for public examinations during the lockdown to switch over to other apps. The instruction follows the advisory issued on Thursday by the Ministry of Home Affairs stating that ZOOM is not a safe platform, making a reference to the earlier advisories of the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (Cert-In) and that it must be avoided by government officers for official purpose. The advisory was issued to prevent any unauthorised entry into a Zoom Conference Room and prevent unauthorized participant to carry out malicious attacks on terminals of other users in the conference. The Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School, Mannachanallur; KAP Viswanatham Higher Secondary School, Tiruchi; and the Government Higher Secondary School, Somarasanpettai, and a number of private schools have been utilising the Zoom platform to engage class X students. “We have advised the institutions to switch over to hangout or Zoho app to continue with the online interface with the students,” Chief Educational Officer of Tiruchi district S. Shanthi said. The teachers are finding the classroom apps quite useful in ensuring the continuity of students’ attention towards studies during the lockdown period. However, as of now, the necessity for the teachers to engage higher secondary students had not arisen, the CEO observed. Unlike the 2019-20 academic session when the teachers had to familiarise themselves with the new syllabi, and had faced time constraint due to the necessity to attend the orientation programmes for handling the new contents, they will be in a position to complete the portions in a timely manner during 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-advised-to-avoid-zoom-meeting-platform/article31379929.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||e-pass system serves them well||At a time when officials find it difficult to enforce personal distancing norms in public places, technology has come in handy to issue e-passes to the needy without any personal interface. The State government has come out with a plan of issuing e-passes to the people on emergency or inevitable circumstances to travel for attending marriages and funerals. It roped in the services of National Informatics Centre (NIC), which has provided a software for receiving applications and processing and issuing e-passes to the needy. Under the system, applicants need to log on to the official website of the district administrations and provide required details such as name, address, phone number, mode of travel, purpose of travel and others on the dedicated page created for issuing e-passes. It takes about 10 minutes for submitting the applications. The NIC at the Collector Office receives the applications and forwards them to the Collector for approval. Upon approval, the e-passes are sent to the e-mail address of the applicants, thereby using it while travelling in four-wheelers. “We issue about 800 to 1,000 e-passes a day. It is a hassle-free process not only for the applicants but also to the officials,” says Collector S. Sivarasu. He said that it has avoided overcrowding at the Collector Office. If the system was not in place, they would visit the respective offices for passes in large numbers. It would have posed a challenge in maintaining physical distancing norms. B.V. Sivaraman, Senior Technical Director, NIC, Tiruchi, said that 13,120 e-passes had been issued to the people since April 3. Many of them were for attending funerals. There were people, who got passes on health grounds to consult doctors in other cities or towns. The Collector said that there was a provision to issue passes for those who did not have Internet facility. A separate section has been earmarked at the Collector’s Office to issue passes to those visiting in person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-pass-system-serves-them-well/article31379932.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Four test positive in central region||Four patients, three from Perambalur district and one from Thanjavur, tested positive for COVID-19 in central region on Saturday. The patients from Perambalur have all been sent to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital which has been designated as a COVID-19 hospital, while the patient from Thanjavur is undergoing treatment at the Rajah Mirasdar Government Hospital. Three male patients, including a four-year-old, tested positive in Perambalur district. The four-year-old is the son of a man with travel history to Sharjah. “The family had been kept under home quarantine and had completed the 28-day-period. The parents tested negative but the child seems to have contracted the virus,” official sources said. A 47-year-old policeman, who hails from Salem, also tested positive. Sources say that he may have come in contact with a carrier of the virus while on duty. The man complained of throat ache and was immediately tested. His family members, 36 policemen of his police station, home guard and volunteers have been asked to home quarantine themselves. A 24-year-old man, the brother-in-law of the first patient who tested positive in the district, has also tested positive for the infection. All three patients are stable and have been shifted to the Tiruchi MGMGH on Friday night. The total number of patients who tested positive for COVID-19 in the district is currently four. Thanjavur A 39-year-old woman of Patteeswaram near Kumbakonam tested positive on Saturday. According to sources, the woman had called on her relative at Sundaram Nagar, Thanjavur, last month as the later was about to deliver a baby. Subsequently, the Sundaram Nagar woman tested positive and delivered a male baby at the Rajah Mirasdar Government Hospital, Thanjavur, during the first week of this month. She had reportedly contracted the virus from her father-in-law who had a travel history to New Delhi to attend a religious conference held there in March. The Patteeswaram woman is the daughter of the Sundaram Nagar person, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-test-positive-in-central-region/article31379936.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fund contributed||The Director and staff of the National Research Centre for Banana have contributed a day’s salary to the Prime Minister CARES Fund. They distributed 10 kg of rice, vegetables, fruits and banana stems to each of the 200 families at the Poolangudi Narikorava Colony on Thursday. They also distributed ration to stranded North Indian labourers in Kumbakudi area near Mathur and to a home for visually impaired and senior citizens. The NRCB has planned to supply 2-3 tonnes of bananas and allied products from time to time to police personnel and health and sanitary workers who are involved in COVID 19 duty. The first batch of 300 kg of banana, 200 bottles of stem juice and 300 banana figs were handed over the district authorities by S. Uma, Director, NRCB, in the presence of scientists and staff, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fund-contributed/article31379939.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Coming out without a mask will invite fine||Even as the police are registering cases against lockdown violators besides confiscating their vehicles, the corporation has started slapping a fine of Rs. 100 on those who come out of their houses without masks, which play a significant role in preventing the spread of COVID-19. The action came into force from Saturday after Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish empowered local bodies to collect fine. Those who come out of their house to buy essentials or medicines and those working in grocery shops, pharmacies, milk outlets etc., should wear masks. While the public who are not wearing masks will be fined up to Rs. 500 in the days to come, shops that fail to provide masks to workers and ensure ‘physical distancing’ of their customers will be closed immediately. Banks too should ensure ‘physical distancing’ of their customers on its premises and at ATM kiosks. Residents should carry ‘colour cards’ issued by the corporation when coming out to buy essentials on two designated days a week. Any violation would attract fine up to Rs. 500. Corporation personnel, who swung into action, checked the public, who were fined separately for not wearing masks and for not carrying ‘colour cards.’ “A fine of Rs. 100 is collected from violators. Habitual violators will be fined Rs. 500 for each violation,” an official said. The police had collected a total fine of Rs. 11,200 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coming-out-without-a-mask-will-invite-fine/article31379904.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Parcel train service extended to Nagercoil||To ensure availability of essential commodities, Southern Railways has extended the daily parcel special trains operated between Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram to Nagercoil. A statement said it was initially announced that the daily special train service would be operated from April 9 to 14, but it had been extended to run till May 3. Moreover, it had been extended to run from / up to Nagercoil from Sunday (April 19). Train number 00655 Nagercoil – Kozhikode will leave Nagercoil at 6.30 a.m. and reach Kozhikode at 6 p.m. the same day. Train number 00656 Kozhikode – Nagercoil will leave Kozhikode at 8 a.m. and reach Nagercoil at 7.30 p.m. the same day. Stoppages and timings of Nagercoil - Kozhikode train areas follows: Nagercoil – 6.30 a.m. (departure); Thiruvananthapuram – 7.50 a.m. (arrival) / 8 a.m. (departure); Kollam – 9.15 a.m. / 9.25 a.m.; Kottayam – 11.30 a.m. / 11.40 a.m.; Ernakulam Town – 12.50 p.m. / 1 p.m.; Aluva – 1 p.m. / 1.35 p.m..; Thrissur – 2.35 p.m. / 2.45 p.m.; Shoranur – 3.30 p.m. / 3.40 p.m.; Tirur – 4.40 p.m. / 16.50 p.m..; Kozhikode – 6 p.m. (arrival). Timings for Kozhikode – Nagercoil service: Kozhikode – 8 a.m. (departure); Tirur – 9.10 a.m. / 9.20 a.m.; Shoranur – 10.20 a.m. / 10.30 a.m..; Thrissur – 11.10 a.m. / 11.20 a.m.; Aluva – 11.25 a.m./ 11.35 a.m..; Ernakulam Town – 1 p.m. / 1.10 p.m..; Kottayam – 2.20 p.m. / 2.30 p.m.; Kollam – 4.35 p.m. / 4.45 p.m.; Thiruvananthapuram – 5.50 p.m. / 6 p.m. and Nagercoil – 7.30 p.m. (arrival). The daily parcel special trains are receiving a good patronage and the demand for the services continues to grow. In view of this, a new helpline +91 90253 42449 – SETU (Swift and Efficient Transport of Utilities) – has been launched to provide assistance round-the-clock. The helpline will enable customers from Tamil Nadu and Kerala to make enquiries for transportation of essential commodities and industrial items such as PPEs, masks, medicines and other critical items. This helpline number will be available only till May 3 and will serve as a ‘one stop solution’ for all assistance related to booking of parcels during the lockdown, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parcel-train-service-extended-to-nagercoil/article31379900.ece
19 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||With 28 more cases, Tiruppur district crosses 100-mark||In a sharp spike, Tiruppur district saw the confirmation of 28 COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 108. Tiruppur became the third district in the State to cross the 100-mark after Chennai (235 cases) and Coimbatore (128 cases). On Saturday, the district accounted for more than half of the State’s positive cases (28 out of 49 cases from Tiruppur), sources in the Health Department said. On Saturday, Coimbatore district saw one positive case, taking the total to 128 cases. No cases were confirmed in the districts of Erode, Salem, Namakkal and the Nilgiris and their total remains 70, 24, 50 and nine respectively. Meanwhile, in Coimbatore as many as 23 persons left Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Saturday after recovering from COVID-19. With this, the number of persons recovered from COVID-19 from ESI Hospital touched 51. Of the 23 persons, 10 were from Coimbatore, nine from Tiruppur and four from the Nilgiris. The discharged persons were advised to remain home quarantine for 28 days. They were shifted to their homes in special ambulances. Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani reviewed the the status of the patients at the hospital and those who recovered from the disease. Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said that 21 patients, who had been under hospital quarantine, were released on Saturday. The patients tested negative and were released from Tiruppur Government Hospital, he said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-28-more-cases-tiruppur-district-crosses-100-mark/article31379714.ece
19 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Family gets help to reach hometown 300 km away||A young couple with a two-year-old son, who intended to walk nearly 300 km from Coimbatore district to go to their hometown in Tiruvarur district, reached safely in a car with assistance from volunteers and the district administration. K. Dhanasekar (26), his wife Sukanya (23) and their son Ashwin started from Muthugoundenpudur at around 2 a.m. on Friday, hoping to reach Kottur village in Mannargudi by foot. Mr. Dhanasekar told The Hindu on Saturday from Kottur that he was employed as a handloom operator in a textile company in Muthugoundenpudur and the company allegedly abused the couple verbally for asking Mr. Dhanasekar’s payment. “We were hurt so much that we decided to leave immediately,” he said. The couple along with their son started walking from Muthugoundenpudur and reached Tiruppur city at around noon on Friday. “We travelled in a vegetable vehicle for some distance,” Ms. Sukanya said. However, the trio were exhausted under the hot sun and sat near the CTC Corner on Kangeyam Road. A. Naseerdeen, district president of Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK), said that one of their volunteers spotted them and informed other members of the organisation. TMMK members took them to their office nearby and offered lunch. They also provided a vehicle for them to reach Kottur. The issue was brought to the attention of Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, said Mr. Naseerdeen. “We met the Collector at around 4.30 p.m.,” Mr. Dhanasekar said. According to a release from the administration, vehicle permit was issued through the Revenue Department on Friday evening and the couple left for Kottur at 6 p.m. They reached the house of Ms. Sukanya’s parents in Kottur on Saturday morning. “Today is our son’s birthday,” Ms. Sukanya said, expressing her happiness to be at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-gets-help-to-reach-hometown-300-km-away/article31379704.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Quarantined persons sent home||Fourteen persons who were kept in institutional quarantine on Central University of Tamil Nadu campus here were sent home on Saturday. According to a press release, seven persons each from Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts were kept under observation at the institutional quarantine facility set up on CUTN premises. Collector T. Anand greeted them when they stepped out of the building to return to their homes. They were advised to remain in quarantine for the next 14 days. Meanwhile, after chairing a review meeting at the Collectorate, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said a Myanmar national was not discharged and a decision would be arrived at on the matter after consulting the departments concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quarantined-persons-sent-home/article31379925.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Central University of TN may resume classes on June 1||Regular classes at Central University of Tamil Nadu, Tiruvarur, are likely to commence on June 1 and will be followed by semester examinations. However, according to a CUTN press release, the High-Level Committee headed by the Vice-Chancellor will revisit the decision if any directions are received from the Ministry of Human Resources Development/University Grants Commission. The online classes will continue till the lockdown period, or until further orders, on all working days. Recommendation It has been recommended to treat period from March (23rd onwards) and April as working days since all faculty members have worked from home and conducted online classes as per the instructions of MHRD and UGC. Further, May will be considered as preparatory time for accommodation of students on the campus since the hostels have been handed over to the local administration for use as institutional quarantine centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-university-of-tn-may-resume-classes-on-june-1/article31379924.ece
19 April 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Contract workers under home quarantine||A group of contract workers have been placed under house quarantine at Rishiyur near Needamangalam following their return from Kerala recently. Some months ago, 24 workers from Rishiyur hamlet near Needamangalam went to Kerala to work in a construction project. They lost their jobs and savings due to the lockdown. Their plea for help was brought to the notice of the Kerala government, which assured them of all assistance. However, when the lockdown was extended up to May 3, 13 workers decided to return home. On arriving at Needamangalam on August 16, two of them went to the government hospital for test. After it was completed, they were advised to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Meanwhile, another batch of 11 persons were intercepted by police at Kovilvenni check post and were tested at a primary health care centre at Kovilvenni on August 17. After the test, they were allowed to stay with their families at Rishiyur on the condition that they remain isolated in their homes for the next 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contract-workers-under-home-quarantine/article31379923.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Packaged drinking water distributors see drop in sales||Packaged drinking water distributors in Madurai say that sales have dropped significantly since the lockdown as commercial establishments starting from tea shops to corporate companies are all closed. N. Senthil Kumar, proprietor of Sunshine Water company in Madurai, says that they cater only to residents and most of them were rationing their use of drinking water despite it being the summer season. They face the additional burden of functioning only between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. “By 1 p.m., we have to ensure that we bring cans from our unit in Kallandri and give it to our distributors,” he says. M. Aadhithya Saravanan, another proprietor whose unit is in Pudupatti, says that distributors who once used to sell 200 cans a day now buy the said number of cans after four or five days as sales are slow. He adds that a minimum of eight people are essential for the functioning of a unit. Three people have to wash cans, two to fill water, one to cap the can and two to stick the label of the company. “With travel restrictions in place, it is hard for the staff to make their way back home after 1 p.m.”, he says. He adds that reverse osmosis machines need to be cleaned everyday to ensure quality of water. In case the machine develops a fault, it becomes difficult to find a mechanic. Mr. Senthil adds that all proprietors must maintain daily readings of water quality and submit it to the Bureau of Indian Standards every six months with samples to the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India. A broken machine would affect the quality of drinking water, he says. There are around 80 packaged water units and at least twice the number of distributors in Madurai. Cans are priced at Rs. 30 each. “On an average, I used to deliver 150 cans everyday. But now the sales have come down to 40 cans”, says K. Ramalingam, a distributor. He says that he can only sell a maximum of two cans per household. These two cans must be returned to ensure that there is proper rotation as manufacturing of cans was not taking place. He says that they were stopped by the police at the beginning of the lockdown but now they do not face such issues. “They do not question us as we supply essential commodity,” he says. Another distributor E. Sundar says that they wear protective gear like masks and gloves while delivering cans to houses and apartment complexes. “People are very cautious. They ask us to leave the water cans outside their house. They keep the empty water cans and money for the fresh cans outside as well,” he says. Unit owners say that it would be best if they were allowed more time to function as water was the most essential commodity. “I hope things change after April 20 and we are given more reasonable timings to function,” Mr. Aadhithya says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/packaged-drinking-water-distributors-see-drop-in-sales/article31379913.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ association wants turmeric markets to be opened||With the demand for turmeric, an antioxidant that helps in boosting immunity, on the rise, farmers’ association wanted turmeric markets to be opened to meet the demand. C. Nallasamy, president, Keel Bhavani Vivasaigal Nalasangam said that curcumin is a natural antioxidant that has anti-inflammatory benefits and also helps in reducing risk of various chronic diseases. Turmeric markets in Erode district are the biggest markets in the country and turmeric traded at the markets here are sold within the country and also exported to many countries. “Due to outbreak of COVID-19, markets remain closed and farmers were unable to sell their produce”, he said and added that the demand for turmeric powder has gone up in the past one month. He said that consumption of turmeric powder by the people has improved whereas the supply is restricted in the market. Turmeric is cultivated in about 13,500 acres in the district and has curcumin content of 2.5% to 3.5% that also got a Geographical Indication (GI) tag from the Geographical Indication Registry. About six lakh tonnes of turmeric is produced in the district annually of which 60% are exported in the form of powder and other value-added products. The 280-day grown crop is auctioned at the regulated markets in the district and traders purchase turmeric and process it and market it. Mr. Nallasamy said that the need of the hour is to open the markets and resume trading activities so that turmeric is supplied to both domestic and international markets without delay. “Personal distancing should be ensured at the markets and the government should take necessary steps for opening the markets”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-association-wants-turmeric-markets-to-be-opened/article31379690.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Telemedicine is here to stay||What is telemedicine? Telemedicine is an all-encompassing term for providing remote virtual healthcare with the healthcare provider and the beneficiary physically in different locations. Information and communication technology (predominantly the internet ) is used for history taking, reasonable relevant clinical examination and review of any investigations available. Telemedicine-enabled devices such as the thermometer, torch, stethoscope, BP apparatus, ECG, glucometers etc. convert the patient’s location to a clinic. The diagnosis (provisional or final) is communicated to the patient electronically along with specific advise including a prescription. When did telemedicine start? The world’s first telephone call made by Alexander Graham Bell on March 10, 1876 was actually a request for medical help. “Watson, come here I want you,” he said after acid from a Leclanche cell fell on his hand. From 1925, the radio was used on and off to make medical diagnosis. In 1970, a telemedicine link was established between Mass General Hospital Boston and the Logan Airport in Boston. In India formal telemedicine commenced on March 24, 2000 when Bill Clinton commissioned the world’s first VSAT (ISRO supplied)-enabled village hospital at Aragonda, the birth place of P.C. Reddy, chairman, Apollo Hospitals. What are the components of telemedicine? Technical requirements include hardware, software, connectivity,acquisition, storage,retrieval, display, while health care providers have to be oriented, trained, helped with customisations, to be cost effective, self-sustaining, and follow all the regulations in order to be future-ready. Can prescriptions be given remotely? Yes. The recently notified Telemedicine Practice Guidelines enables Registered Medical Practitioners to send prescriptions electronically. There are several in built safety methods to prevent abuse of the system. Pharmacists have to dispense from a digital screen with the doctor’s registration no and fascmile of the signature. What are the different types of telemedicine Different modalities includes a)Telephonic consultation, b)Chat mode, c) Whats App, d)SMS, e) Video consult, f) Proper full-fledged telemedicine using an approved EMR (Electronic Medical Record) where case records, images, investigations, teleconsults can be stored, retrieved and a good video camera is used for interaction. Peripheral medical devices located remotely can be controlled and results obtained in real time. Are there any limitations in using telemedicine? Yes ! No ! No ! Technology is only an enabler, not an end by itself. The decision when to limit use of Telemedicine and insist on a face-to-face consult is always a clinical decision. The context, professional judgement and the patient’s interest alone matter. Some doctors may be satisfied with an ultrasound image showing a mass in the pelvis. Others may want to do a rectal examination. Patients may not be comfortable without seeing the doctor face-to-face at least for the first time. What is the future of telemedicine? The ‘future’ of Telemedicine started in December 2019. Worldwide Covid-19 is causing millions of people to try telemedicine for the first time. Telemedicine will continue to grow rapidly. Enforced habits of today will become the new normal. Life will never again be the same in the AC (After Corona) era. Gradually obligatory preferences of today will switch to a default mode. Patients may not want to return to the BC era when face-to-face consults were the norm and telemedicine was a bystander!! With technology becoming sophisticated and automated, doctors can do what they really want to do – spend more time with the patient – rather than spend time commuting, to go to their offices. Overheads in establishing a posh office will come down. Patients too will now have more time, avoiding the hassles of travel, and waiting outside the doctor’s room. Virtual visits can make group care possible. Today considerable time is spent and effort has to be put in to get opinion of multiple specialists sequentially.  (The author is also director, Apollo Telehealth Services)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-enhances-reliance-on-telemedicine/article31379667.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Narikuravar community seeks government support||With lockdown crippling commercial and economic activities, members of Narikuravar community, who earn their livelihood by selling chains, bangles and toys, urged the State Government to provide financial assistance to their families as they feel that normalcy would take more than two months. As many as 45 families, comprising 190 members, including 40 children, were residing at Karukkampalayam, near Vaikalmedu, in Perundurai for the past 21 years. While women make chains, bangles, beads, pins, combs and sell it in bus stands, railway stations and public places, men used to run shops selling toys, slingshots and fancy items during temple festivals across the district. “Our income is nil in the past one month and are surviving with the essential commodities provided by the government”, said R. Vengaiyan, head of the community. He said that earlier youths earned by working in construction sector which has also stopped due to lockdown. As a precautionary measure against COVID-19, the district administration has also postponed all temple festivals scheduled in March and April and that affected their livelihood completely. “Most of the men earn during temple festivals with which we manage for a month. But now there is no scope for earnings”, he added. A woman member of the community said that since public transport and trains were stopped and in the absence of public movement, they cannot earn even a rupee a day. “We fear the worst is yet to come as normalcy may return after many months”, she added. Though they have ration cards, members said that in the absence of income, they were unable to fulfil their basic needs. “We cannot sit at home for over a month without income as we used to walk a lot selling the products”, added Vengaiyan, who want financial support from the government until normalcy returns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narikuravar-community-seeks-government-support/article31379687.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||712 persons held for violations in Coimbatore||The police arrested 712 persons for violating the prohibitory order issued as part of the national lockdown in Coimbatore on Friday. 668 vehicles seized The police seized 668 vehicles from them. Those arrested were released on bail. On Friday, Coimbatore city police arrested 84 persons who were found roaming in public places without wearing mask. They were arrested under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The arrested persons were released on bail.  SALEM/NAMAKKAL The Salem City police on Friday seized 48 vehicles for violating prohibitory orders and registered cases against 48 persons. Namakkal district police registered 112 cases for violating prohibitory orders against 112 persons and seized 62 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/712-persons-held-for-violations-in-coimbatore/article31379696.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man attacked by gaur||A senior citizen was attacked by a gaur near Thirumoorthy Nagar in Udumalpet, Tiruppur district on Friday, forest officials said. C. Dhanabalan, Udumalpet forest range officer said that A. Kaalisamy (67) was attacked by the gaur when he was shepherding goats in the area. Mr. Kaalisamy suffered injuries on his hip and was admitted in Udumalpet Government Hospital on Saturday morning. Two gaurs had ventured outside the forest area of Anamalai Tiger Reserve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-attacked-by-gaur/article31379693.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the article titled ‘An initiative to help out artists in distress’, that appeared in these columns on Saturday, it was erroneously mentioned that T.M. Krishna was the founder of Parivadhini. He is not. It is also clarified that the amount of Rs. 23 lakh was collected by the COVID-19 Artists Fund. The errors are regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article31379663.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No social distancing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-social-distancing/article31379943.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||As on April 18  Coimbatore  No. of persons in hospitals: 277 (Male -150, Male child – 12, Female – 102, Female child – 13) Govt. hospitals – 229 Private hospitals – 48 Positive cases – 128 (One fresh case on Saturday)  Tiruppur  House quarantine cases: 848 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 94 Samples lifted: 1,123 Results declared: 691 Positive: 108 (28 fresh cases on April 18. All admitted at ESI Hospital) Negative: 583 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 1 Results awaited: 432||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article31379706.ece
19 April 2020||Bagalkot/Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Bagalkot reports seven new cases||Bagalkot district reported seven new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Vijayapura district reported two new cases and this includes a 42-year-old man, who died on April 16, and tested positive for the disease on Saturday. With the seven new cases, the total in Bagalkot district is now 21 [20 active and one death]. Of the seven in Bagalkot district, three have been reported in Mudhol taluk, and two each in Jamkhandi, and Bagalkot. A health bulletin revealed that P-381 is a 47-year-old male and resident of Jamkhandi and has Influenza Like Illness. The authorities confirmed that he did not have a travel history to foreign countried and also had no contact with infected persons. Four patients [three from Mudhol and another from Jamkhandi] have tested positive after coming in contact with P-263, a police personnel who tested positive earlier this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bagalkot-reports-seven-new-cases/article31379772.ece
19 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Nurse finally meets daughter||It was an emotional moment in Ganeshpur in Belagavi as Sugandha Korikoppa, staff nurse at the district designated hospital who was under quarantine for 14 days, reached home to meet her three-year-old daughter Aishwarya. A few days ago, a video clip of the nurse in quarantine greeting her daughter from afar and trying to console her had gone viral. Both were crying, as they was unable to embrace each other. Santosh, Aishwarya’s father, brought her to see her mother for a few minutes. But they could not meet as they had to maintain social distance. Aishwarya cried and pleaded with her mother to come home. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had called on Ms. Sugandha the next day to express support and solidarity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nurse-finally-meets-daughter/article31379781.ece
19 April 2020||Belagavi/Udupi/Karwar,KARNATAKA||First positive case in Belagavi dist. cured||The first person to test positive in Belagavi has been cured, District in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar said here on Saturday. The second test of P-126 has proved negative. It means that he is free from the virus, Mr. Shettar told journalists after a meeting with officers. “Of the 42 persons found positive in the district, he is the first to be cured. I thank all the doctors, paramedical staff, health workers and other related persons who worked towards his treatment,” the Minister said. Two of the major clusters, Hirebagewadi and Kudchi, have recorded 16 positive cases till now. They are all under quarantine in the designated hospital and responding to treatment. The ICMR had approved testing of samples in the ICMR – NITM lab in Belagavi. Testing will begin from Wednesday. Apart from this, the district would get 3,000 rapid testing kits.   Udupi district In Udupi district, a third patient was discharged from Dr. T.M.A. Pai Hospital on Saturday and he has been advised strict home quarantine for 14 days. The 29-year-old man from Udupi returned from Thiruvananthapuram last month. He was admitted to the District Government Hospital with symptoms of COVID-19 on March 27. He tested positive on March 29 and had since been under treatment. He tested negative for COVID-19 on April 17 and 18, and was hence discharged from the hospital. Health Department personnel will regularly visit him during his home quarantine, Sudhir Chandra Sooda, District Health and Family Welfare Officer (DHO), said. All the three persons who had tested positive for the disease in in Udupi district have been discharged. The first patient, a 34-year-old man, was discharged on April 11 and is under home quarantine. The second, a 35-year-old man, was discharged on April 14 and is also in home quarantine.  Uttara Kannada In Uttara Kannada district, another positive patient [P-98] was discharged from Karwar’s naval ship hospital on Saturday. According to Deputy Commissioner K. Harish Kumar, now there are only two positive patients in the district. A pregnant woman from the district is undergoing treatment in Udupi, while her husband is recuperating in the naval hospital, Mr. Harish Kumar has said. The district has so far recorded 11 cases and of them nine have been discharged so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-positive-case-in-belagavi-dist-cured/article31379770.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Testing capacity up, but is State equipped to expand it further?||Karnataka’s testing capacity has gone up from 500 tests per day done till last week to 2,000 per day this week. As on April 18, Karnataka has conducted 19,186 tests cumulatively. But going by the State’s plans of random testing and testing of secondary contacts, do we have the required infrastructure for further expanding testing activities? Karnataka as of now has 17 laboratories with RNA-based PCR (polymerase chain reaction) machines. But the rate at which the disease is spreading, there is a need to further ramp up testing and the State is ill-equipped for that now, said sources. U.S. Vishal Rao, an oncologist and a public health expert, said there was a need to crowdsource PCR machinesas only rampant testing can help the government determine the actual number of cases. “While the focus is on shortage of ventilators, we have not realised the shortage of PCR machines, testing kits, and biosafety level-2 labs required for testing COVID-19 samples. Another area that needs attention isavailability of trained technicians,” Dr. Rao said. However, V. Ravi, senior professor and head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is also part of the State’s committee set up to analyse epidemiology of COVID-19 cases, said the State was all set to add 10 more PCR machines to its testing network by this month-end. “As per ICMR’s guidelines, the State should have 60 labs by May-end and we are working towards that,” he said. Centralised procurement Although health officials said there was no dearth of testing kits and that the kits would be supplied as and when required by the laboratories, sources admitted that the Centre’s direction to States to not procure any required COVID diagnostic and treatment materials on its own was going to create undue delay in the State’s surveillance. Even as the State is waiting for its order of one lakh rapid antibody testing strips, the Centre allotted only 11,400 strips to Karnataka from a consignment of 6.5 lakh strips that it received from China. Now, while these rapid antibody strips will only serve the purpose of surveillance and not diagnosis, sources said the State had expected a higher share from the Centre. Karnataka was the first State to place an order for the antibody strips and the delivery has been delayed owing to some technical issues. “Now, we have contacted two other firms for a total of 2 lakh strips and they have promised to deliver 80,000 strips by Tuesday. These strips will be helpful in doing the preliminary surveillance and those who test positive in the rapid screening can be taken up for confirmation through RNA-based PCR tests. This will help us in taking up confirmatory tests only for those who show positivity in the rapid tests,” said C.N. Manjunath, the nodal officer for lab testing in the State’s COVID-19 Taskforce. “In the U.S. and other countries, there is a community spread and testing there is on a mass scale. That is not India’s requirement currently as the spread is contained,” Dr. Manjunath claimed. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said the State’s testing capacity had been increasing by the day. “The 11,400 strips that we have got now are from the ICMR’s pool and they were allotted based on the number of incidence. Our order is expected to be delivered in a few days. These strips are being validated at NIMHANS and will be allotted for use in districts based on the technical committee’s recommendations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/testing-capacity-up-but-is-state-equipped-to-expand-it-further/article31379624.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP counting on property tax to fill its coffers||With its coffers running low, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is banking on citizens paying their property tax, which is a major revenue source. However, a senior revenue official told The Hindu that the civic body will not be “forcing” property owners to pay their dues. In the first 17 days of the new financial year, the BBMP had garnered Rs. 90.89 crore, of which Rs. 86.45 crore was paid online and the remaining through challans in banks. “With the lockdown in place, we hope citizens don’t take the risk of stepping out of their homes to pay property tax. We hope that they pay the tax online, which is safe and secure,” the official said. During the last fiscal (2019-20), the BBMP had garnered a total of Rs. 2,729.77 crore as property tax, as against a target of Rs. 3,000 crore. Of this, around Rs. 2,668 crore was paid through online modes. “If the lockdown had not been announced towards the end of March, we would have been able to collect an additional Rs. 150 crore,” the official added. 5% rebate As an incentive, the civic body is offering a 5% rebate on property tax till the end of April. The BBMP always offers the rebate to those who pay the complete tax amount in the first month of the new financial year. The official added that extension of rebate for another month could be discussed during the budget meeting. The BBMP’s 2020-21 budget is being presented on Monday (April 20). “If the council passes a resolution to extend the rebate period, we will send the proposal to the State government for ratification,” the official stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-counting-on-property-tax-to-fill-its-coffers/article31379616.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pay unorganised workers Rs. 10,000, says KPCC||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar on Saturday urged the State government to pay this month Rs. 10,000 to each worker of the unorganised sector to meet his/her daily expenditure during the lockdown. Barbers, carpenters, garment workers, drivers of various categories of private vehicles, small vendors, house helps, sanitary workers, electrical repair workers, and a large number of unorganised workers have been facing the brunt of the lockdown without wages. The government, which had not been speaking on the plight of these workers, should soon announce crediting Rs. 10,000 in the accounts of these unorganised workers, he said. At a press conference at the party office, Mr. Shivakumar said the party would take a delegation to the government and submit a memorandum to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday. Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah too was present. ‘Lack of sympathy’ The Congress leader lashed out at the Union and State governments for not showing any sympathy towards unorganised workers and questioned the governments’ preparedness for re-opening the economy after May 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pay-unorganised-workers-rs-10000-says-kpcc/article31379621.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police to accompany push cart vendors||The South Division police have deployed constables to accompany push cart vendors that have been roped in to sell vegetables at street corners so that people don’t have to walk too far away from their homes during the lockdown. As per a pilot project, vendors will sell fruits and vegetables at each lane every day at a specific time. “Police personal accompanying vendors will ensure that residents maintain a distance from each other and get their daily supplies without much hassle,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Rohini Katoch Sepat Sepat. People thronging to markets and grocery stores to buy essentials and hoarding supplies remains a challenge. “By assigning a constable to every vendor at a particular time, we hope to resolve such issues and also avoid unwanted competition among vendors,” she added. Encouraging art The South Division police are urging citizens to explore their creative side during this enforced period at home. They have launched a ‘Stay home, stay safe. When lockdown met art’ campaign, which includes a drawing competition on the theme of ‘nature’ for children below 14 years. Those above 15 years can participate in an essay writing competition on the theme ‘gratitude’. Citizens can upload their work on the police’s social media website. Ms. Sepat tweeted a poster of the art campaign. “The biggest challenge in our fight against the coronavirus is making residents stay indoors,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-to-accompany-push-cart-vendors/article31379619.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hotspots down to 28||The number of hotspots in the city has come down to 28 based on the number of positive cases reported. On April 14, as many as 38 wards had been declared as hotspots. The highest is in East and South zones (8 each), followed by Mahadevapura (5) and West (4). Three zones – Bommanahalli, Yelahanka and Rajarajeshwarnagar, have one ward each that has been declared as hotspot. In the BBMP’s war room report on Saturday, the nomenclature for the hotspot has been changed to containment zone. The number of hotspots in the city, according to the BBMP’s war room report, on Friday stood at 30. One ward each from East zone (Jeevanbima Nagar) and South zone (Ejipura) have been dropped from the hotspot list, as per Saturday’s report. Meanwhile, the BBMP also made public the number of primary and secondary contacts of the COVID-19 positive patients who had been identified and quarantined. Of the 85 cases, 684 persons had been identified as primary contacts and 4,197 as secondary contacts. Among the primary contacts identified, 296 had completed quarantine, while 388 were still under quarantine. Of the total secondary contacts identified, 2,912 had completed quarantine and 1,285 were still under quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hotspots-down-to-28/article31379614.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three districts to be treated as one||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who chaired a meeting with senior Ministers and officials to review COVID-19 situation in the State on Saturday, said Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, and Ramanagaram districts would be treated as one district till May 3 for movement of employees and workers to offices and homes in these three districts. The decision was taken since a large number of employees commute daily to Bengaluru from Bengaluru Rural and Ramanagaram districts. “They will be considered as one district only for movement of industrial workers,” the Chief Minister said at a press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-districts-to-be-treated-as-one/article31379628.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Restrictions on vehicles to continue; no sale of liquor||The government decide against resuming sale of liquor even after April 20. All modes of mass transport (such as buses and metro trains) will not be functional. Malls and showrooms will continue to stay shut till May 3. The government, which had initially allowed two-wheelers to ply without passes, later reversed the decision. No two-wheelers will be allowed till May 3. “Cars with passes are allowed. No more new passes will be issued,” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restrictions-on-vehicles-to-continue-no-sale-of-liquor/article31379627.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Employees of 14 key depts. to attend office||The State government on Saturday issued a circular directing employees of 14 departments providing essential services to attend office on Monday. It said only in other departments one-third of the employees are directed to attend office. Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar issued the circular that employees of 14 departments dealing with essential services should resume work at their office during the extended period of the lockdown. Among the departments dealing with the essential services are Health and Family Welfare, Education, Home, Revenue, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Food and Civil Supplies, Urban Development, Transport, Energy, Finance, Forest, and Animal Husbandry and Fisheries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/employees-of-14-key-depts-to-attend-office/article31379631.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Another potential source||While the State is struggling to tide over the financial crisis, at least Rs. 650 crore that was meant for the Karnataka Legislators Local Area Development Fund that is pending in PD accounts could be used, an official suggested. Incidentally, legislators have taken a 30% salary cut for a year, and this will save the government about 15 crore. “At the end of January, about Rs. 800 crore was unspent across the State. About Rs. 650 crore remains in the account. Also, the State had not released the second instalment of about Rs. 300 crore owing to shortage of funds,” the official said. The government earmarks Rs. 600 crore annually for the fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-potential-source/article31379642.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NAL, city firm develop safety suits||City-based premier central lab National Aerospace Laboratories has said it has jointly developed a multi-layered protective wear or coverall for healthcare and other professionals who handle COVID-19 infected patients and situations. The polypropylene-based laminated non-woven personal protective equipment (PPE) was developed with MAF Clothing Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru. NAL and MAF plan to increase the daily production capacity to about 30,000 units in four weeks’ time. NAL Director Jitendra J. Jadhav said the coveralls would be priced well below that of other manufacturers. The import content is negligible. NAL, which designs and develops civil aircraft, is a research centre under the Council for Scientific & Industrial Research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nal-city-firm-develop-safety-suits/article31379610.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Help desk issues 2 lakh passes since lockdown||The special help desk set up by the State and city police has issued two lakh passes to people in Bengaluru since the start of the lockdown, said senior police officials. While the number is on the higher side, the police said that they rejected as many as 55.7 lakh applications. “When we started issuing passes during the initial days of the lockdown at the station level, we noticed large-scale misuse. Also, hundreds of people were gathering outside police stations with applications and were not following social distancing,” said a senior police official. To streamline the process, Director General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood set up an online help desk to receive applications and process requests for passes, including for inter-State or inter-district travel permits. The medical establishment has been issued the highest number of passes at 41,726 followed by 31,623 passes for essential services. As many as 23,270 passes were issued for online delivery and e-commerce services while 1,896 passes have been issued for emergency travel. Help desks at police stations processed requests for temporary passes that are valid for a few hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/help-desk-issues-2-lakh-passes-since-lockdown/article31379620.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KPCL donation||Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. (KPCL) and its employees on Saturday donated Rs. 5 crore and Rs. 1.31 crore, respectively, to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. V. Ponnuraj, MD of KPCL, handed over two cheques to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpcl-donation/article31379639.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Nine of 10 Nanjangud visitors contacted’||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has been able to contact nine of the 10 persons from China, the United States, Germany and Japan who visited Nanjangud between February 4 and 18. However, none of them have shown any symptoms of COVID-19 and hence have not been tested so far. Eighty contacts of Patient-52, an employee of a pharma company in Nanjangud, have contracted the virus. How P-52 contracted it remains a mystery. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Saturday said unable to locate the source of the infection in Nanjangud, the State government had written to the MEA asking it to check with the embassies of the four countries about the condition of those who had visited Nanjangud. “The ministry has replied to the Chief Secretary and said that they were able to contact all except one person from Germany. As none of them have shown any symptoms, they have not been tested. But there has been evidence of asymptomatic people testing positive, and hence they might have been carriers even without symptoms,” the Minister said. “The first patient from the pharma company developed symptoms on March 13 and tested positive on March 24. The company owner is not available for tests as he is in Delhi. We are trying to trace him there,” he said. Meanwhile, Mysuru district has overtaken Bengaluru Urban in active COVID-19 cases. With 58 active cases, Mysuru has surpassed Bengaluru, where active cases stand at 44 with 42 patients discharged so far. The total number of positive cases reported from Mysuru is 80, while the number for Bengaluru Urban is 89. Most cases in Mysuru district have been from Nanjangud, a cluster, with 66 cases alone linked to the pharma company, Jubilant Generics Ltd. In total, six positive cases were reported on Saturday, with five linked to the company. And the five cases are all secondary contacts of P-52. Eleven secondary contacts of P-52 tested positive on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-of-10-nanjangud-visitors-contacted/article31379641.ece
19 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||One more positive case each in Dharwad, Gadag||Dharwad and Gadag districts each recorded one more positive case of COVID-19 on Saturday. Both are secondary contacts of other positive cases. While a 63-year-old male patient from Hubballi in Dharwad district is the secondary contact of P-236, a 42-year-old male from Gadag is the secondary contact of P-304. With Saturday’s figures, the number of cases in Gadag has risen to three and there has been one death in the district. In Dharwad district, the number of cases is now seven, with one person already discharged. Meanwhile, the worries of the Dharwad district administration have apparently increased after the person who tested positive had come into contact with many others and had even distributed food kits in many localities. An inquiry has revealed that the 63-year-old man [P-363], who works as a watchman of a graveyard, had also distributed food kits along with P-236 in the areas of Kalammana Agasi to Dakappa Circle in Mullana Oni locality of Hubballi in Dharwad district. A resident of Karadi Oni near Kamaripet locality, P-363 also distributed food kits in Kamaripet area and Anand Nagar loclity on March 27. Consequently, the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad, Deepa M., has made an appeal to the public to visit the nearest govenment hospitals to get themselves tested in case they came into contact with the man. As the man worked at the graveyard, there was a possibility of those, who had visited the graveyard from March 20 till date, of contracting the disease. Those who had come in contact of him are also likely to get the infection. Such people should call the helpline 1077 or visit the nearest hospital, Ms. Deepa said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-more-positive-case-each-in-dharwad-gadag/article31379771.ece
19 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Shettar inspects mobile fever clinic||A mobile fever clinic, which is ready for commissioning, was inspected by Minister for Large and Medium Industries and District in charge Jagadish Shettar on Saturday. The North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) has converted one of its buses into the clinic and has create a consultation space for a doctor, space for a nurse, and a testing area. As the patients enter the clinic, sanitisers are kept for their use and there is also a washbasin for them. The Minister later visited the Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid System (HD-BRTS) control room, to which all surveillance cameras in the twin cities have been connected. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Shettar said that the bus had been converted into a mini hospital by the NWKRTC staff and the clinic will visit various localities in the containment areas of Hubballi. The staff of the clinic will also screen people in the containment area and will give medicines for normal maladies. “In case it is found that the patients need further medical care, they will be shifted to KIMS hospital. Routine checkups will also be conducted in the fever clinic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shettar-inspects-mobile-fever-clinic/article31379780.ece
19 April 2020||K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj,KARNATAKA||Salary for April: Garment, security services severely hit||Garment workers and people employed in security services have been badly hit by the extension of the lockdown. Most of them lead a hand-to-mouth existence and many say that they have not received their salaries. Nearly 4.5 lakh people - mostly women - work in garment factories where they are employed on a contract and are usually paid only for the days they report to work. Violating a Labour Department directive that made paying the full salary of March mandatory, several factories have treated March 25-31, when the factories were closed due to a national lockdown as earned leave of the employees for the year, while a handful of factories even deducted pay for these days, said K.R. Jayaram of Garments and Textiles Workers Union (GATWU). “Most of the garment factories while paying salaries for March, orally told workers not to expect any pay for April if the factories do not open again. This is going to be disastrous,” he added. Rajamma, a garment worker from Kengeri, says she’s better off than many of her colleagues as she has a BPL card which she uses to get ration. “But I will have to pay rent and other bills including medical expenses. I am the breadwinner in my family. A month without salary will push me into debt that will take over a year to come out of,” she said. GATWU is affiliated with IndustriAll Global Union, a global union of trade unions based out of Copenhagen, which has taken up a global campaign for garment workers. “The principal employer of garment workers are apparel brands. In times of crisis like these, the apparel brands need to share responsibility. Through IndustriAll Global Union, we are lobbying with the apparel brands which get their apparel produced in Bengaluru to reach out to us,” Mr. Jayaram said. “But the brands are not responding positively. Most of them have suspended even orders they had already placed,” he said. GATWU is also lobbying with the State government to ensure all garment workers are paid full wages.  Security guards Security guards are deemed an essential service and most of them are indeed working. However, nearly a lakh guards of the estimated four lakh have been told not to report to work. “Deployment at commercial establishments like factories, tech parks and malls has reduced by half. Many firms have expressed that they were already reeling under losses and they cannot pay for those not deployed on their premises. Negotiations are on with them. The security firms are also trying their best to pay by availing loans,” said Flt. Lt. Nagesh, a mentor with Karnataka Security Services Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/salary-for-april-garment-security-services-severely-hit/article31379609.ece
19 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||DC inspects containment zones in Chittapur, Wadi||A day after 20 people were booked for the violating COVID-19 lockdown and participating in the Siddalingeshwar temple annual car festival at Rawoor village in Chittapur taluk of Kalaburagi district, Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat on Saturday visited the village to inspect the lockdown situation and safety measures taken up at containment zones in the village. A case has been registered at Wadi police station against 20 persons for organising the car festival and also against 200 people who took part. Mr. Sharat also inspected the lockdown situation and the containment area established in various wards in Wadi, where a two-year-old boy tested positive for COVID-19 on April 12. Zilla panchayat CEO P. Raja was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-inspects-containment-zones-in-chittapur-wadi/article31379773.ece
19 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Mangaluru TP president booked for violating rules||The Chikkamagaluru police have filed a case against Mohammed Monu, president, Mangaluru Taluk Panchayat, Dakshina Kannada, for using his official vehicle to drop a five-year-old boy from Mangaluru to the boy’s parents’ house in Banakal, near Moodigere in Chikkamagaluru district, on April 14 violating the lockdown. The driver, Hanif alias Mohammed, and two others have also been booked at Banakal police station on Thursday. The vehicle was seized on Friday. R. Selvamani, CEO, Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat, served a show-cause notice to the executive officer of Mangaluru Taluk Panchayat.  A Chikkamagaluru police release said that vehicle with Mr. Monu and three others did not stop at Kottigehara checkpost in Chikkamagaluru district. Mr. Monu told The Hindu on Saturday that the boy had accompanied his grandmother to the latter’s house in Adyar on the outskirts of Mangaluru a month ago. “The boy was missing his parents. When relatives approached me, I assured them of dropping the boy on April 14 as the first phase of lockdown was supposed to end,” he said, adding that he travelled with the boy, the boy’s relative and a friend in the morning. Initially, the boy’s parents had said that they would come to Charmadi checkpost in Dakshina Kannada to pick up the child. “As they did not come, we proceeded to Chikkamagaluru district.” Mr. Monu denied that the vehicle did not stop at Kottigehara checkpost. “Police checked and allowed it to proceed to Banakal,” he said. Mr. Selvamani said that he has sought details of the vehicle logbook, driver and allotment. “Action will be taken based on the reply.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangaluru-tp-president-booked-for-violating-rules/article31379782.ece
19 April 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Forest watcher found dead in Nagarahole National Park||A forest watcher who was part of an operation to drive an elephant herd back into the jungle was found dead in a water tank in Veeranahosahalli range of Nagarahole National Park on Friday. The victim was identified as Mahadev Naik, 48, of G.M. Halli in H.D. Kote taluk. The operations began on Thursday night and the herd, consisting of eight to 10 elephants, was being driven back into the forest. This is a routine exercise for forest guards and watchers, and there is a squad exclusively to chase elephants back into the jungle when they stray into human landscape and villages on the forest periphery. But during the operation, the elephant herd turned around and charged at the guards, who had to run helter-skelter and disperse. When the group reassembled, Naik was missing. The others tried to trace him but gave up as it was dark. A search operation was launched on Friday morning and forest personnel discovered his body in Gurugalakere tank, bordering a village and the forest. Deputy Conservator of Forests Mahesh Kumar said it is suspected that the guard may have run into the waterbody in panic as there were elephant footprints on the periphery of the lake. The autopsy report indicates death by drowning, but the police have launched an investigation, the officer said. A cheque for Rs. 1 lakh has been released to the family members of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/forest-watcher-found-dead-in-nagarahole-national-park/article31379625.ece
19 April 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Home delivery of medicines||People in Chamarajanagar need not venture out to pharmaceutical shops for their prescribed medicines. The district administration has initiated the concept of Aushadi Mitra to ensure home delivery of prescription medicines. This was launched by Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi on Saturday in a bid to curb crowding that takes place at pharmaceutical shops and poses a threat to public health and could abet the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/home-delivery-of-medicines/article31379617.ece
19 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Delhi COVID-19 patients get CFTRI’s protein-rich biscuits||COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi have been fed with high-protein biscuits whose recipe was developed at the Mysuru-based CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI). The institute supplied 500 kg of high-protein biscuits and 500 kg of high-protein rusks to the Department of Dietetics of the AIIMS following an appeal from the AIIMS management for the nourishment of patients. CSIR-CFTRI director K.S.M.S. Raghavarao said the biscuits contain 14% of protein while normal biscuits contain around 8 to 9%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delhi-covid-19-patients-get-cftris-protein-rich-biscuits/article31379626.ece
19 April 2020||R. Krishna Kumar,KARNATAKA||Campus recruitment: Companies promise to honour offers made||Engineering students who were recruited on campus are bracing for uncertain times owing to the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak. There are concerns that gloomy projections for the economy and contraction of the industrial sector as a result of the lockdown, accompanied by business losses and shrinking revenue, may force some of the companies to shelve their recruitment plans. Students are worried that delays in final examinations will impact placements. Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) has requested companies that have recruited their students to defer their joining dates by a couple of weeks, as it is uncertain whether it will be able to announce exam results in July. Karisiddappa, Vice-Chancellor, VTU, said that as per the original calendar, the academic year is scheduled to end on June 1. “Our examination is supposed to commence in June and the results are to be given in July. But based on the situation we will take a call on when we can conduct it,” he said. Many autonomous engineering colleges are also in the same boat. Pradeepa S., placement officer at BMS College of Engineering, said that they are in touch with the companies and are keeping them updated about the calendar of events. “Companies are not committing to joining dates and want to take a call based on the situation. But we feel that the examination and the cascading effect on the joining date will not be delayed by more than two weeks,” she said.  But there is a proverbial silver lining as some of the leading companies and mass recruiters such as Infosys have stated that they will honour the job offers already made. Prof. B. Sadashive Gowda, principal, Vidyavardhaka College of Engineering in Mysuru, said: “Naturally, some of the students are anxious about whether the job offers will be honoured as there are reports of the companies rescinding or putting offers on hold,” he said. But in case of IT majors and mass recruiters, students and institutions have already received letters of assurance about honouring the job offers made to the candidates. Infosys announced that the company was working on the joining dates for all candidates selected during campus recruitment. Similar assurance letters are in the offing from other major and established companies too, said Prof. Sadashive Gowda. According to Pradeep Manjunath, who heads the Training and Placement Cell at Sri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering (SJCE) in Mysuru, even manufacturing industries and financial institutions like banks have assured them that they will honour the offers, though they may stagger joining dates of new recruits “Near 180 companies visited the SJCE campus this academic year for recruitment and more than 650 out of 750 students received job offers. They have reassured us that offers made will not be rescinded,” he said.  VTU has decided to conduct a crash course for students who are unable to attend online classes. Mr. Karisiddappa said lecturers have been asked to send the study material to students via email or social messaging platforms. The average attendance rate stands at around 70%, though it is lower in rural areas where Internet connectivity is not good.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campus-recruitment-companies-promise-to-honour-offers-made/article31379613.ece
19 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Sindhanur, Manvi blocked||Intensifying additional steps, the Police Department put up barricades in Sindhanur and Manvi town of Raichur district preventing entry of people. C.B. Vedamurthy, Superintendent of Police, inspected the spots on Saturday. He asked police officers to ensure that the guidelines issued by the State government to curb COVID-19 were strictly implemented and those violating norms are booked. The department has blocked 64 points, including approach roads. Raichur district has not registered any positive case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sindhanur-manvi-blocked/article31379774.ece
19 April 2020||Sharath S. Srivatsa,KARNATAKA||For firms, PM CARES a bigger draw than CMRF||The State government, which is trying to raise money for COVID-19 relief efforts through corporate and individual contributions, seems to be experiencing some trouble in attracting funds to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF). The announcement from the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) that any contribution to the newly formed PM CARES fund would be treated as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) contribution may have deterred corporates from donating to the CMRF, which brings them no such relief, a top official told The Hindu . “The COVID relief fund (in CMRF) does not qualify under CSR contributions as per the MCA guidelines. This may be a setback,” the official acknowledged, adding that it was “illogical” to have one fund qualify but not the other. Three major Bengaluru-based PSUs together have contributed about Rs. 54 crore to PM CARES. Several companies based in Karnataka have made their CSR contribution as well as a general contribution to PM CARES. Despite the hiccup, government sources said the contributions to CMRF from various sources had crossed Rs. 150 crore by Saturday since March 25.  Interestingly, while Mr. Yediyurappa announced that he would contribute a year’s salary to CMRF, Governor Vajubhai Vala announced a contribution of 30% of monthly emoluments to PM CARES. As many as 25 BJP MPs and one independent MP elected from the State, heeding to a call from BJP national president J.P. Nadda, have contributed Rs. 1 crore each to PM CARES from their MP Local Area Development Scheme funds of 2019-20. Government sources said that various departments that deal with corporates, such as Commerce and Industry, were in talks with private firms for making COVID-19-related contributions in cash or kind. The State government-managed PSUs are alsobeing encouraged to contribute to the fund. When asked if the contributions to PM CARES had affected local corporate funding to CMRF, Additional Chief Secretary (Energy) Mahendra Jain, who heads the committee for coordinating the response from NGOs and corporates, said, “There is no conflict of interest as the fund is to be used for COVID-19 aid, whether it is donated to PM CARES or CMRF. Some have given funds to the State fund and some others for the Centre, while some have donated to both.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-firms-pm-cares-a-bigger-draw-than-cmrf/article31379638.ece
19 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Good Samaritans feed monkeys and fish||Animals at tourist spots in Shivamogga district, which have changed their dietary habits because of their constant interaction with visitors, are being offered food during the lockdown by some Good Samaritans. Over six lakh tourists visit Jog Falls every year to watch the Sharavathi plunge from a height of 830 feet. There are around 80 monkeys in the vicinity of the viewpoint. Normally, tourists offer them the food they bring from home and snacks purchased from nearby. Shankar, a worker serving with the Jog Development Authority, told The Hindu that as these monkeys are accustomed to the food consumed by humans, they are reluctant to eat the fresh fruits available in plenty in the forest. “When the lockdown was enforced, Jog was closed for tourists and we found that the monkeys were starving,” he said. Mr. Shankar, with the help of Ramesh, another person working with the authority, collects food from households and a few shopkeepers in Jog-Kargal Town Panchayat limits to feed the monkeys twice a day. Meanwhile, the three-km stretch of Tunga river near Chibbalagudde that hosts 27 varieties of fish has been declared a fish sanctuary by the State government. The fish here have developed a fondness for dry puffed rice, curd rice and other food offered by pilgrims who visit the Siddhi Vinayaka temple on the river bank. Members of Samaana Manaska Geleyara Balaga, a forum of youngsters engaged in social service in Tirthahalli town, have made arrangements to ensure that the fish get this kind of food regularly. They have have donated rice and puffed rice and requested the family of the temple priest to feed the fish, said Soppugudde Raghavendra, a forum member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-samaritans-feed-monkeys-and-fish/article31379636.ece
19 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||‘Continue liquor ban’||The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) has demanded the State government continue the prohibition on liquor sale during lockdown. A delegation of KRRS leaders comprising S. Shivamurthy, E.B. Jagadeesh, Hittur Raju, and Gurushanth submitted a memorandum to the State government through the office of the Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner on Saturday. Mr. Shivamurthy said it had come to the notice of KRRS that there was pressure on the government from various quarters for withdrawal of the ban. Welcoming the prevailing prohibition, he said this had succeeded in weaning many addicts. He said liquor addiction had pushed many low-income group families, including that of small farmers and agriculture labours, to financial distress. Social distancing would not be possible if liquor outlets are allowed to function. Considering these factors, the ban should continue, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/continue-liquor-ban/article31379776.ece
19 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||31 arrested for violating lockdown||As many 31 persons have been arrested, 1,283 vehicles seized, and Rs. 7.71 lakh collected so far for violating lockdown guidelines in Yadgir district, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has said. Addressing a press conference in Yadgir on Saturday, Mr. Rao said that immediately after lockdown was announced, the district administration and Police Department had set up checkposts at 16 points across the district and deployed officials and police personnel to inspect vehicles. He said 20 labourers, who were suspected to be primary contacts of a positive case in Bengaluru, and five members who participated in the religious event in Delhi had tested negative. “Reports of 16 people are awaited.They are under quarantine, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/31-arrested-for-violating-lockdown/article31379777.ece
19 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Need for vigil even after April 20, says Minister||Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has called for maintaining high vigil even after the partial relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions in the district from April 20. He was speaking at a COVID-19 review meeting at the District Collectorate here on Saturday. The Minister said the district was included in the Orange B category. “Without understanding the severity of the problem, people are unnecessarily venturing out. This should be curbed. Those going out should take precautionary measures, wear masks, and maintain social distancing,” Mr. Sudhakaran said. The Minister congratulated Health Department officials in the district for their exemplary work during COVID-19. “No contacts of the positive cases have contracted the disease so far in Alappuzha. There is also no community outbreak of the disease in the district,” the Minister said. Those above 60 Mr. Sudhakaran said steps had been taken to collect details of people above the age of 60. This, according to him, would help to implement reverse quarantine if needed. “So far, details of 2,43,617 people have been collected. Among them, 31, 841 people have health issues,” he said. Meanwhile, no fresh case of the disease was reported in the district on Saturday. The district has so far witnessed five COVID-19 cases. While three persons have been cured of the disease, two remain under treatment. Officials said 646 people completed their mandatory quarantine period. Seventy seven persons were put in home quarantine, taking the total number under quarantine to 4,767. The number of people in hospitals with symptoms of the disease stood at six. District Collector M. Anjana, District Police Chief James Joseph, and various department heads were present at the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/need-for-vigil-even-after-april-20-says-minister/article31379881.ece
19 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Curbs on inter-district travel remain||Though Idukki and Kottayam come under the green zone for relaxation of lockdown restrictions, the districts will be considered as separate zones. There will be curbs on inter-district travel and the directives of the Centre will be observed, according to official sources. An official at the collectorate said on Saturday that measures would be in place to check the spread of the disease once curbs were eased from April 20. The categorisation of zones was on the basis of reports on the performance of the district to prevent COVID-19, which is still a threat, and the pubic should adopt all safeguards, he added.  There would be no passes required for travelling within the district and hotels and eateries would function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-on-inter-district-travel-remain/article31379879.ece
19 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Cats died of viral disease in Wayanad||The recent deaths of stray cats in Wayanad was due to feline infectious enteritis, a disease caused by feline parvovirus, also known as feline panleukopenia virus, Sisy Philip, district animal husbandry officer, has said. The State Institute for Animal Diseases in Thiruvananthapuram confirmed this on Saturday, she said. An investigation team of the animal disease control unit in the district visited the affected areas at Mananthavady and Meppadi a few days ago and collected samples from carcasses.  As many as 20 stray cats were found dead in a week. However, the disease was not a zoonosis and could be kept at bay by vaccinating animals on time, Dr. Philip said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cats-died-of-viral-disease-in-wayanad/article31379871.ece
19 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Periyar turns black as Pathalam shutters open||A number of instances in the past few weeks of sections of the Periyar river turning black near the Pathalam bund have left residents worried, while officials of the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) maintain that the colour has nothing to do with discharge of chemical waste from industries in the Eloor-Edayar region. Shaji K., an Eloor resident who fishes frequently in the Periyar, said the water had turned black after the shutters of the bund were opened on Friday and Saturday. “By tomorrow morning, fish in the river will be dead,” he added. Zakeer Hussain, member of Periyar Malineekarana Virudha Samiti, alleged that industries in the area had been using the lockdown and the consequent preoccupation of officials with COVID-19-related matters to release piled-up waste into the river. Several such instances of water near the Pathalam bund turning black had been brought to the KSPCB’s notice since the last week of March, said P.B. Sreelakshmi, Environmental Engineer, KSPCB Environment Surveillance Centre, Eloor. “This is an issue we face every summer. The flow of water in the river has reduced drastically, leading to water stagnation and low quality of water near the shutters of the bund,” she added. All industries in the area were shut during the lockdown and have only resumed minor operations since Friday, she said. “In a situation when industries are closed, the colour cannot be attributed to chemical contamination. Our tests have found that the organic load in the water is high, which means that waste like sewage or domestic waste coming from upstream and collecting at the bund is high, resulting in the colour,” Ms. Sreelakshmi explained. Anaerobic action on waste also results in foul smell emanating from the river when the shutters are opened, she added. “The shutters will have to be opened up more frequently to maintain the natural environmental flow of the river and deal with the issue of stagnation and prevent fish deaths,” she said. The shutters of the bund were being opened once a week so far. “The Irrigation Department had recently decided that shutters would now be opened once in three days to improve the flow of water,” said Koshy P.S., Executive Engineer, Major Irrigation Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/periyar-turns-black-as-pathalam-shutters-open/article31379841.ece
19 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Memorabilia for life during pandemic||From the time he began making handicrafts nearly two years ago, P.K. Soman, a 66-year-old artisan from Panachiyam near Perumbavoor, has never made anything that resonated as much with the times as his latest creation on COVID-19. It was the pain of watching incessant reportage on the trail of destruction left by the virus that inspired his craft using coconut shell. Thus was finished an ensemble of objects, including the virus sprouting red needles, a cop in face mask, a couple of open palms under a sanitiser, folded palms under a tap, stethoscope, and a clothesline dotted with face masks. “The virus was created as being caged, to convey how deadly it can be if let loose, with the cop spotting a gun which is supposed to prevent its spread. The stethoscope was in honour of the selfless work being done by medical and health workers,” said Soman. He wants to preserve it as memorabilia of life during the pandemic and has hence chosen not to sell it like his other works. Gifting it to a doctor or a nurse was considered, but it was ruled out for fear that it may not be preserved for long. Soman now harbours the hope of gifting it to the Health Minister some day, which, he feels, will be a fitting gesture considering her able leadership during the crisis. “My movements are restricted owing to a leg surgery in the past and hence cannot possibly go and meet her personally,” Soman said. Originally a mechanic, life turned tragic for the sexagenarian when he met with an accident four years ago, following which he was forced to change the profession. He turned to winding ceiling fans from home but found work scarce. It was then he developed a passion for handicrafts. And, he soon turned out to be skilled and prolific and has since then being supplying artefacts made of coconut shell to the Handicrafts Development Corporation of Kerala Ltd. “I am now hopeful of turning this into a livelihood,” said Soman who plans to make more pandemic-related crafts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/memorabilia-for-life-during-pandemic/article31379851.ece
19 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||KTM Society denies curbs on tourism||The Kerala Travel Mart (KTM) Society has denied reports that all tourism activity in Kerala has been banned till October-November this year in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. The State government has not come out with any such instruction, KTM Society president Baby Mathew Somatheeram said on Friday. “Certain quarters are spreading the propaganda by misinterpreting the positive suggestion made by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac that efforts to revive tourism in the State should start now itself. The Minister had noted that the experience of foreign tourists who were cured of COVID-19 in Kerala would boost the State’s tourism prospects,” he said. The situation in Kerala was expected to normalise by the end of the second phase of the lockdown. The State is making all preparations to receive tourists once the country becomes COVID-free. Kerala Tourism is drawing up plans to attract domestic tourists in a big way, Mr. Mathew added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktm-society-denies-curbs-on-tourism/article31379920.ece
19 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||No fee hike in CBSE schools next year||The Kerala CBSE School Managements Association and Council of CBSE Schools Kerala have decided not to hike fee in the new academic year in view of the COVID-19 situation. The decision comes in the wake of a looming financial crisis due to the pandemic. “We have also taken a policy decision not to collect any special fee. Schools will not insist on purchasing new sets of uniforms,” said T.P.M. Ibrahim Khan, president, Kerala CBSE School Managements Association, on Saturday. Indira Rajan, chief patron, Council of CBSE Schools Kerala, said the body would strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the Central Board of Secondary Education on fee collection or any other issues related to the functioning of schools. “There will be no fee hike as suggested by the board in the new academic year,” she said. In a circular on Friday, the board had requested the State governments to examine the issue of lump sum payment of school fee and teachers’ salaries sensitively considering the interest of all stakeholders. Fee shall be charged under the heads prescribed by the Department of Education of State/Union Territories. Admission fee and fee under any other head are to be charged only as per the regulations of the appropriate government. Interest-free loan On the State government’s directive not to collect any fee in this lockdown period, Mr. Khan said the managements were not able to collect the last term fee as most schools were closed since early March. The government can initiate a scheme to provide an interest-free loan or to withdraw its decision not to permit fee collection, he said. Ms. Rajan said the authorities should permit willing parents to pay fee electronically as it will help the managements to pay the salary of the staff and meet other requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-fee-hike-in-cbse-schools-next-year/article31379861.ece
19 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||BPCL to ensure fuel supply||Bharat Petroleum Corporation’s Kochi refinery has put in place operational plans to ensure optimum supply of fuel as market volatility continues amid the lockdown. New work protocols had ensured continuous and optimum production of fuel, including cooking gas, for Kerala and parts of its neighbouring States, said Murali Madhavan, executive director of the refinery, in a press release. He said 280 employees worked in each of the 12-hour shifts instead of the normal eight-hour shifts. “They are unsung heroes ensuring fuel supplies,” he said. The Kochi refinery has also put in place work protocols to safeguard the health of its employees and contract workers. Project implementation work has been stopped for the time being.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bpcl-to-ensure-fuel-supply/article31379839.ece
19 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Techies air their concerns||Progressive Techies (PT), a combine of Information Technology employees in the State, has written to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, airing their concerns and challenges facing the IT sector in the wake of the pandemic. In a ten-point charter, PT urged the IT Department to avoid job loss owing to the impact of the COVID-19 on businesses in the next few months at least. It recommended the setting up of a committee comprising IT experts, economists, employers, and employee representatives to analyse post-COVID trends and concerns and urged the government to formulate actions plans based on the findings. A helpline exclusively for IT employees has been suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/techies-air-their-concerns/article31379852.ece
19 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Restrictions to continue even after lifting of lockdown||Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunil Kumar said on Saturday that restrictions would continue in Ernakulam even after lockdown. Reports that life will soon return to normality in the district are not correct. Relaxations will be allowed only in accordance with the guidelines of the Central and State governments. There will be restrictions on inter-district travel and public transport, said an official release quoting the Minister. Hot spot He said Chullikkal in Mattancherry had been categorised as a hot spot. Relaxations after the lockdown at Chullikkal will be considered after making proper assessment, he added. Call for checks Mr. Sunil Kumar also called for stringent measures to arrest the possible spread of other diseases in the district. Around 2,000 health workers have expressed willingness to be part of activities to stop the spread of diseases. Also, steps have been taken to address medicine shortage, he said. With the discharge of two patients, the number of COVID-19 patients under treatment will come down to three. Surveillance Only 378 persons are under surveillance in the district as on Saturday. Steps will be taken to expand the scope of tele-medicine services in Ernakulam, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-to-continue-even-after-lifting-of-lockdown/article31379853.ece
19 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Residents relieved as monkeys go back to woods||Giving a positive twist to the lockdown, hundreds of monkeys that used to throng the Thenmala-Kulathupuzha road and nearby areas have retreated to the nearby forest offering the farmers a respite from their menace. With the popular tourism destination switching to lockdown mode, the monkey troops started slowly disappearing from the premises, mainly owing to the lack of food. According to residents, while wild animals are still seen exploring empty streets, there has been a considerable dip in the number of monkeys, that too at a time when they were expecting the worst. “They used to raid our farms and houses for food, leaving all fruit-bearing trees completely ravaged. In the initial days of the lockdown, we expected the monkey menace to peak and this time we were overly worried owing to the monkey fever reports. Sometimes they arrive in large groups, destroying the crops and attacking people. I would not say they have completely vanished, but now there are no regular incidents and we are greatly relieved,” says Sheena, a homemaker from Kulathupuzha. The monkeys were mainly dependent on the food scraps offered by tourists and other leftovers, but of late there had been none. During the lockdown some voluntary organisations came forward offering food, but the forest authorities discouraged them, slowly driving the monkeys back to where they belong. “It is one main change we noticed during lockdown,” says B. Sajeev Kumar, Wildlife Warden, Shendurney Wildlife Sanctuary. During the pre-lockdown days, motorists could spot several troops on the Thenmala-Kulathupuzha road, all of them fed by tourists and passers-by. “As of now, we cannot say that they will not return as they have developed this habit of getting fed by tourists. But it’s better for both monkeys and the farmers if they remained in the forest,” he adds. Attempts in vain Over the years, farmers have tried several methods to stop the monkey menace, but a 24-day lockdown seems to have done the trick. “Our grama panchayat comes in the forest area with an excessive presence of monkeys in several parts. We had many of them living on the premises of our panchayat office, but currently more than 50% of them have gone back to the forest. Earlier, many houses could not keep their doors or windows open because of the threat and now the situation has changed at least in some parts,” says R. Lailaja, president, Thenmala grama panchayat. She adds that it is not just monkey menace the villagers are facing since all kinds of wild animals frequent the place. “Domestic animals go missing from the village and even last week there was an incident. Apart from monkeys, it is wild boars and giant squirrels that cause maximum damage to the crops,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-relieved-as-monkeys-go-back-to-woods/article31379883.ece
19 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Restrictions to be eased in Kottayam||A meeting convened by Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman here on Saturday decided on the easing of the lockdown restrictions in Kottayam, which is classified as a Green zone for the COVID-19 outbreak. The relaxations on restrictions, finalised in consultations with District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu, District Police Chief G Jayadev and various department heads, will come into effect on April 21. As per it, all government offices in the district will function normally from April 21. In view of the strict restrictions on inter-district travel, employees from other districts who work in Kottayam should stay within the district's limits. In quarantine Employees from Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram districts, which together have been classified as the Red zone, will have to remain in quarantine for 14 days when they reach Kottayam. These 14 days will be regarded as part of their duty. Infrared thermometers will be provided to check the body temperature of employees at major offices. Inter-State and inter-district travels are prohibited and special permission should be sought in case of emergency. No special permit or pass is required to travel within the district. A maximum of two adults in addition to the driver and two children under the age of 15 are permitted to travel in private vehicles. Educational institutions, student hostels, training centres will continue to remain closed. Other accommodation facilities, including working women’s hostels, are permitted. Not more than 20 persons will be permitted in ceremonies related to marriage or funeral service. The ban on opening of religious shrines and gatherings too will continue. Movie theatres, malls, shopping complexes, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, parks, bars and auditoriums will remain shut. Concessions will be permitted to all activities relating to farming and agriculture while factories and industrial units are also permitted to work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-to-be-eased-in-kottayam/article31379886.ece
19 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Amid lockdown, a heart transplant at Kottayam MCH||At a time when health-care workers across the country are donning protective gear to deal with the COVID-19 crisis, a team of medical staff at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) in Kottayam, a designated COVID care centre, on Saturday suited up to deliver a different, yet complex, treatment.  Three-hour surgery In a surgery that lasted about three hours, a team led by T.K. Jayakumar, head of the Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, transplanted the heart of Sreekumar, 50, a native of Kallambalam in Thiruvananthapuram, into K.C. Jose, 62, from Thellakam, near here. Mr. Jose, a sawmill worker, was under treatment at the hospital here for about a year. “The heart, received from KIMS Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram under the Mrithasanjeevani scheme, was brought here by 5.15 a.m. and the surgery was over by 8.30 a.m. The patient remains stable and he will be under observation for a couple of weeks,” said Dr. Jayakumar. According to him, Mr. Jose had been waiting for a matching donor for more than six months.  Two-hour trip The MCH authorities were informed about a matching heart on Friday morning. A team led by Dr. Jayakumar rushed to the capital city and completed the medical check-up. The donor’s heart was brought to the MCH in around two hours with police support. The medical kit required for the surgery was brought from Ernakulam with the support of the Fire and Rescue Services. Sreekumar, the donor, had met with an accident and was declared brain dead. His relatives agreed to donate his organs, including heart, liver and two kidneys. The transplant surgery on Saturday was the sixth such to be performed at the hospital. “Despite being a designated COVID-19 care centre, we have been attending to all critical non-COVID cases, including heart and kidney failures, during this period,” added Dr. Jayakumar Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said organ donation had come to a halt across the world with the COVID-19 crisis deepening. The State, however, could perform it successfully as it had reined in the viral outbreak. The first heart transplant in a government hospital in the State was performed here on September 16, 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amid-lockdown-a-heart-transplant-at-kottayam-mch/article31379865.ece
19 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hurdles in the way of immunisation drive||The plan to resume children’s immunisation programme from next week is likely to hit practical hurdles, Health Department staff say. The decision to restart immunisation sessions follows a go-ahead from the expert committee on COVID-19 control and the State Technical Advisory Group. All the sessions, except birth dose, normally held on Wednesdays were withheld soon after the lockdown came into force. It is presumed that children are at less risk to get vaccine-preventable diseases because they are at home and their family members are also not in contact with others. However, in view of the extension of the lockdown, it is pointed out that if the immunisation is not resumed, there can be a large number of inadequately immunised children who may get exposed to diseases after the lifting of the restrictions. Experts are of the view that “there is a risk of increase in the occurrence of vaccine-preventable diseases.” So, the Health Department staff have been asked to restart the programme and rope in private hospitals too for the purpose. However, a section of the staff point out that it would be difficult to implement some of the guidelines devised by the experts. Advance list Junior Public Health Nurses and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) have been asked to prepare a line list of un-immunised and partially immunised children and inform parents about the date, time, and place of the immunisation session well in advance. Break the Chain instructions such as handwashing and social distancing norms should be observed. There should be no overcrowding at the immunisation site. There should be separate exit and entrance for those coming for the drive. In hospitals, they should be provided an area away from the outpatient and inpatients sections. The immunisation days should be increased to avoid overcrowding. Only one bystander should be allowed with the child. It has been claimed that most of the primary health centres (PHC) in rural areas might not have the provision to install a separate exit and entrance as they lack the facilities to do so. A large number of parents are likely to throng the PHCs as the immunisation campaign has been put on hold for over four weeks. It would be difficult to adhere to the declared timing of immunisation. The decision to involve private hospitals could be problematic as the staff there might not be trained to take up the job. If they mess up the vaccination, it would impact the whole exercise, said an official.  Most PHCs in rural areas may not have the provision to install a separate exit and entrance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hurdles-in-the-way-of-immunisation-drive/article31379863.ece
19 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Crackdown on misuse of goods carriers intensified||Inspection of inter-State trucks and other goods carriers has been intensified along district borders after some drivers attempted to illegally transport people in violation of lockdown norms. Vehicles used for such illegal travel will be impounded and the drivers and travellers booked. With Kozhikode classified as red zone and put on high alert to control the spread of COVID-19, patrol squads have been asked to block all inter-district operations of private vehicles other than those with special permits. Though goods carriers have been allowed to operate with special permits from the district-level travel facilitation committee, the trips will be terminated midway in case illegal activities are noticed. Hitchhiking an offence The police and Motor Vehicles Department squads will also examine the storage area of trucks to ensure compliance. Only a driver and cleaner will be allowed in goods vehicles. Facilitating hitchhiking  between States and districts will be considered an offence during the lockdown period. The misuse of emergency service vehicles such as ambulance for transportation purposes has also come to the notice of patrol squads. All emergency service vehicles will now be subjected to checks by highway squads. The misuse of stickers of media firms, hospitals, and other emergency service providers for unwanted travel too will be booked. The entry and exit of all vehicles through newly identified hotspots in the district will be closely monitored with the support of separate squads. Multiple points of entry and exit to such locations have been closed to facilitate stringent monitoring. Officials working with the district-level COVID-19 prevention unit say those who need to travel for medical reasons have to produce medical certificates from the medical officers concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crackdown-on-misuse-of-goods-carriers-intensified/article31379838.ece
19 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Developing green fingers during lockdown||Cooped up at homes during the lockdown, many may feel inclined to try their hand at farming, but would not know where to start. The Haritha Keralam Mission in Kozhikode has come up with a set of videos that may help such homestead farmers. The Mission has improvised the Haritha Samruddhi Ward project, which was being implemented in the State for quite some time by the Agriculture Department and local bodies, to suit the lockdown situation. “We realised people had a lot of time on their hands and found this the best opportunity to get them hooked to agriculture,” said Mission coordinator P. Prakashan, the man behind all the 10 videos, which when combined gives one a crash course in effective organic vegetable cultivation. There are videos on making grow bags, wick irrigation, organic manure, pesticides and fungicides. The videos are being shared on the Facebook page and YouTube channel of Haritha Keralam Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/developing-green-fingers-during-lockdown/article31379837.ece
19 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Octogenarian treated for COVID-19 dies in hospital||An 85-year-old man from the district who was being treated for COVID-19 at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Manjeri, died on Saturday morning. Health authorities claimed that he had been cured and that his death was not due to COVID-19. They said he suffered from multiple ailments and died of cardiac arrest. He had a normal burial at his place on Saturday. The octogenarian from Kariyamad, near Poonthanam, in Keezhattur grama panchayat was admitted to the MCH on April 2 after he was tested positive for COVID-19. He had been under treatment for heart ailment for some time now. The health authorities said he was found negative in the COVID-19 tests conducted on April 7, 10, and 13. Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel refused to count it as the third COVID-19 death in Kerala. In a medical bulletin released here on Saturday, the district authorities said the man had been shifted to a step-down ICU on April 11. He suffered severe chest pain and breathlessness on April 13 afternoon, and that he was found to have suffered a cardiac arrest in ECG and echo tests. He had an acute kidney injury in a test conducted on April 14. He was soon given ventilator support. Nephrologists from Government Medical College, Kozhikode, treated him with dialysis. After a slight improvement, he suffered severe fever on April 16 and was found to have urinary infection. He was diagnosed with septicemia and multi organ failure (MOF) syndrome on Friday. According to the medical bulletin, he breathed his last in the early hours of Saturday.  A riddle How he contracted COVID-19 continues to be a riddle for the health authorities. It was earlier suspected that he was infected from his son who had returned from Saudi Arabia after Umra pilgrimage in March. But the son was tested negative for COVID-19. A vigil has been sounded at Keezhattur and neighbouring panchayats as his son was found to have visited several places and taken part in several gatherings after his return from abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/octogenarian-treated-for-covid-19-dies-in-hospital/article31379862.ece
19 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new case reported in Pathanamthitta for sixth day||The number of home quarantined persons in Pathanamthitta came down to 2,858, with 1,179 persons completing their 28-day quarantine period on Saturday. No new case of COVID-19 has been reported from Pathanamthitta for the sixth consecutive day on Saturday. In isolation wards According to the medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu here on Saturday evening, a total of 14 persons, including six infected persons, are in the isolation wards of the Pathanamthitta General Hospital and the District Hospital in Kozhencherry. Home quarantine At present, only 223 persons who came from various foreign countries, 2,395 persons who came from various other States, and 220 primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons remain in home quarantine in different parts of the district. The surveillance teams of Health Department could identify no primary or secondary contacts of the infected persons on Saturday. Negative results The Collector said that clinical examination results of the 117 throat swab received from the Virology Laboratory in Alappuzha on Saturday were negative to COVID-19. He said that 67 more throat swab and blood samples had been sent to the Virology Laboratory on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-case-reported-in-pathanamthitta-for-sixth-day/article31379887.ece
19 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||University exams to resume on May 11||With the State largely assessed to have contained the COVID-19 spread, the government has instructed State universities to resume its academic activities. The remainder of the examinations will commence on May 11, while the valuation of answer sheets can be conducted by examiners in their homes from April 20 onwards. Within a week Instructions have been issued to complete the remaining examinations within a week from May 11. They will be required to provide sufficient notice to students. The examinations will be conducted in line with the safety precautions laid down by the Health Department to contain the spread of the infection. The universities have also been encouraged to explore the feasibility of adopting on-screen marking system to expedite the valuation process. The Director of the Institute of Human Resources Department has been directed to make presentations on the on-screen marking system that has been developed by the agency. The universities have also been urged to do away with the practice of false numbering and switch over to bar-coded answer sheets for examinations from next academic semester onwards. Laying the platform for future reforms, the government has advised the universities to conduct online classes and provide online assignments for students. They have been requested to partner with the Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) for conducting webinar and online classes for college students and massive open online courses (MOOC) for faculty on online learning and content development. ‘Keep libraries open’ The universities have been asked to keep their libraries open for research scholars and also undertake contact classes for students of distance education courses using digital means. With the government having charted the way forward to resume the academic year, the B. Ekbal-chaired committee has been entrusted with recommending reforms in pedagogy and the conduct of examinations and evaluation to tide over such situations in future.  Exams will be conducted by adhering to safety measures laid down by govt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/university-exams-to-resume-on-may-11/article31379860.ece
19 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Is antibody testing a misplaced priority for the State?||Kerala could be misplacing its priorities given the overemphasis on the proposed antibody testing amongst the State population while still going through the COVID-19 outbreak. The government had announced that it will be conducting “rapid” antibody tests in the community to identify possible community transmission of COVID-19 and for serosurveillance studies, to understand whether a section of the population has already been exposed to the virus covertly.  Severity levels COVID-19 appears as a mild disease in 80% cases. The manifestation is severe in the remaining 20%, of which 5% might require ICU care. Clinicians managing COVID-19 cases say early detection and management alone can reduce ICU admissions and mortality. “We have observed that the therapeutic window to nurse the patient back to health is available only in the first week of illness. After day 7 or 8, once dyspnoea sets in, the progression of the disease is fast and the patient might require ventilator support,” said R. Aravind, Head of Infectious Diseases, Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital. Improving early case detection is the key to reducing ICU admissions.  Definitive modality RT-PCR (Reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction) is the primary and definitive diagnostic modality which can help in detecting active infection. But in the second phase of the outbreak, the State did not use RT-PCR as vigorously as it should have. At present, even the available PCR kits are not being used enough. “PCR was used extensively for testing people who had returned from abroad and their contacts, which helped us quarantine people during their infectious period. As these numbers have dwindled, our aim should be to utilise PCR to test hospitalised Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI) cases from the community,” a senior public health professional said.  However, this priority seems to have been usurped by the idea that “rapid” antibody testing is the answer to community surveillance. A robust surveillance system for SARI within the health system will be more effective and consistent in picking up early warning signals of any silent community transmission. The expert committee, which is guiding the State government in devising strategies to combat COVID-19, has also been stressing on the importance of SARI surveillance and that PCR testing cannot be replaced by antibody testing.  One lakh tests The government has already issued orders that it will conduct one lakh antibody tests, among prioritised groups such as health-care workers, policemen, local body representatives, volunteers, and vulnerable groups. “In the middle of an outbreak, we should be looking for active cases of infection in the community so that they can be hospitalised/ quarantined, thus preventing a local transmission. Active infection, as evidenced by the presence of IgM antibodies in blood samples, can happen only after a week or more after the onset of symptoms. In the case of COVID-19, it is of little use, as by day 7 or 8, the patient would have developed breathlessness and be in hospital,” epidemiologists say. Except in the case of front line healthworkers in hospitals constantly exposed to infection, doing a sero surveillance study using rapid antibody test kits in the middle of an outbreak will only result in a waste of resources, they feel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/is-antibody-testing-a-misplaced-priority-for-the-state/article31379873.ece
19 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||6,999 km under Core Road Network||The Public Works Department (PWD) has brought 6,999.61 km of roads comprising State Highways (SHs), Major District Roads (MDRs), and RITES 2001 roads under the Core Road Network (CRN). The 394 roads shortlisted from the 14 districts, prioritised by the PWD Maintenance Wing, and notified in the CRN will get enhanced budgetary provisions, improved climate and disaster resilient standards, and performance-based maintenance contracting framework. After the floods In the wake of the unprecedented floods in 2018, the government has decided to build the roads sector reform around the CRN. Of the 6,999.61 km, 4,292.25 km come under State Highways, 2004.99 km are RITES 2001 roads, and the remaining MDRs. As much as 987.51 km of 17 roads that figure in the CRN is in Idukki district. As much as 959.22 km of SH roads in the CRN is also from Idukki. The lowest of 322.57 km in the CRN is from Kollam district (23 roads) and 322,95 km (19 roads) from Wayanad district. The CRN prioritisation has been based broadly on economic importance, connectivity to economic growth centres and strategically important corridors, traffic volume, share of commercial vehicles, public transport routes, disaster relief, and climatic resilience functionalities. The 6,999.61 km coming under the 394 roads have also been prioritised into I, II and III by the wing. As much as 4,293.25 km of the SHs come under Priority I, 2,004.99 km of RITES 2001 roads under Priority II, and the remaining MDRs under Priority III. The PWD Chief Engineers of Roads, Bridges and Maintenance have been asked by the government to ensure that priority is given to works on these roads, and enhanced climate and disaster risk resilience standards are maintained. Additional Chief Secretary (PWD) T.K. Jose has asked the Chief Engineer, Maintenance, to take steps to create a separate budget head for the CRN in 2020-21. Climate-resilient It has already been decided that the 5,000-odd km of roads, damaged in the deluge and to be developed under Rebuild Kerala with World Bank and German development bank aid, will be climate-resilient. Transport planners have found that 80% of the vehicular traffic move along 15% of the road network in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6999-km-under-core-road-network/article31379858.ece
19 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Banks back to normal hours||Banks will reinstate normal business hours, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., from Monday in select districts in the State. The decision, taken by the State Level Bankers' Committee (SLBC) here on Saturday, will be applicable to districts listed in categories Orange A, Orange B and Green for easing lockdown restrictions. Districts listed in the red category where complete lockdown has been advised till May 3 will continue to have banking hours from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, and Malappuram come on the list. At a videoconference attended by the State government, Reserve Bank of India, SLBC and National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), banks were asked to kickstart lending activities from Monday and ensure sufficient credit dispensation for farming activities and the priority sectors. In this scenario, banks have been asked to function with adequate staff, SLBC convener N. Ajit Krishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/banks-back-to-normal-hours/article31379868.ece
19 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Migrant labourers being enumerated||The Thiruvananthapuram City police have commenced enumerating migrant labourers accommodated in various camps here. Photo identity cards have been issued to 11,363 workers so far. According to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay, the details of the migrant population are being recorded from the 500-odd labour camps in the capital city. The efforts are being undertaken as part of the Janamaithri Suraksha scheme. Quarantined The district administration placed 140 people under quarantine on Saturday, while 484 people completed the 28-day isolation period. While 1,811 people are currently under surveillance as part of the COVID-19 containment efforts, as many as 1,644 are being monitored in their homes. Sixteen people have been admitted to hospitals with various symptoms, while an equal number was discharged on Saturday. There are now 113 people who are under isolation in various hospitals and 54 people in the Corona Care Centre in Mar Ivanios College hostel. Two people are receiving treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital and the SAT Hospital after being diagnosed with the infection. While 102 test samples were collected by the district authorities, 97 other samples came out negative. Inspection District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan conducted an inspection at the Poonthura fish market to ensure that social distancing norms were adhered to. A token system has been implemented in the market to prevent crowding. Auctions have been prohibited. The Collector will visit other market areas in the days to come. The district also received a consignment of 250 infra red non-contact thermometers, purchased using Rs. 22 lakh sanctioned by Shashi Tharoor, MP, under the MPLADS. The thermometers were handed over to District Medical Officer P.P. Preetha for deployment to various hospitals and the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport. The Thiruvananthapuram City police booked 128 people for violating lockdown norms and seized 98 vehicles. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 402 cases against 406 people and confiscated 312 vehicles. Continuing the drive against the sale of spurious liquor, the police arrested two people, identified as Karunakaran and Aravindan, with alleged possession of 40 litres of koda (undistilled spirit) and half-litre of arrack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-labourers-being-enumerated/article31379888.ece
19 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation announces pre-monsoon action plan||The city Corporation has announced an action plan for its pre-monsoon cleaning activities to prevent the spread of vector diseases. The action plan presented by Mayor K. Sreekumar chalks out the activities to be taken up over a month from April 20 to May 20. As part of this, meetings of ward-level sanitation committees will be held initially in all the wards. The activities to be taken up include cleaning of drains, source destruction of mosquitoes, cleaning up of waste dumps, and awareness campaigns. One volunteer will have the responsibility of 50 houses in source destruction activities. The public will be made aware of ensuring that no water is collected in the surroundings of their homes, inside coconut or egg shells, sun shades or bottles, and behind the fridge. Special focus will be given to cleaning up the surroundings of houses that are lying vacant. Larvae destruction activities will be carried out in unused wells. Sundays will be observed as dry days. An online system will be put in place for the volunteers to inform the Corporation of the activities completed in their respective areas. Awareness campaigns on prevention of vector diseases, COVID-19 and importance of dry day will be organised in government and private organisations, clubs, wedding halls, and markets with the help of NSS volunteers, Vyapari Vyavasai organisations, youth organisations, health workers, Kudumbashree and anganwadi workers. In public areas, source destruction activities and cleaning up using bleaching powder will be carried out. Waste accumulated in the city will be segregated. The city Corporation has already begun fogging activities in some wards to prevent the spread of vector diseases. Mass fogging will be carried out in areas from where such diseases are reported. Health inspectors have been provided Rs. 25,000 for taking up these activities. Also Rs. 1 crore has also been earmarked for pre-monsoon cleaning activities. Meeting The Mayor will chair an overview meeting on May 23 to assess the month-long activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-announces-pre-monsoon-action-plan/article31379890.ece
19 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NHAI toll collection to resume on April 20||The suspended FASTag-based toll collection in the Pambampallam, Ponnarimangalam, Paliyekkara and Kumbalam toll plazas in the State under the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will resume on April 20 in view of the relaxations announced by the Centre. The toll collection was suspended in the State on March 24 on the orders of Union Minister for Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari to ease the movement of the emergency services in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. An official communication from MoRTH to the NHAI to resume toll collection from Monday has been received in the State and it was formally communicated on Saturday to the District Collectors of Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad, whose jurisdiction the four toll plazas comes, official sources in the NHAI said. The communication from MoRTH has cited the relaxations provided by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs for the inter-State and intra-State movement of trucks and other goods and carrier vehicles, commercial and private establishments and construction activities and on the need for cash flow to the exchequer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nhai-toll-collection-from-monday/article31379859.ece
19 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||App for trading farm produce online||The Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (ICAR-CTCRI) at Sreekaryam here has developed an online marketing platform to help farmers and buyers during the COVID-19 lockdown. HOMS (Horticulture-crops Online Marketing System) can be operated using Malayalam or English. Registration could be done using the mobile number free of charge, says its developer V.S. Santhosh Mithra, Principal Scientist (Computer Application in Agriculture), CTCRI. “The seller can mention the quantity available for sale, items to be sold and location on HOMS. The buyer can upload the details in a similar manner. All such posted messages will be displayed on the market platform and everybody can see it,” Dr. Mithra said. The ICAR-CTCRI would have no liability in price fixation or delivery of the items or transaction-related issues, he said. HOMS is available athttp://www.ctcritools.in/homs. The android mobile app of HOMS can be downloaded from the official website of ICAR-CTCRI (http://www. ctcri.org/mobileApps/homs.apk). TOMS (Tuber Crops Online Marketing System), an online marketing system exclusively for tuber crops, is available at http://www.ctcritools.in/toms. Its android mobile app can be downloaded from http://www.ctcri.org/mobile Apps/toms.apk. Both these mobile apps would be available in Google Playstore shortly, Dr. Mithra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/app-for-trading-farm-produce-online/article31379877.ece
19 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bhumika to help women in crisis||The State’s Gender Based Violence Management Centre (GBVMC), also known as Bhoomika, has charted out a programme to reach out to women during the COVID-19 lockdown period. Dial 1056 The services of dedicated counsellors and support team can be accessed by those who need assistance by calling the helpline number 1056 of Disha (Direct Intervention for Health Awareness), a press note issued here on Saturday said. “We have 21 counsellors working in all districts in the State. Those who require our service can contact the counsellors through the helpline in all confidence,” said Seena K.M., Senior Consultant (Social Development).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bhumika-to-help-women-in-crisis/article31379921.ece
19 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No public transport in Kerala till May 3||Public transport services, including private buses, will remain suspended in the State during the lockdown till May 3. The government on Saturday night modified Section 13 (3) of the guidelines issued on April 17 to restrict public transport services till May 3. On Friday, the government permitted operation of buses for short-distance travel within the city or town up to 60 km subject to social distancing from April 20 when the relaxed norms will come into effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-public-transport-in-kerala-till-may-3/article31379854.ece
19 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Woman hurt in acid attack: one arrested||A 39-year-old woman was injured in an acid attack at Mangalapuram on the outskirts of the city during the wee hours of Saturday. Sasikala of Karamoodu, a sanitation worker at Technopark, was injured. Vineesh, 34, of Koithoorkonam, who is suspected to have had an affair with the victim, was arrested. The accused smashed a window and hurled acid on Sasikala who was sleeping alone in a room in her house at 3 a.m. Her mother and son were sleeping in another room. She has been admitted to the ICU at the Government Medical College Hospital here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-hurt-in-acid-attack-one-arrested/article31379889.ece
19 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Aid sought for workers in various sectors||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has urged the government to provide financial assistance for workers in various sectors to tide over the crisis caused by the lockdown. Pointing out that thousands of workers and their families were facing deprivation, he called for a package to alleviate their woes. Mr. Chennithala also appealed to the government to ensure that Kudumbashree members had better access to loans from banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-sought-for-workers-in-various-sectors/article31379869.ece
19 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||No COVID-19 patients in Thrissur now||Thrissur at present has no COVID-19 patient, with test results of the last patient too returning negative on Saturday. As many as 4,562 persons are under observation, including 10 in hospitals. The district administration has allowed relaxation in the construction sector after April 20. Shops selling construction materials will be open for two days in a week. It has been decided to open the shops on a trial basis on April 21 and 23. A monitoring committee has been formed to issue passes for vehicles in the construction sector. Shops selling cement, steel, tiles, hardware, electrical goods, and plumbing and sanitary materials will remain open from 9 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. on April 21 and 23. The shops should function in accordance with the lockdown guidelines. Granite should be procured from quarries within the district. Builders should specify the number of workers and those staying at the workplace. Hand sanitisers and face masks should be provided at the workplace. Besides, thermal scanning should be done on each worker. Those with fever should not be allowed to work. Workers should be employed on alternate days. Jobs should be ensured for guest workers too. Transportation facility should be provided for those coming from distant places. Special transportation facility should be arranged for workers in industrial units. Provision of masks and gloves and thermal scanning are mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-covid-19-patients-in-thrissur-now/article31379845.ece
19 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU switches to online learning||To ensure uninterrupted teaching, research and extension activities during the lockdown, the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) has switched to digital platforms. Agricultural varsities are non-vacation institutions with academic, research and extension activities scheduled round-the-year. KAU Vice Chancellor R. Chandra Babu has directed all deans and heads of departments to switch over to e-learning mode to keep the academic environment active and engage students academically. Undergraduate, postgraduate, Ph.D and diploma classes have gone online. All constituent colleges under the university have started hosting courses on KAU’s MOODLE platform (http://moodle.celkau.in/), maintained by the Centre for e-Learning of the University. Learning resources provided to students on MOODLE include texts, PDFs, power point presentations, pages, files, books, audio files, videos, web references and glossaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kau-switches-to-online-learning/article31379844.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||3 test positive in Kannur; one case in Kozhikode||Three persons, including two women, were tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. While two are Gulf returnees, one got infected through contact, said Kannur District Collector T.V. Subhash. He said a 54-year-old woman from Mundalur, Peralassery, who arrived at the Kannur airport from Sharjah on March 18, was among the newly infected. The other is a 30-year-old man from Poovathur, Koodali, who arrived at the Nedumbassery airport from Dubai on March 21. While the 28-year-old woman from Chambad, Ariyakool, contracted the virus from the infected patient. On April 16, the swab test of all the three was done at the District COVID Hospital at Anjarakandy With this, the number of COVID-19 positive persons in the district has reached 87. Of them, 39 were discharged. The district has 5,934 persons under observation. While 52 are at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital, 10 are at the District Hospital, nine at the Thalassery General Hospital, and 40 at the COVID-19 treatment centre. As many as 5,823 are in home quarantine. Of the 1,910 samples sent for testing, 1,509 returned negative. In Kozhikode The number of COVID-19 patients in Kozhikode district has gone up to 20, with one more Gulf returnee turning positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. According to a release by the Health Department, the 31-year-old patient is a native of Eramala. He returned from Dubai on March 22 and reached the Kannur airport via Bengaluru. He came home by a private vehicle and had been home-quarantined at Payyathur, Kunnummakkara. He was asymptomatic. He reached a Vadakara hospital on April 15 in a special ambulance and sent his samples for tests after it was reported that his colleagues had tested positive for the virus. He had been admitted to the medical college hospital. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said 10,012 persons were under surveillance here now, with 1,615 completing their observation cycle. Twenty-five persons are at the Government Medical College Hospital. Twelve persons were discharged on Saturday. Of the 20 who were tested positive for the virus in Kozhikode so far, nine have recovered. Two each from Kannur and Kasaragod too were diagnosed with the infection here, of whom the Kasaragod natives have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-test-positive-in-kannur-one-case-in-kozhikode/article31379843.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Too close for comfort||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/too-close-for-comfort/article31379847.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No dearth of food||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-dearth-of-food/article31379849.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||When time stands still||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-time-stands-still/article31379856.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Silent waves||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silent-waves/article31379876.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Survival issues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/survival-issues/article31379892.ece
19 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bride found dead days before wedding||A 25-year-old woman, Pappati Hemavathi, committed suicide at her house at Dharmavaram late on Friday night following postponement of her marriage scheduled for April 25/26 because of the lockdown. The police said she was the sixth and last among her siblings. Hailing from the weaving community, she was engaged in weaving a sari till 11 p.m. When her mother Narayanamma woke up later, she found the girl hanging. The police said that her father Sankaraiah had died four years ago due to illness. Four of her elder sisters were married. Her another sister was at home when the incident happened. Family members said she was worried over the expenses her mother would have to incur for her marriage, particularly when COVID-19 dealt a blow to the family’s income. Those with suicidal tendencies can get counselling on the phone numbers 100 or 9989819191, or they can write mail to: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bride-found-dead-days-before-wedding/article31379953.ece
19 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Some offices in Karnataka allowed to resume work||Following the Union Home Ministry’s guidelines, the Karnataka government on Saturday announced some relaxation measures in the COVID-19 lockdown, including allowing a maximum of one third of the workforce in the information technology (IT) and biotechnology (BT) sectors “providing essential services” and government offices from Monday. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Cr.PC, however, will continue all over the State till May 3. To contain the spread of the pandemic, the government has banned inter-district movement of people and movement of vehicles in other districts of the State till May 3. After holding a meeting, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said employees in IT and BT firms providing only essential services can operate their business by allowing one-third of the workforce in their offices from Monday. “Employees of IT/BT companies should come to offices in hired buses. Other IT/BT firms, those not providing essential services, should encourage employees to work from home,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. Government departments not dealing with essential services would function with a third of the workforce and employees have to come in buses that would be hired exclusively for them. The government rolled back some of the relaxations announced on Saturday morning by evening. A senior Minister admitted that there was resentment over the entire Cabinet not being consulted over the issue. Various zones The meeting discussed identifying containment zones and the activities to be permitted in non-containment zones. “We decided to appoint incident commander to each containment zone assisted by the police and health officials. They will be responsible for containing crowd movement and providing basic amenities in these areas. The incident commander will have magisterial powers,” the Chief Minister said. Medical check-up has been made mandatory in buffer zones, within 5-km radius of containment zones in urban areas and 7-km radius in rural areas. The Chief Minister said construction activities too would allowed and workers should be allowed to stay at construction sites. Vehicles transporting construction materials such sand, iron rods would not require permission from authorities to transport the goods. As per the Central guidelines, he said all industries located in rural areas would be allowed to operate. The guidelines allows industries located outside city corporations and municipal limits to operate from April 20. The Chief Minister said all special economic zones, industrial establishments and townships located in urban areas too would be allowed to operate business. This means industries located in Bengaluru and other cities will be allowed to open from Monday. However, the managements have to make arrangements for providing accommodation for workers near the industries in urban areas. Wearing masks and practising social distancing have been made mandatory and spitting in public places has been banned. The Chief Minister appealed to senior citizens and vulnerable persons to remain indoor for the next three months. Cabinet meeting The Cabinet would meet on Monday and it was expected to announce some concrete measures, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/some-offices-in-karnataka-allowed-to-resume-work/article31379542.ece
19 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five new positive cases in Srikalahasti||The temple town of Srikalahasti has reported 10 of the 29 positive COVID-19 cases in Chittoor district. With the detection of five new cases on Friday, the district administration converted a dozen localities into red zones. Of the 10 cases, one case, a London returnee, was discharged recently after his report came negative, while the nine others were found to have contact with persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet, both as primary and secondary sources, involving family members and relatives. The localities identified as red zones are Kothapeta, P.V. Road, Patha Bus Stand, Nagachi Palem, Pusala Veedi, Imam Street, Janulla Street, Marati Palem, Masjid Street, Jandha Veedhi, and Gandla Street. The positive cases has its adverse impact among the traders that even during the relaxation of lockdown hours, most of them are unwilling to open their outlets, forcing the locals to run from pillar to post to fetch their daily requirements. The four ever busy streets adjoining the temple zone, though without a single positive case, were deserted. The public complain that with lots of barricades on the streets, the movement during the relaxation period had turned difficult. Collector visit District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, who inspected the red zones and the area hospital at Srikalahasti on Saturday, said that cooperation from the public was more important than the lockdown itself to check spread of COVID-19.  The Collector said that so far there were 17 TrueNAT machines in the district, with a capacity to conduct 20 swab tests each. He said people with COVID-19 related symptoms should voluntarily come for tests and observe quarantine norms. As many as 113 persons from Palamaner found to be in contact with three positive cases there were sent to the testing centres and quarantine zones. Similarly, 49 persons from Sadum mandal were sent for quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-new-positive-cases-in-srikalahasti/article31379571.ece
19 April 2020||G.V. Prasada SarmaVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC plans to take up desilting of Raiwada canal||With copious rain in December last and the water impounded in Yeleswaram reservoir standing in good stead to cater to the needs of the city, the GVMC has planned to take up desilting of Raiwada canal, one of its major sources of water supply, to improve its carrying capacity. The canal runs 56 km from Devarapalli to bring water to the city from Raiwada reservoir. While 27 million gallons per day (MGD) is released at the source, only 11 MGD is realised owing to gradual fall in its carrying capacity, percolation, evaporation etc. instead of the 16 MGD that should have been received. With backup from Yeleswaram reservoir available to maintain supply, the GVMC planned to take up desilting of the canal during early summer to improve the quantity received. Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana also gave her nod. The required approvals have been obtained and tenders called and finalised to take up the work at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. The canal was desilted last six years ago. Once the desilting is completed it is expected to improve the yield to 18 MGD immediately finally stabilising at 17 MGD standing the GVMC in good stead in peak summer. “However, we could not take up the work with the lockdown announced in March,” said Superintending Engineer (Water Supply) of GVMC K. Venugopal. Now with relaxations in the lockdown to be available after April 20, GVMC plans to take up the work sometime in the last week. The execution of the work will be for 20 days, says Mr. Venugopal. Besides, to make up for the paucity of water from Raiwada canal, the GVMC is paying about Rs. 2 crore to Visakhapatnam Industrial Water Supply Company (VIWSCO) every year for the last three years. With the desilting and subsequent improvement in yield, the GVMC will save the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-plans-to-take-up-desilting-of-raiwada-canal/article31379970.ece
19 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Old GGH converted into COVID hospital in Guntur||With the availability of more Rapid Test Kits and TrueNAT kits that could lead to identifying more COVID-19 positive cases, the district administration is expanding facilities to provide better healthcare. The Government General Hospital building opposite the railway station in the city would now treat COVID-suspected patients, including outpatient services, testing, inpatient services and isolation wards. The new super-speciality facility facing the Arundelpet railway over-bridge would treat all non-COVID cases, including trauma and emergency care. Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar and special officer B. Rajasekhar said on Saturday that barricading would be done between the old GGH and the new GGH block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/old-ggh-converted-into-covid-hospital-in-guntur/article31379949.ece
19 April 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown blow to Ramzan business||Ramzan is less than a week away, but the signs of the season are missing. Most masjids in the city go for a fresh coat of paint and spruce up amenities before the holy month. Some of them string up fairy lights on the minarets for the month-long season of fasting and prayer. But this year, many masjids are shuttered, except for the maulvis during prayer time. “Maybe the first time no Ramzan food walk at Charminar and haleem fresh off the bhatti,” said Sandeep Raj, a realtor. While Ramzan is an intensely spiritual and religious experience for the faithful, in Hyderabad, it creates thousands of jobs as hotels serve up haleem — an earthy thick broth of meat, lentils, cereals and spices cooked for a long duration in a mud-and-brick oven called bhatti . It is a cottage industry that creates employment for thousands of cooks, artisans, metal workers, labourers and adds to the State’s kitty in terms of taxes. “Serving it in restaurants and in open spaces is out of question. We are looking at an option for online orders and contactless deliveries on the same day,” says M. A. Majeed who heads the Haleem Makers Association. “Ramzan sees an influx of workers into Hyderabad from across the country including from Bengal, Odisha and Bihar. I am getting calls from them but we are helpless,” says Mohammad Rabbani, the owner of Shah Ghouse Café. “There is an atmosphere of fear in society. The movement of animals has also been affected. That will affect farmers as well,” said Mr. Rabbani, adding that he had never visualised a blow to business like this. During Ramzan, goat and sheep farmers from central India bring their animals to Hyderabad. As the shops and restaurants of Hyderabad remain shuttered, it will be a grim Ramzan for hotel owners, workers, artisans and foodies. Ramzan is also the month where Muslims distribute zakat , the obligation of charity, enjoined upon the faithful. It also one of the reasons why beggars from different corners of the State and even from outside make a beeline to the city and wait by masjids for alms during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-blow-to-ramzan-business/article31379793.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gandhians on padayatra stranded by lockdown||Padyatras are a way of life for this couple from Tamil Nadu. With a zeal to spread the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi, they have undertaken many, covering thousands of kilometres, seeking to strike a chord with people across the country. But their latest padyatra — from Erode in Tamil Nadu to Hyderabad — will remain etched in memory for M. Karuppaiah and his wife Chitra, hailing from Madurai and national office-bearers of the All-India Gandhian Movement. They faced unexpected challenges due to the COVID-19 necessitated lockdown but also received help from various quarters. Mr. Karuppaiah, 49, said they began the padyatra on Republic Day and aimed to reach Hyderabad on March 12. Their plan went awry when like-minded people who hosted them in Vijayawada and other places in Andhra Pradesh requested them to spend some days in view of the overwhelming public response. Caught off guard When Mr. Karuppaiah and Ms. Chitra, 51, restarted the padayatra, the lockdown was announced. Since educational institutions and temples where they planned to stay were closed, well-wishers tried to get them accommodation elsewhere. With some difficulty, they found a small place to stay for 15 days in a Kali temple on the outskirts of Hyderabad. But their documents and meagre belongings were damaged in rain. Though shaken, the couple is determined to complete their padayatra as part of the 150th birth anniversary celebration of Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gandhians-on-padayatra-stranded-by-lockdown/article31379537.ece
19 April 2020||Hyderabad/Thiruvananthapuram/Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana sees 42 new cases; Kerala reports 4||Andhra Pradesh reported two more deaths and 31 new COVID-19 cases from six districts as of Saturday morning. The overall tally went up to 603 and 16 persons have succumbed to the disease in all, while 42 recovered and were discharged. Also, 545 patients were hospitalised, a Health Department bulletin said. Krishna district reported 17 fresh cases and one death, taking its tally to 70. A majority of the cases were in densely populated Vijayawada. Kurnool reported six new cases and one more death, while Nellore had three new cases. Prakasam and East Godavari had two fresh cases each, and West Godavari one case. On the other hand, the total number of persons who recovered went up to 42, with seven more patients leaving hospital. In Visakhapatnam 13 patients had recovered and seven were under treatment. As per the bulletin, Kurnool reported 132 cases and Guntur 125 cases, followed by Krishna (70), Nellore (67), Prakasam (44), Kadapa (37), West Godavari (35), Chittoor (28), Anantapur (26), Visakhapatnam (20) and East Godavari (19). 43 more cases There were 43 new cases in Telangana and no fatality on Saturday. The State’s total number was 809, of which active cases were 605, while 186 were discharged and the death toll was 18. Of the 43 new cases, 31 were from Hyderabad GHMC area, seven from Gadwal, two each from Sircilla and Rangareddy and one from Nalgonda district. With this, GHMC has recorded 448 cases (active and discharged). The active cases also include three pregnant women. While one woman was in 32nd week, two more were in the 18th week. Kerala looked afresh at its COVID-19 strategy, as four persons tested positive for on Saturday, while two patients were reported to have recovered. Three of the cases were those who had returned from Dubai, while one had contact with an imported case. Three cases were in Kannur, and one in Kozhikode.  Karnataka reported its 14th death, a 42-year-old driver from Vijayapura, who died of heart attack on April 16, and whose samples tested positive. The driver had accompanied two people to Bengaluru and had a heart attack on hearing that they had tested positive. Overall, 25 new cases were reported on Saturday taking the total number to 384. The Vijayapura district administration was in a dilemma over the driver’s funeral. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said the administration had to follow the Central government’s protocol. Tamil Nadu reported 49 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total in the State to 1,372. Another 82 persons were discharged from hospitals. Of those discharged, 21 were from Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, 18 from Government Medical College Hospital, Theni, and nine from Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-die-in-andhra-pradesh-karnataka/article31379551.ece
19 April 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown takes police closer to wildlife in Chittoor district||The fight against COVID-19 is definitely tiresome, and the lockdown is terrible to all sections of people. But, the tough time has led to a special bond between police personnel and the small game moving along the 15-km-long ghat road from Kalyani dam to Bhakarapeta. Anyone passing through this picturesque forest zone at the foot of the Seshachalam Hills will not miss the presence of several troops of monkeys from dawn to dusk, and the lucky ones might even have a glimpse of the spotted deer or a wild boar. Over the years, the regular commuters in buses or cars and those on two-wheelers are habituated to flinging eatables at these monkeys as they crisscross the ghat road. When Janata Curfew on March 22 turned into a lockdown for the next several weeks, it had only confused the monkeys sitting on the parapet walls and under the tunnels, with absolutely no human movement. During the last four weeks, except for the movement of the police personnel on patrol, nobody ventured on the road. Circle-Inspector (Piler) A. Sadiq Ali, while passing through the ghat section on March 31, noticed the carcass of a monkey surrounded by a big troop. He also saw “helpless” monkeys at half a dozen spots on the ghat road. The Inspector said that for a couple of days, the painful spectacle haunted him. “After consulting some friends in Piler and surrounding areas, I finally designed a plan. We fetched bananas from the fields left without being harvested and a dozen gunny sacks of water packets. As we distributed them among the monkeys, they preferred water to bananas. Our service will continue till the lockdown is lifted. It might even be continued if the good Samaritans want it so,” Mr. Ali said.  Water tubs Another Circle-Inspector S. Murali Krishna (Piler Rural) joining the mission. He arranged water tubs at about seven places on a 15-km stretch. On alternate days, the police personnel from Bhakarapeta deploy a water tanker to fill the tubs. “This gives me immense happiness, which I can’t explain,” Mr. Murali Krishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-takes-police-closer-to-wildlife-in-chittoor-district/article31379567.ece
19 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||7,000 litres of jaggery wash destroyed||The Tuni police on Saturday destroyed nearly 7,000 litres of jaggery wash and 30 litres of illicitly distilled liquor at Rajupeta village under the Tuni rural police limits in East Godavari district. In an official release, Tuni Circle Inspector G. Kishore Babu said that three persons were arrested in connection with the production of the liquor during the raid. The police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7000-litres-of-jaggery-wash-destroyed/article31379572.ece
19 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||More paddy purchasing centres to come up in E.G.||East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha on Saturday said the district administration was preparing to set up more paddy purchasing centres. In a video conference with the ground-level staff, Mr. Lakshmisha reiterated that legal actions would be initiated against brokers and rice millers who were not offering the produce at the Minimum Support Price. As per information, as many as 271 centres are functioning in the district, procuring paddy from the farmers in the rabi season-2020. “We are planning on setting up more rythu bazaars where the government will purchase vegetables and fruits from the farmers directly to offer a remunerative price,” said Mr. Lakshmisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-paddy-purchasing-centres-to-come-up-in-eg/article31379573.ece
19 April 2020||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Huge crack develops on Ambukuthi hills in Kerala||A huge crack has developed on the eastern part of Ambukuthi hills, on which the Edakkal caves are situated. The crack was exposed after a fire devastated the area a few days ago. Sulthan Bathery Tahsildar A. Sunil Kumar and District Soil Conservation Officer P.U. Das visited the site on Saturday. Mr. Kumar said the crack had formed along a 60 m stretch on the hill slope. The exact cause could be ascertained only after a study by experts, he added. Mr. Das said the crack could have developed during the heavy rain witnessed last year. The crack would not lead to a landslip during moderate rain, but the possibility of landslips in the area during heavy rain could not be ruled out, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/huge-crack-develops-on-ambukuthi-hills-in-kerala/article31379548.ece
19 April 2020||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vigilance files case against IUML MLA||The Vigilance Department submitted a first information report against Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) legislator K.M. Shaji in the Thalassery vigilance court on Saturday. The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) has registered a case against the MLA on the charge of having accepted a bribe of Rs. 25 lakh from the management of a higher secondary school in his constituency at Azhikode in Kannur for sanctioning Plus Two course in 2014. Kannur Vigilance Deputy Superintendent of Police Madhusoodhanan is in charge of the probe. The case is based on a complaint submitted by a local leader of the IUML Naushad Poothapara to the party State committee. Following this, Kannur block panchayat president K. Padmanabhan filed a complaint with the Chief Minister in 2017 and the Vigilance carried out a primary investigation.  School accounts While inspecting the accounts of the school, it was found that a sum of Rs. 30 lakh and Rs. 35 lakh was received as donation in 2014 and 2015 respectively. During these years, Rs. 35 lakh had been shown as expenditure. A primary investigation found that Rs. 25 lakh was paid to the MLA, the FIR said. In his complaint, Mr. Padmanabhan had claimed there were allegations in 2012-13 that the Puduparai local Muslim League committee had demanded Rs. 25 lakh from the management for sanctioning Plus Two course for the school. The MLA, who intervened in the matter, though initially told the school management not to pay the amount, later allegedly received the money when the permission was granted to the school in 2017, the complaint said. Even though the local Muslim League committee took up the issue with the State committee, action was taken against those who took up the issue, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vigilance-files-case-against-iuml-mla/article31379543.ece
19 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||One patient dies, five more test positive in Kurnool||One COVID-19 positive person died and five new cases were reported since 11 am on Saturday taking the total number of cases to 129 in the district. The number of dead has gone up to three. At various hospitals, 125 positive persons are still being treated. As part of testing, screening and containment plan, the district administration started COVID-19 testing on TrueNAT machines at Kurnool, Nandyal, Banaganapalle, and Adoni government hospitals in addition to the Rapid Testing facility available at the GGH here. This would add a capacity of testing 300 more samples a day in the district, Collector G. Veerapandian said. The patient, a 60-year-old person from Budhawarpet in the city, while undergoing treatment at the Viswabharathi COVID Hospital, developed health complications and died while being shifted to the Kurnool Government General Hospital, according to the Collector.  According to GGH Deputy Superintendent Narasimhalu, based on the recommendation of an expert committee, the District Collector had suggested that the positive persons at the Viswabharathi and Shantiram Hospitals needing treatment at a higher level of hospital, be shifted to the State COVID Hospital at Tirupati. Currently, 12 active cases are being treated at dedicated COVID-19 Level-I Hospital Viswabharathi and Level-II Santhiram Hospital. One person recuperated completely and was discharged. Housing Principal Secretary Ajay Jain took over as COVID-19 Special Officer of Kurnool district and reviewed the various aspects of the fight against the COVID19. Sample collection booth The district administration has launched a mobile sample collection booth in the red zones of Kurnool city and asked people not to come on their own to the testing centres, but must be referred to by the local medical officer. Urban pockets of the district registered the highest number of positive cases with 89 out of 124 seen in municipalities, while only 35 cases were registered in 13 mandals in the rural areas. Kurnool city tops in cases Kurnool city has turned into the biggest hotspot for the pandemic with 59 out of 124 cases till Friday coming from here and 20 of them from Nandyal municipality, five from Atmakur municipality, 3 from Nandikotkur, one each from Dhone and Bethamcherla municipalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-patient-dies-five-more-test-positive-in-kurnool/article31379568.ece
19 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 out of 213 contacts of dead doctor test positive in Kurnool||In all, 213 of primary and secondary contacts of K.M. Hospital founder Ismail Hussain, who died of COVID-19 in the city, were tested and 13 of them turned positive, said COVID-19 Special Officer Ajay Jain and District Collector G. Veerapandian at a press conference here on Saturday. They appealed to the people to voluntarily come forward to get themselves tested if they had visited the hospital recently. Another 230 persons, who are in various quarantine centres in the district would be discharged in a day or two once they test negative after completion of 14-day period in the quarantine, Mr. Veerapandian said. The district had collected 2,888 samples so far and of them results of 1463 samples had come with 1,333 negative, 130 positive, 4 deaths and one discharged, while 125 positive persons are being treated at various places. Results of 1425 samples was awaited till 6 p.m. on Saturday, the Collector added. Mr. Jain said the State was spending Rs. 500 per day for each person in quarantine to provide nutritious food and another Rs. 50 for other expenses. For the conveyance Rs. 300 was being spent per person and single rooms were also being provided to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-out-of-213-contacts-of-dead-doctor-test-positive-in-kurnool/article31379569.ece
19 April 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five more positive cases emerge in Nellore, Prakasam districts||Five more persons — three in SPSR Nellore district and two in Prakasam — tested positive for coronavirus in the last 24 hours. With this the number of persons who contracted the virus rose to 67 in SPSR Nellore district and 44 in Prakasam district. Nellore and Ongole with 35 and 26 positive cases respectively emerged as COVID-19 hot spot. While two persons had died so far in Nellore, one person each in Nellore and Ongole had recovered. While 46 persons were under treatment at the Government General Hospital, Nellore, 18 others were treated in Narayana Medical College Hospital. Police enforced the lockdown strictly and seized vehicles of motorists moving out their homes without any valid reasons. Holding a video conference from Vijayawada with Nellore Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu and other officials, Industries Minister M. Gowtham Reddy asked them to put to immediate use 2,500 rapid diagnostic kits allotted for the district. He also wanted them to speed up procurement of paddy from farmers. Tobacco auctions In Ongole, Prakasam District Collector P. Bhaskar announced after a review meeting with stakeholders, that tobacco auctions, which have been suspended since the announcement of lockdown, would recommence from Monday from three auction platforms of Ongole II, Tangutur I and II.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-more-positive-cases-emerge-in-nellore-prakasam-districts/article31379576.ece
19 April 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘SSC examinations only after lockdown is lifted’||The Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations will be conducted only after lifting the nationwide lockdown, Education Minister A. Suresh has said. Addressing the media at Yerragondapalem, his home constituency in Prakasam district, Mr. Suresh said the examinations had been postponed taking into view the health of the students. “The government will come out with a revised schedule after the nationwide lockdown is lifted,” he said after distributing essential commodities to the poor people affected by the lockdown. He said teachers had been instructed to stay in touch with the students through mobile phones and clear their doubts during the lockdown period. Distance mode classes Students should make best use of the distance mode classes being conducted by Doordarshan and AIR between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. and between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m., the Minister said. It may be noted that 11 of the 13 districts had been declared red zones. The examinations were previously scheduled to be held from March 31 to April 8 but were subsequently cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ssc-examinations-only-after-lockdown-is-lifted/article31379954.ece
19 April 2020||P. Sujatha VarmaVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pot vendors facing the heat||“Place this pot on a sturdy near the window. The breeze will help keep the water cooler. During the hot months you can even wrap a clean moist cloth around this for quicker cooling,” says Malleswari Annavarapu, a vendor looking for buyers for her earthen pots on BRTS Road near Machavaram Down. This summer is proving to be harsher for pot vendors like Malleswari who buy the eco-friendly traditional ‘water cooler’ from a wholesale market in Kotturu Tadepalli and sell them in city every summer. “COVID-19 has wreaked havoc this year,” she says ruefully, explaining how the pottery industry has suffered a blow over the years due to increasing popularity of modern water filters and also because of non-availability of sand. “There is a lack of river sand, clay and experienced persons in procuring the raw material,” she says. The peak summer months of March, April and May usually bring a smile on her face as “people are slowly drifting towards use of earthenware in their attempt to make small changes at home to ward off environmental pollution and I find a good number of buyers for my pots.” Malleswari’s immediate worry is the Rs. 25,000 loan she availed from a private money lender to invest in purchase of the pots that have not been finding buyers, thanks to the lockdown. “Every season I sell almost 1,000 pots by this time, but this time, I haven’t found even 200 buyers so far,” she says and hastens to add: “I am not blaming people for not buying. What can they do? The limited time they get to move out of their houses in the mornings is spent in buying the essential stuff. Who would give priority to a pot?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pot-vendors-facing-the-heat/article31379946.ece
19 April 2020||Santosh Patnaik,ANDHRA PRADESH||NRDC to fund commercialisation of COVID-19 combating techniques||National Research Development Corporation (NRDC), an enterprise of the Department of Science and Industrial Research under the Ministry of Science and Technology, has launched a scheme to support the researchers and innovators in their fight against COVID-19. NRDC Chairman and Managing Director H. Purushotham told The Hindu that this was one of the key initiatives of the Union government to fight the pandemic. He said under the scheme, the NRDC would grant financial support up to Rs. 10 lakh. Higher amount could also be considered in deserving proposals. The grant-in-aid is for value addition such as scaling up, prototype development, market testing of the prototype, generating data required by regulatory authorities and certification. The thrust areas include eco-friendly sanitisers, rapid test kits, PPEs, ventilators, medicines and vaccines. The NRDC will support development of technologies in the areas of tracking, testing and treatment covering process scale up, pilot plant studies, validation, authentication of products and registration with regulatory authorities. Research laboratories, universities, startups and MSMEs are eligible to apply. NRDC has also brought out a compendium on Indian technologies for combating COVID-19. He said most of these technologies were at proof of concept (POC) test stage and they would enable the entrepreneurs to take the product to market fast . Startups /entrepreneurs willing to commercialise these POC tested technologies should submit applications for grant to commercialise the technologies. Last date The last date for applying on prescribed form is May 15. For more details, researchers and innovators are requested to visit websitewww.nrdcindia.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nrdc-to-fund-commercialisation-of-covid-19-combating-techniques/article31379972.ece
19 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Firms told to offer lodging, food to staff||Collector J. Nivas has directed all pharmaceutical companies and other industries to provide accommodation and food to their employees instead of operating buses for them from nearby cities. “Hundreds of employees are travelling to the Pydibhimavaram industrial zone from neighbouring districts. The district should continue to be on the list of ‘zero positive COVID-19 cases’, and the administration will not take any chances,” the Collector said. The Collector’s order assumes significance as many industries that come under emergency services are set to resume production from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/firms-told-to-offer-lodging-food-to-staff/article31379955.ece
19 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress rejects Kerala govt. clarification on Sprinklr deal||The Congress has rejected the State government’s position that it employed the U.S.-based firm Sprinklr to harness the power of big data analytics to combat the COVID-19 outbreak. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran on Saturday accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of having exploited the adversity to allow a “blacklisted” foreign firm to siphon off valuable personal medical information of citizens without their informed consent. Nearly 1.75 lakh Keralites under observation for COVID-19 symptoms had volunteered their sensitive personal health information to field workers in good faith. At a stroke, Mr. Vijayan had betrayed their sincerity. He had allowed the IT Secretary to bypass the Cabinet and sign a contract with Sprinklr. Confidentiality of data Mr. Vijayan had not ensured the confidentiality of the data. Sprinklr held proprietary rights, and it could sell the data to healthcare or pharmaceutical businesses without the government’s knowledge. Mr. Vijayan had stacked the decks in Sprinklr’s favour. The government had no legal jurisdiction over the data in the possession of Sprinklr. Only a U.S. court could adjudicate on any contractual dispute. The attack came on a day IT Secretary M. Shivsankar appeared on two news channels to make the government’s case that the deal was above board. An entity which could crunch a considerable amount of health data to identify infection patterns to streamline the COVID-19 containment strategy was direly needed. Sprinklr agreed to provide the service without charge. The arrangement did not warrant the prior vetting of the finance and legal departments. The C-DIT would own and analyse the data henceforth, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-rejects-kerala-govt-clarification-on-sprinklr-deal/article31379546.ece
19 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Do not lower guard, CM tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has exhorted officials of the Health, Medical and Family Welfare and other departments to be alert to the persistent threat being posed by COVID-19 as the number of positive cases is increasing steadily. Addressing a high-level review meeting on Saturday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy enquired about the testing facilities, and stressed the need for a coordinated effort for checking the spread of the disease. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the officials should be on their toes as the possibility of further spread could not be ruled out yet. Officials told the Chief Minister that over 4,000 tests were conducted on Friday using the TrueNat equipment and in the laboratories, whose number had been increased to seven from the lone facility that had existed in Tirupati before the virus spread to the State. ‘Five more labs soon’ Five more labs – two in Tirupati and one each in Kurnool, Prakasam and Srikakulam – would be opened next week, they said. Telemedicine centres had so far received more than 5,200 calls and healthcare needs of all the callers were met, they told the Chief Minister. Transportation of essential commodities picked up as restrictions were eased, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-lower-guard-cm-tells-officials/article31379962.ece
19 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||UAE urged to protect Telugu workers||The Andhra Pradesh government, through the AP Non-Resident Telugu Society (APNRT Society), has appealed to the United Arab Emirates to take care of the food and accommodation of many Indians who migrated to that country in search of livelihood and are now stuck there due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Venkat S. Medapati, Adviser to the A.P. Government on NRT affairs, in a letter to Harjeet Singh, Consulate General of India in Dubai, UAE, pointed to the fact that job loss due to the lockdown had deprived many Telugu migrant workers in the UAE of their livelihood. Hundreds of Indians migrate in search of work and settle in the UAE as blue-collar workers or domestic helps. ‘More efforts needed’ Mr. Medapati said that media reports suggested that many Telugu workers did not have shelter and had landed on the streets, especially in remote areas. Though small efforts were being made by other Telugus living there to give them food and water, it was far from adequate in this hour of crisis. There was no way they could think of returning home because of the travel restrictions in the lockdown period. Stating that some of them were on the verge of starvation, Mr. Medapati urged Mr. Harjeet Singh to ensure arrangement of food and accommodation to the migrant workers from Andhra Pradesh who were in need of it at the earliest till the lockdown was lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uae-urged-to-protect-telugu-workers/article31379951.ece
19 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State looks beyond energy security with new policy||The State government is likely to announce in a week its renewable energy export policy that aims at not only ensuring energy security to the State but also exporting the surplus to other States by allowing private investors. “A.P. has vast potential for renewable energy such as wind and solar power. India plans to add 500 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy to its electricity grid by 2030 in an attempt to clean up the air in cities and lessen the economy’s rapidly growing dependence on coal. In line with the national policy, the State has also identified 29 feasible on-river and off-river locations to promote Pumped Storage Hydro (PSH) projects,” said New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (NREDCAP) managing director S. Ramana Reddy. PHS projects He said the idea was to generate power to balance the variable renewable energy power and to meet the peak energy demand in the State. PHS projects operate by exploiting the difference in height between two water bodies to store energy. In this system, energy is stored by pumping water from the lower reservoir to the upper reservoir, and is recovered by releasing the stored water from the upper reservoir. It is the most common and commercially viable large-scale electricity storage technology globally. Tapping of solar and wind energy is time-based. “We get solar power only in the day time and wind energy only in the evening and mainly during three months in a year. Their variable nature puts a huge burden on the grid. The option of battery storage is a costly affair and we don’t have the technology,” explained Mr. Reddy. Of the 29 locations identified, the Water and Power Consultancy Services (India) had surveyed 21 sites and Tata Consultancy the remaining and submitted their reports. Mr. Reddy said the government was keen on attracting private investments. “First preference will be to ensure energy security of the State and the spare capacity can be exported,” he said. Benefits The benefits would include investment flow into the State, round-the-clock power availability, employment generation, tax revenue to the government in the form of GST and land lease rentals for farmers who could put to use their uncultivable and waste lands and get a fixed income for 30 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-looks-beyond-energy-security-with-new-policy/article31379958.ece
19 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State-level critical support unit created||A State-level critical support unit, comprising top government officials, current and former health university vice-chancellors, medical college professors and leading experts in various medical disciplines, has been created to guide doctors in all the district and critical care hospitals in the State in medical management, critical care of COVID-19 patients and extend all logistic support necessary for them in the days to come. The unit is headed by Additional Chief Secretary P.V. Ramesh. Among others, it has as members NTR University of Health Sciences Vice-Chancellor P. Shyam Prasad and its former Vice-Chancellors Raviraju and I.V. Rao, Director of Medical Education (DME) K. Venkatesh and additional DME P. Chandrasekhar, APMSIDC Chairman Chandrasekhar Reddy, and APMC Chairman Samba Siva Reddy. Control room At the COVID Control Room, specialists deployed will work round the clock to guide and coordinate the functioning at various hospitals. In the panel of specialists that is available round the clock in three shifts will be general physician and former superintendent of ESI Hospital T.V. Narayana Rao, general medicine specialist Ram Babu, pulmonologist and intensive care expert Arif, and pulmonologists Nukaraju, Ravindranath, and Dhanunjaya Rao. Rapid developments The purpose of the unit is to keep track of the latest developments in critical care of COVID-19 that is rapidly changing every day and ensure that best practices are available to the patients under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-level-critical-support-unit-created/article31379956.ece
19 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Use drones to keep a tab on lockdown violators: Collector||Keeping in view the apprehensions over community transmission of COVID-19 in the district, Collector A.Md. Imtiaz on Saturday asked the police department to ensure that no meat and seafood shops functioned in the red zones of the city on Sunday. Mr. Imtiaz further asked the police to use drones to keep an eye on the lockdown violators in the interior areas and increase deployment of the police personnel. Commissioner of Police Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said the source of transmission in many cases reported recently couldn’t be traced. “Some patients say that they have gone to the rythu bazaars and grocery stores. In one case, the patient visited medical shops and hospitals to supply saline bottles. Where he contracted the virus is not known yet,” he said. “In another recent case, a foreign returnee tested positive after nearly 28 days. His mother too tested positive two days later. Six of his neighbours tested positive thereafter. In that particular colony, there are 10 cases now. This is a highly alarming situation,” Mr. Rao said. Violators warned People found moving on the roads after 9 a.m. without valid reason would be booked and their vehicles seized. “I appeal to the youth not to venture out unless it is important or an emergency. Once booked in criminal cases as per law, you will have to face the consequences in your career, which can be avoided by staying at home,” Mr. Rao added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/use-drones-to-keep-a-tab-on-lockdown-violators-collector/article31379947.ece
19 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt.’s handling of COVID inefficient, PCC chief writes to PM||The people in the State do not believe the figures of the COVID-19 positive cases being released by the State government and are afraid to get themselves tested as they do not want to get themselves admitted in the isolation and quarantine centres where the conditions are horrible, said Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president Sake Sailajanath in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Sailajanath, in the letter released to the media here on Saturday, said he was interested in bringing to Mr. Modi’s notice the realistic ground situation in Andhra Pradesh regarding the spread, and the poor, non-transparent strategies adopted by the State government to contain COVID-19. He said there was widespread disbelief in the State regarding the number of cases being reported by the government. And there was sufficient reason to believe the reports in the press that the government was under-reporting and deliberately hiding the facts about testing and results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govts-handling-of-covid-inefficient-pcc-chief-writes-to-pm/article31379950.ece
19 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tuni woman’s gesture wins heart of police||A woman in Tuni in East Godavari district has won the appreciation of Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang for her gesture towards the police on COVID-19 duty in the town. The woman, Lokamani, a Class IV employee in a private school, bought soft drinks and offered them to the policemen at a picket three days ago. Lauding her initiative, Mr. Sawang spoke to Ms. Lokamani over the telephone and thanked her for her magnanimity. He enquired about her duties, welfare of her family and children, and advised her to take every care to prevent coronavirus. “I thank the woman for her gesture towards the policemen working during the crisis. Her treat to the police will boost our strength and courage,” Mr. Sawang tweeted on Saturday. The DGP also appreciated the police for honouring the woman by offering her ‘pasupu kumkuma’, medicines and groceries. KTR’s pat Telangana Minister K.T. Rama Rao also lauded the “kind gesture” of Ms. Lokamani during the lockdown. East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi directed the Tuni police to visit Ms. Lokamani and thank her in person. “The woman, who has been regularly observing the police discharge their duties in hot summer, thought of extending some help to them. After receiving her salary for the month, Ms. Lokamani bought cool drinks and offered them to the police posted at the picket,” Mr. Adnan Nayeem told The Hindu . Return gift Tuni Rural Circle Inspector K. Kishore Babu and other staff visited Ms. Lokamani’s house and enquired about the health condition of her family members. They offered her a sari and blouse and ‘pasupu kumkuma’ as a token of their gratitude. “You are working for us and it is our responsibility to take care of you,” Ms. Lokamani told the CI. Responding to her observation, Mr. Kishore Babu said, “Amma you are so humane. Your kindness has moved us. Many policemen are sweating it out to prevent the spread of the virus, and your sweet words give us much strength.” The East Godavari police also gave her rice, tamarind, pulses, oil and material enough for a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tuni-womans-gesture-wins-heart-of-police/article31379968.ece
19 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan speaks to Assam CM on seafood exports||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy requested his Assam counterpart Sarbananda Sonowal to remove bottlenecks in the transportation of seafood from Andhra Pradesh during the lockdown. Speaking over phone with Mr. Sonowal on Saturday, Mr. Jagan sought steps for smooth passage of the trucks from A.P. carrying seafood. “A.P. is a major seafood exporter and it will suffer huge losses if the consignments get stuck at inter-State borders due to the lockdown,” Mr. Jagan told Mr. Sonowal, requesting him to open the fish markets so that locals would get to buy fish and other products imported from States like Andhra Pradesh. Opening of the fish markets would be mutually beneficial, Mr. Jagan asserted. Mr. Sonowal assured that he would look into issues raised by Mr. Jagan. In turn, Mr. Sonowal requested Mr. Jagan to take care of people from Assam who were stranded in A.P. due to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-speaks-to-assam-cm-on-seafood-exports/article31379960.ece
19 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pvt. schools told to pay salaries to staff||Responding to a complaint that 90% of the staff working in private unaided schools were not paid salaries for the month of March and that in order to avoid the payments, the managements were planning to retrench them, Commissioner of School Education, V. Chinaveerabhadrudu, has asked the Regional Joint Directors in the department and the District Education Officers to instruct such managements to make payment to the teachers. He said there should not be any deductions in the salaries since schools were closed under lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pvt-schools-told-to-pay-salaries-to-staff/article31379952.ece
19 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight booked for celebrating marriage day||The One Town police registered a case against eight persons for reportedly celebrating marriage day. They were released on station bail on Saturday, said Circle Inspector P. Venkateshwarlu. The family members arranged a small gathering, cut a cake, distributed sweets and celebrated the occasion. Under The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 mass gatherings and celebrations are prohibited. The organisers and those who attended the function were booked under the Act, the CI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-booked-for-celebrating-marriage-day/article31379816.ece
19 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tenders for Nadu-Nedu works in June||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered officials of the Health, Medical and Family Welfare (HM&FW) Department to invite tenders for infrastructure works under the ‘Nadu-Nedu’ programme in the first week of June. Officials were also asked to identify land for the construction of new medical colleges. Addressing a review meeting on the Nadu-Nadu programme in the HM&FW Department on Saturday, Mr. Jagan said while the expenditure would go up to around Rs. 16,000 crore, it was essential to improve the healthcare system in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tenders-for-nadu-nedu-works-in-june/article31379959.ece
19 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. files counter in HC in SEC case||Panchayat Raj Department Principal Secretary Gopal Krishna Dwivedi filed a counter in the High Court on Saturday stating the government’s position on the reduction of the tenure of the State Election Commissioner (SEC). It was in response to a batch of petitions that questioned the propriety of the ordinance which curtailed the tenure of the SEC from five to three years. N. Ramesh Kumar who ceased to be the SEC consequent upon the issuance of the ordinance, is the main petitioner. The petitions are scheduled to be heard on Monday (April 20). Mr. Dwivedi stated that the Governor had the discretionary power to alter the term of the SEC and denied that the ordinance was targeted at Mr. Ramesh Kumar. He maintained that Mr. Ramesh Kumar did not consult the government before reaching the conclusion that postponement of elections purportedly due to the COVID scare, was in the best interests of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-files-counter-in-hc-in-sec-case/article31379963.ece
19 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three more coronavirus patients discharged from Gitam hospital||Three more COVID-19 patients, who were being treated at GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR), were discharged on Friday night, after their reports tested negative. With the latest discharge, the total number of active cases in the district have reduced to seven. As per sources in the Health Department, three more patients, two from Thatchetlapalem and one from Gajuwaka, were also reportedly released after they tested negative on Saturday. But it would be confirmed only through the health bulletin on Sunday morning. According to officials, the three persons, including a woman, are residents of Thatichetlapalem area of the city. One of the patients had a travel history to Mumbai in the recent times. A couple of days after his return to Visakhapatnam, the youth showed symptoms and was admitted to Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD). The youth and two others had tested COVID-19 positive on April 3. Later they were shifted to GIMSR. Officials from the Health Department said that one more person who belongs to Poorna Market area is also ready for discharge very soon. GHCCD isolation It may be recalled that the district had reported 20 positive cases till date. During the first week of May, one positive case from Allipuram area was discharged. On April 8, three more cases, (two from Padmanabham and one from Allipuram), were discharged from GIMSR. On March 13, two persons were discharged from GIMSR after their tests resulted negative. On March 14, four persons from Muslim Thatichetlapalem have been discharged. The last positive case from the district was recorded on April 6. As on April 18, nine persons who were under isolation at GHCCD have been discharged after their reports tested negative. Officials said that there are nine more persons in the isolation ward. “Teams, including ward volunteers, ASHA workers and health department officials, have been conducting surveys in all containment zones and other areas. Persons showing symptoms like fever, cough, cold are being shifted to GHCCD. Meanwhile random tests are also conducted,” said an official from the Health Department. Similarly, COVID-19 positive cases which belong to East Godavari district are being treated at Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), which is one of the four COVID-19 State hospitals. While one case belongs to Tuni, the other case is from Rajamahendravaram. “Persons with over 60 years of age or with respiratory disorders are being treated at VIMS,” said VIMS Director V. Satya Vara Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-more-coronavirus-patients-discharged-from-gitam-hospital/article31379975.ece
19 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||EPFO extends time for filing of ECR for March wage month||The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has extended the date for filing of Electronic Challan Cum Return (ECR) for wage month March, 2020, to May 15 for employers who have paid wages to their employees for March, 2020. This is being done in view of the unprecedented situation created by COVID-19 and lockdown announced by the Central government from March 25 to prevent the spread of the virus, according to Regional PF Commissioner-I T. Indira. The due date for March, 2020, is normally April 15, so a grace period of 30 days has been allowed to the establishments covered under the EPF & MP Act, 1952, to remit the contributions and administrative charges due for March, 2020. The employers have to declare the date of disbursement of wage for March, 2020, in the ECR for March, 2020. Govt. to pay share Further, as per the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), the Government of India will pay EPF contribution of both employer and employee (12% each) for three wage months (March, April and May, 2020) so that nobody suffers due to loss of continuity in the EPFO contribution. This is for those establishments that have up to 100 employees and 90% of whom earn wages below Rs. 15,000 per month. This will benefit about 80 lakh employees and incentivise about 4 lakh establishments to continue their employees on their payrolls despite disruption, and the Centre will spend around Rs. 5,000 crore for this purpose. The EPFO has introduced ‘pandemic advance facility for employees’. Withdrawal EPF members can now withdraw up to 75% of the amount standing to a member’s credit in the EPF account or three months basic salary and dearness allowance, whichever is less. Those members whose UAN is seeded with Aadhaar, may submit their claim online and such claims will be settled in 72 hours. The EPFO, Regional Office, Visakhapatnam, is also taking grievances/suggestions/ feedback from stakeholders through its Facebook account (EPFO RO, Visakhapatnam) and Twitter handle (@epfovizag). Subscribers can also approach through email/telephone and EPFiGMS/CPGRAMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/epfo-extends-time-for-filing-of-ecr-for-march-wage-month/article31379964.ece
19 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MLA lashes out at Naidu over COVID criticism||YSR Congress Party spokesman and Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath on Saturday lashed out at TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu over the latter’s statements against the State Government. “Mr. Naidu’s remarks on the government response to COVID-19 are irresponsible. The main opposition party is levelling false allegations against the government,” Mr. Amarnath said. “The TDP chief is politicising every issue. He is even more dangerous than coronavirus, as he has infected various systems of the State for the past four decades,” Mr. Amarnath alleged. ‘CM on top of situation’ Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is closely monitoring the situation and is taking necessary steps to keep the outbreak under control. “Even as developed countries like the U.S., Italy and Spain, which have high-end healthcare facilities, are struggling to control the spread of the virus, Andhra Pradesh has been able to control it to a great extent,” the YSRCP MLA said. “Opposition leaders are unable to digest the fact that the State government is doing the right thing. Today, Mr. Naidu and his son are unaware of what is happening in A.P. as they are in Hyderabad and are making irrelevant remarks to boost their political mileage,” Mr. Amarnath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mla-lashes-out-at-naidu-over-covid-criticism/article31379966.ece
19 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Persons from hotspots need higher level of testing’||Even when a person in the hotspot tests negative for rapid antibody test, he should be subjected to Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test if the suspicion is high for COVID-19, former Secretary to the Government of India E.A.S. Sarma suggests. Citing the guidelines issued by the Union Health Ministry, Mr. Sarma said only persons displaying flu symptoms for more than seven days alone should be subjected to rapid test. But even if the test results are negative, the person should be quarantined for a week. After that if the clinical suspicion is ‘high for COVID-19’ he should be subjected to RT-PCR test to make sure that he is negative, he said in a letter to Special Chief Secretary (Health) K.S. Jawahar Reddy. He hoped that those carrying the tests were fully trained as per the ICMR requirements. Citing an instance in Spain where a Chinese consignment of rapid test kits had to be rejected as they had failed to conform to the prescribed accuracy levels, he said it was imperative that all consignments of imported test kits and the other medical products were subjected to strict quality verification in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/persons-from-hotspots-need-higher-level-of-testing/article31379978.ece
19 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three excise officials transferred||Three officials from the Prohibition and Excise Department have been transferred based on reports that they were negligent in duties, here on Friday night. Commissioner of Prohibition & Excise Vivek Yadav has issued orders transferring Assistant Prohibition & Excise Superintendent, Gajuwaka, R. Prasad, Inspector, Gajuwaka (Excise Special Task Force), A Srirangam Dora, Excise Inspector, Pendurthy, P. Muralidhar, with immediate effect on administrative grounds. He also asked them to report to headquarters for further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-excise-officials-transferred/article31379976.ece
19 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Essentials distributed||Marking the 75th Founding Day of All India Bank Employees Association its Visakhapatnam District Coordination Committee distributed rice, ‘dal,’ cooking oil, 'atta,' potatoes, masks and soap to 150 sanitation workers of GVMC and auto drivers at the Solid Waste Management Centre at Seethammadhara on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/essentials-distributed/article31379977.ece
19 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BMS to observe Solidarity Day on April 22||Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) will observe April 22 as Solidarity Day nation-wide to extend support to corona warriors working selflessly to fight the virus. According to BMS vice-president M. Jagadiswara Rao and All-India Port and Dock Workers’ Federation president K. Bhavani Shankarudu, a one-minute silence will be observed at 4 p.m. on the day to pay tributes to the medical personnel who died while treating the COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bms-to-observe-solidarity-day-on-april-22/article31379980.ece
19 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers union provides masks, gloves and soaps to sanitation workers||The A.P. Teachers Federation has provided 3,000 masks, 3,000 gloves and as many soaps to sanitation workers of Zones Two, Three and Four of the GVMC. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Raogave them away to the workers at the Zone Three office on Saturday. Pragati Bharat Foundation on Saturday provided essential commodities to 768 sanitation workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-union-provides-masks-gloves-and-soaps-to-sanitation-workers/article31379979.ece
19 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Donation||Biophore India Pharmaceuticals located at Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City, Parawada, has handed over a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh to District Collector V. Vinay Chand to fight COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/donation/article31379981.ece
19 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay power bill, Discom urges consumers||Eastern Power Distribution Company of AP Ltd has appealed to consumers to pay April month bill sent through SMS to the registered mobile numbers either at ERO offices or through UPI platforms. The bill particulars are also provided in official website of APEPDL. April 19 is the last date for bills issued on April 5 and April 20 is the last date for hills dated April 6. April 28 is the last date for the bills issued on April 14. Hence, the consumers are requested to pay their bills within due date without any fine, according to H. Gopala Rao, Chief General Manage (Expenditure), APEPDCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-power-bill-discom-urges-consumers/article31379982.ece
19 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical camps a timely help for rural people||Medical camps conducted by many charitable organisations have turned to be a timely help for the patients who could not access hospitals and medicines due to the lockdown. In association with philanthropists, Sri Gurudeva Charitable Trust has been conducting a series of medical camps in many mandals of Vizianagaram district. “Many people in rural areas do not have access to medicines and doctors. We have so far conducted 20 medical camps in Kothavalasa, S.Kota and L.Kota mandals, said R. Jagadish Babu, founder of Sri Gurudeva Charitable Trust. Indian Academy of Paediatricians former president and ‘Sab Ka Malik Ek’ charitable organisation founder Pusarla Suneeta and a few doctors have been visiting villages to serve people while distributing essential commodities to them. Gantyada Primary Health Centre doctor U. Appala Raju thanked the World Vision NGO for providing 500 N-95 masks and sanitisers for the medical staff who were working in rural areas. Indian Medical Association Vizianagaram district president K. Srinivas urged all doctors to attend emergency cases and extend their services to poor patients in their vicinity during the lockdown period. Indian Red Cross Society teams have been moving in various towns to distribute masks, sanitisers and create awareness among the public about the benefits of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medical-camps-a-timely-help-for-rural-people/article31379577.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The key to enforcement||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-key-to-enforcement/article31379581.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Frozen frames||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/frozen-frames/article31379553.ece
19 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Adivasis appeal for low-key homage||The Indervelli Amaraveerula Ashaya Sadhana Samithi and the Tudum Debba, both Adivasi organisations, on Saturday appealed to tribal people not to assemble at the Indervelli martyrs’ memorial column on April 20 for the annual homage paying ceremonies. Arka Khammu, Mesram Nagnath, Purka Bapu Rao and Kotnak Barik Rao, leaders of the two organisations, issued the appeal in view of the restriction on movement of people thanks to COVID-19 related lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/adivasis-appeal-for-low-key-homage/article31379827.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A glimpse into the isolated existence of containment zones||P. Swaroopa, who has a business of ironing clothes, faced a difficult situation recently. Her residence in P&T Colony of Dilsukhnagar was barricaded and guarded by police, after it was declared a COVID-19 containment zone by government. A patient was diagnosed with coronavirus infection in their locality and is being treated at Gandhi Hospital. The entire street where he lived has been barricaded, and the residents have been told to stay home. Whatever they needed from outside would be provided by authorities, against payment of money. “I had booked a gas cylinder, and the delivery guy came with it. Finding the street barricaded, he called me on my phone. When I called the contacts given to me in the flyer, there was no response. I had to request my neighbours whose door opened on the other side where there was no barricading, to take the delivery,” she related from the other side of the iron grilles separating her from the rest of the world. The cylinders were finally exchanged from the rooftop across the parapet wall, which was quite an exercise. She mostly depends on neighbours for her regular needs too, such as groceries and vegetables. “I have no business for the past one month. My husband who works as washerman in a private hospital too is idle now. We do not have resources to buy provisions for entire month at once, and I am embarrassed to call every time I need small amounts of groceries and vegetables costing Rs. 20 to Rs. 30,” Swaroopa says. The containment zone has 56 households and 285 persons, including senior citizens. “There is no need to hesitate. We will provide anything the residents need. They just have to say it. Initially, we faced a little resistance from senior citizens who said the medicines they needed were available only at Abids. We offered to get the medicines for them, and the problem was solved,” an official monitoring the zone said, expressing satisfaction at the discipline of the residents. The containment zone at Dabeerpura, declared so after two patients were diagnosed with COVID-19, has 119 households, and 721 persons staying within. But a look at the street near Biwi Ka Alawa now reminds one of a desert. Though grocery shop in the locality is allowed to be open, residents are not being allowed to venture out. Eight to 10 volunteers, instead, do their rounds supplying milk, groceries, medicines and vegetables. “We get around 250 calls per day for supplies. We arranged for a vegetable vendor at the entrance, and run errands from there,” said Mohammed Kasheef Ansari, site supervisor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-glimpse-into-the-isolated-existence-of-containment-zones/article31379807.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR calls for extreme caution to curb COVID-19 spread||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, on Saturday, stressed on extreme caution as COVID-19 cases are going up in the State and the country daily. The official machinery should be on high alert and as more number of cases are being registered in Hyderabad, a strategic plan should be implemented, he said. Mr. Rao held a review meeting at Pragathi Bhavan on Saturday on curbing the spread of COVID-19, treatment being extended to patients and implementation of lockdown, among other things. He instructed officials to implement all measures to control the spread of COVID-19 and ensure that nobody goes hungry due to the lockdown. He also discussed the issues to be taken up at Sunday’s Cabinet meeting. Health Minister Eatala Rajender, Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao, City Mayor Bonthu Ramamohan, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP M. Mahender Reddy, Principal Secretaries Shanti Kumari, S. Narsing Rao, K. Ramakrishna Rao, and Kaloji Health University VC Karunakar Reddy attended the meeting. Mr. Rao said that special focus should be paid to containment zones in the city and no one should be allowed to come out of those zones. The official machinery should be on high alert in areas where the affected are residing. A suitable strategy for every area be formulated. It should be ascertained who all could be infected from COVID-19 positive cases and tests should be conducted. The CM said that poor should not suffer due to the lockdown, and the government distributed cash and free rice to white ration cardholders. If there were any more migrant workers and daily wagers, they should be recognised and help be extended. The agricultural operations should continue as usual and the procurement centres should be supervised by District Collectors and People’s representatives. Every government department should be on alert to extend any help to anybody in this period, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-calls-for-extreme-caution-to-curb-covid-19-spread/article31379826.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State exercise to check on Rohingya after Centre’s prod||An exercise to verify if Rohingyas residing in different parts of Telangana had attended any religious meetings outside the State had begun, following a letter from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. The letter stated that ‘Rohingya Muslims’ may need to be screened for COVID-19 following reports that some of them from Telangana, Delhi, Punjab and Jammu attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. Police officers monitoring the situation in Telangana said that close to 45 Rohingyas from the State had attended the TJ event. Of them, 22 had returned to the State. “Four of them tested positive and are being treated at a government hospital,” a top police official, unwilling to be named, said. One of them was discharged after testing negative during subsequent tests. Inquiries about the remaining Rohingyas indicated that some of them were in Mewat of Haryana and a few in Punjab. “There are reports that some of them had gone to Jammu or Kashmir from Delhi. This is being verified,” the officer said. Police here were informed that the remaining Rohingyas could not return due to the lockdown. Already, Nalgonda police registered cases against 17 Rohingyas, of whom five were from Mewat, two from Kashmir and the rest from Balapur area near Chandrayangutta. One of them had attended the TJ meeting, police said. Five of them tested positive. This included two from Mewat and three from Balapur. All of them were sent to a government hospital in Hyderabad and others were quarantined in a government building in Nalgonda outskirts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-exercise-to-check-on-rohingya-after-centres-prod/article31379822.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fear of financiers haunts autorickshaw, cab drivers||Thousands of autorickshaw and cab drivers are living in fear that the financiers, who lent money for their vehicles, would act tough as soon as the lockdown is lifted. Since they are unable to pay their instalments this month, they are apprehensive that the financiers would forcefully collect the dues when the vehicles hit the road. 12% interest rate On an average, auto drivers who purchase vehicles on finance end up paying monthly instalments of Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 9,000 while the amount for cabs is roughly around Rs. 20,000. Most of the financing for the vehicles is done by franchisees of big automobile finance companies at an interest rate of 12%, of which 3% is shared with franchisees. There were about 1.5 lakh autorickshaws in Hyderabad and 3.7 lakh State-wide, but the means of livelihood of the drivers is far from comfortable, irrespective of whether one owns the vehicle or drives it on rent. Spouses of the drivers mostly work as maidservants or do odd jobs and do not have ration cards or Aadhaar issued in Hyderabad to access government benefits locally. The life of drivers who hire vehicles will not change even after the lockdown ends as they will not have loan hangups but it is expected that the lenders will coerce them for repayments. “Already, there are enough signs of what’s in store as the franchisees have started calling up the drivers and asking them to clear the instalments,” said V. Kiran, president, Telangana Motor Workers Federation. As regards cabs operated by app-based aggregators, the situation is worse — owners will not only have to pay monthly instalment but also the first quarter road tax with grace period which will expire by the month-end. The non-payment of tax entails a 50% penalty. There are about 80,000 cabs plying in Hyderabad.  Already, there are enough signs of what’s in store as the franchisees have started calling up the drivers and asking them to clear the instalments. V. Kiran, President, Telangana Motor Workers Federation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fear-of-financiers-haunts-autorickshaw-cab-drivers/article31379798.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Armed forces veterans volunteer to fight pandemic||All of them have participated in wars to protect the frontiers of the country since the ’60s but are now geared up to fight the enemy called COVID-19. Responding to a call from the State government seeking volunteers from among retired army personnel, a large number of veterans have enlisted their services to fight the pandemic. “I am more than willing to help the civil administration in any way. I am a physically disabled person, with left hemiparesis leading to 50% loco motor disability on left side. I am, however, mobile as I drive my own car and walk independently, using a stick where the ground may be uneven and without even a stick on level ground,” said Group Captain Vivek Kapur. Age too has not deterred Wing Commander Bhushan. “So what I am 78, I am still fit, kicking alive and ready to serve the nation,” he added. Chairman of All-India Ex-servicemen Coordination Committee Naik L. Jagan Reddy (retired) has not shied away from his responsibility. “Jab tak hai jaan, tab tak hai watan ke saath (Till our last breath, we will serve the nation)’,” he said. As on Saturday, 725 veterans had applied online, said Colonel P. Ramesh Kumar, director, Sainik Welfare, Telangana, adding, “The soldiers have always been at the forefront to serve the nation whether in peace or war.” “A large number of ex-servicemen have been voluntarily participating in various charitable activities in the State such as providing rations to the needy during the lockdown. Many of them have expressed willingness to support the government in fighting COVID-19. Accordingly, the list of ex-servicemen have been forwarded by Zilla Sainik Welfare Officers to respective District Collectors,” he told The Hindu . The director said the State government has solicited volunteers from retired armed forces personnel for patient care services, logistics, security and any other tasks related to management of COVID-19. The volunteers are required to fill up online application forms to register as volunteers. In view of the above, all ex-servicemen are requested to register themselves on https://transport.telangana.gov.in. The ex-servicemen are required to give preference of work for three districts, in the e-application. The deployed volunteer will be paid honorarium as decided by the government. The last date for application is April 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/armed-forces-veterans-volunteer-to-fight-pandemic/article31379797.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Do not lay off: KTR to honchos||IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has appealed to industry leaders in the State not to terminate jobs of employees, regular, contractual or outsourced, at a time when the pandemic of COVID-19 has caused extreme hardship to all sections of the economy. The appeal tweeted by the Minister on behalf of the government on Saturday acknowledges that industry sectors, including IT and ITES, were facing multiple challenges due to lockdown that had led to loss of production, revenue and shrinkage of market. “Yet humanity demands that in this period of crisis, we need to be compassionate towards the workforce that served us for so many years,” he said. KTR said the companies may consider other forms of cost cutting including pay cut, deferment of increments, and bonuses. The State government had already announced salary deferments right from the Chief Minister, Ministers, senior officers and employees at all levels, he added. He promised that if the industry refrained from job cut and termination, once the country and the State came out of the crisis, the government would ensure enabling conditions for the industry to bounce back. The appeal by the Minister evoked positive response from employees in all sectors, particularly in IT/ITES sectors that were fearing job losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/do-not-lay-off-ktr-to-honchos/article31379820.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre sanctions Rs. 620 cr. for road laying||The Union government has given preliminary nod for release of Rs. 620 crore under the PM’s Grameena Sadak Yojana Scheme to lay 1,000 km roads in the State. Telangana State, which has been allotted a 2,427 km road network, will have to make proposals ready for the remaining 1,427 km roads. The number of workers under the NREGS touched six lakh per day even during the coronavirus lockdown, and this was a good development. With the start of agricultural works in a few days, the number would touch 10 lakh per day, said Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao. He instructed the officials concerned to be very careful in this phase and ensure that labourers and sanitation workers were given safe working environment and protection. “Drinking water and enough masks should be provided to them,” he said. The Minister held a high-level review meeting at his residence here on Saturday. PR and RD secretary Sandeep Kumar Sultania, commissioner Raghunandan Rao and PMGSY chief engineer E. Rajasekhara Reddy attended the meet. Mr. Dayakar Rao said that under PMGSY Phase 3, the State was allotted 2,427 km and under Phase 1, the Centre gave preliminary sanction for Rs. 620 crore. Now, officers should ready proposals for the 1,427 km roads under Phase 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-sanctions-rs-620-cr-for-road-laying/article31379823.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eerie quiet at Brindavan Colony in Toli Chowki||Life inside a COVID-19 containment zone with independent houses and small apartment complexes in an upper middle class area is as normal as can be. “I say they should extend it. I watch news and get worried when I see people walk on the road aimlessly through the day from my house,” says Abeed, a businessman, who lives in a small lane in Brindavan Colony in the Toli Chowki area demarcated as a containment zone. There are heavy barricades on the four roads that lead to the area with 101 households and a population of 427 people. Inside, it is eerily quiet with four watchmen and workers of an under-construction building loitering on the leafy lane. On the first floor of one of the buildings, a gentleman works out on a treadmill with earbuds plugged unmindful of the world below. A milk vendor reaches through the southern entrance, measures it out and tries to move the barricade to get in. “Don’t come. Call your customers, ask them to come and take the milk,” says a policeman. “But I have been supplying like this for the past month?” says the milk vendor. The conversation continues before one of the customers walks in to collect the milk at the barricade. “We are limiting the contact people in the colony have with outsiders. Between 8 a.m. and noon, vegetables are made available,” says Mohan Rao, the nodal officer of the containment zone. “Our focus is ensuring sanitary conditions in the area and supply of daily needs like groceries, milk and medicines,” says Mr. Rao, who has been badgered with calls about pan, cigarettes and supply of meat by some residents. “About a month ago, a 57-year-old man returned from the US and fell ill due to the COVID-19. He passed away and his wife also tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 and is now admitted to a hospital. Their house is at the end of the street,” says the lone policeman, guarding the western entrance to the locality. The area was declared a containment zone on April 9 and is likely to remain notified like that till April 30. “Instead of eating meat, we are eating vegetables. Instead of curries, we are making do with pickles. We don’t have a shortage of supplies. We get 10 packets of milk instead of one and they last for a few days,” says Mehbub Khan, one of the residents. Outside the street, the main road leading resembles a busy market area in the morning with watermelon sellers, neatly arranged vegetables, medical stores, meat shops and pharmacies packed with buyers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eerie-quiet-at-brindavan-colony-in-toli-chowki/article31379805.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre allots 21.8L tonnes of fertilizers||The Centre has allotted 21.8 lakh tonnes of fertilizers, including 10.5 lakh tonnes of urea, to Telangana for the next kharif season. However, the State has received only about one-third of the quota for April so far. At a meeting held here on Saturday to review the positioning of fertilizers for kharif season, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy stated that 8 lakh tonnes of NPK (Nitrogen, Phosphorous and Potassium) and 1.5 lakh tonnes each of DAP (Di-Ammonium Phosphate) and MoP (Muriate of Potash) had also been allotted to the State for kharif. Requesting fertilizer companies to supply month-wise quota allotted to them in time, he said that only 0.35 lakh tonnes urea had reached the State so far. He asked the handling agencies to arrange for the required storage space as per their agreement with Markfed in tune with the arrival of railway rakes. In a specific request made to fertilizer company Iffco, he wanted it to move its quota to Telangana for April from its 22,000 tonnes of urea stationed at a port in AP. The Minister instructed Collectors concerned to take the initiative to arrange workers for loading and unloading urea at rake points. In case officials face storage issues, they could make use of function halls, he suggested. He told the officials of agriculture department, Markfed and fertilizer firms, to coordinate among themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-allots-218l-tonnes-of-fertilizers/article31379819.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No social distancing in Old Malakpet||The barricade is ajar. A hand slips from behind, as another passes a packet of medicines into it. The barricade is quickly closed. The road on the other side is deserted, save a couple of people standing expectantly on its banks. This is the Old Malakpet containment zone and nobody is allowed to enter or leave. Contained within the barricades are as many as 732 households, translating into 2,831 residents. It was here, in Faqiri Galli, a stone’s throw from the Nalgonda crossroads, that a 64-year-old woman tested positive for the novel coronavirus. A total of 11 cases were reported from here. Manning the barricades under a tent are ASHA workers, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation officials and police personnel. In the beginning, being boxed in was difficult for residents. There was a lack of access to essentials supplies. “On April 14, I faced a problem. I am supposed to have milk with my medication, otherwise I tend to develop mouth ulcers. Unfortunately, I couldn’t buy any. After sending a message to a friend, a few hours later, the local corporator got the milk sent to my house,” said Asim Shareef (name changed), a lawyer and resident of the area. Now, between 7 am and 11 am, a milk stall is set up as is a small vegetable market near the barricades. Residents say that while this is a welcome move, enforcing social distancing more is required. “People tend to form groups and social distancing is not followed. It would be better if more is done to enforce this,” said Mohammed Azam, a techie who moved into the neighbourhood last year. As the techie speaks from within the containment zone, a youth on a motorcycle stops near the barricades. He tries to convince a GHMC sanitation filed assistant to let him out so that he can buy supplies. He is promptly turned away. Refusing to reveal his name, he says with disappointment, “Three days ago, I transferred money to a kirana shop for essentials. The shop owners has not sent anything. I wanted to go out for only half an hour.” GHMC officials say they have facilitated supply of essentials from SQ Mart, a supermarket, across the road, and medicines from a pharmacy two buildings away from the zone. “We have created a WhatsApp group with one person from each house and disseminate information. After finding 11 cases in just one building, the containment zone came into effect on April 11. We are doing whatever we can to provide essential supplies and have tied up with suppliers,” says GHMC nodal officer M A Qadeer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-social-distancing-in-old-malakpet/article31379811.ece
19 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Constable tests positive||A 35-year-old constable with Hyderabad police tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The constable was on enforcement duty at Ashok Nagar and later at Domalguda. His wife and their two children, aged seven and eight, a sub-inspector and five more constables with whom he had interacted were sent to Government quarantine at Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital and their swabs were sent for testing, an officer said. He said that on April 6, the constable had experienced body ache and he was granted leave. Five days later, on April 11, he had a running temperature. On the advice of his superior, he got admitted to King Koti Government hospital on Thursday and on Saturday he tested positive for COVID-19. “Soon, he was shifted to Gandhi Hospital and his primary contacts are under government quarantine,” the officer said. He said the victim might have come in contact with a coronavirus symptomatic person while performing the duty at check posts.On April 6, a 55-year-old head constable with Hyderabad police and his family members, including his granddaughter, tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constable-tests-positive/article31379801.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘No info on how to procure essentials’||Asifnagar has emerged a major containment area in Hyderabad, with several new cases coming from there and authorities making restrictions only tighter by the day. It is reliably learnt that Asifnagar, with Mehdipatnam being its biggest locality for all practical purposes, is one of the hubs of Tablighi Jamaat, on the lines of Mallepally. The ‘Choti Masjid’ in Muradnagar area of Asif Nagar is a very active centre for the TJ, attracting hundreds of devotees on Fridays and even more during Ramzan. Locals claim that surrounding areas have a high density of TJ followers, and authorities are clamping down here as the number of positive cases from Mehdipatnam alone is around 40. Residents of Mehdipatnam said ‘police are everywhere’ and most people are being questioned every time they go out. On the other hand, they have also complained that no information regarding containment measures or how to procure essentials was provided to them by authorities. “We are told not to go out. We are not given any contact numbers for delivery of essential services even though we are watching news channels that the government is helping everyone,” said a resident of Muradnagar. However, the situation is different at the containment zone near Ashoor Khana Hazrat Abbas A.S. in Humayun Nagar. Residents here are requesting the GHMC employees deployed on the other side of the fence to get vegetables, medicines, water cans, and other commodities. “There are around 75 buildings in this zone with more than 200 people. They will come near the fence, hand over the list of groceries and money to GHMC workers, who will get them from the nearest store. Everything is peaceful here,” said a police officer deployed near the fence. He said that a couple of residents who work at hospitals, banks and other essential services were allowed to go out only after signing a register. “They have to mention in and out time with their name and other details,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-info-on-how-to-procure-essentials/article31379800.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HRC gesture to Gandhi Hospital||The Chairman and the Board of Directors\Stewards of Hyderabad Race Club here has decided to donate to Gandhi Hospital Rs. 24.08 lakh worth personnel protection equipment, including cover suit, goggles, gloves, shoe leggings, disposable bags, N-95 masks totalling 2,000 and also a Video Laryngoscope with all accessories, according to a media release here. “We have resolved to support the Telangana state government and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in their efforts to implementing stringent measures strictly during the lockdown to fight the Covid-19 along with the support of the Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender,” it said. “The HRC is also taking care of the permanent, contractual and temporary employees and daily wage earners, who are not attending to duty because of the lockdown, by paying salaries to all of them,” it said. “Similarly, the 517 Race Day Temporary part time employees, especially ladies, who are normally paid only during race days are also being paid now Rs. 5,000 each as a special gesture during lockdown for the lockdown period as ad hoc payment amounting to Rs. 25.86 lakh.’ The HRC was also supplying groceries to about 120 daily wage earners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hrc-gesture-to-gandhi-hospital/article31379802.ece
19 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Newborn tests positive||A 45-day-old baby boy from Abangapur village in Narayanpet district tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. This is the first positive case in the district. The baby was admitted to Gandhi Hospital here. Parents of the newborn have tested negative for the virus. The task at hand is to find out how the baby boy contracted the infection. “As the baby was showing the signs of discomfort, he was taken to a private hospital in Mahabubnagar on April 13 and from there to Hyderabad, before he was treated at Niloufer Hospital,” said Narayanpet Collector D. Hari Chandana. She said the entire village with a population of over 700 has been quarantined, and 22 primary contacts of the child sent to government quarantine centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/newborn-tests-positive/article31379799.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SHG women now take up making PPE kits||Unable to carry out their regular activities for livelihood due to the lockdown, some SHG women trained in tailoring in Mahabubnagar district have taken to making PPE (personal protective equipment) kits and masks, with the help of the district administration and District Rural Development Agency (DRDA). The initiative has not only helped them make the most out of the current situation, but has helped the society by making quality PPE kits available to the district administration for supply to frontline medical and health professionals. “These PPE kits are making our ‘warriors’ more confident,” District Collector S. Venkata Rao said. According to DRDA officials, making (stitching) these PPE kits has been taken up on April 12, after a couple of days of orientation to the SHG women. After consulting the higher-ups, the district administration has secured the prescribed spun-bound synthetic material to make the PPE kits having frock/gown/apron, trousers/pants, cap, footwear and mask. “To begin with, we identified 25 skilled SHG women trained in tailoring. We bring them to our workshop here (Mahabubnagar) in our vehicles every morning and drop them in the evening,” District project manager of DRDA A. Nagamallika told The Hindu . The DRDA has also been providing meals and tea to the SHG women at Palamuru Zilla Mahila Samakhya building at Bandameedipally. Each woman is able to stitch 5 PPE kits per day. “We have plans to make 10,000 PPE kits as of now. The wages for each kit will be decided by the district administration. There are 250 more SHG women engaged in making masks across the district and we are paying tailoring charges of Rs. 5 per piece after providing the material. The DRDA is selling these masks at Rs. 15 each,” Ms. Nagamallika explained, adding that already over 1.2 lakh masks have been made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shg-women-now-take-up-making-ppe-kits/article31379814.ece
19 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||What schemes used to deal with COVID: HC asks govt.||The Telangana High Court on Friday directed the State government to explain what scheme it was following for testing and treating COVID-19 suspects or patients. A Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T. Amarnath Goud passed this direction, after hearing a PIL plea on private hospitals charging Rs. 4,500 for coronavirus diagnostic tests. Hearing the arguments through video-conferencing, the Bench instructed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to inform it about different aspects of testing and treating methods being adopted by the government. Petitioner P. Thirumala Rao, an advocate, told the Bench that the Telangana government opted out of the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana for dealing with COVID-19. The State government formed its own scheme to test and treat the affected. What was the scheme floated by State government, the extent of its implementation and the scope of relief it gives to people over testing and treating coronavirus patients should be explained in a report, the Bench said. The matter was posted to Wednesday for next hearing. In another PIL petition, the Bench sought to know how the government was helping Nayee Brahmin people operating hair saloons (which were closed due to lockdown) in the State. The Bench took up a letter written by Nayee Brahmin Youth Association president Dhanraj as PIL plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/what-schemes-used-to-deal-with-covid-hc-asks-govt/article31379821.ece
19 April 2020||KAMAREDDY,TELANGANA||Fire in Vithaleswar temple||Fire broke out at the famous Vithaleswar temple in Yellareddy town on Friday night. Teak wood stored in a room in the temple got burnt in the accident that is believed to have happened due to a short-circuit. With people alerting the electrical department staff, police and fire-fighters arrived and extinguished the flames. The temple is safe, said head of temple committee Vangapally Nagabhushanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fire-in-vithaleswar-temple/article31379828.ece
19 April 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Do not panic, we are with you: Suryapet Collector||The reason for the sudden spike in cases in Suryapet district — 31 COVID-19 positive cases within two days — a total of 54 till date was due to an infected shopkeeper in the vegetable market area. At least 25 positive cases belong to the four families of traders, who are also closely-related, in the area, District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy said on Saturday. “After identifying the 9th positive case in the district last week, we took his 64 contacts into quarantine. Of all those that were tested, eight of them were positive, and their immediate families when diagnosed too were positive,” he said. However, no new case has been reported on Saturday. “Importantly, of the 54 detected positive cases in the district till Friday 7 p.m., 53 are asymptomatic. But aggressive testing of the suspects and their relatives helped us diagnose them, and so is the spike in the cases now,” Mr. Reddy said. Along with Superintendent of Police R. Bhaskaran, Collector Mr. Reddy inspected the Kothagudam bazar area on Saturday and oversaw sanitisation. The district administration has also got 54 new sprayers for the purpose to be used across the town and the villages. The police department has deployed sets of drone cameras to keep watch over the town and through the bylanes. Mr. Reddy said the administration was buying farmers’ produce and through ‘Mee Seva’ smartphone application being handled by the municipal authority, fruits, vegetables, medicines and groceries are being delivered at the doorstep. “Since we do not disclose patient names, we release number of positive cases. And there is no need to panic, we have been aggressive on containing the disease. The district administration is with the people of Suryapet,” Mr. Reddy said. Suryapet residents can dial 1800 425 1972, the 24-hour helpline, for any information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/do-not-panic-we-are-with-you-suryapet-collector/article31379818.ece
19 April 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||Elderly couple killed in accident||An elderly couple was killed on the spot when a speeding car rammed them near Rampur on Saturday. They were identified as Naini Ilaiah (60) and Venkatamma (55), residents of Rampur village of Dharmasagar mandal. They were returning home from a bank after drawing pension. In the CCTV footage that went viral, both of them were seen walking slowly and crossing the median when the car ran over them. The driver did not stop. Police rushed to the spot and shifted them to MGM Hospital for autopsy. Police Commissioner V. Ravinder said that special teams have been formed to nab the driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/elderly-couple-killed-in-accident/article31379829.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Pharmacies to keep track of fever ‘patients’||The association members had requested the State government to check whether medicine dealers have contracted COVID-19. Stating that they are coming in contact with people who buy medicines at their stores, the association members in a representation addressed to Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said that they are facing the risk of contracting and spreading the infection. Mr Rao earlier said that though they have painted circles indicating where customers should stand, people still crowd the sales counter when the number of customers is high. Precautions like wearing masks, gloves are being observed by pharmacists. However, stating that they are at risk, the pharmacists wanted tests to be conducted. “A pharmacist from Suryapet and another from Hyderabad have already tested positive,” he said. Meanwhile, the total number of cases in GHMC has gone up to 448 (active and discharged), which is 55% of total cases in the State. The active cases from the State also include three pregnant women . While one woman is in 32nd week of pregnancy, two more are in 18th week. Superintendent of the hospital P. Shravan Kumar said that nutritious food is provided to them including dry fruits and fruits. Director of Public Health and Family Welfare G. Srinivasa Rao stated in an advisory that home-made double layered masks are effective in preventing infection. “The masks should not be handled or frequently adjusted by touching the exterior or outer surface. They should be washed everyday and can be reused. Safe disposal of masks is essential,” Mr Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pharmacies-to-keep-track-of-fever-patients/article31379815.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||City reports 186 new cases, one death||One death and 186 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Saturday, taking the total number of deaths to 43 and cases to 1,893, according to the Delhi government health bulletin. Of the 1,893 cases, 207 people have recovered and there are 1,643 active cases. The Delhi government also added eight more areas to its list of containment zones, taking the total number of such areas in the city to 76. A containment zone has a stricter form of lockdown and entry and exit of people are not allowed in these zones. According to officials, an apartment block in Civil Lines was declared a containment zone on Saturday evening after eight people, including domestic helps, tested positive for COVID-19. Also, a New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) engineer has tested positive for the virus, the corporation said on Saturday. “One NDMC engineer has tested positive for COVID-19. Contact tracing as per protocol is being done and necessary action will be taken. NDMC is disinfecting his office and entire NDMC building,” NDMC spokesperson said. On Saturday, two city municipal corporations imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000 for spitting or urinating in public places, as part of the fight against COVID-19. “The aforesaid directive shall remain in force till same are expressly withdrawn,” Amit Singla, Secretary of NDMC, said in the order. “The SDMC (South Delhi Municipal Corporation) bans spitting and urinating in public spaces. Imposes hefty fine of Rs. 1,000 on such acts. All licensing Inspectors, public health inspectors, sanitary/asst. sanitary inspectors and malaria/asst. malaria inspectors are authorised to take action and impose fine on violators (sic),” an official statement said. Meanwhile, over 270 cases were registered and 3,608 people detained in Delhi on Saturday for violating lockdown orders, the police said. A total of 677 movement passes were issued and 188 cases registered against people for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks, the police added. Mobile testing vans In a first, mobile testing vans will begin doing rounds in Central District areas from Sunday. “This is the first such mobile van testing facility in Delhi. Initially, we will take samples and transfer them for testing. Eventually, we will use testing kits,” said District Magistrate (Central District) Nidhi Srivastava.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-reports-186-new-cases-one-death/article31379767.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Slight decrease in COVID-19 cases in city’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said there had been a slight decrease in the number of COVID-19 cases here in the last three days and hoped that it would reduce further in the coming days. Addressing an online media briefing on the COVID-19outbreak, Mr. Kejriwal said out of 2,274 samples tested, only 67 people tested positive for the novel virus on Friday. A few days earlier, the daily tally of infections ranged between 180 and 350. He said a compensation of Rs. 1 crore would now be given to the family of all “Corona Warriors” who lose their lives while attending to the patients of COVID-19 and not just medical practitioners and sanitation workers. “In the last 2-3 days, the number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi has been coming down...Right now we have 71 containment such zones in Delhi," he said. Jahangirpuri cases "I am worried because people within some containment zones are not following the guidelines of social distance. In Jahangirpuri, within a containment zone, 26 people related to one family have found to be positive. My appeal to all that you should not be in this illusion that you will not be affected by COVID-19 because the source of the virus is difficult to find out,” he said. He added that the government's scheme to provide Rs. 1 crore compensation to the next of kin of medical practitioners would now apply to other frontline workers as well. “Today, we have decided that this scheme will be extended... any doctor, nurse, a sanitation worker of any hospital, lab technician... Police, Civil Defence volunteers, teachers... If anyone contracts the vrius and dies due to it, while looking after COVID-19patients, then it will be extended to all such people. Their families will be given Rs. 1 crore,” he said. He added that 60 sanitisation machines are operating in Delhi and many areas are being sanitised. “If you want that sanitisation of your area is needed then you can approach the government,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said around 71 lakh ration card holders had received free ration of 7.5 kg but there were still those who do not have ration cards for whom an online application procedure had been put in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/slight-decrease-in-covid-19-cases-in-city/article31379765.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||No study materials, changing dates leave civil service aspirants clueless||The COVID-19 pandemic has thrust lakhs of civil service aspirants across the country in the lurch and silence on part of the authorities concerned, they complained. They alleged that they are struggling to cope with lack of study material, coaching facilities and general anxiety in the run-up to arguably the most important examination of their lives. Among those who had travelled to their respective hometowns for a break or to spend Holi with family are those who await word on postponed interviews — uncertainty about whether or when they will be allowed to travel to the Capital. There are others who were to appear for their preliminary examinations scheduled on May 31 and are stranded without study material. Left job to study Gourav Sharma, an IIT Bombay alumnus who worked as the Chief Data Scientist at the Mumbai airport, left his job to study for his Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) preliminaries in October last. The 28-year-old Aerospace Engineering graduate then moved to Old Rajinder Nagar in Delhi and was in the midst of his preparations for his second attempt when the COVID-19 pandemic broke out. “There are major issues that are not conducive to preparation. A major part of the day goes into chores; coaching was shut several weeks ago and the mental, as well as economic stress, are problems in themselves. One of my friends who is a fellow aspirant is stuck in Udaipur, another is stuck in Bhopal. All we are asking for is clarity,” Mr. Sharma, who initiated an online petition seeking the postponement of these exams on change.org, said. “We, the aspirants, support our government and its efforts in tackling this pandemic. However, adequate attention must be paid to our issues as well,” his petition stated. “UPSC prelims require dedicated preparation of 3-4 months and looming uncertainty over extension of lockdown is hampering our preparation...Anxiety and stress are preventing us from performing at our best,” the petition, addressed to the UPSC, Department of Personnel and Training, Union Minister Jitendra Singh and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, stated. Other aspirants like Mr. Sharma, complained they were facing similar problems. “I went back to my hometown in Kerala before the flight operations stopped. Back in Delhi, I was going to the institute and was on track. Now I have lost it and I’m trying to get back on track,” said Pranoy Maxwell, 27, who is studying at a coaching institute in the city said. “There is a lot of uncertainty right now. My exam centre is in Gurugram and I don’t know whether I will be quarantined if I come back to Delhi. The exam should be postponed,” he said. Swati Singh, 25, who lives in west Delhi, had passed her 2019 UPSC preliminary examination and was waiting for her interview on April 3, when the lockdown happened. “Now my interview has been postponed, which would take place only after May 3. I have registered for the prelims, which is to be held on May 31, but right now we are not able to give mock tests and then meet our teachers for feedback like we used to do and it is affecting our preparation. The exam should be postponed,” she said. Gopika Gopinathan Pillai, who is studying at a coaching centre in the city said that her preparation has been affected because of the lockdown. “There is no clarity at this point on whether the exam will be postponed or not that increases the pressure on us. Also, how much can a person study when she is locked inside a room for the whole day? My studies have been affected by about 60% since the lockdown,” she said. In a statement issued after a special meeting of the Commission on April 15, the UPSC said dates for all interviews, exams and recruitment boards where candidates and advisers are required to travel from all parts of the country “will be reviewed from time to time.” “...A decision on fresh dates for the remaining Civil Services-2019 Personality Tests will be taken after May 3, following the second phase of the lockdown will be notified on the website of the UPSC,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-study-materials-changing-dates-leave-civil-service-aspirants-clueless/article31379756.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||Plea seeks to protect victims of domestic violence||The Delhi High Court on Saturday sought response from the city govenment and Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on a petition, seeking to implement immediate and effective measures for victims of domestic violence and child abuse amidst COVID-19 lockdown. A Bench of Justice J.R. Midha and Justice Jyoti Singh, who took up the case through videoconferencing, heard the arguments raised by advocates Mithu Jain, Arjun Syal and Vidisha. The advocates, representing an NGO — All India Council of Human Rights, Liberties & Social Justice (AICHLS) — argued that a parallel pandemic of “domestic violence” grips the nation. “There has been a surge in the cases since the lockdown and this is not specific to India alone but across the globe due to insecurity about job losses, finances etc,” the advocate said. They highlighted that victims are unable to avail their remedies available under Domestic Violence Act, 2005 since access to courts or lawyers is restricted. They also suggested to make atleast one protection officer under the Protection of Women against Domestic Violence Act, 2005 available at all times through the 24X& helpline. The advocates also recommended to make ‘Silent Lines’ operational which can cater to victims who are not in a position to freely report such incidents. The NGO said only 17 protection officers have been appointed under the Domestic Violence Act as per the names on the department’s website. “This is too low a number to cater to a city with a population of approx. two crores,” it said. The plea said the health impacts of the violence particularly, intimate partner/domestic violence, on women and children are significant. It results in injuries, serious physical, mental, sexual and reproductive health problems, including sexually transmitted infections, HIV, and unplanned pregnancies.  There has been a surge in the cases since the lockdown and this is not specific to India alone but across the globe due to insecurity about job losses Advocates||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-seeks-to-protect-victims-of-domestic-violence/article31379761.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man lies about COVID-19, held after fleeing hospital||A man, who lied about being a COVID-19 patient to evade arrest, was nabbed from Haryana on Saturday, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said Amit from Sonipat as first arrested with his associate Vikrant on April 10. At 6.40 a.m. on April 10in Ranjeet Nagar. A van driven by Amit and Vikrant was caught by staff deployed at the picket. “The van had 3,120 quarters of Haryana-made whiskey packed in empty cartons of milk. To avoid checking, they also had COVID-19 duty pass displayed on the screen issued by North District Magistrate,” Mr. Bhatia said. During interrogation, Vikrant said his aunt died of COVID-19 last week and he also attended the funeral and but local enquiry from Kharkhoda police station in Haryana revealed that he was lying. “Both accused were bailed as enquiry was not completed at that time and they were quarantined for 14 days. They were first taken to Lady Hardinge and then shifted to Lok Nayak Hospital. The duo tested negative at Lady Hardinge but the report from Lok Nayak Hospital is awaited,” Mr. Bhatia said. However, the two were kept in Lok Nayak from where Amit fled on April 15. “He fled to a factory in Rohtak where he used to work. He has been brought to the hospital,” the DCP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-lies-about-covid-19-held-after-fleeing-hospital/article31379762.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘School fees should be waived for 3 months’||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri has demanded that school fees be waived off for three months for those studying at different public schools here. He wrote about the issue to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday. He said parents are facing economical pressure due to the circumstances arising out of the virus outbreak.  ‘Students’ future’ “The Leader of Opposition has expressed confidence that the Chief Minister will take necessary steps in this regard in view of the future of millions of Delhi's students and the problems being faced by their parents,” the party said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/school-fees-should-be-waived-for-3-months/article31379763.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Doctor found dead at his residence in Neb Sarai||A 52-year-old doctor was found dead at his residence in south Delhi’s Neb Sarai on Saturday. A note has been recovered in which he has blamed Aam Aadmi Party MLA Prakash Jarwal and another person. A senior police officer said a call was received at 6.17 a.m. regarding the death. A tenant spotted the body on the roof around 5.30 a.m. and informed the family members. “A crime team has inspected the spot and the body was sent for post-mortem,” he added. In the note, the man named the AAP legislator and a few others and blamed them for creating problems for him in his business of water supply with the Delhi Jal Board that he began in 2007. His family members have alleged that the people named in the note also threatened the doctor. Based on a complaint by the son of the deceased, the police have registered a case on charges of extortion, compelling for suicide and threat for life at Neb Sarai police station. “I would like to state that I am innocent. I have not met or spoken to him in the last 8-10 months. In 2017, Zee News and IBN7 had done a sting against tanker mafia, which featured his name following which all their vehicles were blacklisted. I have full faith in the judiciary and I am ready to face any investigation. There have been attempts to trap me in the past and similar attempts are being made now. I am ready to cooperate with the police in any kind of probe,” Mr. Jarwal said in a written statement.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/doctor-found-dead-at-his-residence-in-neb-sarai/article31379759.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||All lit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/all-lit/article31379758.ece
19 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||One more person tests positive in Odisha||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Odisha, taking the total number of cases reported so far to 61 on Saturday. The 58-year-old man belonged to Balasore district which reported its first case. The Balasore case was detected after testing of more than 3,000 samples during the past three days, according to the State Health & Family Welfare Department. Six laboratories are engaged in COVID-19 testing in the State at present. 3 more recovered Meanwhile, three more COVID-19 patients, all belonging to Bhubaneswar, recovered and tested negative of the virus on Saturday taking the total number of persons discharged in the State to 24. The number of active cases stood at 36 on Saturday, while one person had died earlier. A total of 103 persons were kept in isolation wards of different hospitals, the Health Department said. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik announced a Rs. 100-crore urban wage employment initiative to generate employment for the urban poor during the ongoing lockdown period. The initiative, which will start this month and continue till September, would benefit 4.5 lakh families in the 114 urban local bodies of the State. The wages would be directly transferred to the bank accounts every week, the government said. Since Bhubaneswar has emerged as a hotspot with 46 cases detected so far, the authorities have intensified testing with the help of different RWAs, ward officers, ANM and Anganwadi workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/one-more-person-tests-positive-in-odisha/article31379751.ece
19 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers facing problems in selling mustard, alleges Hooda||As farmers in Haryana continue to face problems in selling mustard crop in ‘mandis’ (market yards), former State Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday urged the ruling BJP-JJP government to ensure that every grain of the farmer is purchased without any hassle. “The government should not go back on its word and buy every grain produced by the farmer. They (government) had made a promise to the farmers of the State but reports from all over the state indicate that farmers are facing problems in selling mustard crop in the mandis,” said Mr. Hooda. Denied full rate He alleged that farmers are being denied full rate for their produce and money is being deducted on the pretext of high moisture content. “Also, the government’s buying process is so complex that it is beyond the comprehension of most farmers. Instead of buying crops in one lot, farmers are being called to the mandis again and again. This increases the transportation expenses of farmers and also forces the farmers to make unnecessary trips to the mandi, exposing them to the deadly virus,” he said. “In the last three days, the government has purchased about 5% of the estimated production of mustard. The farmer is afraid that they might not be able to sell their crops as the process ends on April 20. Based on the trends so far and the arrangements made, it seems difficult that the government would be able to buy the entire crop within the schedule,” said Mr. Hooda. ‘Complete registration’ He urged the government to put the system in order and stop harassing the farmers. “The process of registration of farmers who could not register on the portal should also be completed on the spot,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-facing-problems-in-selling-mustard-alleges-hooda/article31379748.ece
19 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Two more virus deaths in Punjab||Punjab on Saturday reported two more COVID-19 deaths, including that of an Assistant Commissioner of Police and a revenue officer (Kanungo).  23 new cases State Health department said both patients were from Ludiana district. The total number of COVID-19 deaths in Punjab are now 16. The State also reported 23 fresh cases on April 18, taking the total number of positive cases to 234. In the fresh cases, 15 were reported from Patiala, 6 from Jalandhar and one each from Ludhiana and S.A.S. Nagar districts. Thirty-one COVID-19 patients have so far recovered in the State, it added. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condoled the demise of ACP North Ludhiana Anil Kohli and Kanungo Gurmel Singh and announced Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia to the next of kin of both the officials. He added that a similar amount will be paid to the family of any officer who dies in the line of duty due to the novel coronavirus. “Deeply saddened to lose two of my officials to #Covid19. Have decided to pay Rs. 50 lakhs ex gratia to their next to kin. While I pray such an incident shouldn’t happen, but if it does, State Govt will pay Rs. 50 lakhs to NoK of officials who die in line of duty due to #Covid19 (sic) ,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-more-virus-deaths-in-punjab/article31379754.ece
19 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Famed ‘Agra model’ loses sheen||With the total number of COVID-19 cases in Agra touching 199 on Saturday, the highest in Uttar Pradesh, the famed ‘Agra model’ — of lockdown enforcement, marking of epicentres and buffer zones, up to 1,250 teams for contact tracing in the early days, and pool testing recently — has lost some of its sheen. To put things in perspective, the district with a population of around 30 lakh has 40 hotspots, while Delhi, which has around 3 crore people, has 76. On Saturday, a two-member team of doctors from Lucknow visited to audit the cases. Those involved in the fight against the virus say the administration managed to effectively control the infection spread by the tourists but the sudden spurt of cases related to the religious congregation in Delhi and irresponsible behaviour on the part of some private hospitals derailed the process of containment. Irresponsible behaviour Locals alleged that at least three private hospitals which continued to treat walk-in patients didn’t follow protocol. They contributed at least 50 cases in Agra and allowed the virus to find feet in neighbouring districts. FIRs have been registered against the owners of Paras Hospital and Sarthak Hospital for allegedly hiding information about the COVID-19-infected persons. SP (City) Rohan Botre Pramod said the police had reasons to believe that they behaved irresponsibly. The FIR says when the authorities took out people to isolate them, they found 220 people, as against 73 reported by the hospitals. It allegedly led to a virus spread in Mainpuri and Firozabad. “We immediately informed the officials in neighbouring districts,” he said. The owner of one of the private hospitals allegedly hid the travel history of his son, also a doctor, and continued treating him at the hospital till the police knocked at their door. “The first patient in Paras hospital had a grave renal problem and required dialysis. There was no way the doctors could have guessed it. Now, we are wiser. She turned out to be a contact of a person who attended the religious congregation in Delhi,” said Dr. R.M. Pachori, district president of Indian Medical Association. He reminded that in each of the hospitals, doctors and technical staff had been tested positive. “In the government-run S.N. Medical College also, ward boys have been found positive. The nature of this virus is such that it is hard to predict its path.” Dr. Pachori said Agra could be compared to Jaipur, another tourist spot. “We now have two facilities for testing Agra. We had had a few setbacks and will soon be in control of the situation.”  The nature of this virus is such that it is hard to predict its path  Dr. R.M. Pachori IMA district president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/famed-agra-model-loses-sheen/article31379744.ece
19 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Meerut doctor alleges attack over COVID-19||A government doctor in Meerut was allegedly attacked by the residents of his society over fears that he might spread COVID-19 in the locality. Dr. Prashant Bhatnagar is an assistant professor of Community Medicine in Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial College and lives with his parents in Shastri Nagar colony of Meerut. Dr. Bhatnagar looks after the arrangements in the quarantine facility in the hospital. He told reporters that his parents were asked to vacate the flat as some residents feared that he could spread the virus. “Since the lockdown, some residents were trying to make things difficult for us. On Friday evening, they created a ruckus over the placement of the guard’s cabin....they heckled me and then threw a chair at me, leading to a fracture in my right hand.” An FIR has been registered at the Nauchandi Police station against three persons. However, SHO Nauchandi Ashutosh Kumar said that the altercation happened over the placement of guard’s cabin. “This month the cabin was to be placed near the doctor’s residence. According to our probe, he threw the chair on the street. When one of the neighbours hurled it back, he got hurt. The doctor’s father has not mentioned anything about COVID-19.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/meerut-doctor-alleges-attack-over-covid-19/article31379745.ece
19 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Differently abled persons make PPE kits for health staff in Udaipur||A dedicated team of six differently abled persons, rehabilitated at a charitable institution in Udaipur after their corrective surgery, is preparing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for doctors and nursing staff engaged in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. The team is putting in extra hours to meet the urgent requirement in several towns of Rajasthan. 1,000 kits sought The special skills training at Udaipur’s Narayan Seva Sansthan has enabled the differently abled persons to manufacture the PPE items such as aprons, gowns, surgical masks, gloves and shoe covers. Though only four COVID-19 positive cases have been detected so far in Udaipur, the district administration has requested for 1,000 PPE kits. Narayan Seva Sansthan president Prashant Agarwal said on Saturday that the institution had already distributed 9,000 face masks, in addition to ration kits and food packets, to the poor people during the lockdown. “Our team is following all guidelines laid down for manufacturing of PPE kits, including the usage of 70 gsm polypropylene non-woven fabric and disposable and eco-friendly thread,” he said. Devendra Lodhi from Madhya Pradesh and Vikas Garg from Delhi, having been trained at Narayan Sewing Machine Centre for the Differently Abled, are guiding other members of the team. Mr. Lodhi said the team’s work was a small contribution to the fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic, while the people at large should cooperate with the government authorities to mitigate the crisis. Supplying food, masks Mr. Agarwal said over 50 volunteers of the institution were engaged in the task of supplying food materials and face masks to the needy and underprivileged people in the city. The Sansthan had also deployed trucks for spraying sanitisers in some high risk areas to contain the spread of the virus. The Narayan Seva Sansthan has taken up activities such as artificial limb distribution, corrective surgery, skills education, healthcare support, free food offering and talent nurturing to bring the differently abled to the mainstream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/differently-abled-persons-make-ppe-kits-for-health-staff-in-udaipur/article31379753.ece
19 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Two BJP MLAs booked for provocation||The Rajasthan police on Saturday registered criminal cases against two Bharatiya Janata Party MLAs, Madan Dilawar and Ashok Lahoty, on charges of making provocative remarks against a community, outraging religious feelings and spreading rumours. The two MLAs had accused the Congress government of favouring Muslims during the COVID-19 pandemic. The cases were registered under the relevant sections of IPC, the Disaster Management Act and the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act. Two individuals had made separate complaints to the police regarding the speeches, press statements and social media posts of the MLAs. The State government had earlier issued a notice to BJP MLA from Pushkar, Suresh Rawat, for infringing the lockdown provisions by taking part in the distribution of relief material in a locality. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot condemned the act and said that the BJP leaders were “shamelessly” promoting hatred against a religious community by distorting the facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-bjp-mlas-booked-for-provocation/article31379746.ece
19 April 2020||Jalpaiguri,||Jail inmates hold violent protests||A section of inmates at the Jalpaiguri correctional home in West Bengal held a violent protest on Saturday, demanding that they be granted bail due to the novel coronavirus outbreak, officials said. The correctional facility houses around 1,400 prisoners in eight wards, and of them, 550 inmates staged the protest citing a Supreme Court directive, they said. The inmates threw stones and indulged in vandalism, and the protest continued for five hours before senior officials held talks with them and pacified them. Around 50-60 inmates led the others in the protest, said Chief Disciplinary Officer Ashim Acharya. The trouble started in the morning but jail authorities pacified the prisoners, he said, adding that they were then provided masks and sanitisers. Around noon the protest started again and the prisoners started hurling stones and damaged three CCTV cameras. Some inmates tried to escape, officials said. A large number of police personnel, including RAF, were deployed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jail-inmates-hold-violent-protests/article31379749.ece
19 April 2020||Washington,||Trump endorses lockdown protests||Coronavirus deaths have surged past 1,50,000 worldwide with nearly a quarter of them in the U.S., where President Donald Trump lent his support to protesters rallying against lockdown orders. Evidence is mounting that social distancing successfully slowed the COVID-19 pandemic after more than half of humanity — 4.5 billion people — were confined to their homes. Governments around the world are now grappling with when and how to ease lockdowns that have crippled the global economy, even as the COVID-19 death toll climbs further in hard-hit countries. Demonstrators in three U.S. States staged public rallies this week to demand an end to the restrictions, with the largest protest in Michigan attracting 3,000 people — some of whom were armed. Mr. Trump has largely left decisions on easing lockdowns to State officials even as he laid out guidelines for a staged reopening of the national economy. But his call to “liberate” Michigan, Minnesota and Virginia in a series of tweets on Friday were quickly rebuked by the Democratic leaders of all three States. “I do not have time to involve myself in Twitter wars,” said Virginia Governor Ralph Northam. Most number of cases The U.S. accounts for nearly a third of the 2.25 million coronavirus infections reported globally. It has also recorded over 37,000 deaths, more than any other nation, followed by Italy, Spain and France. Mr. Trump, who has angrily shot back at claims he reacted too slowly to the virus threat, has accused Beijing of downplaying the impact of the virus within its borders. “It is far higher than that and far higher than the U.S., not even close!” he tweeted. Mr. Trump did not offer evidence to back the claim, but pressure has mounted in recent days on Beijing to come clean over its handling of the initial outbreak. Leaders in France and Britain have also questioned China’s management of the crisis but Beijing hit back, saying it had not concealed information. Signs that the outbreak could be easing in parts of Europe prompted Switzerland, Denmark and Finland to begin reopening shops and schools this week. Germany’s Health Minister said on Friday that the virus was “under control after 3,400 deaths. Germany is now beginning the delicate task of lifting some restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-endorses-lockdown-protests/article31379481.ece
19 April 2020||Paris,||France weighs its love of liberty as it fights against coronavirus||As France sought clues last month on how to tame the coronavirus, experts looked at one tool that has been central to the strategy of some Asian nations — digital tracking. Citing threats to “individual liberties”, the powerful Interior Minister dismissed it as alien to “French culture”. But three weeks — and a tenfold spike in deaths — later, French culture could be changing, along with those of other Western democracies as they struggle to adjust the balance between personal privacy and the public good while attempting to reopen their societies and economies without setting off another wave of infections. In Italy, politicians have proposed blood tests to detect antibodies to the virus before licensing people to leave their lockdowns. President Donald Trump may push for hiring hundreds of people to perform contact tracing as part of his effort to allow Americans to go back to work and school. And in France, as President Emmanuel Macron extended a nationwide lockdown by at least another month this week, he said his government was considering using a smartphone tracking app that would inform people if they have come in contact with an infected person. Such steps are particularly fraught in Europe, the continent with the world’s toughest online privacy rules. Wary of the intrusions The fight against fascism and communism in the 20th century left societies wary of the intrusions of authoritarian power. That is true from Eastern Europe, through Germany and Italy. France, where the nation’s values sprung from revolution against monarchy, is particularly attached to notions of individual rights. “It has to do with French history and a sensitivity to freedom that is inherent to French culture,” said Cédric O, who is spearheading the development of the app as France’s junior Minister in charge of digital affairs. Even so, recent experience in Asia shows that comprehensive tracing of infection chains, along with aggressive testing, has proved critical to fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, which is calling into question a host of Western assumptions, whether the use of digital tracking or the wearing of face masks. As the country, like others, struggles to find a way out of a lockdown that is now entering its second month and has kept a population of 67 million confined to their homes and paralysed its economy, options that once seemed unfathomable have steadily become more palatable. “We gave up an absolutely fundamental freedom, that of movement, while most of the Asian countries chose instead to be much more coercive on the individuals,” said Gilles Babinet, vice president of the French Digital Council, a commission that advises the French government. Mr. Babinet said there was more to learn from Asian democracies, like South Korea, whose use of intrusive digital tracking has helped it avoid imposing the kind of strict lockdowns experienced in Europe. “You must have a device that is both coercive to those infected and as gentle as possible to the others,” Mr. Babinet said.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/france-weighs-its-love-of-liberty-as-it-fights-against-coronavirus/article31379472.ece
19 April 2020||Washington,||Team Biden reaches out to Sanders||Seeking to avoid the bitter feelings that marred the 2016 Democratic convention, Joe Biden’s campaign is angling to allow Bernie Sanders to keep some of the delegates he would otherwise forfeit by dropping out of the presidential race. Under a strict application of party rules, Mr. Sanders should lose about a third of the delegates he’s won as the process moves ahead and States select the actual people who will attend the Democratic National Convention. Quiet talks between the two campaigns centre on allowing Mr. Sanders to keep some of his delegates, essentially a goodwill gesture from a presumptive nominee seeking to court Mr. Sanders’s progressive supporters and unite the party. It is not yet settled how many. “We feel strongly that it is in the best interest of the party to ensure that the Sanders campaign receives statewide delegates to reflect the work that they have done to contribute to the movement that will beat Donald Trump this fall,” said a Biden official. Mr. Sanders’s campaign declined to comment on the talks. In some ways, the delegate count is a moot point. While he has yet to formally win the 1,991 delegates needed to claim the Democratic nomination on the first ballot at the party convention, Mr. Biden is the Democrat’s presumptive nominee. But with the nomination essentially decided, who has how many delegates takes on a new meaning. In 2016, Sanders supporters booed some speakers and any mention of nominee Hillary Clinton at the party’s Philadelphia convention. By claiming the delegates that ought to belong to him under party rules, Mr. Biden could cut down on the number of Mr. Sanders’s backers — some of whom have been slow to embrace Mr. Biden — who could stage a replay of that divide. Instead, he’s decided to try to attract Mr. Sanders’s supporters rather than silence them. For his part, Mr. Sanders wants as many delegates as possible to help shape the party’s platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/team-biden-reaches-out-to-sanders/article31379476.ece
19 April 2020||Abuja,||Nigerian President’s Chief of Staff dies of COVID-19||Africa now has more than 1,000 deaths from COVID-19, the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Saturday, while Nigeria said the President’s Chief of Staff had died. A total of 52 of the continent’s 54 countries have reported the coronavirus, with the overall number of cases surpassing 20,000 on Saturday. Nigeria’s government said Abba Kyari, Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, died Friday of COVID-19. “May God accept his soul,” the statement said. Mr. Kyari had been considered by some as Nigeria’s most powerful government figure, His infection had been one of the highest-profile in Africa. Several government Ministers and a U.S. Ambassador were infected with the virus earlier in Burkina Faso. Mr. Kyari announced his illness last month. Nigeria currently has nearly 500 cases of the virus. The Africa CDC has said more than 1 million test kits will be rolled out starting next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nigerian-presidents-chief-of-staff-dies-of-covid-19/article31379473.ece
19 April 2020||Madrid,||Spain toll crosses 20,000||The death toll from the coronavirus in Spain, the country hit hardest by the pandemic after the United States and Italy, moved past 20,000 on Saturday, the Health Ministry said. A total of 20,043 people have now succumbed to the disease, which killed 565 people in Spain in the past 24 hours, slightly down on the 585 reported on Friday. The number of declared cases has risen to 1,91,726, the ministry said. However, the increase in infections has slowed in recent days while the number deemed cured has risen to nearly 75,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/spain-toll-crosses-20000/article31379474.ece
19 April 2020||Washington,||COVID-19 | Former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen to serve out prison sentence at home||President Donald Trump’s former lawyer Michael Cohen will be released from federal prison to serve the remainder of his sentence in home confinement because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Cohen is currently locked up at FCI Otisville in New York after pleading guilty to numerous charges, including campaign finance fraud and lying to Congress.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/covid-19-former-trump-lawyer-michael-cohen-to-serve-out-prison-sentence-at-home/article31379470.ece
19 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Over half of top 500 firms could face liquidity crisis||Over half of the top 500 companies listed on the National Stock Exchange could find themselves strapped for cash to even make routine payments in the aftermath of the COVID-19 induced lockdown. Some strong companies such as Reliance Industries (Rs. 1,53,719 crore of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2019), Interglobe Aviation (Rs. 20,068 crore) and Bajaj Auto (Rs. 17,407 crore), to name just three, will obviously ride through the crisis comfortably. But a majority of the firms could find themselves in liquidity trouble, unless if promoters step in with equity or banks lend to them. As per data analysed by Acuite Ratings & Research Ltd. exclusively for The Hindu, out of 467 of the top 500 NSE-listed companies, excluding banks, 257, or 55% of them, have less than 100% cushion for bearing fixed and debt-servicing costs. In other words, they will need additional funds through debt or equity to maintain their operations or have to cut back on their existing costs. If one limits it to only fixed costs and assumes that the lenders will provide moratorium or refinance, then the number of companies having less than 100% cushion reduces to 208 or 45%. So, in other words, 208 companies, among the top 500 listed companies in India, excluding banks, don’t have enough liquidity or cash to pay for their existing fixed costs. Out of these 208 companies, 153 companies, or 33%, don’t have even 50% cushion i.e. they will not be in a position to pay even half of the fixed costs in Q1 unless if additional cash is generated from business or if promoters infuse funds. And 210 companies can service both fixed costs and debt repayments comfortably without any business activity given their liquidity position. Suman Chowdhury, chief analytical officer, Acuite Ratings & Research Ltd., said,” “Needless to say, COVID-19 has sparked a major crisis in the corporate sector. Contrary to the perception that only SMEs are subject to liquidity challenges, our analysis of the top 500 NSE-listed companies highlight that 257, or around 55%, of these companies, do not have adequate liquidity in their balance sheet to pay for the fixed costs and debt repayment of the current quarter in a complete lockdown scenario.” “There is a significant likelihood that at least 200 companies in the top 500 listed Indian companies will need to go for cost rationalisation through measures such as salary cuts or payment deferrals in the first quarter even if the lockdown is progressively removed from May onwards,” he said. “COVID-19 will see certain sectors benefiting. But across sectors, there will be polarisation of losers and gainers. In the immediate aftermath of COVID-19, it will be seen which organisations survive,” said Apurva Purohit, director, Music Broadcast Ltd., which runs Radio City FM channels in 39 markets in India. “A large number of businesses with poor balance sheets will close down. Businesses which have cash in hand and no short-term debt and the ones which can run during this period by meeting fixed costs and some positive cash generation, can rebuild fast and survive,” she said. According to Shailesh Shah, senior partner and founder at Strta Consulting, businesses that have been around for a long time and have been managed conservatively will survive. “With businesses dying, people losing jobs and cash-strapped developing nations beginning to teeter, mankind is faced with an economic crisis that is disproportionately bigger than the two-million infected and the 1,56,000 dead from COVID-19,” Mr. Shah said. “Mankind has to come out of this crisis correctly. As we don’t know better, lockdowns are the only known way to survive. Assuming a best case scenario that the world is able to go past the epidemic in the next few months, a world, virtually without business for almost six months, is now going to have to reboot,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/over-half-of-top-500-firms-could-face-liquidity-crisis/article31379451.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||New FDI rules may have unintended effects||The Ministry of Commerce press note amending the FDI policy to make investments from countries which ‘share a land border’ with India can only be construed as being aimed at Chinese investors. Such restrictions were already applicable to Pakistan and Bangladesh, while Myanmar, Bhutan, Nepal and Sri Lanka are not major investors in India. The note makes clear its objective is to curb opportunistic takeovers or acquisitions due to the current COVID-19 pandemic. This is a likely reference to the possibility of Chinese investors purchasing undervalued shares of Indian-listed companies. This is indeed a risk that has also been identified by other countries. On April 12, news of an incremental purchase of shares in HDFC made by the People’s Bank of China made the headlines. This press note, however, does not restrict its application to such cases. A plain reading of the amended policy makes every type of investment by Chinese investors subject to government approval. It neither distinguishes between greenfield and brownfield investments nor listed and unlisted companies. It also does not distinguish between the different types of investors, such as industry players, financial institutions, or venture capital funds. Such a blanket application could create unintended problems. For instance, it is likely that unlisted or private companies might find themselves under financial stress due to the COVID-19 pandemic. An acquisition in such companies can only occur between willing buyers and sellers. Making government approval necessary for acquisitions in private companies by Chinese investors will only reduce the number of potential investors available for a prospective seller, and drive down the valuation. The absence of a white knight may cause bankruptcy and job losses. Greenfield investments are another category where the new rules may pose obstacles. These are investments where Chinese investors bring fresh capital to establish new factories and generate employment in India. China has been the fastest growing source of FDI since 2014. The positive sentiment generated among industry players in China since then may well be punctured by the need for government approval. Moreover, the most visible ‘Chinese investors’ in India, most in the Internet space, may not even come under the definitions of the new rules. Most investors in companies such as Zomato, Swiggy, Bigbasket, Makemytrip, Oyo, Ola and Snapdeal are either venture capital funds registered in off-shore tax havens or listed in stock exchanges in the U.S. or Hong Kong. It will prove to be extremely difficult to attribute nationality to venture capital funds or fix the ultimate beneficial ownership of listed companies down to founders of a certain nationality. By abolishing the Foreign Investment Promotion Board in 2017, India took the decision of dismantling the last vestige of an FDI regime that sought to block sensitive foreign investments. What Delhi should have left behind then was a national security exception — along the lines of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) — to deal with genuine threats to national security or black swan events like the COVID-19 pandemic. Instead, issuing an amendment that reverses what has been a highly-advertised new FDI policy position may have unintended consequences in the minds of foreign investors.  (The writer is Member, CII Core Group on China and Partner, Link Legal India. He advises foreign investors including those from China)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/new-fdi-rules-may-have-unintended-effects/article31379459.ece
19 April 2020||Mumbai,||HDFC Bank Q4 net rises 18% to Rs. 6,928 crore||Private sector lender HDFC Bank reported 17.7% growth in its standalone net profit to Rs. 6,927.7 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2020 despite sharp increase in COVID-19 related provisioning. The bank’s net interest income, that is, interest earned less interest expended, for the quarter was Rs. 15,204.1 crore as compared to Rs. 13,089.5 crore during the same period of the previous year. The bank reported an advances growth of 21.3%, while deposits grew 24.3%. The net interest margin for the quarter remained stable at 4.3%. Other income during the quarter was at Rs. 6,032.6 crore as against Rs. 4,871.2 crore in the corresponding quarter ended March 31, 2019. Other income growth was boosted by profit from sale of investments of Rs. 565.3 crore as compared to Rs. 228.9 crore during the same period of the previous year. “With the government initiating lockdown in the latter half of March, not only did we see an impact on business volumes — in terms of loan originations, distribution of third party products, and payments product activities, but also could not optimise our collection efforts, and as a result of which fees/other income were lower by Rs. 450 crore,” the lender said. Provisions went up to Rs. 3,784.5 crore for the quarter as compared to Rs. 1,889.2 crore reported during the same period of the previous year. “Total provisions for the current quarter included credit reserves relating to COVID-19 in the form of contingent provisions of approximately Rs. 1,550 crore,” the bank said. “The Core Credit Cost ratio was 0.77%, as compared to 0.92% in the quarter ending December 31, 2019 and 0.69% in the quarter ending March 31, 2019,” HDFC Bank said. Gross NPAs were at 1.26% of gross advances as on March 31, 2020, as against 1.42% as on December 31, 2019 and 1.36% as on March 31, 2019. Net non-performing assets were at 0.36% of net advances as on March 31, 2020. RBI has allowed lenders to extend moratorium on term loan repayments for three months, from March to May, and banks were asked to make 10% provision on such loans, spread over two quarters. HDFC Bank said it holds provisions as on March 31, 2020 against the potential impact of COVID-19, which is in excess of the RBI prescribed norms. “As a result, GNPA and NNPA ratios were lower by 10 bps and 6 bps respectively,” it said. The bank also had floating provisions of Rs. 1,451 crore and contingent provisions of Rs. 2,996 crore as on March 31, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-bank-q4-net-rises-18-to-rs-6928-crore/article31379454.ece
19 April 2020||Chennai,||Chola Finance Q4 disbursement falls 35%||Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Company Ltd. (Chola), a Murugappa Group company, posted a 35% decline in its fourth quarter disbursement to Rs. 5,784 crore, on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, its assets under management (AUM) for the same period increased by 12% to Rs. 60,583 crore. During the period under review, Chola disbursed about 82% of its loan amount towards vehicle finance, 11% for home equity and 7% towards home loans and others, the company said in a presentation. In other words, the amount distributed under vehicle finance was Rs. 4,719 crore, home equity Rs. 657 crore and Rs. 408 crore towards home loans respectively. As of March 2020, the company had cash balance of Rs. 10,908 crore (including sanctioned and undrawn lines), the company said in a regulatory filing. With regard to home equity business, Chola’s exposure to commercial property was low, and its focus on tier 2 and 3 cities and the retail/trader segment would help the company bounce back, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chola-finance-q4-disbursement-falls-35/article31379457.ece
19 April 2020||Anil Kumar Sastry,||ISPRL to top up its caverns with cheap crude||To make the best use of the low international crude prices, public sector oil companies, including Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) and Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserve (ISPRL), have been filling ISPRL’s caverns at Mangaluru and Udupi with crude oil. While ISPRL’s Mangaluru cavern could store up to 1.5 million tonnes (MT) of crude, that of Udupi (at Padur) could store up to 2.5 MT. MRPL Managing Director M. Venkatesh said the first consignment of 2 million barrels by MRPL and the second of 1 million barrels by Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., had already been unloaded into the caverns. Cargoes at lowest prices are lined up to reach the New Mangalore Port during April and May to completely fill the caverns, the MRPL said in a release. The oil ministry has asked ISPRL to work closely with other oil companies to achieve the target, while MRPL plays its role in filling the caverns. The series of crude oil cargoes of varying volumes from 1 million barrels to 2 million barrels, being sourced by MRPL, IOCL and Bharat Petroleum Corporation, would be unloaded at the Single Point Mooring (SPM) of MRPL, 17 km away from the shores in the Arabian Sea and within the jurisdiction of NMPT, before the onset of monsoon. The company is also filling its caverns at Visakhapatnam, the release quoted ISPRL as saying. Mr. Venkatesh said MRPL is sustaining the refinery operations at 50% capacity to meet the critical demand of LPG and fuel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/isprl-to-top-up-its-caverns-with-cheap-crude/article31379452.ece
19 April 2020||MUMBAI,||CII seeks amends to govt. norms||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has called for certain modifications in the guidelines issued by the government on resumption of economic activities from April 20, to avoid disruptions in the supply chain. “While the restart of economic activities takes place, certain items relating to operations across the entire supply chain could be further included to enable smooth operations. CII has suggested continued stringent lockdown in specified containment zones with the rest of the identified hotspot districts to be open to economic activities with adequate safety measures,” Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General, CII, said. The industry body has suggested that red zone districts and containment zones need to be clearly identified and demarcated and industrial activities be permitted in non-containment zones of red zone districts, if found safe. A list of red districts and containment zones may be published on a real-time basis for information of industry. “Automotive value chain, including OEMs, components, retail and service workshops, must also be included in the list of permitted industries. Agricultural inputs of fertilizers, pesticides and seeds have been opened up, and there is a need to also relax rules for production of necessary equipment. Similarly, equipment and services for generation, transmission and distribution of power, including renewable energy such as gear boxes and generators may be allowed to function,” the industry body said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cii-seeks-amends-to-govt-norms/article31379455.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Domestic flights from May 4: AI||Air India on Saturday announced that it will resume domestic flights for select routes from May 4 and international flights from June 1. A spokesperson for the national carrier said that the domestic routes that would be opened first could include those that connect metro cities, which include Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. Vistara and IndiGo have also announced resumption of their domestic flights in a phased manner from May 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/domestic-flights-from-may-4-ai/article31379456.ece
19 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Sharath credits German stint for upswing||India’s top-ranked paddler Sharath Kamal said training in Germany with four different clubs in the top division of the Bundesliga from 2010 to 2016 was the best phase of his career as his ranking and game improved many-fold. Speaking to coaches from Sports Authority of India and the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) panel on Saturday in the ‘Online Coach Development Programme, where he shared his experiences of playing on the European circuit, the 37-year-old said his stint in Germany helped his career take an upswing (after a mild slump in 2011-12). Surge in graph “I stayed in Germany and came to India only for a few National tournaments. At that time, my graph went up and having played in Europe [in Sweden, Spain and Germany], there was an overall development in my game,” Sharath said. On European clubs, the 2006 Commonwealth Games singles champion said, “The coaches are very professional. They treat everyone as equals. They didn’t see me as one who is training here [and will go on] to beat them. In Europe, if they hire a player, they ensure he improves as much as their countrymen do.” Sharath said everything is systematic [in Europe]. “Our season starts at the end of July and ends in September whereas they have round-the-year competition in different divisions. “There is constant match practice, you get to play with different players with different styles. The infrastructure and ecosystem are top-class. And their calendar is out much in advance.” Professional In India, things started to change only after the 2008 Beijing Olympics, said Sharath, ranked 31 in the world. “It all became professional in 2008 when a lot of people [support staff] started working for an athlete.” On how Indian coaches could achieve global standards, he said, “We have the talent but not the right exposure. “What Indian players get, the same thing should happen to [our] coaches.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-credits-german-stint-for-upswing/article31379596.ece
19 April 2020||Coimbatore,||How athletes stay fit in a lockdown||The situation outside is grim, and that is making life indoors challenging for athletes whose routines have been disrupted. But Shanker Basu, the former head strength and conditioning coach of the Indian cricket team, tells The Hindu that “athletes are a different kettle of fish”. “They are wired very differently and their elusive goals in life will not allow them to alter their vision. They will look at this [lockdown] as a period where they [can] tick certain boxes which was not possible otherwise.” Basu has suggestions for athletes looking to improve their health and immunity during this tough phase: “Strength exercises that target your thighs, hips and trunk, along with some form of cardiovascular exercise that can be based on what you have at home as equipment. “Nutrition and a set routine must be complementary to the exercise patterns. And that should be your commandment during this period,” he adds. Innovative workouts Will innovative workouts help? “Yes and no. At the end of the day, most athletes know their routines and bodies well. Innovative workouts have a place and time, but the basic bread-and-butter type of workouts will see them through this period,” he says. A sprinter in his heyday, Basu has trained people from different walks of life. “I don’t travel like before; I am based in my own town [Chennai]. Having said that, it gives me an opportunity to work with different types of sports and pursue new educational goals which keeps me very busy.” Does he design workouts that can be followed online? “Yes, I do, and even otherwise, I have been doing such routines for certain types of athletes for the last 10 years,” says Basu, who is now the strength and conditioning coach of Royal Challengers Bangalore. How about RCB’s cricketers? “All the players are given a schedule and most of them have access to personal home gyms. They will do everything in their capacity to stay fit.” Significant role Basu’s pursuit of excellence has played a significant role in transforming the attitudes of Indian athletes towards fitness, and he is willing to offer advice to anyone seeking it during this period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/how-athletes-stay-fit-in-a-lockdown/article31379586.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||I cried under pressure: Chhetri||One of India’s greatest footballers, Sunil Chhetri reveals he was under so much pressure while playing in Kolkata early in his career that he cried many times and even contemplated quitting the sport. He had to call in his armyman father for support. Chhetri’s first professional contract was with Kolkata giant Mohun Bagan at a tender age of 17. It was a big challenge and he buckled under pressure at times. Tagging with Bhutia “The first year was good. I used to get 20 minutes or 30 minutes gametime in matches and people used to tag me with Bhaichung Bhutia and what not. But football in Kolkata teaches you very quickly,” Chhetri was quoted as saying by indiansuperleague.com. “The crowd turns hostile when you start losing and there were times I used to cry. Losing is not an option in Kolkata. It’s not easy, a lot of players even quit. There were instances which shook me and I even called my father back home once and said that I don’t think I should do this.” Story continues But Chhetri, now 35, did not quit as his family backed him to the hilt to continue his football career. “My family supported me a lot and my father flew in to stay with me from time to time. We talked and it made things easier. The story continued and 18 years on, here I am,” said Chhetri. His mother had played for the Nepal national football team and his father was in his battalion team. “So, getting sports into my system was not difficult. It was natural. I used to play a lot of different sports, now when I look back, I understand that it really helped with my hand-eye coordination,” said the striker.  But football in Kolkata teaches you very quickly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-cried-under-pressure-chhetri/article31379588.ece
19 April 2020||Johannesburg,||‘Srinath an unsung hero’||Javagal Srinath spearheaded India’s pace attack in the ’90s with aplomb, but former South Africa seamer Shaun Pollock believes the Indian never got the credit he deserved. Srinath played 67 Tests and 229 ODIs between 1991 and 2003, taking 236 and 315 wickets respectively. “I thought India’s Javagal Srinath didn’t get the credit he deserved,” Pollock said during a Sky Sports podcast discussion with former West Indies fast bowler Michael Holding and England’s Stuart Broad. “In my era, you had great combinations like Wasim Akram and Waqar Younis for Pakistan and Curtly Ambrose and Courtney Walsh for the West Indies. Australia had Glenn McGrath and Brett Lee. You now have James Anderson and Stuart Broad in this era,” he said. Pollock, who snapped up over 400 Test wickets and amassed more than 3,700 Test runs in 108 Tests, said one bowler who left an indelible mark on him early in his career was West Indian pace great Malcolm Marshall. “Marshall was next level and I was lucky enough to meet him early in my career as it made me think about fast bowling in a completely different way,” he said. Pollock has also been most impressed by fellow countryman Dale Steyn. “He cranked it up on flat wickets and had such a good action and variations. He is something special and his stats back it up.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srinath-an-unsung-hero/article31379599.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘A calm and silent mind helps you’||Physical success is often driven by a tranquil mind and the burning desire powered by the heart. Tennis coach Devinder Singh Bhusari conducted an online clinic for enthusiasts, which included two of the leading players of the country — Ankita Raina and Vishnu Vardhan — touching the nuances of heartfulness, which is practised by badminton star P.V. Sindhu. “Willpower is everything. Everyone has the time. We just need the discipline,” said Devinder in the hour-long meditation course. “We are slaves of habit. We make the same mistakes. To change, we need to cleanse the deeply embedded complexities, impressions and impurities. The mind jumps like a monkey. Regulate it to stay in the present rather than let it wander dangerously towards negative ideas,” said the tennis guru who runs Shaishya Academy in Ahmedabad. “Once you get the mind to think what you want it to do, you can tap courage which resides in the heart. Together, it will trigger intuition to help you make the split-second decision.” Mental state Stressing that at the highest level the difference between winning and losing was often decided by the mental state of athletes, Devinder observed that regular meditation would help tennis players to become better when they get on court. Pointing out that heartfulness was practised in more than 160 countries with the help of over 12,000 trainers, Devinder advised the young athletes to tap the free resources during lockdown to rejuvenate themselves for a better tomorrow. “A calm and silent mind helps you in taking better decisions. With courage, energy and calmness, you will be able to play to your best. It will also help you to be a better person.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-calm-and-silent-mind-helps-you/article31379716.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||BCCI creates Team Mask Force||Featuring India’s most revered cricketers like Sachin Tendulkar and Virat Kohli, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has created a new video under the title Team Mask Force to promote wearing masks in public places and help the country battle the COVID-19 pandemic. The video has messages from Board president Sourav Ganguly, Smriti Mandhana, Rohit Sharma, Harbhajan Singh, Harmanpreet Kaur, Virender Sehwag, Rahul Dravid and Mithali Raj. “TeamIndia is now #TeamMaskForce! Join #IndiaFightsCorona and download @mygovindia’s @SetuAarogya mobile application Mobile phone,” the BCCI tweeted. “Being part of the India team is a matter of great pride. “But today we are going to create a bigger team, Team Mask Force,” Indian captain Kohli says in the video.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-creates-team-mask-force/article31379592.ece
19 April 2020||KOLKATA,||I-League called off||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) on Saturday decided to formally call off the I-League and declared Mohun Bagan the champion. There were 23 matches still to be played when the COVID-19 pandemic struck. With the lockdown in the country extended till May 3, the AIFF League committee convened its members through a video conference. Bagan had assured itself of the title, taking an unassailable lead (39 points from 19 games), before the league was suspended on March 14. Equal share As for the other 10 clubs, the league committee recommended that the remaining prize-money (apart from the champion’s) be equally divided among them. The committee also recommended that there be no relegation in the 2019-20 season. The league committee’s decisions have to be ratified by the AIFF executive committee. The other decisions taken were: 1. For the second division league, the committee decided to wait for the approval of the executive committee and the Asian Football Confederation to have a tournament of shorter duration next season. The teams that will qualify for the Hero I-League 2020-21 season will be decided based on that. 2. With nearly 500 matches yet to be completed in various youth leagues, the committee decided to conclude all youth leagues — the sub-junior league, the junior league, the Elite league and the under-17 Khelo India girls’ league — for the current season. 3. Extension of deadline for AIFF Academy Accreditation recommended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-league-called-off/article31379583.ece
19 April 2020||Tokyo,||Tokyo’s homeless seek shelter in Olympic Village||A group representing the homeless is asking to use the Athletes’ Village for next year’s Tokyo Olympics as a shelter during the coronavirus pandemic. An online petition addressed to Tokyo Olympic organisers and the city government has drawn tens of thousands of signatures for permission to occupy the massive housing complex going up alongside Tokyo Bay. The village was to be home to 11,000 Olympic athletes and 4,400 Paralympic athletes. It is largely complete and empty with the Olympic opening postponed by the virus outbreak until July 23, 2021. “We don’t know how long this downturn will last, and so we have to change how we think,” said Ren Ohnishi, chairperson of the Moyai Support Center for Independent Living, told Associated Press. “That includes how we work, how we deal with housing, how we give aid to those who need it.” Tokyo Olympics organisers declined comment, and the Tokyo metropolitan government also had no immediate comment on the petition. Organizers said it’s unclear when the petition will be submitted. The petition reads in part: “If the outbreak continues for some time, many people may fall into poverty or lose their homes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/covid-19-tokyos-homeless-seek-shelter-in-olympic-village/article31379645.ece
19 April 2020||Hyderabad,||We are all watching old PKL classics, says Siddharth Desai||Siddharth Desai is the second costliest player in the history of the ProKabaddi League. He was bought by Telugu Titans for Rs. 1.45 crore in PKL-7 (Monu Goyat was bagged by Haryana Steelers for Rs. 1.51 crore in PKL-6). It was not the best season for Siddharth with Titans in the previous edition. However, what is more frustrating for him is the current lockdown. Biggest challenge In a chat with The Hindu , the 29-year-old Maharashtra player said the biggest challenge is to remain physically and mentally fit. “There is no doubt that our training schedule is different now,” he said. “For example, I used to do a lot of running which I can’t do now. So, the focus has to be on stamina building and strengthening exercises. Yoga and meditation help in staying calm,” said Siddharth. “Yes, it is also good to do things which we couldn’t earlier because we didn’t have the time,” he said with a big smile. He plays the guitar at home and also sings.  “I love music and am trying to learn some new songs; it makes me happy. I also spend a lot of time with my family — we chat, laugh and have fun. “We are all watching some of the old PKL classics on Star Sports,” he added. “I am sure we will get through this and hope we all emerge more humble from this crisis,” said the star player.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-are-all-watching-old-pkl-classics-says-siddharth-desai/article31379785.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Ministry, IOA & NSFs share common goal’||Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Saturday said the government would not interfere in the functioning of National Sports Federations (NSF), insisting that the autonomy of NSFs should be maintained “at any cost”. Rijiju’s statement came after reports emerged that Indian Olympic Association (IOA) president Narinder Batra had alleged the ministry was trying to interfere in the functioning of NSFs.  Clearing the air, Rijiju said the ministry, IOA and NSFs share a common goal — improving the sporting ecosystem of the country and make India a sporting superpower. He stressed on the need for all stakeholders to work in unison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ministry-ioa-nsfs-share-common-goal/article31379589.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||AITA to abolish ‘life’ posts||The All India Tennis Association (AITA) has agreed to abolish honorary posts of life president, life vice-president and life Counsellor on the direction of the Sports Ministry, which termed the creation of such posts as violation of the National Sports Code. The decision meant that senior sports administrator Anil Khanna and former external affairs ministers S.M. Krishna and Yashwant Sinha cannot remain with the federation as life presidents. The ministry’s decision also affects eight people including former Davis Cup captains Jaideep Mukhejea and Naresh Kumar, who held the post of life VPs. T.D. Franics held the post of life counsellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aita-to-abolish-life-posts/article31379584.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||HI online sessions from Monday||Hockey India would begin its online coaching development sessions from Monday as part of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) initiative. While the basic course would be conducted by junior women’s coach Erik Wonink and feature non-accredited coaches without requiring any prior qualification, the intermediate sessions would be for SAI-accredited coaches who have successfully passed the Hockey India Level-1 Certification (or above). The intermediate sessions would be conducted by the foreign coaching staff of the senior men’s and women’s teams including chief coaches Graham Reid and Sjoerd Marijne.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hi-online-sessions-from-monday/article31379643.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Chess tournament to raise funds for relief||Chess player V. Raghav Srivathsav, who recently won the Nepal Open chess tournament, is organising Play2Help online Blitz chess tournament on April 19 (Sunday) from 7 p.m. to raise funds for the PM Cares Fund to help in the battle against COVID-19. The 21-year-old has already personally contributed Rs. 5,000 to the fund. “The profit earned through this tournament will be donated to PM Cares Fund. There’s a prize money of Rs. 5000 for the tournament,” he said. For details call 81870 93036 or mail play2help64@gmail.com.    ‘Athletics Family’, mostly comprising trainees under Sports Authority of India coach N. Ramesh, have pooled in about Rs. 59,000 to contribute to the Telangana Chief Minister Covid-19 Fund. Ramesh said on Friday that he had personally contributed Rs. 10,000, while P. Shankar (now working with ONGC) had Rs. 2000, Mrudula Rs. 3000 and K. Laxman Rs. 1500. The others, most of them unemployed and SAI inmates and Eenadu Project coaches, contributed in their own small way. “It is really heartening to see such a good response from my trainees to the call to be of some help to the needy,” Ramesh said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chess-tournament-to-raise-funds-for-relief/article31379783.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Festivals, turbans and rice beer are all part of an exhaustive cultural heritage list||Manipur’s tradition of making rice beer, the practice of tying turbans in Rajasthan and several different dances, forms of music and festivals from across the country were among the 106 items listed as intangible cultural heritage in a draft released by the Union Culture Ministry on Saturday. Releasing the list, Culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel said 13 traditions of Indian intangible cultural heritage were already recognised by UNESCO and the national list was an attempt to further awareness and protection to more such elements. The initiative is a part of the ministry’s Vision 2024 programme. In the list released on the ministry’s website, a total of 106 practices from different States are mentioned, though some are repeated as they occur in more than one State and five elements are common to the whole country. As per the 2003 UNESCO Convention for Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage, the list has five broad categories — oral traditions, performing arts, social practices, knowledge and practices related to nature and traditional craftsmanship, the Culture ministry observed in a statement. This list was a “work in progress and may be considered a draft version”, the ministry added. There was, however, no deadline for the public to send in contributions, suggestions or amendments, an official said, declining to be identified. Traditions Among the traditions seen across the country are the devotional music of Qawwali and the music of the oldest instrument in the country, the Veena. The Kumbh Mela and Ramlila traditions of different States have also been included. The list includes the traditional folk festival of Pachoti in Assam, where the birth of a baby, particularly a male infant as the tradition “relates to the birth of Krishna”, is celebrated with relatives and neighbours, according to the ministry. The oral traditions of the transgender community called Kinnar Kanthgeet and compositions of Ameer Khusro are among the entries from Delhi. Gujarat’s Patola silk textiles from Patan with its geometric and figurative patterns also made it to the list. The practice of tying a turban or safa across Rajasthan was included. From Jammu and Kashmir, the Kalam Bhat or Qalambaft gharana of Sufiana music in Budgam district and from Ladakh, the Buddhist chanting across both Leh and Kargil districts were on the list of intangible cultural heritage. The making of khor, a rice beer, by the Tangkhul community in Manipur as well as other crafts associated with it, like making gourd vessels and wicker baskets, were also on the list. Kerala’s martial art form, Kalaripayuttu, and the practice of making designs at the entrance of homes and temples called kolam in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh were also included in the list. Puppet theatre Different forms of shadow puppet theatre — Chamadyacha Bahulya in Maharashtra, Tolu Bommalatta in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, Togalu Gombeyatta in Karnataka, Tolpava Kuthu in Kerala and Ravanchhaya in Odisha — have also been included.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/festivals-turbans-and-rice-beer-are-all-part-of-an-exhaustive-cultural-heritage-list/article31379582.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 07:53 IST,||Sudoku - April 19, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-19-2020/article31380060.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Please, sir, I want more space||I hadn’t gone out looking for a madrasa. I had gone looking for the dreams and self-concept of Muslim women and girls. As it happened, I found a group of women activists and philanthropists, and among them, a gentleman who had come looking for donations for foundlings and orphans. He also ran a madrasa for girls and, on impulse, I asked permission to come and interview them. I had never stepped into a madrasa before and had certain preconceived notions about what happens there. My ideas about madrasas were of little boys sitting cross-legged in rows, white-capped, and learning almost always by rote. I lacked the imagination to go beyond, and assumed I’d find a little girl version of the same image. What I found is difficult to translate and compress into a few words. The little girls filed into a room downstairs, ushered in and watched over by their teachers and seniors. They sat in chairs, on a takht, wherever there was room. Uncertain, diffident, probably wondering what I wanted. Starting with the older students, I asked each one to tell me her name, a line or two about herself, where she’d come from, what she studied, and what she hoped to be when she grew up. And name by name, the stereotype crumbled.  Just a girl All the girls were resident students and many had lived there for years. Many had already spent more of their short lives here than they had with their parents in their villages. The majority had come from villages and kasbas in Uttar Pradesh but some were from Bihar, and one child (perhaps six or seven years old; she wasn’t too sure) had come from as far away as Nepal. To say that they had come to study and live there is obviously not accurate. Children never get to choose. Whether they are sent to posh boarding schools with horses to ride and swimming pools, or an orphanage, or a madrasa where they are guaranteed precious little except simple meals and a roof over their heads — adults decide. When I asked the girls what their parents did for a living, it also became amply clear that the adults also had very little choice. Most of them worked in the informal economy, in jobs that don’t pay much. Some of the girls had gone to a village government school for a couple of years before being sent away to the madrasa. A lot of the older girls were reticent about discussing the circumstances that kept them here. The little ones probably didn’t know how to describe those circumstances. Many had older sisters or cousins also living here. Safe house It was soon evident that the girls were here because it was seen as a relatively safe, respectable space for them to live in and gather what education they could. There was no real fee — perhaps families who could afford it gave something, but lessons and meals were obviously funded through community philanthropy. They were taught language, mathematics and geography along with readings of the Quran. A few of the girls said Urdu literature was their favourite subject, others maths. When I asked what they wanted to be when they grew up, all of them had an answer and it wasn’t ‘housewife’. Most girls said alima , which is Urdu for a learned woman or teacher. A couple of them dared to whisper ‘doctor’. Later, it struck me that so many said they wanted to be an alima because the only working women they had seen growing up were teachers. Many of their seniors had studied in the same institution and stayed on to teach. I walked away that afternoon with a heavy heart. When I looked around the building, I saw an open terrace where laundry was drying, and large rooms shared by several girls. This was not very different from the hostel I lived in as an undergraduate. It was just much poorer. In college, I lived in a hostel administered by nuns. It was very strict. We were not allowed to step out without written permission nor receive visitors other than families. Meal timings were strict, as were bath times. The very taps were locked up and warm water rationed in winter. We were well fed, of course. Each of us had a bed to herself but we certainly didn’t have six feet of space between beds. The madrasa was one tenth the size of the hostel I lived in, perhaps smaller. It didn’t have a vast campus attached or the real estate to allow sports. It certainly didn’t have the money for lessons in art. It probably didn’t serve pastries on Sunday afternoons. Space as luxury I think of those little girls now, during this harsh lockdown. If, instead of four hours, the Prime Minister had given them four days’ notice, they still wouldn’t have been able to go home. Even four weeks may not have been enough. They didn’t have mobile phones. They didn’t have money. They didn’t have transport. Their parents had no money to fetch them in a hurry. Their teachers could not afford to drop them home. I doubt the state could have made arrangements for their safe conduct home, with food and trusted escorts. How can a madrasa make alternative arrangements for physical distancing in the midst of a lockdown? What are they expected to do? Magically transform a building to 20 times its size? Procure dozens of new beds and bedding overnight? Conjure a sprawling dining hall out of thin air? Our right to demand adherence to rules framed by the state in a health crisis must be tempered by our willingness to accept that we have failed to take collective responsibility for each individual child, each school, each worker. Just as millions of migrants were left stranded in metropolises with no wages and no transport, tens of thousands of poor Muslim children have been left stranded in the limited spaces their circumstances have given them. It is not for us to ask how big these spaces are. It is for us to ask how we can enable those spaces to expand, in both a physical and a social and intellectual way. The author writes fiction, non-fiction, drama and films.  Tens of thousands of poor Muslim children have been left stranded in the limited spaces their circumstances have given them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/please-sir-i-want-more-space/article31379362.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A trail of breadcrumbs||If you grew up in the Mumbai of the 80s, you will know the term maca paav . It was used (mind you, in a very matter-of-fact way, with no malice intended) to describe any football-loving, churchgoing Goan girl or boy who resided anywhere from Mahim creek to the outer edges of Santa Cruz. What or who maca was held no interest for us. It was the ‘paav’ part that we were fascinated by. You see, while the rest of us ate chapatis or rice at every meal, rumour had it that these lucky lads and lasses, whose great-uncles and grandfathers had moved from Goa to Mumbai along with their bread-making skills, ate paav with everything. Paav with omelette, paav with potato bhaaji, paav with mutton curry, paav with soup, paav with kheema, paav with rassa, paav with fried prawns, paav with cutlets. You name it and they sopped it up with paav, much to our envy. In our ‘ghaati’ household (another Mumbai moniker for locals from the Western Ghats), paav was rationed. Not because it was expensive (at 25 paise for a laadi or slab of 6, it was not) but because my grandmother didn’t consider it suitable food. For a woman who lugged back 5 kilos of the choicest ground wholegrain wheat flour from the mill and transformed it into robust, brown-flecked chapatis, this paav made from insipid white flour was an absolute affront. She would rather we ate batate poha for breakfast, but the fact that lunch for the officegoers in the family had to be ready to be picked up at 8.45 a.m. by the dabbawallah meant there was no time to cook breakfast. So, with a pained look and much clucking of the tongue, she resigned herself to watching her ‘junglee’ grandchildren falling over themselves to get at the paav, which she served with a pat of her homemade butter and a cup of extra milky tea to compensate for its lack of sustenance. As you might have guessed, we loved paav. And what was not to love? White all around and pale brown on top. We could have eaten them by the dozen. Instead, we got two each for breakfast. As an incentive, the cousin whose turn it was to wake at 5.30 a.m. to fetch the paavs would be allowed one extra paav. When my turn came, I would eat my extra paav on the way back, tearing eagerly into its warm, pillowy insides. Baker’s den The bakery where we lined up at dawn was just across the road. A small shopfront with no signboard, it had soot-laden walls and one flickering lamp hanging from a cracked ceiling. A pink and green icon of baby Jesus was nailed to the back wall and flour covered most of his cherubic face and body. Actually, flour covered most of the counter, the aluminium trays and the neatly stacked sheets of old newspapers. Under baby Jesus’ watch was a dark cavern from which another boy, his face and singlet also covered in flour, would pop out and thump down a large tray of plump paavs. The man at the counter would push the change you placed on the counter into an open drawer, tear off the paavs, wrap them in a newspaper and shoo you away. Back then, nobody had ovens at home, so what exactly went on inside that black hole aroused immense curiosity. It was rumoured that drunkards were hired to knead the dough through the night and that they kneaded it with their dirty feet. Once, it seems, a child had stayed back to watch and he got kneaded right in. But mostly we were preoccupied with the paav’s life story. How did it fluff up like this? We had heard whispers of some germs called ‘yeast’ that were fed in. We also knew there was a ‘bhatti’ into which wood had to be constantly fed. Our requests to see the bhatti were never taken seriously. More to bread Later, as reforms started trickling in, came the Sandwich Breads. Unlike paav, these didn’t need to be bought fresh daily and you didn’t need to queue up at the crack of dawn for them. It wasn’t long before the bakery opposite our house shut down and a dry-cleaning shop took its place. Soon we grew up and went to college. And then a new kind of bread arrived in our lives which displaced our affections yet again. This hand-span sized disc of thick white bread was sold in twos for a rather princely amount. On the plastic cover was written ‘Pizza Base’ but for the longest time, we knew it simply as pizza paav, and there was a colourful picture of what you could do with it once you took it home. So we took it home and recreated the picture faithfully. On top of the pizza paav, we shook a bottle of tomato sauce till its surface was covered in red blobs. Then came one layer of onion rings, one layer of capsicum rings, one layer of tomato rings. Over this heap of balancing vegetables, were grated two cubes of cheese, their streaky stringy bits rendering the entire surface white. This wobbly thumb-high arrangement was delicately transferred to a heating tava and covered with another large upturned vessel till the cheese melted completely. For the next 15 messy minutes or so that it took us to devour it, we were in raptures. We finally knew what America tasted like. It would be another 10 years before I would travel to Italy and finally know what a pizza tasted like. And another 10 years more before I would muster up the courage to buy an oven and try my hand at bread-making. But when it came to baking my own breads, I found I had inherited my grandmother’s distrust of ‘white flour’. Maida just wouldn’t do. Well, learning to make bread from chakki-ground whole grain atta wasn’t easy. It required a certain amount of naïveté, patience and a family that would stoically put up with frequent disasters. A decade and thousands of loaves later, there are many lessons to share. First and foremost, real bread needs no maida, no sugar, no oil, no improver. Bread is just whole grain flour, salt, yeast and water. And the reassurance that bread-making is like every other thing we do in life. Breads turn out terrible at first, they get better and better with practice, till finally a day comes when your loaf sings, the crust crackles, and your family cannot stomach store-bought bread ever again. The writer lives in Bengaluru with herself, one husband, one daughter and one oven.    Under baby Jesus’ watch was a dark cavern from which another boy, his face and singlet also covered in flour, would pop out and thump down a large tray of plump paavs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-trail-of-breadcrumbs/article31379364.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||An epidemic of lies||At the time of an epidemic or pandemic, we try and protect ourselves by keeping away from the germ or virus that is spreading. We take precautions and attempt to keep within reach of available vaccines. And then we hope for the best. Our minds and all our time today have been taken up by COVID-19, which is a physical virus. But what are we to do about the quickfire spread of a virus that is mental, psychological, and that directly attacks our moral health? Banana republic bizarreness When people look back and examine this period, it’s quite likely they will say that the COVID-19 virus attacked India at a time when we were already reeling under a deadly epidemic of lies generated and spread by the very institutions meant to protect the republic and its people. Future historians will be able to trace the ‘community spread’ of this epidemic and map its dreadful progress step by step. For instance, the police in India have always been open to using brutal force against anybody vulnerable, never mind legality or fairness. For decades, governments have misused their control over the police and security forces, and other arms of the state have helped to slide this collusion under the carpet. From time to time, police forces have also enthusiastically framed and jailed people falsely when they are deemed enemies of the state. Now, over the last few years, the unholy nexus between law enforcement and communal bias has become an openly celebrated marriage blessed by an increasingly partisan judiciary.  Today, we see a great triumph of this banana republic bizarreness as Sudha Bharadwaj completes a whole year in jail, and we see Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha being taken into custody under the same Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. We, the public, are simply asked to have faith in the far-fetched police accusations against these notable public activists. Children’s story The children’s story we are being told to believe goes like this: 1) We can’t show you any real proof, but we believe these activists are not only Maoist sympathisers but enablers; 2) Because we are in police uniform, you must believe us when we say that Maoists, who in 50 years of activity have never once had the courage of their rhetoric to attack any religious fundamentalist group, Hindutva or Islamist, and who have rarely over-reached themselves strategically, are now planning an attack on the most heavily protected man on the sub-continent, the Prime Minister. Historically, most of our leaders have had a carefully stingy relationship with the truth and with the public sharing of it. Now, that tenuous relationship has completely collapsed, with brazenly fictitious political proclamations being propped up by a totally servile media. In a real democracy, even an unstable megalomaniac like Donald Trump can’t get away from facing an assiduously interrogative press. In India, the man who leads our government has not faced a real press conference even once. And so we have a Prime Minister who refuses to answer any questions from non-poodles. In the one-way conversations he enjoys, he lobs rhetorical ‘questions’ at himself and then hits them out of the park. In this environment, it is important to remember that the one overarching definition of the citizen could be he or she who asks questions all the time. To search for the truth and to see it and retain it — in this time of the Lie Epidemic — that is our only inoculation.  When people look back at this period, it’s quite likely they will say that the virus attacked India at a time when we were already reeling under a deadly epidemic of lies generated and spread by the very institutions meant to protect the republic and its people||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-epidemic-of-lies/article31379436.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Many masks of a lockdown||Communicable diseases, we know, affect socio-economically disadvantaged communities disproportionately. But how do these inequalities emerge? We now have a live example in COVID-19. Until recently, the virus has been non-selective in whom it affects: it could be people in the global North, the non-poor everywhere, people who are not used to being vulnerable to contagious diseases. These are also the people who influence state responses — scientists, policy-makers, commentators. And so lockdown and social distancing were rapidly established as the one-size-fits-all response to COVID-19 globally — despite the variations in the impact of the disease and the serious social consequences of such measures. While these measures protect people by reducing and slowing down transmission, what has also become quickly apparent everywhere is that they benefit only a minority of the population — those who have salaried jobs, savings, fridges large enough to stock groceries, and homes spacious enough to stay indoors without confinement causing health problems. Whom they cannot protect are those who face bigger everyday health threats — hunger, homelessness, the risks of more dangerous diseases. If anything, a lockdown adversely affects the vast majority of people for whom this novel coronavirus is a smaller risk when compared to more serious and immediate issues such as hunger, domestic violence or eviction. And when ‘home’ is a room in a slum with community toilets, or when lockdown refugees are transported in buses or housed in makeshift camps, there is clearly greater crowding than if they were outdoors: it might well be that lockdown then exacerbates the spread of the virus among them. Even in the U.K., where social security systems are stronger, more than 2 million people are estimated to fall through the cracks: sex workers, gig economy workers, the newly self-employed, lone parents in small flats with little savings and no childcare support, women and children subject to domestic violence, and those with other physical or mental ailments. In the dominant response to COVID-19, there is clearly a deeply uneven distribution of risks and benefits. And this includes inequalities in the impact of the disease. Indeed, there is already evidence from major cities in the U.S. and the U.K. that minority ethnic groups are disproportionately impacted by, and die of, COVID-19 — because they are more likely to be employed in essential services, or live in conditions that don’t allow for social distancing, and are less likely to have access to healthcare. Political pathogen And so what was initially a ‘non-discriminatory’ virus is very quickly evolving into a disease of the poor because of the response of lockdown and social distancing. Lockdown flattens the curve, but in the process skews the curve in terms of who is affected. It helps prevent situations where hospitals have to make ethically-charged decisions about whom to prioritise for beds and ventilators — but it does so by displacing ethical questions onto ‘inadequate social security systems’ and amorphous government and private sector processes. Some argue that social distancing and lockdown have to be in place until there is a vaccine or until healthcare systems are strengthened. But both vaccine and systemic improvements will again be more readily accessible to the middle and upper classes, as is already the case with testing and hospital-based care for COVID-19. So, when the lockdown is finally lifted, COVID-19 will become firmly established as a disease of the poor, like so many other infectious diseases already are. This is how a pathogen becomes political. This is how health inequalities are created. But this isn’t new; there’s ample research on health inequalities. Yet, as social distancing and lockdown started being replicated across the world as the only appropriate response to COVID-19, there was almost no resistance in the U.K. and the U.S. On the contrary, there was near-total compliance and those who raised uncomfortable questions were dismissed and shamed. In India, some sections of the media, academia and the Left have actively challenged the lockdown approach from the start, but in the U.K., critical questioning began only after the third week. The strength of science lies in its openness about uncertainty, and the ability to challenge assumptions and hypotheses. However, with COVID-19, modelling predictions that support lockdown have been presented and accepted as the singular truth. Other equally plausible interpretations querying the lockdown rationale have been condemned or ignored. Countries like South Korea, Taiwan, Sweden and Germany, which have adopted different approaches to COVID-19, have been set aside as anomalies or, in some cases, even had their data on mortality rates questioned. In India, where transmission and mortality rates have so far been very low relative to population size and density, the dominant narrative is that this is an indicator of inadequate monitoring and reporting, or because the country is yet to experience a peak. There is a reluctance to engage with other explanations. Some lives only Why has the lockdown solution become so entrenched? Is it because the debate became inaccurately framed as a conflict between the economy and human lives, when in fact, as one writer pointed out, it is actually a conflict between some lives and other lives? Or does it have to do with the pathogen and disease itself? Is it because those of us in the middle and upper classes are not accustomed to the risk of catching and dying of communicable diseases? Epidemiological transitions have meant that communicable diseases have become strongly associated with poverty. To be then suddenly faced with a contagious disease that can kill and that cannot be avoided with better nutrition and living conditions must be deeply unsettling. Money and social privilege have temporarily lost their protective function — the list of high-profile people affected by COVID-19 includes Idris Elba, Prince Charles and Boris Johnson. This situation is further complicated because it appears that many infected people are asymptomatic but can nevertheless transmit the virus. So, suddenly, everyone is at risk and everyone poses a risk — even if being infected does not always lead to disease, and even if having the disease is unlikely to cause death. It is not really possible to develop a public health strategy that selectively protects only those who are vulnerable — because we don’t know who is likely to be vulnerable. Perhaps this explains why COVID-19 has generated so much fear among the wealthy and the middle classes even though its impacts and death toll pale in comparison to diseases of the poor such as diarrhoeal disease and tuberculosis, each of which kills around 1.3 million people every year. Perhaps this explains the lack of resistance to the ‘There Is No Alternative’ to lockdown narrative. Some of its strongest advocates, such as hedge fund billionaires, are from sections of society that have always spoken against state investment in public health. Lockdown has made visceral sense to those of us who by virtue of belonging to the middle or upper classes have not really known — until now — what it means to have one’s health vulnerable to factors outside one’s perceived control. With COVID-19, we have become acutely aware that our health is tied to others, and to what the state does or does not do. We want the state to take ‘strong’ measures that protect us from the rest of society, the rest of humanity. The poor have always known this — that their health is not within their control; that the choice is between drinking no water at all and drinking contaminated water. But their lives have not mattered enough to generate the kind of state-led action that COVID-19 has. Personal stakes Perhaps this is why, barring some exceptions, those who have spent their lives investigating health inequalities now seem oblivious to how only one data interpretation has been favoured in the media and by thought-leaders, and others rejected as anti-science. Perhaps we have suddenly lost our capacity for critical reflection because this is an issue in which we have personal stakes. After all, lockdown benefits ‘people like us’, a minority of humankind, even as it actively harms the rest. The irony is that those who benefit from lockdown do so only because there are others who aren’t going into lockdown and who continue to face the risk of infection. In our deeply interconnected societies, every minute aspect of our everyday lives — from food and water to electricity, phone and internet connections, sewage systems and waste management services, and medical supply chains — depends on the work of other people who, more often than not, are those in low-income occupations. We may cheer them from the safety of our homes on Thursdays or Sundays, but we lose no time in also shaming them for their ‘irresponsible behaviour’ for being out on the roads or in public spaces. So, what is the alternative? How can we address COVID-19 in ways that don’t further marginalise and harm already vulnerable people? The first step is to overcome the ‘There Is No Alternative’ loop. Looking beyond lockdown will enable more careful engagement with the evolving science on the disease, the experiences of countries that have considered alternative approaches, and the regional variations in the prevalence and impact of the disease. Crucially, we must foreground fundamental ethical issues. At this juncture, it is simply not enough to call for better social security measures — all that does is to displace blame and responsibility in time and space. We must instead ask hard and immediate questions about whether it is right to expect the poor to shoulder the burden of measures that don’t really protect them, and worse, can actively harm them. More specifically, we could examine a strategy that is based on voluntary measures: trust people to decide whether the risks of contracting COVID-19 are higher than the risks of starvation or being beaten to death or dying of some other disease; back it up with the necessary social security interventions so that they have real choices. This is crucial, because no matter how serious a threat the novel coronavirus might pose, there are people everywhere who face and have always faced far greater threats to their lives, health and well-being. We need to think beyond pathogen and infection and act for health. Last week, I was at a grocery store in Edinburgh when a woman came in to do her shopping wearing a mask, visor and gloves. The elderly shop assistant of South Asian origin smiled kindly at her and said in broken English: “You are very afraid? We are all going to ‘go up’ one day, you know?” This to me captures the essence of the huge social divide that characterises the dominant response to COVID-19. The writer is a lecturer in Human Geography at the University of Edinburgh.  Is the debate inaccurately framed as a conflict between the economy and human lives, when, in fact, it is between some lives and other lives?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/many-masks-of-a-lockdown/article31379402.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Science shines through the pandemic||The world has been brought to a standstill by a pandemic, and the future appears unclear. Naturally, humans have interpreted the infection in a wide variety of ways. The animist believes it is the wrath of the flora and fauna which have been subdued by technological and industrial advances. Their habitat has been infiltrated by the avarice of humans. The nature lover feels that non-human creatures have had the last laugh and are sneering at the now “caged” people forced into isolation. Despite the troubled times that we are in, the vegans seem to be on cloud nine, as they believe that the rest of the world may at last heed their cries. They have placed their two cents on the origin of COVID-19 to eating meat. They reason that the continued onslaught on animals to satisfy gluttony has resulted in the spread of the novel coronavirus. Unfortunately, this theory has garnered some support from the xenophobes who blame the Chinese for the pandemic. Divine intervention Many god-fearing individuals believe that the epidemic is a divine curse, giving several reasons. First, the disease has affected only the human race, leaving others safe. Second, it is global and not restricted to any particular geographic zone. Third, there is no cure at sight and the only way to protect yourself is to go into isolation and learn the importance of family and prayers without entertainment or luxury. Astrologers endorse the belief that awkward planetary positions have spread the bug. They say the epidemic will continue till the planets reach a favourable alignment. Sections of philosophers are confident that the pandemic is holding a mirror at us to introspect on the consumeristic and materialistic ways of our life, the luxury and pleasure-seeking mindsets and the increasing reliance on electronic gadgets and rapid industrialisation. They believe that the virus has made us more empathetic and minimalistic and return to our roots. Such wide-ranging thought processes that attempt to colour a disease from various viewpoints are not new. Simple triad While science follows the simple triad of pathogen, host and disease at the three corners of a triangle, humans continue to promulgate alternative theories. In the olden days, those with psychiatric illnesses were shackled on the days of the full moon since it was believed that the patients’ mental state changed with the phases of the moon. This gave birth to the term lunatic. Plague is caused by a bacillus, but medieval Europeans believed that the Black Death was a divine punishment. The dead were cursed to have incurred retribution for sins such as rapacity, blasphemy, sacrilege, promiscuity and worldliness. Despite the improved comprehension of diseases, humankind postulates different reasons for unexpected outbreaks. HIV infection and AIDS were believed by many as god’s punishment for adultery and homosexuality. Though multiple modes of HIV transmission are well elucidated by science, the affected are still stigmatised. Despite varying perspectives about COVID-19, it is heart-warming to notice the improved scientific temper across all social and geopolitical strata. Many people follow scientific ways to curb the spread of infection by using masks and hand sanitisers and physical distancing. Society’s increasing reliance on medical science, epidemiological research and health care data is an encouraging sign that this pandemic can be fought off. rishiortho@gmail.com  Despite a better knowledge of diseases, people postulate different reasons for unexpected outbreaks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/science-shines-through-the-pandemic/article31379394.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Hurdles to India’s growth||Arvind Panagariya was the vice-chairman of NITI Aayog from January 2015 to August 2017, the crucial initial years in which the Narendra Modi government’s economic policy agenda took shape. He was hand-picked by the Prime Minister for building a new institution to replace the Nehruvian vestige, the Planning Commission. When an insider who has been the senior-most economist in government writes a book, readers expect sharp insights into personalities and the working of the system. Panagariya’s new book, India Unlimited: Reclaiming the Lost Glory , disappoints on this count. It does not deepen our understanding of India’s political economy. Believers in socialism The book’s main argument is an oversimplification: Economic policies of Pandit Nehru, Indira Gandhi and decades later Sonia Gandhi, all believers in socialism, gave the economy its growth-obstructing characteristics, and the people and the political class a distaste for markets. Decades after Nehru and Indira Gandhi’s deaths, their socialist beliefs still hold sway over common Indians, the bureaucracy and even the Bharatiya Janata Party. The evidence and analysis for making this case is rather thin. A footnote stands out in particular. It documents scepticism towards pro-market reforms the author encountered in an engagement with students of St. Stephen’s College, Delhi. The author writes that while BJP leaders still draw inspiration from socialist ideas, Modi, an exception in a nation populated by socialism devotees, is reforms-minded and appreciates the role of markets. If his thinking has not guided his government’s policies, it’s because the bureaucracy is sold out to socialist beliefs and there is no luxury of moving around non-performing officers. To break the mould, stock solutions for reforming the bureaucracy are offered: specialised training, introduction of competition to the top civil service and greater number of non-IAS hires. Praise for Rao Modi receives lavish, unqualified praise through the book. P.V. Narasimha Rao and A.B. Vajpayee get similar treatment. They are great liberalisers that broke ranks with the socialists to reform the economy with assistance from able teams of bureaucrats. Roles played by other individuals are not acknowledged. Manmohan Singh, whose government awarded the Padma Bhushan to the author in 2012, Arun Shourie and Yashwant Sinha — absolutely no one has impressed the author. A soft corner for Rao is discernible; the Congress party’s coldness towards him finds mention repetitively. Unanswered questions Of the many questions that the book leaves unanswered, the most striking is: Why have world renowned free-market economists decamped Modi’s government, even as IAS officers with Ph.D.s in economics from Ivy League colleges and a record of pushing reforms in previous governments are being repatriated to their respective States? One of the avoidable inaccuracies is the book’s insistence that the Finance Ministry and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) were negligent of the Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) problem until 2017. A speech (available on the RBI’s website) in Delhi on June 22, 2016 by then RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan clearly delineates the NPA problem and discusses the steps taken by the central bank since April 2015 to address it. Where the book succeeds is policy critiques. Prime Minister Modi’s policies are not spared — from the reversal of trade liberalisation, return to protectionism and import substitution to the preference for a “strong rupee”. The misguided use of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) to pursue the equality objective is discussed. But again, Modi gets no part of the blame for the muddled thinking in his government, although Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi are continuously hauled over coals. The author lucidly explains unintended consequences of well-meaning policies crafted under pressure from lobbies and costs the infrastructure deficit places on the economy. The progress at “snail’s pace” of projects such as the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor is highlighted. The strongest sections are the ones on trade policies. Common minimum wage The opening section lays out the book’s central objective: to present reforms for reclaiming India’s “lost glory”. To the current discourse on the topic, it brings much-needed perspective that often escapes lay people. India’s large share — about a third — of the world GDP from AD 1 to AD 1000 is only to be expected, given the principal driver of GDP was the relatively large population. The policy briefs prescribed range from increasing the target level of inflation for monetary policy, moving rural Indians from farms to factories, rehabilitation and redevelopment of urban slums, setting a common minimum wage applicable for all kinds of skills, to privatisation of public sector banks and other government-run enterprises. Social and public institutions have a marginal role to play in the scheme proposed. The reviewer is the author of The Lost Decade(2008-18).  India Unlimited: Reclaiming the Lost Glory Arvind Panagariya HarperCollins  Rs. 799||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hurdles-to-indias-growth/article31379428.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||In the end, who will we be?||Here I am, writing to you in the midst of what the celebrated ethnologist Marcel Mauss called a “total social fact”, something that activates society at all levels. Yes, we have had those around for a while now — war, poverty, inequality — but none quite so compelling in their social networking skills. If you don’t believe me, do any one of the following: open your newspaper, your Instagram account or Facebook page, your WhatsApp messages. Yes, it is true, it is impossible right now to write about anything other than the coronavirus pandemic, but surely we can try. Right after the lockdown, I was asked, as many in my profession were, to move my teaching online. Right around the time, a meme that went something like this started floating on the Internet: “My professor who has trouble controlling the AutoPlay at the end of YouTube videos is now going to teach online; this should be good”. Needless to add, it wasn’t good. I pause too much, I speak in long sentences as if I were on stage, and I seem to maintain the same sing-song cadence throughout the course of an hour and some. I then participate in long, email discussions on the best software to use, look at tutorials on camera angles, and fiddle with my computer to see if it’s managing to offer any symmetrical representation at all of my distinctly asymmetrical visage. I am even currently enrolled in an online course called HOPE (Human Odyssey to Political Existentialism), where I have already realised that the instructor’s presentation skills are only marginally better than mine. Deep and narrow But I’m digging deep, as doubtless we all are. And the reason I realise that I’m not particularly great at this online teaching business is because it lets me pretend that everything is the same as before, we just have to soldier on. I also realise that I’m stuck in the particularities of a remarkably narrow life. And like many others, I’m struggling to navigate that old question, the universal versus the particular. Should I immerse myself in the numbers of the world, the recovered versus the recovering, the state of the world economy? How then do I also make sure to not turn away from the many marginalised who are being brutally subjected to the violence of an unaffordable, socially distanced lockdown? Do I perhaps only do what I do best, which is conduct a gender, caste and class analysis of suffering in a pandemic? And finally, how do I not continue to feel a little churlish at the enormous amounts of attention I pay to cooking myself two meals a day? The answer? All of the above. For this time around, there isn’t a choice. This is the nature of a total social fact. A pandemic is a rude fellow. It tells you everything you always knew about yourself and the world, but were too cowardly to face. It is, in classic anthropological lore, a trickster, a “boundary-crosser”. It mocks rules, it questions authority, it makes fools of us all. It is also often a symbol of an effort to overcome oppression. It heralds a possible breakdown of the symbolic social order. It makes everybody nervous. And such nervousness is a ferment for all kinds of marvellous possibilities. For in relation to a total social fact, Mauss also tells us that human social life is formed when science and magic exist simultaneously. Online community In the past few weeks, for every day of the week except Sunday, I have sent out a writing prompt to a small community online, asking that they produce 500 words a day in response to a set of simple boundaries. At the end of each day, I have written 500 words and read an average of 2,500 more. I have participated in people’s pasts, presents, joys, sorrows, and melancholias, and they in mine. The community has grown and shrunk and grown again. Our collective imagination of the time, darkly overridden as it is with fear, anxiety, and helplessness for ourselves as well as for others, has nevertheless also been fuelled by other affects, by hope, happiness, laughter, ingenuity, and the will to capture the moment of our living in this time and place. Our writing is a collective act of witnessing. And when this moment passes, as it will, for this is the only thing that all of history tells us, we all are collectively seeking to ask: Who will we be?  A pandemic is a rude fellow. It tells you everything you always knew about yourself and the world, but were too cowardly to face||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-the-end-who-will-we-be/article31379450.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Once in a century pathogens and a coronavirus||Sometimes, merely re-arranging a word can convey its import — for instance, pandemic’s etymological roots are Greek but its anagram can also be ‘Med Panic’. It’s understandable why those afflicted by the disease are afraid and that is why the doctor — other than being a fount of expertise and experience — also has the responsibility to allay fears and help individuals and families heal. But what happens when doctors themselves are in disarray? The modern history of viral contagions shows that pandemics are those catastrophes when health care professionals are overwhelmed while doing their job. As they also try to save themselves, they become unwitting amplifiers of disease and turn into objects of fear — as numerous videos of doctors and healthcare workers being harassed attest to. This, however, is precisely the time when one must trust medicine, the best system we have so far in tackling disease. While there appears to be no respite from COVID-19, two doctors and a clinical psychologist have come together to provide a lucid and exhaustive account of the virus, SARS-COV-2, which causes COVID-19, responsible for the global blight.    Mode of action For non-specialists looking to understand how the world travelled from the ‘Spanish Flu’ of 1918 to COVID-19, The Coronavirus  by Dr. Swapneil Parikh, Maherra Desai and Dr. Rajesh Parikh  is a racy account of the rise and fall of the Asian Flu of 1957, The Hongkong Flu Pandemic of 1968, a segue into the early origins of HIV and of course, the SARS outbreak of 2002-03 among others. There’s an excellent explanation of the virus’s mechanism of action, and how it manages to dive deep into the lower respiratory tract, multiplies silently until its ‘discovery’ by the immune system. It’s in the degree of the response, when the immune system itself hits panic mode that it launches a frenzied attack which, in more ways than one, can result in overkill. This severe respiratory disease can end up being detrimental to the aged, those with diabetes or cardiovascular disease, or have a history of smoking. What’s in a name? There’s illuminating background on David Tyrrell, an English virologist who investigated the common cold. Between 1964-66 Tyrell and his colleagues discovered — and led others — to discover a slew of viruses that appeared to be responsible for the cold and, intriguingly, he did this by culturing viruses and infecting — under controlled conditions — healthy volunteers. The viruses so found appeared to have a ‘crown’ and so, they were christened ‘coronaviruses.’ Tyrrell laid the ground for work on coronaviruses that specifically infected other mammals and those specific to birds and bats. He also found, early on, a virus that infected humans and was made of a combination of a bird bronchitis virus and a mouse hepatitis virus. The most evocative parts of the book are anecdotes on doctors, who then as now, sometimes battle ridicule and oppression when they unravel an aspect of disease. Anecdotes on doctors There’s Ignaz Semmelweis, a Hungarian obstetrician, who found a measurable dip in two clinics, where women were delivering their babies, by the simple act of doctors washing their hands. In spite of demonstrating this at multiple hospitals he was ridiculed — colleagues couldn’t bring themselves to believe that they may be harbouring and transferring germs from other operations because they didn’t believe in handwashing. This was before the discovery of germs and that they purveyed disease. Semmelweis died in a lunatic asylum, of a bacterial infection. Cut to 2020 and there’s a chapter on Dr. Li Wenliang, who had first told the world via WeChat of the discovery of possibly a new kind of coronavirus. Li faced public humiliation for this and was made to apologise for leaking this information. While treating a patient who had caught the infection from a Hunan wet market, Li himself fell sick and died. He was only 34 years old.  The Coronavirus: What you Need to Know about the Global Pandemic Dr. Swapneil Parikh, Maherra Desai, Dr. Rajesh Parikh Ebury Press/PRH  Rs. 188||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/once-in-a-century-pathogens-and-a-coronavirus/article31379423.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The world brought to heel||The catastrophe caused by the novel coronavirus reminds us of the Black Death that devastated Europe and wiped out half its population in the 14th century. COVID-19 is the latest in a series of pandemics that send shivers across the world. The paradox is that it united a contradictory world but divided people. It does not discriminate between believer and atheist and white and black. It is unseen yet powerful, living yet unseen, far yet close. It is an untold story of everything from science to god, medicine to economics, and culture to religion. The world was largely unprepared for the pandemic and is still dangerously incompetent in fighting it. Virologists, pharmacologists and biologists, everyone is clueless. Some take it as divine punishment, while others blame the Chinese for their eating habits. The bad news is that a huge chunk of population may die, but the good news is that modern civilisation is more sophisticated and advanced to fend off a fatal blow. The greatest challenge, however, is to fight the financial and economic impact because it is the markets that are places of opportunity, feed trillions and buy our services, ideas and patents. Unlike the financial crises of 2008, the crises now are quite different as central banks need to look beyond filling pockets with money because such a step would not generate demand when markets are inaccessible. The broken demand-supply chain is ruining markets, but the actual shock could be much bigger than grim statistics. Domino effect What kind of game plan is needed to get through this deep pothole? How about the survival of industries dependent on the global supply chain? Globalisation has twisted the supply chain so deeply that if there are issues specifically in an exporting country like China or the U.S., it would be felt massively across the globe. How the impact on the workforce, particularly hourly and daily wagers, would be dealt with? Where does India stand in this global crisis and how shall it become a $5 trillion economy by 2024? Precisely, it may be another worst economic nightmare of the 21st century that will not only test the competence of doctors and scientists but will also assess the endeavours of the political and corporate leadership. The downturn in spending and investment will drive businesses to slow down production and eventually retrench people. Markets will turn out to be deserted places, and suicides may radically increase. It does not matter if a country is in the early or later stages of the epidemic; what matters is how it is responding? The U.S. Center for Disease and Control has already warned about the diseases and dangers caused by rodents. The world is investing billions of dollars to fight the pandemic, but again the question to be asked is how does a virus cause global disarray? Let’s give it serious thought before a new black swan can stretch the world mercilessly. aasif127@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-world-brought-to-heel/article31379386.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Observe, detect, eliminate||The poem, ‘Musaddas of Hali’, opens with someone asking the famous physician, Buqrat, to enumerate the fatal diseases. He says that there is none for which there is no cure, except one — the apathy of communities. It is a must-read poem, available in translation. However, we are not discussing the poem here but the physician referred to in the opening lines. Buqrat is the name by which the Arabs knew Hippocrates, the doctor of medicine who lived around the time of Plato and Socrates, and the Buddha — that is to say, about 400 years before Christ. Modern medicine is actually very modern. Till two centuries ago, even Europe had no idea how the body really worked, how diseases were caused and what cured them. Treatment was not very different, in say the 1700s, from what it was a thousand years before it. Hippocrates’ theory of the four humors was widely accepted as science and passed down over two millennia. Scientific outlook The humors were blood, black bile, yellow bile and phlegm: the body was healthy when these four were in balance. When physicians bled people to cure them, they were trying to restore the bodily balance as per the Hippocratic formula. It is because his theories survived this long that his impact can still be felt even though the ‘science’ he advocated has been outmoded. To Hippocrates we also owe the word, ‘crisis’. It literally means the moment of progression in the disease when the patient would either die or recover (the word, ‘critical’, in its medical sense, is derived from ‘crisis’). Modern medicine has many Greek words — ‘chronic’, ‘epidemic’, ‘endemic’, ‘gynec’ (woman), ‘cardia’ (heart), ‘opthalmos’ (eye), ‘ped’ (child) — because of Hippocrates. Hippocrates is said to be the first individual in Europe to separate medicine from religion. Before him, the ill were sought to be cured by propitiating the gods through offerings. Hippocrates brought the scientific outlook to medicine and, of course, to morality. The Hippocratic oath requires doctors to practise ethically and abstain from euthanasia (which is also a Greek word). The works that have been left behind by Hippocrates, or at least those that are attributed to him, have titles like ‘On ancient medicine’, ‘On fistulae’, ‘On haemorrhoids’, ‘On injuries of the head’, ‘On ulcers’, and so on. This suggests his scientific manner of acquiring knowledge and his classification of ailments based on how they affected individuals. Tonic for the soul Here in an excerpt from his series on phrenitis, an inflammation of the brain: “Case 4: In Cyzicus, a woman who had brought forth twin daughters, after a difficult labor, and in whom the lochial discharge was insufficient, at first was seized with an acute fever, attended with chills; heaviness of the head and neck, with pain; insomnolency from the commencement; she was silent, sullen, and disobedient; urine thin, and devoid of color; thirst, nausea for the most part; bowels irregularly disordered, and again constipated. On the sixth, towards night, talked much incoherently; had no sleep. About the eleventh day was seized with wild delirium, and again became collected; urine black, thin, and again deficient, and of an oily appearance; copious, thin, and disordered evacuations from the bowels. On the fourteenth, frequent convulsions; extremities cold; not in anywise collected; suppression of urine. On the sixteenth loss of speech. On the seventeenth, she died. Phrenitis.” We can see here his attention to detail, which lies at the root of the modern method of systematic observation leading to diagnosis. And so while his cures are now behind us, much of Hippocrates’ method still remains. As with most things related to ancient Greece, his works were lost and would have remained lost if it had not been for the Arabs, who revived the tradition of Greek medicine. Foremost among them, though he was Iranian in origin, was Ibn Sina, and it was through his work that the Hippocratic tradition was carried on for seven centuries, almost till the beginning of modern medicine. It is to him that we Indians owe the cooling drink, Rooh Afza, the tonic for the soul. And we are familiar with ‘Yunani’, a corruption of ‘Ionian’, meaning Greek and acknowledging its antecedents.  His works were lost and would have remained lost if it had not been for the Arabs, who revived the tradition of Greek medicine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/observe-detect-eliminate/article31379404.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘What unites us is our mortality’||You can safely expect the unexpected if you are reading any of Anita Roy’s books for children. With their sassy ‘no-kidding’ attitude they treat children like equals, talking with them rather than down to them. Her latest, Gravepyres School for the Recently Deceased , is sort of Alice in Wonderland meets Harry Potter, but set in the afterlife, the kingdom of the dead. In this email interview, Roy discusses her novel’s themes: nature, the role of humans in the natural world, and mortality: InGravepyres,you are confronting and asking your readers to confront their mortality. What is your concept of children’s fiction? Does it need to ‘grow up’, deal with lived realities, rather than shelter children in an unchanging bubblegum world? Confronting your own mortality is one of the hardest and most important things anyone can do, at any stage of their life. It’s not something to be undertaken lightly — but I wanted, with this story, to find a light way to talk to children about it in a way that dealt with the mystery, the wonder, the grief of that extraordinary fact. It seems to me that many more writers for children and young adults are tackling ‘dark’ and difficult subjects than perhaps they were in the past. Or maybe it’s just that these are more foregrounded and explicit? I’m not sure. One thing I do know, though, is that it is hugely important how stories like this end . Adults might know that there are no ‘happily ever afters’, but children need them. Even (or perhaps especially) if a book is dealing with difficult issues — such as death — the child must be left with a feeling of hope, of something ultimately positive: it fosters a kind of moral compass in a growing soul in a young body. At the most obvious level, baddies get their comeuppance, the goodies win. But at a more subtle, emotional level, I think it also delivers a sense of closure, of having gone through something and been changed by it, and come out the other side, whole and intact. I needed to find a way to end Jose’s story that didn’t fudge the issue of death’s finality, just because my readers would be mostly children. What I hope is that readers will find the ending a bit heartbreaking but genuinely uplifting. It’s a book about death that is the polar opposite of morbid. The vultures are pivotal here — Perveen Pestonji Peckerwala and El Condor Pasa, the talking vultures, are endearing characters. Are they meant to make children know and love this avian species that we have pushed to the verge of extinction? I love the fact that the Latin name for New World vultures is Cathartes, from the Greek kathartes meaning ‘purifier’, from whence the word ‘catharsis’. Vultures have a really bad image: they’re seen as ‘preying on the unfortunate’, as harbingers of death and disaster, as ‘dirty’ and evil birds, but actually they are purifiers. In cultures the world over, vultures hold a very special place as messengers between the worlds of the living and the dead — and that’s their role in my story too. I love vultures: they are amazing, powerful birds. When I got to actually feed and fly them a couple of years back at the Hawk Conservancy Trust in Andover, U.K., I fell in love with them even more. I hope that Perveen and El Condor will inspire youngsters to see these beautiful and critically endangered birds in a different light. The afterlife depicted in the novel is a harmonious mix of English, Arabic, Hispanic, Indian, French characters. Is the kingdom of death an ideal republic? Yes! It kind of is. After all, what unites us all is our mortality: it’s the great leveller. I guess, also, I wanted it to reflect the multiple cultures that we all carry around inside us. Today’s kids juggle so many different languages, jokes, references — it doesn’t make any sense to me to try and separate them out. For me, Gravepyres is a genuinely ‘multicultural’ book reflecting the way that most urban kids live in a multilingual multiverse. Indian children, I think, are very comfortable with a whole range of different accents, styles, languages and assumptions, maybe more so than children in the West. Also, as the daughter of an English mother and an Indian father, I’ve always had this rich mix of cultures in my blood. I guess that naturally comes out in how I write. And what makes me laugh. “No-brain, meat-poisoning, concrete-loving uglifiers” — I found this definition of human beings by vultures rather apt. Do you think children will understand what you are getting at here? They might not get the reference to ‘meat-poisoning’ — that’s something that would make perfect sense to a vulture, given the history of diclofenac. But that’s okay. I think that there are things in the book that adults will ‘get’, and that might bypass children, or that children will enjoy rediscovering when they’re a bit older... you never know! But as for El Condor’s general sentiment: oh, they’ll get it alright. They only need to look around. The younger generation is far more ecologically and environmentally aware than perhaps we give them credit for — and that’s thanks in large part to all the work done by so many people across the world, from Extinction Rebellion to Greta Thunberg to David Attenborough to all the teachers and parents who talk about climate change and biodiversity loss to their kids. It’s become mainstream now in a way it wasn’t just a few years ago. And at this point in history, no one can afford not to. The number of people who have died due to Covid-19 is rising. Families across the world are having to have difficult conversations, about mortality and death, loss and grief. Perhaps in this light, sleight of hand, this strange story might open that conversation up, and make it a little easier.  In cultures the world over, vultures hold a very special place as messengers between the worlds of the living and the dead — and that’s their role in my story too||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/what-unites-us-is-our-mortality/article31379407.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The Calcutta cult||Young girls are being killed and their hearts removed, and the bodies left lying all over Calcutta. Inspector Pradeep Batabyal and ACP Ashutosh are soon on the trail, but they are not the only police team involved. The inspector, who is the narrator as well, has secrets of his own to contend with, while the ACP faces opposition from his superiors. The ACP is also having an affair with a married woman whose house has a shrine dedicated to a yogi who is the leader of a religious organisation called Vasant Sena. Trying to get across a message can be the surest way to kill a good story, and in a crime novel what is paramount is the plot itself. Like Dibakar Banerjee’s movie, Detective Byomkesh Bakshy! , which seemed to lose track of the mystery in its attempt to recreate wartime Calcutta, Ritual tends to gloss over the complications of the plot in its preoccupation with what we are told is a sinister right-wing organisation, the Vasant Sena. The Sena is obviously modelled on the real-life Ananda Marga, a cult-like organisation founded by Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar in 1955, and which became well known after the 1995 Purulia arms drop case. There is even a reference to the infamous Bijon Setu massacre in Calcutta in 1982, a fallout of the tussle between the Marga and the ruling Marxists. Ritual could have done with more on the politics of the conflict between the Left and the Marga/ Sena. The narrative-style story, with its multiple strands, often tends to put the action at a distance. The book moves along at a fair clip though, and Uttaran Das Gupta, who is also a poet, is good at recreating the atmosphere of a rain-soaked decaying city steeped in history. Ritual is a welcome addition to the Byomkesh Bakshi and Feluda detective series, at least for readers outside Bengal. The reviewer is the author ofThe Girl from Nongrim Hills.  Ritual  Uttaran Das Gupta Pan Macmillan India  Rs. 350||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-calcutta-cult/article31379409.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Creatures of blood and bone||Reading the 14 stories in this collection can be an exercise in gathering beautiful anthromorphic metaphors. Sample this: “The road, well-fed and shapely, pushes its way into the village at one end and comes out from the other.” And this: “Shyamananda Road going all the way, suddenly changing its mind, had taken on the alias of Bakulbagan some time ago.” The book, translated into English from Bengali by Rani Ray, abounds with such parallels. There is a story for everyone in this collection: a languishing artist, a failed writer, an anxious mother, a dutiful son, an abandoned child. Anita Agnihotri crafts universal characters that evoke raw emotions, even if the settings are unfamiliar. In a letter to Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Azad called translation a “kind of blood transfusion”, that makes “a clear kinship between men of different cultures, countries and ages”. I felt this kinship in the form of a lump in my throat as I read about little Polu trying to reach his wailing mother with a stick taken out of a broom on the day of his father’s funeral, or Bhagyi reasoning simply that those who had parents slept on cots, while those like her who didn’t, slept below. Agnihotri’s children are dauntingly real, and you feel their pain. Agnihotri’s non-linear narratives work for the most part. She does not introduce her characters but makes the reader piece together the personalities and circumstances. Physical spaces in these stories are more than spatial settings — they foreshadow events and reflect emotional states. For instance, a dilapidated auditorium mirrors failed aspirations, the oppressive heat from a sculptor’s furnace melts pent-up emotions, a kerosene lamp throws up shadows of an eerie past and the “watery skirt of a brimming Bhargavi” speaks of a thriving trade. The author cleverly plants these clues as premonitions to the impending climax, which is served hot, cold or warm.  A Day in the Life of Mangal Taram Anita Agnihotri, trs Rani Ray Niyogi Books  Rs. 395||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/creatures-of-blood-and-bone/article31379413.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on April 19, 1912, Glenn T. Seaborg was an American chemist who was awarded a Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his role in helping discover 10 elements. He was a scientist at Berkley and was advisor on nuclear policies to 10 U.S. Presidents. Yuri Oganessian, Russian physicist, was the director of the Flerov Laboratory. They played a vital role in the world of chemistry towards populating the periodic table. How uniquely have they been rewarded? 2This metal is the only registered antibacterial metal (9.9% of Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria die within two hours of coming into contact with this metal) and is also one of the only two non-silvery metals in the world. One of these is gold. What is the other, which is also an excellent conductor of heat and electricity? 3Bee stings can be soothed by applying milk of magnesia or bicarbonate of soda. This involves a very basic concept in Chemistry. What reaction does this involve and what does this tell us about bee stings? 4This chemical causes stored fat to migrate into the bloodstream and leaves higher reserves of glycogen in the liver and muscles. This means that athletes would be able to burn fat for the bulk of their performance and be able to use the glycogen only when they most need it, extending their performance. Due to its properties, this substance was banned from the Olympics between 1984 and 2004. However, it was finally removed. One of the reasons was the substance is commonly found in many food and drink items and was likely to lead to false charges of doping. What is this? 5This item is known to have survived, unspoilt for millennia. Archaeologists have discovered containers of this substance in pyramids and found them to be perfectly edible. The long-life of this product is because of many factors: the high sugar content and high acidity discourages a lot of bacteria. Finally, in the process through which it is created, hydrogen peroxide, an antiseptic, is produced. This is why many civilisations have used it as medicine as well. What is this amazing product? 6In 1856, 18-year-old student William Perkin was given a task by his professor to synthesise quinine. He failed at doing so but when cleaning the flask with alcohol he discovered a purplish blue substance which he called aniline. He patented it and sold it under a different name — Mauveine. What was this the very first of and what colour did it give? 7This molecule happens to be flame retardant because, when heated, the phosphate-rich structure removes water and forms a flame-resistant carbon residue. Further, the nitrogen bases release ammonia which forms a protective shield that resists the flames. Scientists are now experimenting on coating substances with this molecule to make them flame retardant. If this results in flame-retardant clothing, then people will have this molecule on the inside and outside! What is this hardy molecule that seems essential for survival? 8Jean-Frédéric Joliot and ___ _____ were husband and wife who won the 1935 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their work on artificially producing radioactive isotopes. That is, they took substances that were not radioactive and produced radioactive isotopes by bombarding them with alpha particles. Who was Jean-Frédéric’s wife and why was it natural that this was their field of work? 9Linus Pauling is known to be the only person in the world, as of 2019, to have won two Nobel Prizes by himself. He won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for discoveries that had implications in multiple fields, including playing a key role in the discovery of DNA. His second Nobel, which was not awarded for science, was related to a very important activity. What was this Nobel and why was it awarded to Pauling? 10This person studied Chemistry at Oxford and worked as research chemist for four years, while also studying to become a Barrister. He created history when elected as Prime Minister. He was also the first (and as of 2020, the only) PM of their country to have an undergraduate degree in Science. Who is this who specialised in X-ray crystallography? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article31379438.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||More hand evaluation||Today’s deal is from a team match played in India between a team from Kuwait and a team from Bangladesh. The Bangladeshi pair did well to reach slam after the opening pre- empt. Could they make it? South won the opening diamond lead with dummy’s ace and discarded a heart from his hand. A low spade from the table fetched the ace from East. The diamond continuation was ruffed with the 10 of spades and declarer had to decide how to play the trump suit. East would not have played his ace on the first round of the suit unless it was singleton or from ace-jack doubleton. South went with the percentages and led a low spade to dummy’s eight. After that, it was a simple matter to draw the rest of the trumps and claim his contract. Well done! At the other table, the Bangladeshi player sitting East judged his hand worth an opening one bid. His opening one-diamond bid was doubled by South. North’s jump to four hearts ended the auction. The swing on this deal was caused by the judgments of several players around both tables, but it started with different hand evaluations of the East hand. What would you have done?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/more-hand-evaluation/article31379441.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Collateral gains from a catastrophe||Every catastrophe leaves behind something to cheer, they say. Can the novel coronavirus be an exception? The virus is changing the way we live in many respects, even refining some of our inappropriate habits. For instance, while counting currency notes or turning the pages of a book, many have the instinct to lick a finger and flick — an unhealthy habit that many of us had developed. It took the virus to put a full stop to the habit. The virus has also added some civic sense inside public washrooms. Loud retching and open spitting and blowing of the nose have been the norm at washroom sinks. Little do we bother about the discomfort caused to others. Thanks to the corona scare, sensible actions are now in place. It could be also due to the fall in footfall, but one only hopes that the good sense sustains. The Railways has removed the curtains from upper class coaches following the virus scare. The curtains were being used as towels to wipe hands, polish shoes and other unintended purposes, contaminating them. Then, Namaste has regained respect with world leaders endorsing it. A Namaste is characterised by humility and honour. To look modern, we dumped it and embraced the hand shake, fist bump and high five. When touch points are looked at askance, the “no-contact” Namaste caught on. U.S. President Donald Trump has rightly said that India is ahead of the curve in combating the novel coronavirus as they greet with Namaste . Washing hands and feet before entering home is another healthy habit that is making a comeback. Again it took an evil’s knock for it to get back into our lives. Across cities, parties are being rescheduled. Unavoidable ones, such as weddings, happen with restricted audience — say, 50 in some cities. Grand weddings have become a norm with parents putting all their life savings into the ceremonies and even taking loans. The virus scare has set an example for how parties can be conducted in a reasonable and responsible manner. The virus is an enemy of humanity, but if we can learn good things during the pandemic, it will be all to the good. ememkevi@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/collateral-gains-from-a-catastrophe/article31379392.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Looking back in time||A journey back in time can either gift nostalgia or stir ghastly skeletons within ageing cupboards. It is an exercise fraught with risk but Kief Hillsbery, keen to trace a distant uncle, removed by multiple generations, is a strong individual. Armed with curiosity and a deft pen, Hillsbery launches a quest for knowledge and closure. He wants to be fully aware of what his long lost ancestor Nigel Halleck did in the era of the Raj. Nigel, a clerk with the East India Company, lived in British India from 1841 and after eight years vanished into Nepal. The family never heard from him after that. Into the past Undaunted by the cobwebs of time and fresh boundaries that cleaved South Asia, Hillsbery persisted and the result is The Tiger & the Ruby , a book that leaps between the 1840s, and the 1980s and ’90s when Hillsbery searched for clues, read his family tree and criss-crossed the Indian subcontinent. The narrative oscillates between flashbacks and the present while Hillsbery reconstructs a personal history, banking on frayed letters that Nigel wrote to his relatives and the gifts he sent across. It is an arduous task but Hillsbery never flinches. And just as he learns about Nigel with a set of clues besides probing oral histories across Afghanistan, Pakistan, India and Nepal, the author not only paints a picture of his uncle but also about the various facets of the Empire where the sun never set. The questions come thick and fast. Was Nigel a renegade, a spy, a jewel thief or a double-agent? Or was he just a simple man shocked with the excesses of the ruling class and sought to distance himself from administrative ennui? Hillsbery finds his answers and those life-truths enhance the halo around Nigel. British tentacles In the early part of the book, there is a Thomas Macaulay quote about the East India Company: “It is the strangest of all governments but it is designed for the strangest of all empires.” Into this beguiling land, Nigel seeks his modest fortunes, gets aboard a steamer, takes a break in Egypt and eventually Calcutta looms large: “Newer than New York, richer than Rome, more populous than either, revealing itself in a sweeping panorama that took your breath away.” Thus started Nigel’s career that allowed him to travel from Dhaka to undivided Punjab. He made notes, kept accounts and became part of the British tentacles that spread far and wide. Nigel struck a set of friendships, ranging from the munshi, who taught him Indian languages, to royalty, be it in Kabul or Kathmandu. The ‘bloodletting or barbarism’ of those ancient days did not faze Nigel, and Hillsbery makes a startling discovery of matters of the heart that eventually sealed the deal for his uncle. Nepal was the last post because isn’t the heart an organ of fire and what better way to live than to listen to it? If you love history and sepia-tinted memories, this book could prove ideal.  The Tiger & the Ruby: A Journey to the other Side of British India Kief Hillsbery Penguin Books  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/looking-back-in-time/article31379425.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Dream sequence only||Respected Madam/ Sir,  What is Mr. Mathrubootham doing during Corona house arrest? You are thinking this only no? How this old man is managing? No yoga class. No ras malai. No friends group evening tiffin. No evening walks. No irritating Dr. Shankaramenon for entertainment purposes. Nothing nothing nothing. How he is managing? Madam/ Sir, shall I tell you? For first one week managing means cleaning and cleaning and cleaning. Husband and wife is cleaning whole house once, then once more, then three times. Then after that sofa set itself is crying with tears in eyes, as if Rohini Hattangadi in mother role, and saying please stop this torture, how many times you will hit cushion in the balcony again and again as if police station. Then one week nonstop fighting in the house. Sometimes Mrs. Mathrubootham will say something stupid and I will get angry and say something, then she will be angry. Then I will apologise and we will watch some nice DVD and relax. Other times I will say something stupid and Mrs. M will get angry, then rest of the day I will relax in balcony. Including meals. Then after that? After that Madam/ Sir, your friend Mr. Mathrubootham is sitting at home whole day and seeing dreams and dreams of outside world. I am thinking one day lockdown will finish and then I am able to go to market. In my mind, market is like Black Thunder Water Park. Vegetable shop. Aha wonderful. Grocery shop. Oho beautiful. Walking on the road day and night no issues. I will sit in the living room and imagine. How it will be to sit in Ganga Sweets? Thrills are coming in the body. First, I will put pant and shirt. Then I will put shoes. Then I will wear mask. Open the door. Slow motion scene only. I will step outside door. Whether any policeman is stopping? Never. Then I will get into the lift. Other people are inside. They are also wearing mask. We will say hello and hi as if youths going to nightclub. Then I will step out on the road. And walk with swinging hands. Sun is in the sky. Clouds are below the sun. Birds are below that flying. Autorickshaw fellows are driving nearby and they are waving and saying hello! I am also waving. From nearby fruit shop smell of banana is coming. Aha. Oho. Suddenly sunlight is hitting on the face. In the distance I can see Ganga Sweets. It is coming. It is getting closer and closer. I can almost touch the door handle. And then ecstasy of all ecstasies my hand is touching door handle as if Arjun is kissing Manisha Koirala in Muthalvan song. My hand is pushing the door open. Wind from air-conditioner is blowing in my face. I am walking inside like the lady in Head and Shoulders advertisement. Employees are all smiling under mask. I walk towards the table and sit. Still slow-motion only. (Madam/ Sir, everything is in slow-motion till further notice.) Then, inside the glass cabinet, I can see one thousand ras malais. Waiter is bringing and bringing and bringing. I am holding the spoon in one hand. Through the window, sunlight is coming and hitting me on the face. Autorickshaws are coming and going. Sky is blue. Birds are singing. Sun on the face. Ras malai in the mouth. Sky in the sky. What more Mr. Mathrubootham will do during quarantine. These days Madam/ Sir, this is how I am passing the time. Fully dream scene only. Yours in total imagination, J. Mathrubootham||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dream-sequence-only/article31379448.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown and the millennial mother||Millennial mothers looked at the lockdown as an opportunity to spend quality time with their children. But now, they have to manage work from home and do household chores without any help around. It’s a challenge to these women who pride themselves as independent, multi-tasking managers of home and office. When mother is home, a whole world of opportunity opens up for children — favourite dishes on the table, help in art, craft and studies, learning new skills, and reading stories and watching movies together. But with the lockdown, she is on a roller coaster trying to balance work and home. Millennial mothers are said to be supermoms who can delegate work at the right time to the right people. They do not feel guilty for not cooking for family or being with their children all day. They can transform home and work with equal efficiency. Mothers born during the 1980s and 1990s have seen the highest transitions in their life from the changes in social structures to technological upgrade and economic uplift. These women have seen the world and want to show its opportunities to their children. They give a multidisciplinary and global exposure to their children. But during the lockdown, the creativity and excellence of these women are under challenge. They are not getting much appreciation for household work that they are used to, even when they have to manage office. All these ups and downs have created a piquant situation for the millennial women. Work, studies, hobbies, shopping, entertainment all have boiled down to the computer or mobile phone. The world has shrunk to the house, children and family. It’s a wonderful time to stay home away from pollution and traffic, but the recession, future targets and work from home create stress. It’s a mixed feeling of peace, happiness, stress and depression. I hope the world goes back to normal soon and life starts once again with the same rush and excitement. truptidandekar@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lockdown-and-the-millennial-mother/article31379396.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||No ball||Finally, after much palaver and panic, the BCCI saw fit to suspend its precious Indian Premier League’s 2020 edition until further notice. Scheduled to be held between March 29 and May 24, the start date was initially only pushed forward to April 15 even as the Olympics itself was cancelled. With India’s lockdown extended, the BCCI couldn’t dither any longer. Both players and franchises face major losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/no-ball/article31379368.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||It will rain at least||The southwest monsoon is likely to be normal this year, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. In its long-range forecast for the June to September monsoon season, IMD said that quantitatively, rainfall is expected to be 100% of the long period average. While the date of onset over Kerala continues to be June 1, the department gave new dates of arrival and withdrawal of the monsoon, which could be delayed in several States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/it-will-rain-at-least/article31379370.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown lockup||Following the Supreme Court’s insistence, scholar-activist Anand Teltumbde and civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha (in pic) surrendered to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for their alleged involvement in the Bhima-Koregaon violence of 2018. They join nine other activists imprisoned in the same case. A court remanded Teltumbde to NIA custody for four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lockdown-lockup/article31379372.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||After 1930, it’s 2020||Dubbing the global situation the Great Lockdown, the IMF predicted the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. It stepped up by offering debt service relief of about $500 million to 25 of its poorest member states, including Afghanistan, Chad and Haiti. Meanwhile, G20 leaders agreed to suspend $20 billion in debt payments from 76 countries for a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/after-1930-its-2020/article31379374.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Growing pains||India’s GDP growth forecast for FY21 took a beating with the International Monetary Fund cutting it to 1.9% from a 5.8% estimate in January. Although this is expected to bounce back to 7.4% in FY22, other agencies like Barclays predicted 0% growth for India for calendar year 2020, factoring in a $234.4 billion economic loss or 8.1% of GDP. The IMF also revised India’s FY20 growth to 4.2%, down from an estimate of 4.8% in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/growing-pains/article31379376.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Slippery patch||OPEC+, a group of major oil producers that includes Saudi Arabia and Russia, reached a historic agreement to slash oil production by 9.7 million barrels a day over May and June, in an effort to shore up a market severely impacted by the pandemic. Prices rose briefly after the announcement but fell again, as the production cut is insufficient to offset the 30-million-barrels-a-day shortfall in global demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/slippery-patch/article31379378.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Find a scapegoat||U.S. President Donald Trump announced he would halt funding to the World Health Organization (WHO), which he accused of “severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus.” The U.S., which gave WHO more than $400 million in 2019, is the organisation’s single biggest funder. American Medical Association President Patrice Harris said the decision was “a dangerous move.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/find-a-scapegoat/article31379380.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic polls||In a move that was looked at askance by a locked-down globe, masked South Koreans queued up three feet apart to vote in the legislative elections on April 15, with turnout at 66.2%, the highest since 1992. President Moon Jae-in’s Democratic Party — buoyed by his successful handling of the pandemic — and its allies won 180 of 300 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pandemic-polls/article31379382.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Longest animal?||Among 30 new marine species that scientists found in an exploration off Australia’s coast was a 150ft siphonophore — a translucent and stringy deep sea creature — possibly the longest animal discovered on earth. “It was just amazing to see this huge organism spread out like a spiral UFO,” said Nerida Wilson, the scientist who led the expedition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/longest-animal/article31379384.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Afterlife||Julia Alvarez  Algonquin Books Price not mentioned Antonia Vega, an immigrant writer, is devastated by her husband’s death. Then she finds a pregnant, undocumented teenager on her doorstep. Antonia has always sought direction in literature but now she finds that the world demands more of her than words.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/afterlife/article31379411.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The Numbers Game||Danielle Steel  Macmillan Rs. 575 (Kindle price) Eileen had set aside her career dreams to raise a family with her husband, Paul. When she discovers that Paul is having an affair, she begins to question her sacrifice. Ultimately, both Paul’s girlfriend and Eileen decide to chase their own dreams, discovering new worlds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-numbers-game/article31379415.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The Mercies||Kiran Millwood Hargrave  Picador Rs. 699 Lifetimes of hardship have toughened the women of the Arctic town of Vardø in Norway. Absalom Cornet, who had conducted witch trials in Scotland, arrives in Vardø with his wife, Ursa. While Ursa encounters independent women for the first time there, Absalom sees only a godless place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-mercies/article31379417.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||My Darling||Amanda Robson  HarperCollins UK Rs. 726.38 (Kindle price) In this domestic thriller, a woman watches the new couple who move in next door. She starts mistrusting the wife when she blacks out after an evening at their place. Then she hatches a plan to make them both pay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/my-darling/article31379419.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Funny Weather: Art in an Emergency||Olivia Laing  Pan Macmillan Rs. 599 In this collection of essays, Laing makes a case for why art matters, especially in the turbulent 21st century. She interviews Hilary Mantel and Ali Smith, writes letters to musicians, explores loneliness and technology, and women and alcohol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/funny-weather-art-in-an-emergency/article31379421.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||2062: The World that AI Made||Toby Walsh  Speaking Tiger Rs. 499 In the book, the author has painted a compelling picture of how AI has progressed so far and also discusses how it is likely to keep expanding and improving — which he analyses as a shift from the dominance of the homo sapiens to the homo digitalis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/2062-the-world-that-ai-made/article31379430.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Galileo and the Science Deniers||Mario Livio  Simon & Schuster Rs. 599 A historical biography on the life of Galileo Galilei gives a glimpse into the life of “a man who was intellectually radical and well ahead of his time.” Through Galileo’s life, Livio argues that the distinction that we make between the sciences and the humanities is damaging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/galileo-and-the-science-deniers/article31379432.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Mobilizing the Marginalized||Amit Ahuja  Oxford University Press Rs. 550 With research across Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, U.P. and Bihar, Ahuja argues that for the marginalised, social mobilisation undermines the bloc voting their ethnic parties rely on for success. He presents evidence that a marginalised group gains from dividing support among parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mobilizing-the-marginalized/article31379434.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3096||Across  1 Perusing change, daydream ultimately internalised by comic character (6,5) 7 Where a slope is regularly seen? (3) 9 Bishop in fancy car, finding borderland of Hell (5) 10 Routine I’m rewriting for Radio 4 show (2,3,4) 11 Violent protest about von der Leyen etc being privileged (3-6) 12 ‘Noise of geese not hard,’ Everyman accepted, producing noise of pigs (5) 13 Yearned for title, ‘knight’ included (7) 15 ‘Sincere’ earl corrupted (4) 18 Ignore extremes in Holy Land’s measure (4) 20 Cockney’s come to us on a horse, they say (it’s another animal) (3,4) 23 Don’t just throw away waste, avoiding fine (5) 24 Staggered around drunkenly, etc, and returned to office (2-7) 26 Both parents touring North Australia, energy fading in heat, getting protection from sun (6,3) 27 Run into Brexiteer in wood (5) 28 Step back, idiot (3) 29 Lousy granular brass tacks (5-6)  Down  1 Rich, healthy stew (4-2-2) 2 The French politician to put online support for Enlightenment (4,4) 3 Wear down the Queen with dedicatory verse (5) 4 Confused mediator ignoring old hotel employee (6,1) 5 Walk unsteadily with end of skewer stuck in foot (7) 6 ‘Much beer ordered for lad?’ ‘Aye’ (4,2,3) 7 Inseam tailored in city near Lille (6) 8 A sleep, for a change – I’d like that (6) 14 Number one coming down to 20? (6,3) 16Soundly thrashed, English batsman visibly embarrassed (8) 17 Dickens’ protagonist entered into dreary monotonous labour (8) 19 Hearing indication you’re being talked about! (7) 20 Perhaps rocket wanting gravity to attempt return to atmosphere (2-5) 21 With essential ingredient missing, recipes made dodgy French food (6) 22 Puritan zealously rejected a root crop (6) 25 King Ethelred garrotted (to some extent) (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3096/article31379446.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||SUNDAY RECIPE||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article31379366.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Hydroxychloroquine does not reduce viral load, randomised trial shows||Results of a randomised, control trial using hydroxychloroquine drug in 150 COVID-19 patients show that the drug does not reduce the viral load even on day 28. Seventy-five patients got the drug and standard of care while the remaining got only standard of care. Patients were given 1,200 mg of the drug for three days followed by 800 mg daily for two and three weeks in patients with mild/moderate and severe symptoms, respectively. First randomised trial Researchers from the Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, who led the team say that in contrast to other trials that have shown good results, the randomised trial did not show that hydroxychloroquine drug was able to suppress viral replication. This is the first trail using hydroxychloroquine where patients have been randomised to receive either the drug or just standard of care.However, patients who got the drug did show quicker alleviation of clinical symptoms, possibly through anti-inflammatory properties and improvement in white blood cell count. The drug did not cause any serious adverse effects in patients. But some patients did experience adverse effects. The most common adverse event in patients who got the drug was diarrhoea (10%). The results were posted in preprint server MedRxiv . Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed and published in scientific journals. Patients (mean age 46 years; 55% males) were enrolled at 16 government-designated COVID-19 treatment centres in three provinces — Hubei, Henan and Anhui — between February 11 and 29, 2020. During the trial, specimens were taken from the upper and/or lower respiratory tract on the day of screening and during treatment and post-treatment follow-up. The authors say that the dosage used in the trial was meant to reach the 50% effective concentrations of hydroxychloroquine against the virus. “It is not likely to have additional anti-viral effects by further escalating dosage,” they write. In the case of COVID-19, systemic inflammation or cytokine storm is the driver of disease progression and death. Substantial reduction in white blood cell count and increase in inflammatory response have generally been observed in patients who have eventually progressed and died. The researchers observed “moderate increase” in while blood cell count and “significantly greater reduction” in the marker for inflammation. These effects were seen after fifth day of treatment and continued till the end of the treatment. Clinical benefits “These encouraging results suggest clinical benefits of adding hydroxychloroquine into the current standard management to limit inflammatory response, which is the key to prevent systemic inflammation and subsequent multiple organ failure and death,” they write. “The shorter time to alleviate the symptoms might be useful for preventing disease progression.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/hydroxychloroquine-does-not-reduce-viral-load-randomised-trial-shows/article31379535.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||IIT Bombay develops IT solutions to help with physical distancing||Software can greatly help with the demands of physical distancing necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic, and IIT Bombay members have developed some interesting solutions. One involves a platform named World Wide Help (WWH) which can be used to connect people seeking medical help with helpers, such as doctors. The other is a system to generate e-tokens that can be deployed by local markets and small vendors to ensure physical distancing. Patients and helpers The WWH platform can be used with an app or a phone. The user simply calls a dedicated number and can input basic data such as the age of the person in need of help and whom they wish to solicit help from. They can supply the phone number, too. This is registered as a task in the app and assigned to a primary helper who is a junior doctor or medicare professional. Further, the task may be re-designated by the primary helper to a senior doctor, who is the second level of helper. Or the primary helper may settle the issue through a phone call. The platform has seen a few deployments in the last two years (for providing agricultural advice, nutrition advice, career counselling advice and so on). “It is mature, but each deployment requires its own customisation… the bottom of the pyramid do not have the resources or may not have the digital literacy for this. Hence a low-cost, phone-based solution with humans in the loop to make information access more easy for this population is in order,” says Kameswari Chebrolu who along with M.Tech students in the Department of Computer Science built up WWH. The technology aspect was not as challenging as the need-assessment and promotion of the platform. Ma and Shishu Poshan, a helpline that provides nutrition and breast-feeding support for mothers and infants has been using this platform already. Now the group is in talks with King Edward Memorial hospital, Mumbai, to put it to use. “A few other features we are currently looking to integrate it with Whatsapp and support for video conferencing,” says Dr Chebrolu. Vegetable market Every Tuesday and Friday, between 2.00 pm and 8.00 pm, the consumer society vegetable market opens at IIT Bombay. As is expected, people may need to crowd the market to pick up their fruits and vegetables. To avoid this crowding, along with the email that informs the residents of the opening of the market, a link is sent. Clicking on this link generates an e-token for the user. This email is sent to approximately 1,000 households in the campus. The e-token is a number that informs the users of their places in the queue. By checking a link provided in the email, the user can check the status of their token – if it is close to their turn, they can move to the market and pick up what they want. “We also wanted to adapt this to people who were not comfortable with emails, such as senior citizens,” says Bhaskar Raman, from the Computer Science department, who developed this system. “Hence, we made it so that the e-tokens are always even in number. Those who are challenged by the system can call and pick up a physical token which is an odd number. They can at least do this till they learn how the system,” he adds. This system is also being used in IIT Bhilai where some students who were unable to go back during the lockdown have to be organised to collect food from canteens, he explained. Dr. Raman is in talks with Prof. K. V. Subrahmanyam of Chennai Mathematical Institute, and the two, along with their students, plan to develop an app that will generalise this for use by small vendors and shopkeepers. “Because of the lockdown, people want to order online, hence small vendors may tend to lose out, and this app can avoid that,” he explains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/iit-bombay-develops-it-solutions-to-help-with-physical-distancing/article31379533.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Substantial coronavirus spread seen before symptoms show up||In a study published recently, researchers found that people infected with novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) start shedding the virus and therefore transmitting it to others before symptoms show up. The infectiousness begins at least two days before the person exhibits symptoms. The study says that substantial proportion of transmission probably occurs even before first symptoms appear in the infected person. The work was done by a team led by Gabriel M. Leung from the School of Public Health at the University of Hong Kong and the results were published in the journal Nature Medicine.  Studying 77 infector-infectee pairs — pairs of people who passed on the infection and those who got infected — from publicly available sources, the researchers estimate that 44% of secondary cases were infected when the person was yet to show symptoms. The researchers used information on the timing of symptom onsets in transmission pairs to infer the infectiousness profile of people with COVID-19 and found “substantial transmission potential” before symptom onset. Since most cases were isolated soon after they showed symptoms, the possibility of virus spread after symptoms showed up was prevented. Tracing contacts The study suggest that efforts to track down contacts of people with coronavirus infection should include people who have come in contact with the infected person not just after symptoms show up but at least two-three days before the person exhibited symptoms. In the case of the 2003 SARS, infectiousness increased seven-10 days after symptom onset. Hence, virus spread can be reduced once the infected person is quarantined soon after symptoms show up. In contrast, influenza is characterised by increased infectiousness shortly around or even before symptom onset. This makes it difficult to contain the spread by isolating people who have come in contact with the infected person after the person exhibited symptoms. Two clusters According to a preprint posted on MedRxiv server on March 8, the pre-symptomatic transmission was high in two clusters — Tianjin in China which is a shopping mall cluster consisting of 45 cases, and Grace Assembly of God cluster in Singapore consisting of 25 cases. In the case of the Singapore cluster the pre-symptomatic transmission was 48% , while it was 62% for the Tianjin cluster.  Explaining the high prevalence of pre-symptomatic transmission in these two clusters, Prof. Leung writes in Nature Medicine : “Places with active case finding would tend to have a higher proportion of presymptomatic transmission, mainly due to quick quarantine of close contacts and isolation, thus reducing the probability of secondary spread later on in the course of illness.” According to the authors, where immediate contact tracing and quarantine is not possible, a lower proportion of pre-symptomatic transmission will be seen. Viral loads The researchers collected samples (nose swabs) from 94 coronavirus patients who were admitted to the Guangzhou Eighth People’s Hospital in China from January 21 to February 14. They detected high viral loads soon after symptoms showed up, which then declined by day 21. They say based on analysis the viral shedding may begin two-three days prior to symptoms appearance and then decrease gradually. When one person can infect 2.5 people, contact tracing and quarantine alone are “less likely to be successful” if more than 30% of transmission occurred before symptom onset, they write. But contact tracing can be still effective in preventing the spread if people who came in contact with the infected person two-three days prior to symptom onset are also located and quarantined, as was done in Hong Kong and mainland China since late February. They caution that even when mitigation measures such as lockdown are in place, contact tracing would still has an important role to play, particularly in the case of super-spreading events that may occur in high-risk settings including nursing homes or hospitals. Since the proportion of pre-symptomatic transmission is substantial, maintaining hand hygiene and physical distancing can play an important role in containing virus-spread in the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/substantial-coronavirus-spread-seen-before-symptoms-show-up/article31379531.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The COVID-19 virus and its polyproteins||Everyday, we hear about the novel coronavirus, how it is easily infecting and transmitting itself from people to people, and how scientists and medical experts are waging a war against its spread. We also hear how different this is from bacteria, and why treating people with antibacterial drugs may not help wipe this out. What then is the difference between a virus and a bacterium? Well, bacteria are alive. Each bacterial cell has its own machinery to reproduce itself. Take a bacterial cell, and put it in a solution containing nutrients, it grows itself and multiplies in millions. The genes in the cells (genome, made up of DNA molecules, the information contained in which is transcribed as a message to the messenger molecules called RNA), and the message therein is translated into action molecules called proteins, which are the foot-soldiers that help the growth and multiplication of the bacterium. Coronaviruses do not have DNA as their genome, but RNA; in other words, they can only translate and not transcribe. Thus, they are ‘dead’, unable to renew and grow themselves; they need help. This they achieve by infecting ‘host cells’ which they bind to, and multiply by the millions. With no host cell to help, a virus is simply a dead storage box. The polyprotein strategy Upon infection, the entire RNA with its 33,000 bases is translated in one shot as a long tape of amino acid sequences. Since this long chain contains several proteins within it, it is called a “polyprotein” sequence. One needs to analyse this long chain, find the relevant proteins, isolate and study what each of them does in helping infection. (Scientists call the polyprotein a ‘single reading frame’, containing several ‘open reading frames’, namely those that contain a start code and end with a stop code, each containing the relevant protein to be expressed by the host cell). This strategy allows the viral genome to be compact, and express the protein when the need arises. This is somewhat like a thrifty individual who keeps his money in a fixed deposit in a bank, and withdraws chosen amounts as the demand arises. For the virus, the demand is to multiply upon infecting the host. No demand, no withdrawal, no infection, no multiplication! As the recent review by Yu Chen and colleagues from China in the Journal of Medical Virology points out (https://doi.org/10.1002/jmv.25681), COVID19 has RNA-based genomes and subgenomes in its polyprotein sequence, that code for the spike protein (S), the membrane protein (M), the envelope protein (E), and the nucleocapsidprotein (N, which covers the viral cell nuclear material) - all of which are needed for the architecture of the virus. In addition to these, there are special structural and accessory proteins, called non-structural proteins (NSP), indeed 16 of them, which serve specific purposes for infection and viral multiplication. How the drugs work We thus have a large set of proteins in the virus, against which a number of potential molecules and drugs can be tried to interfere and stop the production of these viral proteins. Indeed, this has been tried to advantage by several recent publications during the last month alone. One of them has attempted to target the translation of the key enzyme RDRp in the virus, whose production was stopped by the drug Remdesavir. Three studies from the US, Germany and China have come up with methods to stop the production of the enzyme (called CL3pro, also called as Mpro) which is needed to make the spike (S protein). And the paper by Yu Chen et al, quoted above lists as many as 16 NSPs in the viral polyprotein, which can be targeted by potential drug molecules. (And Dr PandurangaRao from Boston is quoted as stating that the enzyme nsp12 to be a high-value target). It is important in this context to cite the longstanding excellent work being done by an Indian researcher, Thanigaimalai Pillaiyar (what an auspicious name- in homage to the street he was born in the village, he was born in Thiruvannamalai district in Tamilnadu!), who is settled as a medicinal chemist working at the University of Bonn, Germany since 2013. In a paper full of insight, which he published in 2015-16, titled: ‘An overview of SARS-CoV 3CL protease inhibitors: peptidometrics and small molecule chemotherapy’, that appeared in Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, 2016, 59 (6595-6628)(10.1021/acs.jmedchem.5b01461). In this paper, he used the X-ray crystal structure of a related virus TGEV (Transmissible Gastroenteritis Virus), found by 3D modelling a key enzyme of the SARS-CoV, called Chymotrypsin-like Cysteine Protease (3CLpro) also called the main protease (Mpro), and found that this enzyme fits into the virus structure in a lock and key manner. The next step after this molecular modelling was to find drugs that can deactivate this binding and thus inhibit the SARS-CoV from infecting. A total of about 160 known drugs were predicted to be of value with varying efficiency. Recall that this prediction and the drug list was suggested by him before the crystal structure (or the cryo-electron microscopy of COVID-19 was known) 3-4 years later! Pillaiyar and coworkers have updated their findings in their recent paper in January 2020, in the journal Drug Discovery Today (https://doi.org.10.1016/j.drudis.2020.01.015). India is well versed with expertise in the area of organic and medicinal chemistry since the last 90 years and in manufacturing quality drug molecules, and exporting them for use at home and across the world since the 1970 patents act of India. Our expertise today, in both the public and private sector, includes not just synthesizing made-to-order molecules, but has added new methods involving computer modeling of target proteins from bacteria and viruses, homology modelling, drug design, repurposing of drugs, and other methods. (It is worth noting that Dr. Pillaiyar has active collaboration for quite some time with Sangeetha Meenakshisundaram at the Srikrishna College of Engineering and Technology, Coimbatore, and Manoj Manickam at the PSG Institute of Technology and Applied Research, also at Coimbatore). The CSIR has taken upon itself the express task of coming out with molecules and methods to counter the dreaded virus, and we have every hope that they will succeed in the nearest future! dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/the-covid-19-virus-and-its-polyproteins/article31379529.ece
19 April 2020||New Delhi,||For many, free cooked meals only lifeline left||Over three weeks into the nationwide lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, people lining up outside community kitchens said they were completely dependent on the cooked meals being distributed as all their resources had dried up. Many complained that despite the State government’s announcement, free ration was not being provided to those who did not have ration cards; others said that due to lack of cash in hand, they were unable to buy other raw material or procure gas cylinders and hence, depended on the cooked food being handed out at the distribution centres. “I have been out of work since the lockdown started and have a family of seven to feed. All our resources have been used up. We do not even have money to get other raw materials or a gas cylinder. How can we cook at home under such circumstances? The cooked food being provided at the distribution centre is our only hope,” said 60-year-old Ganesh Prasad, an e-rickshaw operator, for whom waiting in an hour-long queue twice a day has become routine. Options running out Waiting outside a municipal school in Govindpuri, Mohammad Altaf, a tailor, added: “I have been on the lookout for any kind of work but have found nothing. There is only a certain point till which we can ask others for help. Now even those options are running out.” A resident of a transit camp in the area, Altaf said, “When food is distributed, they give food for two people per family. But we have large families. So we take turns to stand in line and collect the cooked food. It takes time, but we have no other option.” Naresh Sharma, a carpenter who lives near Okhla Mandi, said, “I am from Bihar and don’t have a ration card in Delhi. I tried once to get ration and stood in line but the stock ran out by the time my turn came. I haven’t tried again and have been depending on the meals served by authorities.” Balli, a 55-year-old sanitation worker from Badarpur, said, “I have tried a multiple times to get ration without having a card but have been denied every time. They ask us to get a coupon and when we try to get that, it keeps showing that its being ‘processed’. How long can we wait? It’s best to have whatever we are being provided with in terms of the cooked meals.” For Radha Gupta, a resident of Madanpur Khadar, collecting ration has meant a 30-minute walk to the nearest school. The sole earner in a family of eight, Gupta, who work as a domestic help, said, “This is the first time I managed to collect the ration and I got my e-coupon a day ago. For the last few days, my children are sleeping almost hungry as all we could manage was one roti per person. I have not been able to collect my salary as the roads are blocked and I could not travel.” Accompanied by her 11-year-old daughter, Gupta said, “I do not know how to sustain the family and there is nobody supporting me. We do not even have basic essential items. How am I supposed to keep my children healthy in such a situation? Whom do I ask for help?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/for-many-free-cooked-meals-only-lifeline-left/article31379723.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Will convalescent plasma help COVID-19 patients?||The story so far: As the months progress, the world seems still maddeningly short of definitive treatment or vaccine options against COVID-19. However, as the number of people with active COVID-19 infections has increased globally, scientists are “close” to deciding on some promising drug and vaccine candidates and clinical trials are on at multiple centres to test the safety and efficacy of these options. Among the many scientific terms that seem to have entered common parlance with COVID-19 is convalescent plasma. While we may be, in an optimistic scenario, a few weeks or months away from drugs or vaccines, clearly some front-runners have emerged, including remdesivir (originally designed to target the Ebola virus) and convalescent plasma. Convalescent plasma is a time-tested strategy that has worked successfully with several other diseases, and doctors struggling to bring relief to COVID-19 patients have turned towards it — it is blood derived from patients who have recovered from COVID-19 — on the assumption that their body contains antibodies it used to fight the virus. What is convalescent plasma? How does it work? As Dr. Michael Joyner, professor, Mayo Clinic, explains on the institution’s website: People who have recovered from COVID-19 have antibodies to the disease in their blood. Doctors call this convalescent plasma. Researchers hope that convalescent plasma can be given to people with severe COVID-19 to boost their ability to fight the virus. The blood — about 800 ml or so — is collected from the donor through the regular withdrawal process, tested for other pathogens, and if safe, the plasma component is extracted and subsequently used for transfusion on to patients. Everyone who has suffered from a disease possibly carries what are called neutralising antibodies that when extracted via plasma and transfused on to others with the infection can help their immune system fight it off. Whether it works or not depends on whether the disease produced a lot of antibodies in people or not, explains Dr. Priya Sampathkumar, infectious diseases consultant and medical director, infection prevention and control, Mayo Clinic, U.S. For some diseases, the body needs more cellular immunity to fight the infection, while for others, the body needs more antibodies. Most diseases, however, require a combination of both these mechanisms, Dr. Sampathkumar points out. Since trials are going on, there is no standardised protocol on how much of convalescent plasma or how often it must be used. Even before we knew what sort of antibody levels have to be administered, doctors began using this technique because there did not seem to be anything else that worked. The understanding why some people have more antibodies and some have less, whether those who were asymptomatic have antibodies at all, and in what strength, are issues that will have to be answered over the course of the trials. But, she says, these are important questions that need answers, because giving whole plasma to an individual may even overload the system since it might be a large volume. There are no commercially available assays in the market that could measure the antibody level in the plasma. However, research is on at Mayo Clinic for an assay that would take at least a few weeks, to conduct such a test, according to Dr. Sampathkumar. Once that is done, experts would have to figure out the standard minimum dose of antibodies that will kickstart the immune response in the recipient against COVID-19 infection. Rapid serological antibody tests have only recently become available for testing in some nations. How far are we from using it and what are the challenges? Dr. Sampathkumar says for all these studies to get off the ground, researchers would need enough donors who have recovered fully and can be tested for other pathogens as well. People should be willing to donate plasma, and good tests should emerge to estimate how many antibodies they have. While studies are required to show the timing and dosage, there is broad consensus that early administration will be ideal. Dr. Joyner says attempts are on to understand the issue via the large cohort of patients being observed. His colleague, Dr. Sampathkumar, explains, early on in the disease, there is a lot of virus in the system and the antibodies will bind with the virus eliminating it. If this is not done at this stage, then the virus sets off a cascade of inflammation in the body. If the patient has reached that stage, the plasma may not be helpful. And yet, at least two studies from China, the results of which were published in peer-reviewed journals, showed that in severe patients in the intensive care unit, the level of neutralising antibodies increased rapidly or remained high after convalescent plasma transfusion and the clinical symptoms also showed significant amelioration. Trials are also required to examine the effect of other anti-virals or anti-inflammatory drugs on convalescent plasma, and see if there is an additive effect or take-away from the benefits, she adds. Dr. Joyner speculates that there will likely be concentrated immune globulin products in a few months, and these will likely supersede plasma as a way to deliver passive immunity via antibodies to both patients with active disease and to temporarily prevent disease. Since it rests on blood donation, people from the more common blood groups, for instance, O+ve, will have easier access to plasma. Naturally, the pool for rare blood groups is going to be smaller. However, experts have been laying emphasis on the need for people who have recovered to voluntarily come forward and donate plasma to help with research and other patients. What is the future? Trials will conclude in a few weeks/months for definitive conclusions to emerge. The Indian Council of Medical Research has approved Delhi and Kerala to undertake clinical trials, and Tamil Nadu has also applied for permission to conduct trials in the State. If trials clear convalescent plasma and approvals are given for a clinical rollout, it can be employed in hospital settings widely to help patients. If that were to come to pass, the government would also do well to bring in regulations to ensure that plasma donors are not exploited under any circumstances. Creating a broad-based pool of donors would also be advisable, following the Mayo Clinic model, to cover rare blood types as well.  Since trials are going on there is no standardised protocol on how much of convalescent plasma must be used. Dr. Priya Sampathkumar of Mayo Clinic says researchers will need many donors who have recovered fully||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/will-convalescent-plasma-help-covid-19-patients/article31379462.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||For beggars in the Capital, the only little change is less money||At a red-light signal before Rajouri Garden junction, Santosh, Poonam, Pooja, and Rahul sat on the pavement wearing tattered clothes, without masks or even footwear. The only change in the beggars’ lives after the COVID-19 outbreak is less money. When asked if she is aware of the pandemic, 10-year-old Santosh, unable to pronounce the term said, “‘ Corona Varis’ chal raha hai, ye pata hain [coronavirus is spreading, I know),” she said. Public announcements For them, the source of information about the disease is mostly the announcements made on public speaker by police and government bodies about how to keep washing hands, use sanitisers, remain indoors, maintain distance. However, all these exercises don’t appear to fit in their meagre lifestyle. Santosh and Poonam said that a good Samaritan who had come in a “big car” two days ago provided them all with masks but they removed it. “It had become black and dirty so we threw it. They say keep washing hands. Here, if we are able to shower every day then it’s enough,” said Pooja (22), adding that they live in a tent of dupattas near a temple without a fan or electricity. “We all sleep together close to each other because of lack of space so there is no possibility of keeping distance”. But life has changed for them because there is dearth of vehicles on the road for them to ask for money. “ Ek gaadi aati hai itni. Uspe kitne log maang lenge? Waise ek gaadi pe ek aadmi mangta hai [One car comes. How many of us can go beg. One person begs at one car),” said Rahul. Treated like patients But he said that those who are willing to give, the situation doesn’t stop them for being charitable. “There have been cases where we are treated by passersby like we are COVID-19 patients and that even asking them for money will spread the disease. However, there are a few people like that,” he said. While the government and the Delhi Police are making efforts to ensure that no one in the Capital sleeps on a hungry stomach, the beggars said that getting food was easier in the pre-COVID days. “Earlier, policemen would come give us food at least twice a day. Now, we only get sticks. They don’t let us beg here. They use sticks and force us to leave. That’s the reason why so many of us don’t even come on the roads now,” said Pooja. How do they spend their day? Santosh and Poonam take their stones and start playing.  Earlier, policemen would come give us food at least twice a day. Now, we only get sticks. They don’t let us beg here. They use sticks and force us to leave Pooja||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/for-beggars-in-the-capital-the-only-little-change-is-less-money/article31379727.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police escort penniless man, toddler to shelter||On Tuesday morning, when Deepak Gupta woke up at his rented accommodation in Sarita Vihar, he had no milk for his one-year-old daughter Lavanya. Deepak, who had lost his wife two months ago, was penniless and set out to arrange some money so that he could buy milk and food for his daughter. Finding him in distress, a few Delhi Police officers helped him reach the government school-cum-shelter in west Delhi’s Tihar village. From then on, he has been staying in the shelter with his daughter. Deepak left his family in Uttam Nagar six years ago because of differences with his family and started doing odd jobs. In 2018, he met Neha and they got married. Next year, they were blessed with daughter Lavanya. “We were staying in Haryana near my wife’s parental house when she suffered a seizure and died. In January, we returned to Delhi. I took a house on rent in Aali village near Sarita Vihar,” he said. Ever since his wife’s death, Deepak has been taking Lavanya wherever he goes. “I used to go to Sadar Bazar to get cosmetics which I would sell in weekly markets across Delhi. I take her around everywhere. She sits with me when I sell articles,” he said. Life changing The last time Deepak went to the weekly market was on March 18. After prohibitory orders were issued, his life changed. Within a few days, he ran out of money. For a while, his neighbours helped. “They collected some money and dry ration for me. I was managing Lavanya’s milk with that money. After the lockdown was extended, the neighbours too stopped helping and told me that they are unable to manage themselves,” he said. The milkman gave milk on credit for three days but refused to do so after the lockdown was extended. “I told him that I will pay once I am able to earn, but he refused,” lamented Deepak. The landlord was kind enough to defer the rent, but asked him to vacate on April 15. “I had fallen ill on March 21. A few days later, he asked me to leave saying that if something happened to me, he won’t be able to manage the situation. Also, there was no fan in the room,” he said. Helping hand On Tuesday, Deepak went to a friend’s house in Uttam Nagar to borrow money. But on his way back, at the barricade, police officers saw him with his daughter and asked him why he was there. “I told them everything. They told me that I could stay at the shelter till the lockdown ends and I get some work. They also dropped me here at the school,” he said. Praising the government school, he said: “Everything is good here. They also provide milk for my daughter. It is much better than sleeping without a fan,” added Deepak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-escort-penniless-man-toddler-to-shelter/article31379729.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The U.S. freeze on WHO||The story so far: As the toll from the COVID-19 pandemic rose across much of the world, the United States President Donald Trump became more strident in his criticism of the role of the World Health Organization (WHO). On April 7, Mr. Trump tweeted that WHO “really blew it” and that the organisation was “very China centric”, this despite it being largely funded by the U.S. On Tuesday, Mr. Trump said he was halting funding to WHO pending a review. He accused WHO of mismanaging the COVID-19 crisis and said it had failed to vet information and share it in a timely and transparent manner. He told a news conference at the White House, “... I am directing my administration to halt funding while a review is conducted to assess the World Health Organization’s role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus.” When and why was WHO set up? It is important to understand the context in which WHO functions to understand the current situation around its funding. WHO, a United Nations agency created in 1948, is headquartered in Geneva, and was founded to coordinate and direct the UN’s global health effort. It has no authority over its 194-member countries and, as is typical for UN agencies, depends on member contributions to carry out its work. Also, as is often the case with UN agencies, WHO is not immune to political motivations and an inertia that often comes with large bureaucracies. Yet, in this instance, critics and several public health academics have said that Mr. Trump’s attack of the organisation is misplaced. Was WHO slow in alerting the world about COVID-19? It took till about the middle of January for WHO to suggest human-to-human transmission of the virus, toeing the China line for the first few weeks of the year, as per reports. Even then, in the first two weeks of the year and two weeks after it was notified of the virus, WHO had qualified its statement by saying there was “no clear evidence” of such transmission, The Washington Post reported. The U.S. was formally notified by China on January 3 of the coronavirus outbreak. Additionally, as early as January 10 and 11, WHO had put out guidance notes on the virus, according to The Guardian . China locked down the city of Wuhan on January 23. On January 23, WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus warned that while the emergency was for China and not for the world, it had the potential to become global in scale. The body’s experts were divided on whether or not there was a global emergency at the time, as per reports, and it took until January 30 for them to conclude deliberations and declare a global emergency. Yet, nearly a month later, on February 25, Mr. Trump tweeted that the coronavirus in the U.S. was “very much under control.” It was only on March 13 that he declared a national emergency over the coronavirus. How much does the U.S. give WHO? The U.S. is the WHO’s largest contributor. The organisation’s funding is of two types — assessments or member dues and voluntary contributions. The total funds for the 2020-2021 biennium included $957 million in assessments and $4.9 billion in voluntary contributions. Over the last decade, the U.S.’s assessed contributions have been in the $107-$119 million range while voluntary contributions have been in the $102-$402 million range, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health-focused non-profit. For the 2018 and 2019 biennium, the U.S. contributed about 20% of WHO’s budget, according to a National Public Radio (NPR) report. This money went as assessment fees ($237 million) or pledges towards programmes (over $656 million) from voluntary contributions. The major share of the U.S. programmatic funding went towards polio eradication ($158 million), increasing access to essential health and human services ($100 million) and vaccine-preventable disease ($44 million), according to the NPR. Will the U.S.’s stand affect WHO’s functioning? The short answer is, yes, a funding freeze is highly likely to negatively impact WHO’s functioning for a short while at least, given the significant contribution the U.S. makes. However, we do not yet know what the impact will be and for how long. Additionally, it is unclear if Mr. Trump has the authority to withhold funding that has already been committed. Congressional Democrats have said that he does not have this authority and is criticising WHO as a means to deflect criticism of how he has handled the crisis. The U.S. has around 700,000 known cases of COVID-19 over 35,000 deaths due to the disease. Dr. Tedros has asked countries to stop politicising the virus. He also said WHO regrets the U.S. decision and is reviewing the impact of American funds being withdrawn. WHO, he said, would work with its partners to fill any financial gaps that arise so the “work continues uninterrupted”.  The United States is the World Health Organization’s largest contributor. For the 2018 and 2019 biennium, America contributed about 20% of WHO’s budget, according to a National Public Radio report||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-us-freeze-on-who/article31379467.ece
19 April 2020||April 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Cast adrift||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cast-adrift/article31379720.ece
19 April 2020||Noida,||3 fresh cases in Gautam Buddha Nagar||Three more people — one in Noida and two in Greater Noida — tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the tally in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar district to 95, officials here said. Two other patients, who were undergoing treatment for the disease, were discharged after being cured, they said. “Three new cases have been detected. A 70-year-old woman in Noida and a 39-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman in Greater Noida have tested positive for the virus,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said.  “Eighty-two reports have been received in the last 24 hours, of which 79 resulted in negative and three positive. Total cumulative positive cases of COVID-19 in Gautam Buddha Nagar so far is 95,” Mr. Dohare said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-fresh-cases-in-gautam-buddha-nagar/article31379731.ece
19 April 2020||Noida,||34 held for lockdown violation||Thirty-four people were arrested and 237 vehicle owners penalised across Noida and Greater Noida on Saturday for allegedly defying restrictions, imposed due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the police said. Gautam Buddh Nagar is among the districts in Uttar Pradesh where COVID-19 hotspots have been completely sealed off, while restrictions under CrPC Section 144 are also in place. “Eleven FIRs were registered on Saturday for lockdown violations and 34 people arrested. A total of 776 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 237 of them, while 10 others were impounded,” the police said in a statement. The FIRs were registered under IPC Section 188 over violation of prohibitory orders put in place under CrPC Section 144, which bars the assembly of four or more persons, they said. The Gautam Buddh Nagar police has already extended the restrictions imposed under CrPC Section 144 till May 3. At least 2,507 people have been arrested for violating restrictions since March 25 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/34-held-for-lockdown-violation/article31379730.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||600 litres of illegal ‘branded’ ghee found||The city police filed a case after 600 litres of illegal ghee, spuriously packaged under labels of popular brands, were found in a vehicle at Mangolpuri on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/600-litres-of-illegal-branded-ghee-found/article31379718.ece
