19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India’s virus tally crosses 1 lakh; fatality count mounts to 3,157||India’s tally of COVID-19 cases crossed the one lakh-mark on Monday, with 5,079 new infections taking the total to 1,00,734, according to data from the State Health Departments. Of these 58,360 are active cases, while 39,217 persons have recovered from the disease. The country recorded 136 more deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the overall death toll to 3,157. The average number of new cases everyday since May 11 has gone up to 4,077, while the average number of fatalities per day for the period is 115. Maharashtra topped the nationwide tally with more than 35,000 confirmed cases and 1,249 deaths, followed by Tamil Nadu with 11,760 confirmed cases and 81 deaths. Gujarat has reported 11,746 confirmed cases, but its death toll is higher than Tamil Nadu at 694. Mumbai reported 1,185 fresh cases and 23 more deaths, taking the total cases in the city to 21,152 and fatalities to 757. According to the Union Health Ministry, the country has now registered a jump of over 10,000 cases in the past two days — the highest so far in 48 hours. “India currently has a recovery rate of 38.29%,” noted a release issued by the Health Ministry, which added that in terms of confirmed cases per lakh population, India has so far about 7.1 cases per lakh population which indicates that aggressive and early measures taken so far have shown encouraging results. The Ministry added that it has now issued new guidelines to the States for categorisation of red/orange/green zones as part of its lockdown easing measures. The new directive allows States to delineate the containment and buffer zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indias-virus-tally-crosses-1-lakh-fatality-count-mounts-to-3157/article31619153.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Oxford vaccine fails to shield monkeys from virus||A high-profile potential vaccine for COVID-19 being tested by researchers at Oxford University failed to protect vaccinated monkeys from being infected by the virus. However, the test animals appeared to be protected from pneumonia. The vaccine candidate, ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, being tested is a weakened form of a common cold virus (adenovirus) that affects chimpanzees but has been neutered to prevent replication in humans. Plans for manufacture Reports of the candidate vaccine’s performance in monkeys (rhesus macaque) have prompted researchers to test the vaccine’s potency in humans. Its promise has also led to Indian vaccine manufacturer, the Pune-based Serum Institute announcing plans to manufacture a four to five million doses by May-end. It is one of seven global institutions that will manufacture the vaccine developed by the Oxford Vaccine Group. However, detailed results of the trials in monkeys available on pre-print server bioRxiv suggest that, based on these results, the vaccine may not be the panacea to protecting people from being infected and passing on the infection to others. The research paper is yet to be peer-reviewed. Rajesh Gokhle, faculty, National Institute of Immunology and former head of the CSIR-Insitute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, who has read the paper, said that in an “ideal” world, no company would continue testing the vaccine in humans based on the available data in monkeys. “We have presence of the virus in the upper respiratory tract (of the animals). It is possible that these can come down again to the lower respiratory tract (and cause pneumonia). Ideally, if you’ve been inoculated with the vaccine, you should be able to substantially clear out the virus,” he told The Hindu . The researchers, in their paper acknowledge the presence of virus in the upper respiratory tract. “Despite this marked difference in virus replication in the lungs, reduction in viral shedding from the nose was not observed,” they note. They explain it as being possibly due to the unusually high amount of the virus that the monkeys were exposed to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oxford-vaccine-fails-to-shield-monkeys-from-virus/article31619157.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Odisha, West Bengal brace for Amphan||The storm system in the Bay of Bengal, Amphan, developed into a super cyclone on Monday and is expected to make landfall along the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department. Currently, Amphan is located about 730 km south of Paradip in Odisha, 890 km south-southwest of Digha in West Bengal and 1,010 km south-southwest of Khepupara in Bangladesh. Windspeeds are expected to hit 240 kmph and extensive damage along the coast is expected in Odisha and West Bengal. Cyclone Phailin in 2013 and the super cyclone of 1999 — both of which hit coastal Odisha — have been the most powerful cyclones in the Bay of Bengal in the past two decades in terms of windspeed. By the time it makes landfall in West Bengal, Amphan is expected to tone down into a category 4 Extremely Severe Cyclonic (ESC) storm with wind speed of 165-175 kmph and gusting to 195 kmph. Last year, Fani, which was an ESC made landfall in Odisha and ravaged the State, claiming at least 40 lives. Amphan is expected to bring “heavy to extremely heavy rainfall” over Gangetic West Bengal and heavy to very heavy rainfall over north coastal Odisha on May 19 and 20. Storm surge of about 4-6 meters above astronomical tide is likely to inundate low lying areas of South & North 24 Parganas and about 3-4 meters over the low lying areas of East Medinipur district of West Bengal during the time of landfall, said an evening update from the Press Information Bureau. “Extensive damage to all types of kutcha houses, some damage to old badly-managed pucca structures. Potential threat from flying objects, extensive uprooting of communication and power poles, Disruption of rail/road link, extensive damage to standing crops, plantations, orchards,” are what the disaster management agencies warn on the impact of the storm. The Odisha government has deployed units of the National Disaster Response Force and the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force to north-coastal districts for carrying out rescue operation. Six districts — Balasore, Bhadrak, Mayurbhanj, Kendrapara, Jajpur and Jagatsinghpur — are likely to be severely affected||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-west-bengal-brace-for-amphan/article31619150.ece
19 May 2020||Vijayawada,||Govt. for reopening of all shops from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., orders likely soon||The State government has resolved in principle to permit all shops except those in the red zones to do business from 7 am to 7 pm and to continue night curfew from 7 pm till 5 am. The date from when this would become operational would be decided in a couple of days, according to sources in the Chief Minister’s Office. The decision has been taken at a review meeting on COVID-19 containment measures chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday. It has also been decided to allow only a maximum of 50 persons to attend events like marriages and to let only three persons travel in cars and 20 in buses. The Chief Minister directed that all government employees should be prepared to attend offices and follow the guidelines issued by the Central government at their work places. Orders in this regard will be issued soon. Officials should give priority to mitigating the woes of migrant workers trekking to their native places in spite of transportation and other services provided to them, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy added.  Buses to metros The Chief Minister has given the green signal for resuming the RTC bus services from Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad to bring back those stuck in the cities and gradually expand the inter-State services subject to the Centre’s guidelines. However, no passengers would be allowed to board the buses en route. The Chief Minister has also permitted the operating of buses, including private vehicles, within the State and instructed the officials to work out the modalities for early restoration of operations. Social distancing Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said social distancing should be strictly maintained and passengers should be tested for the virus immediately on their arrival. It should be ensured that the passengers wore masks. The Chief Minister wanted full details of the passengers to be gathered, including the exact places they were going, to enable contact tracing if required. Not more than 50% of the seats should be filled, he suggested. The date of resumption of bus services would be announced in about four days, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-for-reopening-of-all-shops-from-7-am-to-7-pm-orders-likely-soon/article31619144.ece
19 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||29 more test positive as NoRKs add to tally||Expatriates and Non-Resident Keralites from other States made up almost all of the 29 positive cases of COVID-19 reported in Kerala on Monday, as it has been since May 7 when NoRKs began returning home. While 21 of the new positive cases were people who returned from the UAE and other Gulf nations and the Maldives, seven were those who came from Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. One lone case of infection was picked up from the community by a health-care worker in Kannur . Six of the cases were in Kollam, four in Thrissur, three each in Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur, two each in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Kozhikode, and Kasaragod, and one case each was in Ernakaulam, Palakkad, and Malappuram districts. The total number in quarantine in the State is 67,789 now. Till, date, Kerala has tested samples from 45,905 persons, of which, 44,681 have returned a negative result. As part of sentinel surveillance, a crop of samples are being collected from select groups in the population on a random basis daily and tested for the past three weeks. Of the 5,154 samples tested so far, 5,082 samples were negative. Hotspots On Monday, six more regions in the State were added on to the hotspot list taking the number to 29. The new additions are Kalluvathukkal in Kollam and Kadambazhipuram, Muthuthala, Karakkurissi, Kottayi, and Muthalamada in Palakkad. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan reiterated that reverse quarantine has to be maintained strictly and that senior citizens, pregnant women, children below 10 years and those with chronic illnesses should not leave home unless in an emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/29-more-test-positive-as-norks-add-to-tally/article31619454.ece
19 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||52 new cases push tally to 2,432||A day after witnessing just 25 positive cases, one of the lowest daily tallies, the State has registered 52 new COVID-19 ones during the past 24 hours as of Monday, taking the overall tally to 2,432, including 150 migrant cases. The number of recoveries continues to increase with more patients getting discharged in various districts. As many as 96 patients, including two migrants, have recovered. So far, 1,552 patients have recovered taking the recovery rate in the State to 63.8%, while 34.1% of the positive patients are currently undergoing treatment. No new deaths were reported. Meanwhile, cases related to the Koyambedu wholesale market hotspot continue to come up in various districts. Of the 52 cases, 19 are of persons who visited the market and their contacts. Twelve such cases were detected in Chittoor and seven were detected in Nellore. Milestone in sight Krishna and Chittoor districts reported 15 new cases each while Nellore reported seven, East Godavari reported five, Kurnool reported four, Kadapa and West Godavari reported two each and Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram reported one case each. No new cases of migrant returnees were detected and their tally remains at 150 and 25 of them have recovered. Most of the recoveries were witnessed in Guntur (40) and Kurnool (28) districts. They are followed by Krishna (10), Chittoor (5), East Godavari (5), Visakhapatnam (4), Anantapur (2) and Kadapa (1). Having tested 9, 713 samples in the past 24 hours, the State reached close to the 2.5 lakh-mark. A total of 2,48,711 samples have been tested so far. District tallies are as follows: Kurnool (615), Guntur (417), Krishna (382), Chittoor (192), Nellore (157), Anantapur (122), Kadapa (104), Visakhapatnam (76), West Godavari (72), Prakasam (66), East Godavari (57), Srikakulam (14), Vizianagaram (8), and migrant cases (150).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/52-new-cases-push-tally-to-2432/article31619142.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||83 LCA-MK1A deal high priority: IAF chief||The Indian Air Force (IAF) will set up the second squadron of indigenous Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas by month-end, said Air Chief Marshal (ACM) R.K.S. Bhadauria on Monday, while the “high priority” deal for 83 LCA-MK1A jets was expected to be signed in three months. Stressing on the effort to shift to indigenous production as much as possible, the IAF chief said the challenge was for the domestic industry to catch up. “We will get the first LCA in Final Operations Clearance (FOC) standard likely by next week. We are targeting formation of the second LCA squadron at Sulur next week, before the end of the month. We have already done the resurrection of the squadron but induction of aircraft and inauguration got stalled due to COVID,” ACM Bhadauria said in an exclusive interaction with The Hindu . Tender for fighters On the tender for 114 fighters to be built under Make in India, stating that it was a “different class” of fighter than the LCA which would be built in India and not imported, he said the global responses to the tender were being analysed after which they would go to the government for the grant of Acceptance of Necessity (AoN). “We will finalise the way forward on the 114 tender.” Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat had earlier said large imports could not be done and they had to be staggered. On the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China which saw some face-offs recently in Ladakh and Sikkim, ACM Bhadauria said that on the air side, they monitor developments closely, and if any aircraft was getting close to the LAC it gets monitored and if there was a need to respond it was decided in real time. “Wherever there is a requirement to respond, the response is there,” he said without elaborating. Elaborating on the 83 LCA-MK1A deal, estimated to cost around Rs. 39,000 crore, he said the deal had already been delayed. While the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) had done the ground work on development of the MK-1A variant, they could not work on incorporating additional capabilities till the contract was signed. It would also boost the industry which had already been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. Similarly, the IAF is about to place orders for over 200 Astra indigenous Beyond Visual Range (BVR) missiles and emphasised on the need for adhering to time line and quality. “These are high-risk decisions. We go indigenous and they fail to produce on time and we run out of missiles, it is very tricky. So we have to balance,” ACM Bhadauria said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/83-lca-mk1a-deal-high-priority-iaf-chief/article31619155.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||Buses, cabs to run with limited passengers in 4th phase: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced certain relaxations in transportation in the city in the fourth phase of lockdown till May 31. Buses will be allowed to run with not more than 20 passengers, while autorickshaws and e-rickshaws will ply with one passenger each. Taxis will be allowed to ferry only two passengers. Gramin, phat-phat and eco-friendly sevas will also be allowed with only two passengers. Maxi cabs will be allowed with five passengers and RTVs will be allowed to ferry 11. However, metro services will remain suspended during the period. Mr. Kejriwal reiterated that the lockdown was not a permanent solution to the COVID-19 pandemic and relaxations had to be announced to revive the economy. “The fourth phase of the lockdown is starting. People have dedicatedly followed the norms of the lockdown and I am sure that we will together defeat the novel coronavirus,” he said. Schools, theatres closed Educational institutions such as schools, colleges, coaching and training institutes will remain closed. Shopping malls, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums and assembly halls will also not operate during the fourth phase, said Mr. Kejriwal. “Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, and other gatherings will not be allowed. Religious places and places of worship will remain closed. Barbershops, spas, and salons will remain closed. Curfew timings in the city will be from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m., except for essential services,” he said. Senior citizens, children below the age of 10, pregnant women and people with health issues such as heart diseases and diabetes will remain under “strict lockdo-wn”, said the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/buses-cabs-to-run-with-limited-passengers-in-4th-phase-kejriwal/article31619343.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,||536 new cases of COVID-19 in T.N.||Tamil Nadu added another 536 cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking its tally to 11,760*. Of the new cases, 46 persons had returned to the State from Maharashtra. Accounting for 364 of the fresh cases, Chennai’s tally of positive cases crossed the 7,000-mark, while Chengalpattu reported 43 more cases, taking its total to 537. Both Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram continued to report new cases with 19 and 17, respectively. Three women who tested positive for COVID-19 died in the city. A 53-year-old, who was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 16, died due to respiratory failure on Sunday. She suffered from acute respiratory distress syndrome and pneumonia. The second patient, a 65-year-old, had systemic hypertension and diabetes and was admitted to RGGGH on May 15. She died on Sunday due to acute encephalopathy and bilateral pneumonia. A 70-year-old resident of Chennai was admitted to Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on May 17. She had systemic hypertension, uncontrolled diabetes, hypothyroidism and morbid obesity and died on Monday due to left intertrochanteric fracture with pulmonary embolism, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. With this, a total of 81 persons have died in the State of COVID-19. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, during a media briefing, said that many of those who died had co-morbid conditions. Meanwhile, 234 persons were discharged across the State. So far, a total of 4,406 persons have recovered from COVID-19, he said. “There were no new cases in at least 15-16 districts such as Erode, Coimbatore, Salem and Sivaganga. Now, persons are returning to the State from abroad on flights, persons have arrived in two trains from Delhi and by road from Maharashtra and Gujarat. We are screening such persons, testing, putting them under quarantine, and are admitting them to hospitals in case they are positive for COVID-19,” he added. Among the new cases - 304 male and 232 female - were 46 children aged 0 to 12. The youngest among them were three month-old babies. There were three more infants aged less than a year. The fresh cases were reported from a total of 22 districts. There were nine cases in Theni, seven in Kanniyakumari, five in Kallakurichi, four each in Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram, three each in Virudhunagar and Madurai, two each in Ariyalur and Ranipet, and one each in Karur, Tiruppattur and Thoothukudi. Four persons who tested positive were in airport quarantine. Among those who had returned from Maharashtra, 14 tested positive in Thoothukudi, 12 in Tirunelveli, six each in Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi, five in Salem, two in Dindigul and one in Cuddalore. “We have managed two big clusters. We traced all contacts, brought them under quarantine, and took up aggressive testing. We held a meeting with a committee from the Central government and they appreciated Tamil Nadu’s best practices,” the Minister said. The number of samples tested on Monday stood at 11,121, while persons tested numbered 10,887. So far, a total of 3,37,841 samples have been tested in the State. “The Leader of the Opposition has said that the number of samples tested has reduced in the State. This is false information. We are testing as per protocols, and we do not fix the number of samples to be tested. It is done as per the situation, and as per the inflow of people from outside,” the Minister explained. The number of samples tested in the State was higher than many others, he said, adding: “If the number of samples is less on a day, it does not mean we are reducing the tests.” As of Monday, there were a total of 7,270 active cases and 4,508 individuals with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 in isolation wards. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/536-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-tn/article31619249.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||41 test positive for COVID in Telangana||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana touched 1,592 as 41 more tested positive for the virus on Monday. Of them, 26 are from GHMC area, three from Medchal, and 12 migrants. Besides, 10 people were discharged. Of the total 1,592 cases, 556 are active cases, 1,002 were discharged and 34 people suffering from the disease have died. On the whole, 69 migrants tested positive for coronavirus, said Director of Public Health and Family Welfare Dr G Srinivasa Rao. The total number of patients who were discharged crossed 1,000 mark on Monday. It may be noted that the State government has adopted ‘revised discharge policy for COVID-19’ from May 13, when 117 people were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/41-test-positive-for-covid-in-telangana/article31619389.ece
19 May 2020||DHARWAD,||NWKRTC bus services from today||NWKRTC buses, autorickshaws and private taxi services will resume services on Tuesday, while the authorities concerned would shortly decide about running BRTS buses, said Minister in-charge of the district Jagadish Shettar. Speaking to presspersons after holding a meeting here on Monday, Mr. Shettar said that NWKRTC has already been asked to operate buses within the district and the officials have started making markings at the bus stand to ensure social distancing. All precautions would be taken and passengers too should adopt safety measures against infection, he said. Besides, parks and playgrounds too would open for the public but they will have stipulated timings — 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nwkrtc-bus-services-from-today/article31619371.ece
19 May 2020||Bengaluru,||SSLC exam in Karnataka from June 25||Putting an end to the long wait of students, the State government has announced that the SSLC exam will be held from June 25 to July 4. The English exam for II PU students will be held on June 18. The SSLC exam, earlier scheduled to be held from March 27, was put off on account of the nationwide lockdown. A total of 8.48 lakh students have registered for it. Addressing a press meet on Monday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said precautionary measures would be taken in holding the exam. Students will have to wear masks to the exam centres and will have to undergo thermal screening before entering the hall. In addition to this, sanitisers will be kept at all centres. Students who have shifted to their hometowns during the lockdown can write the exam at the centre nearest to them. This will also be applicable to students who were staying at SC/ST and Morarji Desai hostels who have moved out. Mr. Kumar said that in case any student is found to be ill or having fever, cough or cold, special arrangements would be made for them to write the exam in a separate classroom. He also said they would have additional exam centres to ensure that social distancing is maintained. The exam will be held at 2,879 centres across the State. The Minister said scouts and guides, as well as NGOs, have come forward to distribute masks to students writing the SSLC examination. Every student will be given two masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-exam-in-karnataka-from-june-25/article31619207.ece
19 May 2020||Bengaluru,||One dead in Udupi district||As rain lashed coastal Karnataka, Bharath Kumar, 21, was killed in a lightning strike at Katpady village in Udupi district on Sunday night. A person went missingoff the coast of Mangaluru after a boat capsizednear Tannirbhavi owing to strong winds.Page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-dead-in-udupi-district/article31619204.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Home truth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/home-truth/article31619203.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||ICMR revises test strategy||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday released a revised COVID-19 testing strategy, which includes testing of all symptomatic influenza like illness (ILI) individuals with history of international travel in the past 14 days.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/icmr-revises-test-strategy/article31619141.ece
19 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Stimulus fails to cheer equity markets||Indian benchmark equity indices lost more than 3% each on Monday, with the Sensex shedding more than 1,000 points and the broader Nifty settling 313.60 down as the stimulus package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman failed to cheer the market. The extension of the lockdown till May 31 further dampened sentiments. The 30-share Sensex lost 1,068.75 points, or 3.44%, to close at 30,028.98.  The broader Nifty settled the day at 8,823.25, losing 3.43%. The India VIX index surged a little over 7.5% on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stimulus-fails-to-cheer-equity-markets/article31619148.ece
19 May 2020||Hyderabad,||TSRTC services to resume, but not in city||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation will resume services on Tuesday, but (Hyderabad) city buses will stay off the roads as will inter-State services, said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Mr. Rao was speaking to the media on Monday at Pragathi Bhavan where he said that resumption of bus services will begin at 6 a.m. He clarified there would be no inter-State buses, while services within the State will be operational.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tsrtc-services-to-resume-but-not-in-city/article31619390.ece
19 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Oppo shuts unit after staff test positive||Chinese smartphone maker Oppo has suspended operations at its Greater Noida factory after six of its workers tested positive for COVID-19. Two employees of Vivo have also been found positive while 15 contacts of a Zee Media employee, who tested positive on May 15, were also found infected, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oppo-shuts-unit-after-staff-test-positive/article31619342.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 cases in city cross 10,000 mark||A total of 299 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours taking the tally to 10,054, according to a government health bulletin released on Monday. No new deaths were reported but the toll increased by 12 to 160, based on reports by the government’s audit committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-city-cross-10000-mark/article31619341.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Mettur dam will be opened on June 12: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said water would be released from the Mettur dam from June 12 for kuruvai cultivation. The CM said he had instructed offi- cials to ensure uninterrupted power supply for 12 hours in the Cauvery delta areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mettur-dam-will-be-opened-on-june-12-cm/article31619251.ece
19 May 2020||Chennai,||‘T.N. has not reduced samples for testing'||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said except for exit tests, Tamil Nadu has not limited or reduced the number of samples lifted for testing. It is now testing all persons arriving by flights, trains and road to the State. The number of samples tested per day has been between 10,000 and 14,000 in the past two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-has-not-reduced-samples-for-testing/article31619253.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,||City roads witness surge in traffic||Monday was day one of phase 4 of the lockdown, scheduled to last till May 31, but the city’s roads looked busy. In fact, it was as if normalcy was back. There were a great many vehicles on the roads. There were even some incidents of jumping of red lights and rash driving too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-roads-witness-surge-in-traffic/article31619252.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. slams economic package||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Monday said that the Centre’s “economic stimulus was hopelessly inadequate that added insult to injury”, and claimed that the actual economic package amounted to Rs. 1.86 lakh crore, or 0.91% of the Gross Domestic Product. Separately, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi in a tweet said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ridiculed the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) as a symbol of the UPA’s failure but the same scheme had been given aid by his government to help the rural poor. “The Prime Minister has approved an additional budget of Rs. 40,000 crore for the MNREGA scheme created during the UPA era. We express our gratitude to him for understanding the vision of MNREGA and promoting it,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted with hashtag #ModiUturnOnMNREGA and tagged a video clip of Mr. Modi’s speech in Parliament soon after coming to power in 2014. Addressing an online press conference, Mr. Chidambaram said the government should announce a revised package of Rs. 10 lakh crore or 10% of the GDP as the current package had left several sections such as the poor, migrants, farmers, labourers, workers, small shopkeepers and middle class high and dry. “In our view, a fiscal stimulus of Rs. 1,86,650 crore amounting to barely 0.91% of the GDP will be totally inadequate given the gravity of the economic crisis and the dire situation in which people find themselves. Most analysts, rating agencies and banks have placed the size of the fiscal stimulus at between 0.8 to 1.5%,” Mr. Chidambaram said. Many of the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcements were just frontloading of previously budgeted expenditures, he said. He said there could be no stimulus package without additional borrowing, but noted that Ms. Sitharaman had acknowledged “additional expenditure must be financed by additional borrowing”. “The true value of the fiscal stimulus package will, therefore, be known when we know what is the Additional Borrowing in 2020-21 to finance the Additional Expenditure over and above the Expenditure Budget of Rs. 30,42,230 crore. The truth cannot be hidden for long,” Mr. Chidambaram said. “We express our thorough disappointment and request the government to reconsider the stimulus package and announce a revised and comprehensive fiscal stimulus package of not less than Rs. 10 lakh crore of real additional expenditure equivalent to 10% of GDP,” he said. Lashing out at the government for the migrant worker crisis, he said it had “completely mismanaged, misjudged the situation” resulting in a monumental error. “I think the government is living in an echo chamber. They listen to their own voices, their own opinion,” Mr. Chidambaram said. Parliament sidelined The Congress leader said the government was being ‘opportunistic’ to use the COVID-19 pandemic to push for reforms, bypassing stakeholders and parliamentary institutions. “I think the government is deliberately sidelining Parliament. A meeting of the Parliamentary Committee should at least be held to discuss the fiscal stimulus package,” he said. Mr. Chidambaram said the government’s fears about being downgraded by agencies if it ras up a big fiscal deficit were misplaced as every country was in distress. “As long as our foreign exchange reserves are high, inflation is under control, we are on the right path,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-slams-economic-package/article31619071.ece
19 May 2020||Kolkata,||Will extend lockdown, won’t impose night curfew: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the State would extend the lockdown till May 31 following the notification of the Centre, but would not impose night curfew. Speaking to presspersons at the State Secretariat here, she urged people not to venture out of their homes between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. and warned of police action. Curfews were imposed under extreme circumstances such as riots and her government would not impose night curfew as directed by the Centre, she said. Ms. Banerjee announced that apart from the 105 trains requisitioned, her government would request the Railways for another 120 Shramik Special trains in the next few days to bring back migrant workers. “Already, 16 trains have arrived and about 2.5 to 3 lakh workers have returned by trains and buses. We are planning for 10 trains to arrive every day, but it cannot be done at once. The State needs time for planning.” Containment areas, she said, would be further divided into three categories — affected, buffer and clean zones. Accordingly, relaxations would be allowed, she said. All shops, except in shopping malls, and district buses would be operational from May 21. A committee of civic and police officials would look into the resumption of roadside shops and those in markets. The committee would also give a number to the shops and odd and even shops would be allowed to operate on alternate days from May 27. Barber shops and beauty parlours could function, but should maintain proper hygiene and take necessary precautions. First flight arrives The Chief Minister said the first repatriation flight from Bangladesh arrived in Kolkata on Monday. The flight, with about 169 passengers, arrived from Dhaka at 12.30 p.m. The passengers, including students and stranded tourists, would have to go into institutional quarantine for a stipulated time. While emphasising that there was muted celebration for ‘Poila Boishak’ (Bengali New Year) this year because of the lockdown, Ms. Banerjee urged the faithful to avoid any gatherings during Id-ul-Fitr. Referring to the economic package by the Centre, the Chief Minister said that it had not been of any help to the State. On the Centre’s decision to increase the borrowing limit of States from 3% to 5% of the gross State domestic product (GSDP) in 2020-21, she said that it came with a number of riders where the States had to “give up on its autonomy”. West Bengal would not give up its autonomy, the Chief Minister said. “We have not got anything from the Centre to help us in the management of COVID-19,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-extend-lockdown-wont-impose-night-curfew-mamata/article31619092.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||Centre warns States against diluting curbs||The Union Home Ministry has asked the States not to dilute the restrictions imposed by the Ministry in fresh guidelines, asserting that certain other activities may be prohibited or other restrictions imposed as deemed necessary on the basis of a ground-level analysis of the situation. In a letter to all States, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said despite widespread relaxations in lockdown restrictions under the revised guidelines, the States and Union Territories could not dilute the restrictions imposed in the Ministry’s guidelines. “They may prohibit certain other activities or impose restrictions, as deemed necessary on the basis of ground level analysis of the situation,” it said. Further, it was communicated that States must take into consideration the benchmarks and thresholds indicated in the revised guidelines issued by the Health Ministry, while delineating zones at local level. It has also been urged to give wide publicity to the Centre and respective State guidelines at local level for the convenience of the public. Considerable relaxations were allowed in the MHA guidelines for Lockdown 4.0 that will be in force till May 31. Schools, malls, metro and air services remain suspended while special trains have been allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-warns-states-against-diluting-curbs/article31619098.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE exam timetable released||The Class 12 examinations of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) postponed nationwide because of COVID-19 and Class 10 exams in northeast Delhi affected by riots will be held from July 1 to 15. Issuing safety instructions for the candidates, the CBSE said they should carry hand sanitiser in a transparent bottle, cover the mouth and nose with a mask or cloth and follow physical distancing norms. Parents should guide their children about the precautions to be taken and also ensure they are not sick. The Class 12 exams across the country will start with home economics on July 1, Hindi elective and Hindi core on July 2, informatics practices and computer science (both old and new) and information technology on July 7, business studies on July 9, biotechnology on July 10, geography on July 11 and sociology on July 14. For northeast Delhi district, the Class 12 physics exam will be held on July 3, accountancy on July 4, chemistry on July 6, English elective-n, English elective-c and English core on July 8, political science on July 14, and mathematics, economics, history and biology on July 15. The Class 10 exams in northeast Delhi will start on July 1 with social science. The exams for science theory and science without practical will be held on July 2, Hindi course-a and Hindi course-b on July 10, and English communicative and English language and literature on July 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-exam-timetable-released/article31619119.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Stimulus plans another gimmick’||The economic package announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman over the last five days is nothing but a “recipe for large scale privatisation, enriching the rich and impoverishing the poor”, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said on Monday. At a press conference through social media, he said the package had failed to address either the current challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic or the sufferings caused by the lockdown, which was extended for the fourth time on Sunday. He said, “This economic package has nothing to do with self-reliance. It’s a recipe for large-scale privatisation, enriching the rich and impoverishing the poor.” He called upon all like- minded parties to come together to put pressure on the government to extend financial help to the States, who are the front line fighters in the battle. The entire package was yet another jumla, he stated. “The additional Rs. 40,000 crore under the Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act doesn’t suffice. There is Rs. 11,000 crore pending arrears of the last year’s payment. If you take that away, then that allocation is far too little to meet the needs of eight crore migrants who are on the streets as per Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman,” he said. This allocation had to be further increased. “This too is a demand generated allocation, which means it will be released only when there is a demand. Often, in the past we have seen that money allocated has not been released because of their claim that there was no demand. It’s a false claim, which they have been getting away with,” he alleged. During the last two months, NPA worth Rs. 68,600 crore had been written off by the government when it failed to provide one-time loan waiver for farmers. Instead of providing monetary help, the government had put the entire onus on banks by taking the loan route. “Which bank is going to give loan, when they have been told to cut down on NPAs,” he asked. Dip in demand The basic problem with the economy was a dip in demand. “Unless you increase the purchasing power of people, you can’t revive the economy. Now that can be increased only if there is massive dose of public investment to build our much-needed infrastructure, which in turn will generate jobs.” Instead, he said, the government was trying to delegate it to the private sector. With a high gestational lag in such projects, private entities would not want to invest. The economic package did not have any announcements in this direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stimulus-plans-another-gimmick/article31619075.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Moving into summer months, India could get hit very hard’||As the world continues to grapple with the debilitating human toll and economic consequences of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Peter Hotez , Dean for the National School of Tropical Medicine and a Professor at the Departments of Paediatrics and Molecular Virology and Microbiology at the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, speaks about the state of play in the battle against the novel coronavirus.  What is the current situation in the U.S., where President Donald Trump recently said fatalities could reach 1,00,000. Why did the numbers spin out of control this way and is there hope that the curve can be flattened? There is quite a bit of concern here. It really took off because the virus probably entered the U.S. earlier than we suspected. A national emergency was not declared until the middle of March. It is likely that the virus entered the U.S. in early February, back-tracing it. That means that transmission went on for about six weeks before any efforts for social distancing were implemented. We know from the models that it produces tragedy and makes the difference between having thousands of patients in your intensive care units and local hospitals, versus having just a handful. What treatment options could have a scalable impact? We are hearing hopeful accounts of Remdesivir... Vaccines offer the greatest promise for protecting large populations at risk, like in India. The problem with vaccines is also that they are the highest bar to achieve because with a vaccine you are generally injecting healthy individuals to prevent them from getting sick. So, you have to be absolutely pristine, in not only showing that the vaccines work, but also your safety profile. That is what takes time. In the meantime, there are some new, promising treatments on the horizon. I am very excited, for instance, about convalescent plasma. It is a relatively low-tech solution which involves identifying individuals who have recovered from their COVID-19 and have antibodies. The problem is that it is hard to scale because it requires you having a base of patients with the illness. In India, while the number of infections continue to rise, the government moved aggressively to impose a nationwide lockdown. Could the fact that we are not seeing the sort of fatality numbers that you did in the U.S. be down to India facing a different coronavirus strain? I do not think it is going to turn out to be a coronavirus strain issue. It is possible that this is a new virus pathogen. But I think it is most likely because India did implement some social distancing early on. So, India may have mitigated the worst aspects of this. But I would say that we should not be complacent, because I am still worried for India. The reason for that is that you are moving into the summer months and we know that sometimes in tropical countries, the global south, or in places like South Asia, Africa, Australia and South America, sometimes for influenza the seasonality is inverted. I think you have to assume the potential for things to get much worse as you head towards July and August. I am particularly worried about India’s crowded urban areas in low-income neighbourhoods, where people are forced to live in proximity, including in Mumbai. I am holding my breath because I still do think India could get hit very hard. Should we be worried about reports from New York about COVID-19-positive children succumbing to symptoms that resemble Kawasaki disease? It caught us a bit off-guard because in China we did not hear much about paediatric syndromes. Our understanding was that children were mostly handling the virus pretty well, not getting very sick, with the exception of about 10% of infants. These symptoms first came out of the United Kingdom and then we saw them in New York, a syndrome that looks like vasculitis, an inflammation of the blood vessels, linked to this virus, maybe later on in the course of the illness. This Kawasaki-disease-like syndrome is still not common — there have been about 100 cases in New York. We are also seeing, unfortunately, a lot of cases in the U.S. among adults, of clotting defects, which we are trying to understand. We are seeing lots of different types of thromboses, or clotting of the blood, leading to blockage, which in turn lead to strokes, pulmonary emboli, and may be associated with coronary artery thrombosis, giving people heart attacks. If there is one broad lesson of the COVID-19 pandemic for developing countries such as India, is it to be better prepared for future events of this sort in terms of creating a sufficient pandemic preparedness? This is not unique to India. Every nation on the planet has to learn some lessons from this. But things will change after this pandemic. India has an enormous amount to offer. I continue to be impressed by the quality of some of the universities in India. I am impressed with its capacity for innovation, especially around vaccines. India is an example of what a country can do even despite its levels of poverty, in terms of over-achieving and having an impact in terms of pandemic preparedness.  Vaccines offer the greatest promise for protecting large populations at risk, like in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/moving-into-summer-months-india-could-get-hit-very-hard/article31619100.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Call for WHO probe into virus origin||An India-backed draft resolution at the 73rd session of the World Health Assembly received a big boost on Monday when the African group of nations extended support for the motion which seeks global investigation into the spread of the novel coronavirus. The development came soon after the Assembly convened in Geneva where the head of the World Health Organization (WHO) declared that the global body will look into the lessons of the COVID-19 pandemic. “I will initiate an independent evaluation at the earliest appropriate moment to review experience gained and lessons learned to make recommendations to improve national and global pandemic preparedness and response,” said Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director-General, WHO. The assurance, however, is at variance from the draft resolution, which was earlier backed by WHO’s 62 countries and sought to identify scientific “events” that could have contributed to the spread of the novel coronavirus and the consequent COVID-19 pandemic. The recommendation is part of the text jointly conceived by Australia and the European Union. It aims to evaluate possible food and animal-related sources that could have led to the spread of the deadly pandemic. Informed sources said that given the growing number of co-sponsors, the likelihood of a vote on the motion was lessened. The language of the motion seeks to delve deep into the origin of the virus. “The Seventy-third World Health Assembly requests the Director General to ... identify the zoonotic source of the virus and the route of introduction to the human population, including the possible role of intermediate hosts, including through efforts such as scientific and collaborative field missions, which will enable targeted interventions and a research agenda to reduce the risk of similar events,” says the draft motion that The Hindu has seen. ‘Impartial evaluation’ The draft resolution also calls for “impartial, independent and comprehensive” evaluation into the “WHO-coordinated international health response” to the COVID-19 pandemic. The language of the resolution reflects the diplomatic tug of war that has taken place since the pandemic began in early 2019 . This tension was visible on Monday when Taiwan protested at not receiving a formal invite from the WHO Secretariat for the 73rd Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-for-who-probe-into-virus-origin/article31619105.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Unknown sources funding parties’||More than half of the income of 23 regional parties whose annual audit and contribution reports were analysed came from unknown sources in 2018-19, a report released by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) on Monday said. The report initially considered 52 recognised regional parties but only 26 of them had filed their annual audit and contribution reports with the Election Commission, the report said. Of the 26, the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and the Lok Jan Shakti Party were left out of the analysis as there were discrepancies in their reports, the ADR said. The total income declared by the 23 parties was Rs. 885.956 crore, of which Rs. 257.14 crore or 29.02% came from known sources (donations declared to the ECI) and Rs.147.54 crore or 16.65% came from other known sources such as membership fees, bank interest etc. A total of Rs. 481.27 crore or 54.32% of the parties’ income came from unknown sources, the report said. Ninety per cent of the income from unknown sources was through electoral bonds. Highest amount The Biju Janata Dal declared the highest income from unknown sources (Rs. 213.54 crore), followed by the YSR-Congress (Rs. 100.50 crore) and the Shiv Sena (Rs. 60.73 crore). “Since a very large percentage of the income of political parties cannot be traced to the original donor, full details of all donors should be made available for public scrutiny through RTI,” the report recommended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unknown-sources-funding-parties/article31619117.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP gearing up for Bihar elections amid pandemic||The BJP’s Bihar unit is preparing to face the Assembly polls which, under the pre-COVID-19 calender, were scheduled to be held in October-November. Senior BJP office-bearers told The Hindu that “apart from the relief work” necessitated due to the pandemic, the party was slowly completing some of the organisational requirements to face polls. “The most basic building block of the organisational work is by completing our booth-level network. We have a total of 72,727 booths and we are in the process of completing our exercise in constituting them,” said a senior State-level office-bearer. Party State chief Sanjay Jaiswal has been regularly holding video meetings on the issue. The party, he said, was operating on the saptarishi principle, that is, a seven-member booth committee in each booth, with a chief, a deputy chief, compulsory representation of women, Scheduled Castes and Most Backward Community members in the group. “The exercise for completing the constitution of our mandal level committees, around 1099, is complete, and below that are our ‘shakti kendras’ [just above booth level], around 9547, which are also almost done,” he said. Office-bearers in charge of various Assembly seats have been registering their lists with names and numbers of those on the ‘saptarishi’ and other committees. Poll prospects When asked about the poll prospects, he said the party was, like others, in the dark about it. “Whenever it happens, however, our organisational machinery will be ready for it.” There were still areas where it was difficult to form a full booth committee, but that the party was persisting. He dismissed suggestions that the party was concentrating on poll preparedness while the country was facing a pandemic plus the humanitarian situation with regard to the movement of inter-State migrants. Relief work “At least 90% of our workers are involved in relief work, while the rest are engaged in organisational work. If you bother to get in touch with our MLAs, you will see that they and other workers have been actively involved in making sure quarantine centres etc are set up and are in good order. We have to report daily to party president J.P. Naddaji on the relief work that has been done, including photographs of quarantine centres etc. We have received over 20 lakh inter-State workers who belong to Bihar so far,” he said. While the dates of polls are uncertain, BJP seems to be the first off the block on preparedness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-gearing-up-for-bihar-elections-amid-pandemic/article31619069.ece
19 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||A medley of emotions as uprooted workers gather at Ramleela Maidan||Migrant workers began reaching the Ramleela Maidan here on Sunday, hoping to find conveyance that would take them home to Bihar and the eastern districts of Uttar Pradesh. Word had got around on the possibility of securing transport although the district administration was only using the sprawling ground as a designated stop for boarding buses to the railway station on the other side of the road in a densely populated area. By Monday, the crowd of anxious workers, many of whom had started on their long journey home by foot, had swollen to thousands. Meagre shelter As the Ramleela Maidan turned into a stage for their struggle, the meagre shelter available at the Ashok Vatika, named after the mythical forest, was hardly enough for workers waiting under the scorching sun. The food being prepared at the Ram Bhavan also did not hold appeal. “We are here to go home, not eat meals,” said Mohammad Salim, who worked as a cook at a restaurant in Ghaziabad. “I want to go to Kishanganj and have been asked to change lines for the third time since morning. S ometimes they say go here, sometimes there,” he added. Under the media’s gaze, the centre stage was held by administrative officials struggling to manage the sudden spurt in numbers with a common refrain: “What to do?” As the workers rushed closer to the stage, officials could be heard talking down, “We will break your leg”, followed by the request that they sit under the shade and wait for their turn. But the two available tents were hardly big enough to hold more than 25 persons in them. There was no social distancing, and the police made no attempt to enforce it. “The situation is such that our constabulary might use force and it will create a scene,” an official said, requesting anonymity. This meant that there were only a few policemen on the ground to point workers in the right direction. Officials were polite and workers were encouraged to ask questions in the presence of the media. There were some feeble cries of “ Murdabad ”, but as Additional District Magistrate (City) Shailendra Kumar Singh listened to their grievances, there followed shouts of “ Zindabad ”. However, Mr. Singh had no answer when a worker asked him why they were being made to wait without social distancing. The announcements from the public address system were not always helpful. An official announced that people without passes for trains could board buses. This created confusion as lines formed in front of buses that were meant to take people with passes to the railway station. The official who made the announcement was censured by his superiors and the public address system was switched off. Trains and buses District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told The Hindu that the administration was treating the workers as “bona fide passengers”. “We have arranged three trains for Patna, Muzaffarpur and Raxaul in Bihar, and three for Varanasi, Azamagarh and Gorakhpur in eastern Uttar Pradesh. They will take around 9,000 workers daily to their homes. Those who are left will be sent by buses.” The rush, he said, arose because only 25% of those who had gathered were registered on the Jansunwai portal. “The rest are all those who were walking home and were picked by the U.P. police from different borders because the Chief Minister has said no worker should be found walking. Word has spread in neighbouring States that, somehow, just reach Ghaziabad [to get conveyance for the onward journey],” Mr. Pandey said. “We are trying to streamline the process. Those who left for Bihar by trains today will be sent by 50 buses [to the railway station]. No pass will be required to board the bus. A list will be prepared that will be sent to the district administration of the destination,” he said. The way out, he said, was more trains and buses. “If all of them have to be sent, we should consider starting the regular service,” he said. The Ghaziabad police have also become more cautious about bringing people walking on highways to shelter homes after the Station House Officer of Indirapuram was suspended and an explanation was sought from the Circle Officer when it was found that 16 workers in the Auriyya accident had boarded the vehicle from a place that fell under the jurisdiction of Indirapuram Police Station. The phrase “their medical has been done” appeared loosely applicable. “It means their temperature has been taken and they have been asked about symptoms. But by now everybody comes after taking paracetamol,” said Sudip Kumar, a member of the Health Department team. The situation improved by evening with the National Disaster Response Force arriving at the Ramleela Maidan. But soon, migrants workers were seen queuing up for passes for the next morning. Meanwhile, the district administration reiterated that only persons registered on the Jansunwai portal should turn up at the Ramleela Maidan. Otherwise, their presence would be considered a violation of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-medley-of-emotions-as-uprooted-workers-gather-at-ramleela-maidan/article31619086.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR revises viral testing strategy||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday released a revised COVID-19 testing strategy, which includes testing of all individuals with symptomatic influenza-like illness (ILI) with a history of international travel in the past 14 days. The other key groups that have been listed as high priority for testing include the frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of COVlD-19, all hospitalised patients who develop ILI symptoms and all returnee and migrants with such symptoms within seven days of illness. The other group in the category includes asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case to be tested once between day five and day 10 of coming into contact. The new guidelines warn that no emergency procedure (including deliveries) should be delayed for lack of test, but samples can be sent for testing if a patient shows symptoms or the doctor finds him/her fitting into the categories, according to a senior ICMR official. The ICMR noted that an ILI case was defined as one with acute respiratory infection with 38 degree Celsius fever or more than that and cough, while SARI was acute respiratory infection with 38 degree Celsius fever or more than that and the patient requiring hospitalisation. PCR test only The ICMR said all testing in the categories mentioned in the guidelines, was recommended by real-time RT-PCR test only. In the previous set of guidelines issued on April 9, the ICMR cleared testing only for symptomatic health care workers. The changed strategy allows testing also for migrant labourers and those being brought back into India from abroad. The ICMR said in a release that it had so far tested 23,02,792 samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/icmr-revises-viral-testing-strategy/article31619103.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||USAID to fund 200 ventilators for India||India will take delivery of 200 ventilators donated by the U.S. within the next month, government sources said on Monday. The ventilators, which will be paid for by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), will arrive in May and June and the final delivery schedule notified next week, the sources said. While the government has not commented on the value of the donation, it is likely to be funded by an additional grant of $3 million that the USAID made last month. In a statement on April 16, the U.S. government said the funds through USAID would help “mitigate the spread of COVID-19” and focus on financing healthcare access. The ventilators, which were built for use in the U.S., are being “repurposed” for donations to several countries, including India. Modi thanks Trump “India has been a great partner to us for quite some time, and I’m encouraged here about the ventilators to India. It’s one of the several countries I noted that will be getting ventilators, because, you know, this President has done so well on ventilators — 100,000 [manufactured] in 100 days — that we are able to repurpose them and then send them around the world,” White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said on Saturday. Thanking Mr. Trump, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, “More power to the India-US friendship. In such times, it’s always important for nations to work together and do as much as possible to make our world healthier and free from COVID-19.” According to the Health Ministry, India has 18,855 ventilators for COVID-19 patients at present, while the government’s Empower group tasked with COVID-19 response said about 60,000 more had been ordered.  (With inputs from Bindu Shajan Perappadan )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/usaid-to-fund-200-ventilators-for-india/article31619109.ece
19 May 2020||Bhopal,||7 killed as fire breaks out in Gwalior apartment complex||Four women and three children were killed in a fire that broke out in a three-storey apartment complex in Gwalior on Monday. Two children were injured. The building houses a paint shop on the ground floor. “The cause of the fire in Inderganj, which broke out at 10 a.m., is yet to be ascertained. The paint shop and a godown inside the building had caught fire,” said Satendra Singh Tomar, Additional Superintendent of Police, West Gwalior. The fire also enveloped the main entrance to the building. “People were trapped as there were no other gates or windows,” Mr. Tomar said. Ten fire tenders, including those from an Air Force station nearby, were moved to the spot. “It took more than a hour to tame the fire,” he said. The condition of the injured children was stable. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan wrote on Twitter, “I pray that God gives the departed souls a place at his holy feet and the family of the deceased gets the strength to bear the deep sorrow.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-killed-as-fire-breaks-out-in-gwalior-apartment-complex/article31619113.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. must pay up advertising dues’||The Indian Newspaper Society (INS), the central organisation for the Press in the country, has told the Supreme Court that governments should pay up the hundreds of crores of rupees it owes in advertisement money to newspapers. It also blamed the governments for issuing “hypocritical and discriminatory” advisories asking private establishments to pay full salaries to their employees during the COVID-19 lockdown, especially when the State — a “model employer” — had itself cut salaries at a time of a calamity of global proportions. “As per various industry estimates, Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP) owes between Rs. 1,500 crore and Rs. 1,800 crore to various media companies. A large chunk of this, Rs. 800-900 crore is owed to the print industry alone. Such amounts have been outstanding for several months and there is little prospect of realising the same any time soon,” the INS said. The newspaper industry organisation, which was replying to petitions from journalists’ unions objecting to some media houses’ introduction of salary and job cuts during the lockdown, blamed the government for the “drastically reduced advertising much prior to the crisis”. In fact, the INS submitted there had been “calls by political parties to stop government advertising altogether in order to save money”. Broadcasters’ plea “There have been no packages or measures announced for news broadcasters by the Government, even as their business has collapsed,” the National Broadcasters Association (NBA) submitted to the apex court, in a separate affidavit. Both the INS and the NBA were criticising advisories by the Union Ministries of Home and Labour and some State governments that private employers should continue to pay full wages to their employees during the lockdown. The issue came up in the apex court when a joint petition was filed by the National Alliance of Journalists, Delhi Union of Journalists and Brihanmumbai Union of Journalists challenging salary cuts and even sacking of employees by some media organisations. Observing that the advisories only cast a moral or humanitarian obligation and not a legal liability on media houses, the INS argued that through these advisories, the governments had overreached and unduly assumed authority not granted under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Disregard to the employers’ plight could result in the breakdown of the media industry, the INS said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-must-pay-up-advertising-dues/article31619121.ece
19 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. accepts Priyanka’s offer to ply 1,000 buses for migrants||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday accepted Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s offer of 1,000 buses to transport stranded migrant workers to their homes in the State. In an order signed by Awanish Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, the government communicated to Ms. Vadra’s personal secretary Sandeep Singh that her proposal had been accepted. The government’s decision came two days after Ms. Vadra had written to CM Yogi Adityanath, requesting him to allow the Congress to run 500 buses each from the Ghazipur border in Ghaziabad and the Noida border to transport migrant workers to their native places. “All costs will be borne by the All India Congress Committee,” she wrote. However, the government maintained silence and did not give her the required permission even as 500 buses from Bharatpur and Alwar in Rajasthan reached the Bahaj-Goverdhan border near Mathura. Meanwhile, Mr. Singh wrote to Mr. Awasthi, informing him that the buses can start plying from Wednesday and that details of drivers have been provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-accepts-priyankas-offer-to-ply-1000-buses-for-migrants/article31619107.ece
19 May 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra cases cross 35,000-mark||Maharashtra reported a consecutive surge for the second day on Monday with 2,033 new COVID-19 cases, breaching the 35,000-mark to take the cumulative tally to 35,058 cases. With 51 new fatalities, the death toll increased to 1,249. This is the second-highest case surge reported after Sunday’s spike of 2,347 cases. Of the 35,058 total cases, 25,392 were active, said officials. Mumbai city recorded a huge 1,185 of these new cases, to breach the 21,000-case mark and rise to 21,335 cases. State Health Department officials said that despite the rise in cases, 749 persons were also discharged today, taking the cumulative discharged till date to 8,437. As per figures, 23 of the 51 fatalities today were reported from Mumbai city to take the city’s death toll to 757, while eight deaths were reported from Pune district to take its death toll to 205. A further eight fatalities were reported from Navi Mumbai to take its total death toll to 22, while three deaths were reported from Jalgaon as the district’s toll climbed to 33. Two fatalities each were reported from Aurangabad, Ahmednagar and Nagpur among other parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-cases-cross-35000-mark/article31619090.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||Venkaiah calls for change in attitude to survive pandemic||Welcoming the latest relaxations for lockdown 4.0 announced on Sunday, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, in a long reflective note on his social media account, has said life can’t be lived for long in confinement and just as people are living with HIV virus that has no vaccine by bringing in behavioural changes, we need to learn to live with coronavirus too by bringing in attitudinal changes. “What if the present coronavirus is going to stay with us for longer than expected as is being suggested by some experts and senior officials of the World Health Organisation? Adopting a new normal is the answer. HIV virus has been around for a long time without a vaccine and people are coping with it by changing habits,” Mr. Naidu wrote in a long piece on Facebook. Mr. Naidu said the pandemic should be used as a course corrector: “Stacked with better tools to fight the epidemics than when the pestilence struck humanity earlier and empowered with gene editing, Artificial Intelligence, Big Data etc, man was seeking to play God.” This outbreak, he said, had shaken the fundamentals of living by oneself and highlighted the need for living in harmony with nature and fellow humans. He observed that “The invisible microbe once again proved that life can change very quick. It brought into full play the uncertainty that can co-sail with life.” Mr. Naidu stressed that the corona challenge is more a civilisational issue than that of individual lives. He suggested a 12-point new normal of living during the “Corona Times,” including behavioural changes such as wearing a mask and maintaining physical distance and hygiene. He has also stressed on the need to avoid prejudices against fellow citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/venkaiah-calls-for-change-in-attitude-to-survive-pandemic/article31619115.ece
19 May 2020||Mumbai,||Pawar calls out lack of provisions for farmers||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and former Union Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar has said that the package announced by the Centre would not bring any immediate relief to the distressed farmers. “The package does not make any provisions for compensating the crop losses incurred due to the lockdown conditions,” Mr. Pawar said in an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 16. The Rs. 20 lakh crore package would not bring any immediate relief to the distressed farmers. “Standing crops have perished due to lockdown causing great losses to the farmers. In turn, they are facing a cash crunch & need immediate support to undertake ensuing kharif season activities.” Mr. Pawar said the condition of the farming community was worsening by the day. On the threshold of the monsoon season, the farmer was not prepared to initiate agricultural activities. “In terms of outlay, the agriculture aid and reforms announced by FM of Rs. 1.63 lakh crore is approximately 8% of the total package for a sector that provides the highest employment and ensures food security of the nation. Since these allocations are mainly supply-side oriented, it will take a long time for the ground level implementation of the same...” He said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pawar-calls-out-lack-of-provisions-for-farmers/article31619067.ece
19 May 2020||Srinagar,||J&K notifies rules for domicile certificates||The J&K administration on Monday notified the J&K Grant of Domicile Certificate Procedure Rules, 2020 and set a fast-track process in motion to issue the certificates within a stipulated time of 15 days. Under the amended rules, eligible non-locals can also apply for the certificate. “These rules provide a simple time-bound and transparent procedure for issuance of domicile certificates in such a manner that no category of person is put to any inconvenience. There is a timeline of 15 days for issuance of certificates,” government spokesman and J&K’s Principal Secretary (Power) Rohit Kansal said. “Domicile certificates have now been made a basic eligibility condition for appointment to any post under the Union Territory of J&K following the amendments in the previous Act,” Mr. Kansal said. Penalty for officers To make the process transparent and time-bound, any officer not able to issue the certificate would be penalised Rs. 50,000. The amount would be recovered from his salary, Mr. Kansal said. “All Permanent Resident Certificate holders and their children living outside J&K can apply for the certificates,” he said. Kashmiri migrants living in or outside J&K can get domicile certificates by simply producing their Permanent Residence Certificate (PRC), ration card copy, voter card or any other valid document. “Bonafide migrants can apply with the Relief and Rehabilitation department by providing documents like electoral rolls of 1988, proof of registration as a migrant in any State in the country or any other valid document,” Mr. Kansal said. He said applicants can apply electronically and get a certificate online too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-notifies-rules-for-domicile-certificates/article31619081.ece
19 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Migrant workers and police clash in Gujarat||Gujarat continues to see clashes between restless migrant workers who want to return to their native places and the police. A day after similar incidents in Rajkot on Sunday, angry migrant workers clashed with policemen near the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) on Monday morning. The police had to use tear gas shells to disperse migrants, who work on a construction site in the IIM-A’s new campus in Vastrapur area of the city. Nearly 100 migrant workers gathered near the construction site and started demanding food, wages and that they be sent back to their native places. As the police came to disperse the crowd, a scuffle erupted between them. The police said that they rushed to the spot following complaints about workers throwing stones on the road in front of the new campus of the prestigious business school. More than 50 workers have been detained. On Sunday, violence broke near Rajkot in an industrial area where police and migrant workers clashed over the issue of being sent back to their native States. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, Gujarat has seen around a dozen incidents of violence between migrant workers and the police in Surat, Gandhidham, Rajkot and Ahmedabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/migrant-workers-and-police-clash-in-gujarat/article31619088.ece
19 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Scrap dam project in Arunachal: activists||A group of conservationists and former members of the National Board of Wildlife has written to the Ministry of Environment Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change seeking rejection of a key sub-committee’s nod for the 3,097-MW Etalin Hydro Electric Project in the Dibang Valley district of Arunachal Pradesh. The Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) of the Ministry had on April 23 discussed the private sector project that its own documents said would involve the clearing of 2.7 lakh trees in forests. The approval “may be tantamount to a breach of the FAC’s constitutional and statutory duty to conserve forests,” the conservationists said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scrap-dam-project-in-arunachal-activists/article31619111.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s COVID-19 case tally crosses 1 lakh||The release added that in terms of confirmed cases per lakh population, India has so far about 7.1 cases per lakh population which indicates that aggressive and early measures taken so far have shown encouraging results. The Ministry added that it has now issued new guidelines to the States for categorisation of red/orange/green zones as part of its lockdown easing measures. The new directive allows States to delineate the containment and buffer zones. As per the latest guidelines States have been asked to categorise districts/municipal corporations, or if warranted subdivision/ward or any other administrative unit as red/orange/green zone as per field assessment. “States have been told to ensure stringent implementation of the containment plans in these containment zones,” the latest guidelines said. In her letter to the States and Union Territories, Health Secretary Preeti Sudan said States could categorise areas using the broad guideline issued the Central Health Ministry. Ms. Sudan’s letter said the demarcation of the zones would be based on total active cases, cases per lakh population, doubling rate calculated over a seven-day period, case fatality rate, testing ratio (number of tests per lakh population) and sample positivity rate. The Health Minstry, however, noted that the benchmarks or thresholds for critical and desirable levels are dynamic and may be revised by the Centre as per the evolving situation at the field level. Doctors’ plea Meanwhile, the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association, India has on Monday written to the Health Ministry stating that many doctors at the frontline, even after taking adequate precautions, are contracting the infection in different parts of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-covid-19-case-tally-crosses-1-lakh/article31619073.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Odisha, West Bengal brace for Amphan||The Odisha government has deployed units of the National Disaster Response Force and the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force to north-coastal districts for carrying out rescue operation. Six districts — Balasore, Bhadrak, Mayurbhanj, Kendrapara, Jajpur and Jagatsinghpur — are likely to be severely affected. The evacuation process has been initiated in low-lying areas along coast. District authorities have started evacuation from the low lying coastal areas in West Bengal as well. “We now have three types of crisis — COVID, the cyclone, and migrants returning home,” Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said. She however, maintained that necessary precautions like social distancing will be maintained during the evacuation process. Fishing had already been suspended because of lockdown. Police officials have started announcements in the low lying coastal areas of the State, particularly the low lying Sunderbans and areas closer to Digha in Purba Medinipur asking people to leave mud houses and move to safer places. Ahead of the monsoon's arrival in Kerala, the month of May typically sees intense tropical storm activity in the Bay of Bengal. From 1965 to 2017, the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea collectively registered 46 ‘severe cyclonic storms’. More than half of them occurred between October and December. Seven of them occurred in May and only two (in 1966 and 1976) were recorded in April, according to data from the India Meteorological Department’s cyclone statistics unit. Before Fani, only one of them (in 1966) had actually made landfall over India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-west-bengal-brace-for-amphan/article31619072.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||83 LCA-MK1A deal high priority, says IAF Chief||It would also boost the industry which had already been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. Similarly, the IAF is about to place orders for over 200 Astra indigenous Beyond Visual Range (BVR) missiles and emphasised on the need for adhering to time line and quality. “These are high risk decisions. We go indigenous and they fail to produce on time and we run out of missiles, it is very tricky. So we have to balance. They really have to meet deadlines in terms of time and quality,” ACM Bhadauria said. On the negative import list that the Finance Minister last week said would be formulated, he said there was already a list and it was being revised. “All the areas where we have set up indigenous capabilities will come on the negative list,” he said, identifying some areas such as radars, electronics, networking issues, some weapons and also the indigenous HTT-40 basic trainer under development. “So for any trainer of this class, we will not go out,” he added. To mitigate budgetary constraints, the IAF is looking to prioritise its revenue and capital expenditure and some priority areas have been identified while some others would be deferred. “Our initial focus is the revenue expenditure and target is to prioritise it so we save 20-25% there,” ACM Bhadauria said. In the capital component, the immediate attention was on some critical weapons and technologies such as BVR missiles, guided Air to Ground weapons, networking and data linking issues, he said. In addition, international exercises had been stopped till the year end as also all large-scale planned exercises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/83-lca-mk1a-deal-high-priority-says-iaf-chief/article31619076.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Vaccine fails to shield monkeys from virus||Unusual, in that human beings were unlikely to be ordinarily exposed those quantities of the virus. The researchers, led by Sarah Gilbert of The Jenner Institute, University of Oxford and Vincent Munster of the National Institutes of Health, United States, argue that the presence of virus was significantly reduced in BAL fluid (collected from the lungs) and lung tissue of vaccinated animals than in the animals that were not vaccinated. Moreover, virus specific neutralising antibodies were detected in those macaques vaccinated and no such antibodies were seen in those that didn't get the vaccine. For their analysis they vaccinated six monkeys with the candidate vaccine and 3 were given a ‘control’ vaccine called ChAdOx1 GFP. Based on these results 1,110 people are taking part in human trial, half receiving the vaccine and the other half (the control group) receiving a meningitis vaccine. The dose of the vaccine was half that of what is being used for humans right now. This vaccine is among the eight that are ahead in terms of being tested in humans for efficacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-fails-to-shield-monkeys-from-virus/article31619078.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||Centre drops order on wages during lockdown||The Union Home Ministry has dropped a crucial order that required all employers — shops, industry and commercial establishments — to pay wages to workers for the period the units were shut during lockdown. The order that has now been dropped also called for action against landlords who forced students and migrant workers to vacate the premises during the lockdown. Several companies had moved the Supreme Court against the order last week and the apex court asked the government to not take any coercive against them. “Save as otherwise provided in the guidelines annexed to this order, all order issued by the NEC under Section 10(2)(I) of the Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005, shall cease to have effect from 18.05.2020,” the May 17 order said. Since the lockdown was first imposed on March 24, the Centre invoked provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which is binding on all States. District magistrates and Superintendents of Police are personally liable for the implementation of the orders issued under the DM Act. The National Executive Committee that issues the order is chaired by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla. Clause III of the March 29 order said, “all the employers, be it in the industry or in the shops and commercial establishments, shall make payment of wages of their workers, at their workplaces, on the due date, without any deduction, for the period their establishments are under closure during the lockdown.” It also said, “wherever the workers, including the migrants are living in rented accommodation, the landlords of those properties shall not demand payment of rent for a period of one month. If any landlord is forcing labourers and students to vacate the premises, they will be liable for action under the Act.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-drops-order-on-wages-during-lockdown/article31619083.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Kindness of Azhvars||Only if we have knowledge about something can we become attached to it. If we have jnana about the Supreme One, we develop bhakthi towards Him. So, knowledge about the Supreme One is the first step towards liberation, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. Can samsaris impart this knowledge to us? They are themselves ignorant. How then can they tell us about the Paramatma? Vedanta Desika gives an example to explain this. Suppose a man falls into a well, and finds himself at a depth of 36 feet. He calls out to his companion for help. His friend says, “I have also fallen in. But I am only at a depth of 30 feet.” The fact that one of them is about six feet above the other does not mean that he is going to be able to help the other. Likewise, one samsari cannot help another to acquire jnana. Pillai Lokachariar in his Mumukshuppadi, says samsaris do not know themselves; they do not know God; they do not know anything about serving God. And they are unaware that they do not know any of these things! God is the only who can liberate us. Imagine two men in prison. Can one of them let out the other? But if the king decides to free them, he can, because he alone has the power to do so. In the same way, it is Lord Narayana who grants us moksha. And Azhvars, who had the blissful experience of bhakthi, wanted everyone to have the same experience. So, they composed verses which are full of advice for us. Although we have not asked them, they have voluntarily given us advice out of kindness through their works. To advise, one must have had experience. Azhvars are competent to advise us. Nammazhvar sets us an example when he commands his heart to worship the Lord always, showing the importance of keeping our thoughts turned towards Him constantly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kindness-of-azhvars/article31619110.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Trespassing by India made China respond’||The Chinese state media on Monday said that their border troops bolstered “border control measures and made necessary moves” in response to India’s “illegal construction of defence facilities” in the Galwan Valley. Sources said after China mobilised troops and equipment, India too moved its troops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trespassing-by-india-made-china-respond/article31619077.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Rival States targeting BJP party workers’||In a strongly worded series of tweets, BJP president J.P. Nadda on Monday accused the Opposition parties of ‘unfairly’ targeting his party’s workers for criticising the handling of the COVID-19 crisis in States where they are in power. “In the last few days, it has been observed that in the Opposition-ruled States, the state machinery has been used unfairly to target BJP workers. In a vibrant democracy, this is unacceptable,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rival-states-targeting-bjp-party-workers/article31619079.ece
19 May 2020||Patna,||Haryana CM turns down Nitish’s offer||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal has written to his Bihar counterpart, Nitish Kumar, politely declining the offer to bear the cost of the expenses in taking care of people from Bihar stranded in Haryana due to the lockdown. Lauding Mr. Kumar for the concern expressed for Biharis stranded in Haryana, Mr. Lal assured him that the State government considered all those who were living in Haryana as equal citizens and that his government would bear the expenses for the migrants in view of their contribution to nation- building. “All Indians living in Haryana are ours too, just like they belong to the States from which they have come,” Mr. Lal wrote in his letter dated May 17, a copy of which has been seen by The Hindu . “All the citizens who have come to Haryana to work are not less than a Haryanavi for us, no matter where they were born,” Mr. Lal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-cm-turns-down-nitishs-offer/article31619084.ece
19 May 2020||Kolkata,||Sanitation and health workers felicitated||Health and sanitation workers were felicitated by a group of residents in south Kolkata for their untiring service during the lockdown and the COVID-19 pandemic. Phalguni Mandal, an accredited social health activist (ASHA), said she has “never been so happy as [I] was never felicitated [before].” Health activist Tapash Pramanik; Rekha Singh, who cleans roads, and Animesh Dey, who works for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, were among those felicitated by the residents of Mandeville Gardens area. “They are special as they did a special job,” said Bharati Biswas, a resident. “While we are relaxing at home, they are working outside risking their lives,” said Ms. Biswas. The residents of ward number 68 gave sweets and red roses to the health and sanitation workers, and garlanded them. Elderly residents, who could not come out of their apartments, showered them with marigold petals from the balcony or rooftops. “Everybody in Mandeville Gardens came out, participated in the felicitation one way or the other, acknowledging the relentless service of these women and men, who serve us throughout the year but particularly now when we all are in dire straits,” said ward councillor Sudarshana Mukherjee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sanitation-and-health-workers-felicitated/article31619123.ece
19 May 2020||Mumbai,||Uber unveils set of safety features||Uber on Monday announced a series of new safety features across their various product offerings in view of the ongoing COVID-19 crisis. The key policy that the company announced for India would be the requirement to wear masks or face covers for both driver and riders. This would be implemented through features on the ride hailing app. Among the new features is a photo-based verification of drivers every time they log in. Drivers will be required to click a photo wearing a mask and the new technology does not allow the photo to be clicked unless the camera detects the mask. Sachin Kansal, Global Senior Director, Product Management, Uber, said that they had recently developed this technology and it would help ensure that there is enforcement of their policy. “This will have to be done every time they log in and go online,” he said. The other notable feature is that rides can be cancelled by either the driver or the rider if the other is not wearing a mask. The option has been added among the reasons for cancelling a trip. Even while rating a driver or a rider, not wearing a mask or face cover has been listed among reasons for a poor rating, if either removes the mask during the journey. UberPool will continue to remain suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uber-unveils-set-of-safety-features/article31619122.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||Central govt. offices to work at 50% strength||The Personnel Ministry has said in an order all Central government officers shall ensure 50% work strength and officers at the level of Deputy Secretary and above shall attend office on all working days. The revised work guidelines were issued by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) on Monday . “For regulating the attendance of officers and staff below the level of Deputy Secretary, all Heads of the Department shall prepare a roster to ensure that 50% of officers and staff attend office on every alternate day. Those officers/staff who are not required to attend office on a particular day shall work from home and should be available on telephone and electronic means of communications at all times,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-govt-offices-to-work-at-50-strength/article31619108.ece
19 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Temporary medical centres to be treated as containment zones in Odisha||The Odisha government on Monday said all temporary medical centres (TMCs), COVID-19 care centres and hospitals will be treated as containment zones apart from those that would be declared in the aftermath of the detection of new cases. Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy said the boundary area of the zones will be decided by local authorities and administered through the Panchayati Raj institutions during the fourth phase of the lockdown till May 31. Meanwhile, 48 new COVID-19 cases were detected in the State, taking the total to 876.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/temporary-medical-centres-to-be-treated-as-containment-zones-in-odisha/article31619089.ece
19 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||As Gujarat reopens with conditions, COVID-19 mortality rate spikes||Amid a spike in the mortality rate, with 35 deaths on Monday increasing the toll to 694, the Gujarat government has relaxed lockdown norms allowing the reopening of shops, State buses, autos and private cabs. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Monday said that in non-containment zones, shops, private offices, buses, service stations and barber shops would be allowed to reopen from Tuesday. On Monday, 366 new cases and 35 deaths were reported, taking the case tally to 11,746 and 694 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-gujarat-reopens-with-conditions-covid-19-mortality-rate-spikes/article31619095.ece
19 May 2020||Lucknow,||30 migrant workers injured in 2 U.P. accidents||At least 30 people were injured in two accidents of vehicles carrying migrant workers in Uttar Pradesh on Monday. In Ayodhya, 21 were injured after a pickup carrying them from Mumbai to Siddharthnagar collided with a truck on NH-28. In Hamirpur, a State bus carrying migrant workers from Noida to Mahoba overturned near Badanpur village, said police. Eleven persons sustained minor injuries, said Hamirpur SP Shlok Kumar. The bus was carrying 31 passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/30-migrant-workers-injured-in-2-up-accidents/article31619094.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City roads see a surge in traffic||Monday was day one of phase 4 of the lockdown, scheduled to last till May 31, but the city's roads looked busy. In fact, it was as if normalcy was back. There were a great many vehicles on the roads. There were even some incidents of jumping of red lights and rash driving. The sheer volume of traffic through the day gave the impression that the lockdown had been lifted. But the fact is that Chennai continues to be a COVID-19 hotspot and there has been no further relaxation of curbs, save for 50% government staff being allowed to work. Arterial roads like Anna Salai and Poonamallee High Road witnessed heavy traffic through the day. Shopping hubs like Purasawalkam High Road came alive with almost all shops opening and thousands thronging the roads even late in the afternoon. The city police, however, claimed that there was only a 5% increase in traffic compared to the last few days, and that too because of government staff going to work. The police also claimed that many shops had started functioning without permission. With the increase in volume of traffic, the police could not check vehicles as they did earlier. They mostly checked autos and vans. A senior police officer said, “The traffic did not increase just on Monday. It increased few days ago when many shops were allowed to start functioning from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. and police stopped asking for passes.” A. Arun, Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, said that all 400 traffic signals in the city had become functional. Personal vehicles used Though over 200 MTC buses were operated to ferry government employees, many who used to travel by train and Metro opted for personal transport and some even carpooled. There was no personal distancing in the buses. Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association general secretary A. Selvam said: “There were 50 passengers in each bus and many did not halt at designated stops.” R. Kamalakannan, president, Tamil Nadu Van owners Association, said private vans had been given permission to transport only seven government or private company staff in their vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-roads-see-a-surge-in-traffic/article31619264.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur dam to open on June 12, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday announced that water would be released from the Mettur dam from June 12 for kuruvai cultivation. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said he instructed officials to ensure uninterrupted three-phase power supply for 12 hours in the Cauvery delta areas. The Chief Minister also instructed District Collectors in the Cauvery delta areas to take steps to desilt water bodies through the Public Works and Rural Development Departments. Officials should ensure sufficient stock of seeds for distribution to farmers. Agricultural equipment, tractors and other required equipment must be kept ready for the benefit of farmers, Mr. Palaniswami said. During the past year, paddy was cultivated in over 2.90 lakh acres and production was about 4.99 lakh tonnes, he said and hoped that paddy would be cultivated in over 3.25 lakh acres towards an expected production of 5.60 tonnes. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju, Food Minister R. Kamaraj, Textiles Minister O.S. Manian, Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials were present at a meeting held earlier. Earlier, DMK president M.K. Stalin urged the Chief Minister to make arrangements for release of water from the Mettur dam on June 12. In a statement here, he said water could be released since the dam level was 100 ft., against its full capacity of 120 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-dam-set-to-be-opened-on-june-12/article31619279.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State has not reduced number of tests, says Health Minister||The variation in testing figures over the past few days has become a subject of debate in the State. But Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has said that except for exit tests, Tamil Nadu has in no way limited or reduced the number of samples being lifted for testing, and is now testing all persons arriving in the State by flight, train and road. The number of samples being tested per day has been fluctuating between 10,000 and 14,000 over the past two weeks. It stayed above the 13,000-mark for a few days earlier this month, and decreased to 10,535 on May 16. A day later, the figure went up to 13,081. On May 18, it stood at 11,121. “There is no drastic decline in the number of samples in the graph. Our testing numbers have not gone below 10,000. T.N. has tested over three lakh samples. On an average, the number of samples tested is in the range of 4,000 to 8,000 in many districts. In Chennai, we have tested about 85,000 samples,” he said. During a media briefing on Monday, the Minister said that an analysis of the testing graph showed that the 10-day average was 12,536. He maintained that the State was carrying out tests in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research. “Earlier, it was persons with a travel history and symptoms, and contact history and symptoms [who were subjected to testing]. The strategy was subsequently changed. Earlier, we were testing the persons living on a street where a positive case had been reported, and non-home contacts. Now, we are testing all those with influenza-like illness across the State, thereby covering even persons with the mildest symptoms of cough and fever. Those with severe acute respiratory infection are being tested,” he said. In containment zones, asymptomatic patients and their primary contacts were being tested and, based on suspicion, secondary contacts as well. “We are now testing all persons arriving here on flights from abroad and trains. Those entering the State by road are being screened at checkposts. We are getting a cluster of cases from among those returning from Maharashtra,” the Minister said. No need for exit tests As per the Central government’s guidelines, there was no need for conducting exit tests, i.e., testing of COVID-19 patients before discharge. Earlier, the norm was that two samples should return negative in order for a person to be discharged. “However, we continue to test them. We are lifting one sample before a patient is discharged,” he said. The number of samples lifted peaked every time a cluster emerged or a large group of persons were tested, he said, adding, “The testing numbers peaked when cases linked to the Koyambedu market emerged. It is over now. Similarly, the number of samples peaked when frontline workers, including police personnel, and mediapersons were tested in large batches,” the Minister said. It was important to understand that these were RT-PCR tests and not an instant testing methodology, he said, adding, “It takes six hours to complete the process. People are working in three shifts throughout the day. If we were reducing the number of samples being lifted, we would have cut the number of testing facilities. Instead, we have 61 laboratories now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-has-not-reduced-number-of-tests-says-health-minister/article31619293.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Staff seek more screening at Secretariat||With 50% of the staff in the Secretariat reporting for work from Monday, employees feel the screening on the Fort St. George premises should be stringent since many of their colleagues from several districts were coming for their shifts. Though there have been some arrangements to screen employees, both in the main building as well as in the Namakkal Kavignar Maaligai, when The Hindu visited the premises on Monday, employees were entering their offices without any thermal screening. No hand sanitisers were provided to them when they entered office. “It may be the case because all these days, only 33% of the staff were coming to the office. Many are coming to the office on Monday after a long break. Maybe we were not screened in good faith, but safety should not be compromised,” an employee said. Another employee pointed out that buses were plying for the benefit of Secretariat staff from three districts, besides Chennai — Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. “Others need inter-district pass, we do not need it. But screening should not be overlooked,” he said. Besides these four districts, there are employees who are finding their way to the Secretariat from several northern districts. “Because of this six-day schedule, we get a two-day off twice a week. Depending on the cycle, many of my colleagues are planning to go home in other districts for the break. So, the potential for spread is more at the Secretariat,” he said. Observing physical distancing norms in the government-arranged buses was another issue. “There is no clear information on the number of employees in the departments needing buses. On Monday morning, a driver refused to accept more employees saying some of them were already standing in the bus for want of seats.” He wanted more buses to be pressed into service in these routes. Since employees come to one place from several districts and spend quite a few hours, screening must be strict on the premises, they said. When The Hindu   contacted a senior officer in-charge of the premises, he said he would look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staff-seek-more-screening-at-secretariat/article31619261.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre’s conditions for raising borrowing limit onerous’||Opposing what he described as the Centre’s “needlessly onerous conditions” for raising the borrowing limit of State governments, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday conveyed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi his strong opposition to discontinue free power supply to farmers, which is among the conditions stipulated by the Union government. In a letter to Mr. Modi, which was released to the media, the Chief Minister said, “Our government is strongly opposed to the idea of removing free power supply to farmers. It has been our stand that the mode of disbursement of subsidy should be left to the State governments [to decide].” On Sunday, the Centre had advised Tamil Nadu and other States to discontinue the scheme of free power supply to farmers, and go for direct benefit transfer instead. This was among the conditions the States needed to fulfil to get their borrowing limit hiked beyond 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Referring to a recent communication from the Union Finance Ministry which laid down certain conditions, Mr. Palaniswami said, “Imposing needlessly onerous conditions on borrowings will constrain the State governments in finding funds to meet essential expenditure in the wake of a serious financial situation.” Aggressively pushing a reform agenda, on which a consensus was yet to be developed, at a time when States were approaching the Centre for additional borrowing out of sheer desperation, was “not in keeping with the spirit of co-operative federalism”, Mr. Palaniswami contended. Ideally, the proposed reforms ought to have been discussed in detail with the States and a consensus developed, depending on the specific conditions in each State. The reforms should have been linked to special Central COVID grants, and not to additional borrowing by the State, the CM said. Linking the Central government’s power to permit additional borrowing by the States under Article 293(3) of the Constitution to conditionalities was unprecedented, Mr. Palaniswami said. “Since a consensus is yet to emerge on these issues, I request you to instruct the Ministries concerned to remove the requirement to reform the power sector from the proposed conditionalities, and also to allow greater latitude to States in implementing a reform agenda,” the CM said. The States had sought an increase in the borrowing limit primarily due to a significant shortfall in revenue as a result of the COVID-19 lockdown.  Additional commitments “There are also large additional expenditure commitments. These are borrowings by the State government, which have to be repaid from future tax revenues of the States. They are not grants from the Centre. To attach needlessly demanding conditionalities to the additional borrowing requirements appears unreasonable,” the CM said. While the State government had already undertaken reforms in some of the four major areas specified by the Centre, without expecting any financial assistance, there were other areas, specifically power distribution reforms, which were “politically sensitive”, Mr. Palaniswami said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centres-conditions-for-raising-borrowing-limit-onerous-cm/article31619277.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tally crosses 1,000 each in Kodambakkam, Royapuram zones||The number of COVID-19 cases has crossed 1,000 each in two zones of Kodambakkam and Royapuram in the city. Around 6,000 residents in the city tested positive for COVID-19 and there are 764 containment zones. The cases in these two zones have been raising steadily over this month.  Pressure from migrants With the rise in the number of migrant labourers thronging Central Square posing the risk of COVID-19 spread, the Greater Chennai Corporation has requested the State government for deputation of more officers for containment in the city. On Monday, thousands of migrant labourers and their families thronged the Central Square near Ripon Buildings and the Central Railway Station to return to their native villages. Policemen were seen chasing them away. A few women and children were part of the group. By evening, many were taken in buses. A migrant labourer from Assam said he was employed in a rice mill at Tiruvannamalai. He and his family desperately wanted to go home in Assam as they had lost their source of livelihood. While the police advised them to apply online for the transport to their native villages in other States, Corporation officials asked them to go to relief camps. “They can be housed in our relief centres which we have reopened,” said Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. The officials said they would arrange for the travel of migrants to their native villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tally-crosses-1000-each-in-kodambakkam-royapuram-zones/article31619255.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. sets up 12 committees to manage treatment of persons with co-morbidities||Separate committees have been formed for framing guidelines to manage the treatment of persons with co-morbidities during the COVID-19 pandemic. The government has involved various specialists, super-specialists and associations in developing guidelines. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said the move was aimed at intensifying the cocooning of the vulnerable population, keeping co-morbid conditions such diabetes and hypertension under control, and ensuring that there are no deaths. “We have formed 12 such committees for diabetes, hypertension, obstetrics and gynaecology, cancer, paediatrics and tuberculosis. This is being done based on the public-private partnership model, and with NGOs. We want to map every person, intensify treatment and awareness, and provide special care. They will be provided counselling and special supplements to improve their immunity. The panels will chalk out an action plan to take care of the vulnerable population,” she said. “Patients will be monitored to, for instance, determine whether diabetes is being treated properly and kept under control. Doctors will advise them on various precautionary measures against COVID-19, like the wearing of masks and the washing of hands,” she added. In a letter to all the health directorates, she said that past experience showed that persons with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, immuno-compromised conditions, and those in old age were more prone to be affected by COVID-19. To protect such vulnerable populations, detailed micro-plans for prevention, treatment and post-recovery care needed to be drawn up. Private sector participation with the involvement of the respective associations such as those for diabetes and hypertension to render intensive treatment for the respective disease groups, the formation of patient support groups on WhatsApp for monitoring, follow-up and support, the maintenance of a disease registry, the provision of intensive treatment with close monitoring at the field level by village health nurse/community health nurse/block medical officer, the prescription of specific diet for each of these patient groups, and the integration of the Indian System of Medicine were recommended. Accordingly, committees with relevant specialist doctors have been formed for dialysis/renal transplant patients, cancer patients and those on chemotherapy and radiotherapy, diabetic patients and hypertensive patients, cardiology, maternal health, child health and haematology, maintaining mental health, tuberculosis, bronchial asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, geriatrics and persons living with HIV/AIDS. C. N. Raja, State president of the Indian Medical Association - Tamil Nadu Branch, said, “The committees will be involved in data collection and regular monitoring of patients through telemedicine. In case of any surgery, emergency or delivery, we will advise them on the measures to be followed and provide psychological support.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-sets-up-12-committees-to-manage-treatment-of-persons-with-co-morbidities/article31619290.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Publishers hand over representation to CM||The publishers of five major English and Tamil newspapers called on Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami at his camp office on Monday. They urged the MPs of his party to endorse certain demands they had made to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure the sustenance of the newspaper industry, which is facing huge losses due to the COVID-19 pandemic. On behalf of the publishers, the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) urged the PM to remove the customs duty on newsprint, settle outstanding advertisement bills immediately and increase advertisement rates by 100%. N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Publishing Group, Manoj Kumar Sonthalia, Chairman & Managing Director, The New Indian Express Group, L. Adimoolam, Publisher, Dinamalar - Coimbatore, S. Balasubramanian Adityan, Director, Daily Thanthi and R.M.R. Ramesh, Managing Director, Kal Publications ( Dinakaran ) submitted a representation to the CM. They said the newspaper industry had incurred severe losses to the tune of around Rs. 5,000 crore during the past two months without revenue from advertisements. The industry, which was providing credible information to the masses by defeating misinformation through social media, among others, was facing huge losses across the world due to the spread of COVID-19, they pointed out in their representation. “It is worrying that it would be a major challenge for the newspaper industry to continue to operate in the future,” they said. Newspapers served people with credible information in the era of social media, which was spreading misinformation, they said and underlined that only newspaper reports were taken as evidence by the courts.  It is worrying that it would be a major challenge for the newspaper industry to continue to operate in the future||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/publishers-hand-over-representation-to-cm/article31619289.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airports to introduce new security protocol||As airlines prepare to resume domestic flight operations after the COVID-19 lockdown, the security protocol has been redefined at airports across the country. According to the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security sources, frisking and pat-down search of passengers will be stopped till further notice. In case of any unresolved alarm triggered by Hand Held Metal Detectors (HHMDs) even after repeated attempts, passengers will be denied entry into aircraft and security personnel will be helped by their supervisors for appropriate action. Since physical distancing is the most important feature of the standard operating procedure to prevent the spread of COVID-19, security personnel will not get in close proximity to the passengers even while frisking. Steps are being taken to enhance the length of the HHMD handles with fibre, wooden or metal rods to ensure safe distance between the two parties, sources said. Quoting new the guidelines, an airport official said, “All staff entering the aircraft shall be subject to frisking by HHMD only. While doing this, staff [must] ensure enough social distance between himself and the person being searched.” While revised guidelines were issued on the processing/handling of tickets and baggage, airline staff at the boarding point would not use scanners to check the boarding card of passengers as part of a no-contact protocol. Instead, they would examine the boarding card by requesting the passengers to display it from a distance. The staff would also take a head count for reconciling the number of passengers with the boarding gate count before releasing the flight. Other safety guidelines issued to the staff on duty included the use of digital currency instead of cash transactions to the extent possible, avoiding face-to-face contact with passengers. Passengers may have to report well in advance since implementing the new guidelines will be time-consuming. Security personnel have been told that there could be a risk of errors due to distractions, stress, fatigue or sickness. They have been asked to keep themselves engaged and not pay attention to rumours and negative thoughts, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airports-to-introduce-new-security-protocol/article31619325.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||At the airport, they work tirelessly||Domestic and international flights may have been suspended in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown, but a few aircraft do land and take off from the Chennai International Airport. Passengers arrive and depart on repatriation flights, though nowhere close to the levels witnessed pre-lockdown. To keep the airport running smoothly, housekeeping personnel, among others, head to work every day. They see themselves as front line workers in tackling the pandemic. Take, for instance, Manimala, 38, a housekeeping worker at the airport. For her, her 55-year-old mother, Palaniammal, a housekeeping staff at Guindy, is an inspiration. Ms. Manimala, who has been working at the airport for the last three years, is proud to be a front line worker. “Passengers who are stranded at various places arrive in and leave from the city. It is our duty to keep them safe when they step inside the airport. Once a passenger shook hands with me to appreciate my work. I think that was the biggest compliment. I will always cherish that gesture,” she said. M. Angalamma, 35, also a housekeeping staff, said that in the course of her eight-hour shift, everything from glass panels to restrooms are part of her cleaning routine. She insisted that she did not fear contracting the virus. “I’m well protected. I clean the restrooms every half hour and wash my hands after. I never enter the airport without a mask or gloves and wear them throughout my shift. I bathe once I reach home. So, I don’t feel the need to be scared. I must not shun my duties, especially when it concerns hygiene of a transport hub,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/at-the-airport-they-work-tirelessly/article31619257.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac managers told to verify closing liquor stock||Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) has instructed all its district managers to conduct a detailed analysis of closing stock, as it suspects several malpractices happened during the lockdown. In a letter addressed to all senior regional managers and district managers, Tasmac Managing Director R. Kirlosh Kumar said: “During the lockdown there were several complaints in many districts that shop personnel indulged in illegal selling of IMFS/beer stock by removing them from shops. The district managers are hereby instructed to conduct physical verification of stocks in all retail vending shops which were shifted to godowns and marriage halls based on March 24 stock.” Managers have been instructed that in the case of any shortage found during physical verification, district managers should take action against the shop personnel concerned and collect the amount in shortage plus penalty amount. Tasmac has asked for a detailed report by May 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-managers-told-to-verify-closing-liquor-stock/article31619282.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tapping into well-held beliefs to change public behaviour||On May 16, Bill Foege, former director of the Centers for Disease Control who worked on the smallpox eradication programme, made a case for taking lessons from small pox in the fight against COVID-19. Incidentally, around the same time, the State government released an ad, urging the public to look at COVID-19 like they would pox (ammai).  However, it is no casual coincidence, because one of the cornerstones of public health practice is believed to be behaviour change communication – enabling people to see the health benefits of modifying their behaviour. As WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan, tweeting recently, said, “Communicating the facts in an easy-to-understand manner for the public and community participation in response are key.”  Faced with rising numbers and non-conformity to recommended personal hygiene strategies against COVID-19, the State seems to be tapping into well-entrenched community beliefs in order to get people to follow these practices.  In the ad, an elderly woman pooh-poohs the idea of COVID-19 as a spectre, saying she has already encountered pox (ammai). She says all one has to do is to treat the current pandemic in the same manner as one would pox - following the same hygiene practices. She spells them out: maintaining distance from the patients, not using their personal belongings, ensuring good sanitation practices at home, including frequent washing, and avoiding walking into patients’ homes.  The areas with higher numbers tend to be in dense urban clusters, including in, but not exclusive to, urban slums and housing board quarters, where a number of people live. “In Tamil Nadu, there is great reverence and awe that surrounds pox; chicken pox is treated as ammai - as a curse of the goddess and nearly everyone tries to make sure that they follow certain practises strictly. It’s not a belief that comes out of a scientific understanding, but we thought we could capitalise on this innate belief,” says an official, reasoning that COVID-19 transmission is heavily dependent on people changing their habits to reduce risk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tapping-into-well-held-beliefs-to-change-public-behaviour/article31619295.ece
19 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||City police chief receives SI cured of COVID-19||Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan on Monday welcomed a 52-year-old police Sub-Inspector who joined duty after being treated for COVID-19. According to a press release, Sub-Inspector Arunachalam is patrol-in-charge at the Esplanade police station. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital(RGGGH) as he tested positive for COVID-19. He was discharged from the hospital after he was cured of the disease. Mr.Viswanathan, accompanied by Additional Commissioner of Police H.M.Jayaram, visited the station and greeted Arunachalam who thanked his senior officers, colleagues and doctors for the care they provided him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-police-chief-receives-si-cured-of-covid-19/article31619268.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New device to monitor COVID-19 patients||Kauvery Hospital will use bluetooth-based devices to treat asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. The hospital will use bluetooth-enabledd pulse oxymeter and thermometer probe for patients who have been advised home quarantine. The hospital has created a dashboard and a separate central monitoring team with customised alarm for patients according to their symptoms and co-morbidities. The dashboard is linked to the treating physician who receives an alert if there are deviations from normalcy in the patient. The physician can contact the patient either over phone or via video call to decide on management protocol. Hospital's executive director Aravindan Selvaraj said, “By visually seeing the normal vital parameters on the device or App, the COVID-19 patients who are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms get reassured.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-device-to-monitor-covid-19-patients/article31619258.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man ends life after killing his three children||A 32-year-old man killed his three children before ending his life at Vadamangalam in Sriperumpudur. The police said Arumugam, 32, strangulated his 12-year-old daughter at home. He took his 10-year-old second daughter and seven-year-old son to a field and pushed them into a well after tying a stone to their legs. Then he hanged himself from a nearby tree. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help by calling State’s helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-ends-life-after-killing-his-three-children/article31619262.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Liquor shops to be open till 7 p.m.||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) has extended the operating hours of liquor outlets by two hours. Shops would now be open till 7 p.m., said a government source. In the last two days, the sales crossed Rs. 290 crore from the 3,700 shops that were open. The extension is expected to fetch a few more crores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-shops-to-be-open-till-7-pm/article31619270.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Deadline to pay EB bill may be extended’||Additional Advocate General (AAG) P.H. Arvindh Pandian on Monday informed the Madras High Court that Tangedco might extend the deadline for payment of electricity bills, since the Centre as well as the State had extended the lockdown till May 31. The submission was made before Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and Anita Sumanth during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate C. Rajashekaran who insisted that domestic consumers, huts and farmers as well as micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) be given time till July 31 to settle bills. The judges adjourned the hearing to June 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deadline-to-pay-eb-bill-may-be-extended/article31619273.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3-pronged strategy to help FPCs||The Mezzanine Capital Assistance (MCA), disbursed to 22 farmers producers’ companies (FPCs) on Monday, forms part of the State government’s three-pronged strategy to cover more than 10 lakh farmers of 1,000 FPCs. The rationale behind the MCA is to augment capital contribution of the FPC members, considering that their entities are in initial years. The member’s margin money will get enhanced so that they carry out various business activities. Each FPC can have up to Rs. 10 lakh at a nominal rate of 4% per annum. The principal is repayable after 5 years. The government has earmarked Rs. 50 crore for this purpose. The other two components are the Credit Guarantee Scheme (CGS) to access credit and Revolving Fund Support (RFS) to obtain concessional credit. The government has set apart another Rs. 50 crore for the CGS and Rs. 166.7 crore for the RFS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-pronged-strategy-to-help-fpcs/article31619281.ece
19 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin wants SSLC exam postponed||DMK leader M.K. Stalin on Monday urged the State government to postpone the Standard X examinations as the uncertainty over continuation of lockdown remains. He said the examination could be conducted after the schools reopened. “The fourth-phase of the lockdown will continue till May 31 and it is not clear whether the fifth phase will be announced or not. Under these circumstances, the announcement of the government to hold the SSLC examination only shows the government’s indifference to the welfare of the students,” he said in a statement. “The government is adding pressure by introducing online classes and e-pass,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-wants-sslc-exam-postponed/article31619280.ece
19 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Test kits stock enough for 20 days’||Tamil Nadu has adequate stock of RT-PCR test kits for 20 days, Health Department officials have said. The State has been testing 10,000 to 14,000 samples a day, on an average, for the past two weeks. The number of samples tested per day touched the 10,000-mark for the first time on May 2 (10,127), while the highest single-day figure was recorded on May 7 (14,195). “We received one lakh test kits on Sunday, as part of weekly supplies from South Korea. There are two lakh test kits available with hospitals, and 1.3 lakh kits with the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation. There is no issue of kits being insufficient. In all, we have 3.3 lakh test kits, which is enough for 20 days. No other State is operating with this buffer,” an official said. Officials noted that the average figure of samples being tested per day was over 10,000, and would increase in the coming weeks due to the inflow of people from other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/test-kits-stock-enough-for-20-days/article31619294.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Distancing norms not followed in buses: HC staff||Madras High Court staff have complained about non-adherence to physical distancing norms in special buses being operated for transporting them from various areas in the city to their workplace during the ongoing lockdown. They said the bus operated on the HC-Avadi route on Monday was crowded, with no seats vacant and some passengers standing close to each other. The court administration had made it clear that not more than 30 passengers would be allowed in each bus, and it was compulsory for the staff to wear masks while travelling. They had also been instructed to follow distancing norms. “In reality, these norms are not being followed. The bus in which I travelled this morning was crowded. Only two buses are being operated on the Tambaram-HC route. This must be doubled to reduce the crowd,” a staff member said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distancing-norms-not-followed-in-buses-hc-staff/article31619296.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Salons in rural areas can reopen today||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday said salons in rural areas can start functioning from May 19. However, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the relaxation was not applicable to salons in the Greater Chennai Corporation, other Municipal Corporations, Municipalities and Town Panchayats. The CM said those working in salons, and their customers, should strictly follow physical distancing norms and wear masks. He insisted that workers wear hand gloves, spray disinfectants five times a day and wash their hands frequently. Detailed guidelines in this regard will be issued by the State government soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salons-in-rural-areas-can-reopen-today/article31619285.ece
19 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: kiosk to lift swab samples opened at Podanur||Coimbatore Corporation, in association with the Young Indians and the Confederation of Indian Industry, on Monday opened a kiosk at the Primary Health Centre in Podanur to collect swab samples from members of the public. The Rotary Coimbatore Central has sponsored the kiosk worth Rs. 1.20 lakh. According to sources in the Corporation, the person sitting inside the kiosk would be able to collect swab samples from persons referred to by the Coimbatore Corporation medical officers, while maintaining safety precautions. Senthilkumar Raju, a doctor and member of the Young Indians team that built the kiosk, said the person collecting the samples could stay inside the kiosk, which had positive airway pressure pump to blow the air out, an air handling unit with heap filter, an audio system with mike to communicate with persons giving samples and many such features. And the person inside the kiosk need not wear cover-all, a big relief, particularly during summer, he said. Besides, the Corporation need not send its teams with four of five person each to various locations to lift samples, which it had been doing thus far, since the spread of the COVID-19 in the city. Now the Corporation would send only those persons who it found with influenza like illness or severe acute respiratory infection to the kiosk to give samples to check if they were COVID-19 positive or otherwise. They added that the Corporation had proposed to install similar kiosks in other parts of the city and encouraged social service organisations and corporate companies to sponsor the kiosks. Dr. Raju, who had worked with fellow Young Indians Aishwarya Arjun and Shrikumaravelu S., said the Corporation could use the kiosk even after the COVID-19 period, for lifting samples for other communicable diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-kiosk-to-lift-swab-samples-opened-at-podanur/article31619322.ece
19 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||A few taxis, autorickshaws venture out despite regulations||As there were more lockdown relaxations on Monday, a few taxis and autorickshaws were seen plying on the city roads in the morning despite the State government limiting public vehicle movement for only essential services. Some of the taxi aggregator mobile applications showed the availability of taxis and autorickshaws on Monday. However, according to B. Mahesh, secretary of Yatra Drivers’ Owners Association, whose members comprise around 450 taxi and autorickshaw drivers, they stopped accepting rides upon hearing that many drivers were fined by the police in the city. “With the offices of [taxi aggregator companies] remaining closed, there is no one to assist us at this time,” he said. Multiple associations representing taxi drivers petitioned District Collector K. Rajamani recently requesting permission to allow taxis within the city, but no action has been taken, Mr. Mahesh alleged. P. K. Sukumaran, president of the Coimbatore District Association of All Auto Rickshaw Workers Union, said that various unions will petition Mr. Rajamani on May 21 that autorickshaws should be permitted to run across the district and to provide cash assistance of Rs. 15,000 to all the autorickshaw drivers who were affected due to the lockdown. Some autorickshaws started plying on the roads from Monday, he said, claiming that the drivers are ready to pay the fine when asked. No instructions have been provided for the general public to start using taxis and autorickshaws from Monday, sources in the Coimbatore City Police clarified. A Regional Transport Officer from the city said that action would be initiated against taxi aggregators who offer rides to the public for non-essential services. The Government Order issued by the State government on Sunday said that rental vehicles and taxis must be used only for essential services such as agriculture, business, medical and office purposes in 25 districts (Intra- district movement only) without TN e-pass. The public should avoid unnecessary movement from home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-few-taxis-autorickshaws-venture-out-despite-regulations/article31619301.ece
19 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. puts off shifting markets||Coimbatore Corporation has put off at the last minute the process of shifting the makeshift markets out of bus stand. The Corporation, on Sunday, had issued a release saying it would shift the markets at Gandhipuram Town Bus Stand and Central Bus Stand to the ground adjoining the Coimbatore Central Prison complex on Dr. Nanjappa Road, the market at the Ukkadam Bus Stand to the ground at Vandi Pettai in Ukkadam, the market on Mettupalayam Road Bus Stand to the ground at the Government College of Technology on Thadagam Road, the market at Singanallur Bus Stand to farmers’ market (Uzhavar Sandhai) on Trichy Road and the ground near the housing unit – both on Trichy Road. Personal distancing norm The Corporation had set up the makeshift markets soon after the State Government had imposed lockdown to combat the spread of COVID-19. And while establishing the makeshift markets, the Corporation had closed down the T.K. Market, the Ukkadam vegetable market, the Anna Market (retail), Dr. M.G.R. Wholesale Vegetable Market and the farmers’ market on Trichy Road. This was to ensure personal distancing norm, it had reasoned. On Sunday, though, the Corporation said it proposed to shift the market as the State Government had proposed to operate buses to allow public transportation. But as it was yet to issue guidelines and the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Coimbatore Zone, was yet to take a decision, the Corporation on Sunday night decided that it would continue to run the makeshift markets at the bus stand. Sources in the civic body said at the alternative locations, the Corporation had levelled the ground, erected sheds wherever necessary and installed mobile toilets for the convenience of the traders and consumers. Flower market In a day’s notice, the Corporation was ready to shift the markets, they said and added that the same was true of the Flower Market on Mettupalayam Road as well. The Corporation had proposed to shift the market to the Devangapet school ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-puts-off-shifting-markets/article31619318.ece
19 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Girl’s battle for community certificate brings cheers to tribal settlement||Two years of struggle for community certificate by M. Sangavi, a 19-year-old girl belonging to Malasar tribe from Rottigounden Pudur village in Coimbatore district, ended on a happy note on Sunday. Her toil did not only get her the much-needed document to pursue her higher education dreams but also brought relief to nearly 60 families who lack documents such as Aadhaar card, family card, community certificate, and ration card. Ms. Sangavi, an MBBS aspirant and also the first person to have completed Plus Two from the settlement, was not issued community certificate as her parents and she did not have any official document as proof to prove their community. She applied for the document five times and her applications were rejected by the village administrative office due to lack of proof. Members of Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam (DVK), who recently visited the settlement to distribute COVID-19 relief materials, came to know about her plight which came to the attention of Coimbatore District Collector through mediapersons. As per Collector K. Rajamani’s instruction, Madukarai tahsildar on Sunday handed over the community certificate to Ms. Sangavi. “My dream is to become a doctor since I have been seeing the struggle of people around me. I plan to prepare for NEET for one year. I felt heavy hearted as I received the certificate because my father could not see it,” said Ms. Sangavi, whose father Muniappan died of cardiac arrest a week ago. The girl uses a plastic sheet to wrap around her study materials and certificates to protect them from water as even a moderate rain can drench the thatched hut and that of others in the settlement. After completing Plus Two, Ms. Sangavi joined engineering course in a private college where she went only 20 days as she lacked the community certificate. Advocate R. Silambarasan, Coimbatore district vice-secretary of DVK who alerted the media to Ms. Sangavi’s battle for community certificate, said that her father ventured into bonded labour for an annual sum of Rs. 25,000 in a farm to meet her educational expenses while mother Vasanthamani stayed with the daughter at their thatched single room house.  After hearing Ms. Sangavi’s story, Prasanth Uthaman, State chief commissioner of Hindustan Scouts and Guides, assured to bear the NEET coaching and medical education expenses in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girls-battle-for-community-certificate-brings-cheers-to-tribal-settlement/article31619304.ece
19 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CITU seeks train facility for West Bengal workers||Representatives of CITU met District Collector K. Rajamani here on Monday and sought train services to help workers from West Bengal return home. In a memorandum to the Collector, the union leaders said Coimbatore has a large number of workers from West Bengal and many of them want to return home because of the COVID-19 spread and nationwide lockdown. But, the special trains operated so far in the district were not for West Bengal workers. Further, omni buses are taking advantage of the plight of the migrant workers and collecting huge money from them to transport the workers. The government should bear the cost of those who want to return to their home States by buses. It should also pay Rs. 5,000 and give provisions for three months each to migrant workers who are staying back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citu-seeks-train-facility-for-west-bengal-workers/article31619313.ece
19 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for shouting ‘go corona’ at Manipuri women||The Saibaba Colony police on Monday arrested a 27-year-old ambulance driver for shouting ‘go corona’ slogan at two Manipuri women late on Sunday. M. Vignesh, a native of Theni, was staying in a rented room on Azhagesan Road at Saibaba Colony. Around 7.30 p.m. on Sunday, Vignesh, allegedly in an inebriated state, saw two Manipuri women walking on the road and shouted ‘go corona’ at them, thinking that they were Chinese nationals. The women lodged a complaint with the police who arrested Vignesh for offences under Sections 75 (i) (c) of Tamil Nadu City Police Act, 506 (i) of the IPC and 4 of Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-shouting-go-corona-at-manipuri-women/article31619324.ece
19 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No containment zone in Coimbatore city||The Coimbatore Corporation has lifted all the remaining containment zones in the city. According to sources, as per the State Government’s order, the Corporation lifted containment restrictions from Baba Street in Venkitapuram, Union Office Road in Kavundamplayam and Royal Nagar and Saramedu in Ukkadam. The three areas had seen five persons test positive for COVID-19 and they were all discharged after 28 days of treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-containment-zone-in-coimbatore-city/article31619308.ece
19 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman run over by van carrying relief materials||A 47-year-old woman died and another woman suffered injuries after they were hit by a van carrying COVID-19 relief materials, which the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party workers had brought to Karadimadai for distribution on Sunday. The deceased was identified as C. Mari, a daily wage worker from Mathipalayam, while C. Pappammal (65) from Mathampalayam suffered injuries. The accident took place when the van driver reversed the vehicle. The driver was booked. Meanwhile, police booked DMK functionaries C.R. Ramachandran, Senapathi and DMK youth wing worker Thiagu on charges of assembling in violation of prohibitory order when they visited the house of the deceased on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-run-over-by-van-carrying-relief-materials/article31619323.ece
19 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply in the following areas on May 20 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. due to shutdown at Podanur sub-station for maintenance works: Nanjundapuram, Vellalore, Konavaikkalpalayam, Sriram Nagar, Indira Nagar, Anbu Nagar, JJ Nagar, Annanapuram, Awai Nagar and Easwaran Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article31619300.ece
19 May 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||20 shops sealed in Dindigul||At least 20 shops, including seven mobile showrooms, were sealed by the civic and police authorities on charges of not adhering to the social distancing norms on Monday. Following certain relaxations announced by the State government to the curfew due to the COVID-19 pandemic, 34 types of shops and establishments were given a go-ahead to open and resume sales/service to the people. The officials had cautioned the people and the shopkeepers to beware of the consequences of the COVID-19 virus and be safe while travelling outside. When the officials received complaints, in a joint operation, they found that 20 shops, including a tea shop, a lorry booking agency, one jewellery shop, four grocery stores in the city limits, had neglected the norms. After serving notice on them, the officials sealed the shops. The officials also fined Rs. 100 each so far against 3,184 people for not wearing face mask while moving in public space. They urged the people to wear the mask, maintain social distancing and use hand sanitizers at vantage locations in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-shops-sealed-in-dindigul/article31619517.ece
19 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers in Erode, Salem demand help to return home||Tense moments prevailed at Karungalpalayam here on Monday when the police resorted to mild lathicharge to disperse more than 50 migrant workers who gathered on the road urging the district administration to sent them to their hometown. Hundreds of workers from Bihar and Madhya Pradesh are working in dyeing and bleaching units at Karungalpalayam. Many workers had registered their names with the administration seeking help to go home. On Monday, workers gathered on the Pumping Station Road and attempted to proceed towards Collectorate. On information, Karungalpalayam police intercepted them. Workers told the police that they want to return home and hence wanted to meet the Collector. But the police said that they would inform the Collector and asked the workers to disperse. However, workers refused to move and the police resorted to a mild lathicharge. Workers ran away and tension prevailed in the area for a while. Later, Town DSP Raju arrived at the spot and held talks with the workers. He assured them to take up the issue with the administration, after which the workers left.  Salem Staff Reporter adds  More than 40 migrant workers employed in silver workshops here gathered at the District Collectorate Monday. They raised slogans demanding the administration to arrange them trains to return home. Mostly from Bihar, the workers said that they were jobless since the beginning of nationwide lockdown and demanded the authorities to arrange trains from Salem to their native place at the earliest. “With no jobs, we are struggling even for food. The authorities must arrange trains for us. We hear that trains are being operated from other places in Tamil Nadu, but not from Salem. A few officials visited us almost a fortnight ago and collected our details, but there is no communication after that,” said Govinda, a migrant worker. Later, senior police personnel requested them to disperse from the place. However, the workers refused and raised slogans demanding trains. Later, police vehicles were called in to remove them from the area. Fearing arrest, the workers scattered to nearby streets. Police took the workers in their vans and left them in their respective localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-in-erode-salem-demand-help-to-return-home/article31619310.ece
19 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Four persons who assisted Thailand preachers arrested||Four persons who assisted the six Thailand nationals in religious preaching in the city, which eventually lead to the spread of COVID-19, were arrested by the police here on Monday. Seven preachers from Thailand arrived in the city in the second week of March and visited two dargahs. After the death of one preacher due to the complications of diabetic nephropathy and septicaemia, the other six were admitted to the isolation ward at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Two of them tested positive for COVID-19. A case was registered against the six preachers for violating visa norms and involving in religious preaching that led to the spread of the virus in the city. All six were named as accused and lodged at Puzhal Central Prison. Meanwhile, Erode South Police included the name of four persons, who assisted the preachers, as accused in the same case. The accused were identified as M. Mohammed Isbahani Razool of Kandasamy Street, K. Sadiq Batcha of Gobichettipalayam, A. Maideen Abdul Kadar of Virudhunagar district and T. Sahul Hameed of Kollampalayam Housing Unit. Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan told The Hindu that a case was registered on April 6 against the six Thailand nationals and after investigation, four persons were added as accused in the case. A case was registered under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health) of the Indian Penal Code and Para 1-25 and 19.8 of The Visa Manual 2019 r/w Section 13 (1), (2) and 14 of The Foreigner’s Act 1946 and 134, 135 of Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. All the four were arrested and produced in the court and lodged at Coimbatore Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-persons-who-assisted-thailand-preachers-arrested/article31619309.ece
19 May 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Senthil Balaji booked for threatening Collector||A case has been registered against former Minister and DMK Karur district organiser, V. Senthil Balaji, on charges of abusing and threatening District Collector T. Anbalagan. Acting on a complaint lodged by the Collector, Thanthonimalai police have booked Senthil Balaji under Sections 506 (2) (criminal intimidation), 147 (rioting), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 294 b (uttering obscene words), 353 ( assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code. In his complaint, Mr. Anbalagan had alleged that Mr. Senthil Balaji met him with a group of 25 persons on May 12 and raised questions on why he was not invited for the review meeting relating to COVID-19 in his capacity as an MLA of Aravakurichi constituency. The Collector alleged that Mr. Senthil Balaji, while addressing the media after meeting him, had issued a threat and abused him in indecent language. In his interview to the media, Mr. Senthil Balaji had said that he, Kulithalai MLA Ramar and Karur Member of Parliament S. Jothimani were not invited for the review meetings held at the Collector’s office. But the officials invariably invited the elected representatives of the AIADMK. When the matter was taken to his notice, the Collector said that he had no knowledge of the issue, Mr.Senthil Balaji claimed at the pressmeet. “No educated person would give a reply like this. I would call him an educated fool. He does not have the maturity to be a Collector,” Mr.Senthil Balaji had charged. “If the Collector did not mend his ways, he’ll not able to venture out. I will not be cowed down even if he chooses to misuse the official machinery and threaten me with police force. The DMK cadre would protest against him,” Mr. Senthil Balaji had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senthil-balaji-booked-for-threatening-collector/article31619554.ece
19 May 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Senthil Balaji booked for threatening Collector||A case has been registered against former Minister and Karur district organiser of the DMK V. Senthil Balaji on charges of abusing and threatening Collector T. Anbalagan. Acting on a complaint lodged by the Collector, Thanthonimalai police have booked Mr. Balaji under Sections 506 (2) (criminal intimidation), 147 (rioting), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 294 b (uttering obscene words), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC. In his complaint, Mr. Anbalagan said that Mr. Balaji met him with a group of 25 persons on May 12 and questioned as to why he was not invited for the review meeting in his capacity as the MLA of Aravakurichi constituency. The Collector alleged that Mr. Senthil Balaji, while addressing the media after meeting him, had issued a threat and abused him in indecent language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senthil-balaji-booked-for-threatening-collector/article31619272.ece
19 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||19 persons discharged from Hosur hospital||Eighteen persons from Shoolagiri -- who formed a cluster of COVID-19 cases -- were among 19 persons discharged from the ESI Hospital in Hosur on Monday after they recovered from the infection. They were discharged after testing negative on the 14th day of their isolation at the hospital. The 19th person is an ambulance driver from Shoolagiri, who had tested positive on returning from Chennai. The results of tests on their samples on the 14th day returned negative, said Paramasivan, Joint Director of Health, Krishnagiri. “We tested them despite the revised protocol by the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) that allows the release of patients without testing on the 10th day, when they are asymptomatic and the virus is not virulent,” he said. Krishnagiri had remained a green zone till cases were reported from Shoolagiri, which is known for coriander cultivation. It was later found that the infection was linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, to which trucks were operated from Shoolagiri to supply the produce. From the first cases -- two women-- the number spiked to 18 within a week. The infected were all relatives, family members and neighbours of the first cases. While they were placed in home quarantine initially, they were moved to the isolation ward at the hospital following reports of breach of quarantine in Kamarajar Nagar. The district that had recorded 21 COVID-19 positive cases, including the outstation case of the ambulance driver, now has only two cases. Two patients, who had returned from Maharashtra a fortnight ago, had tested positive. They are likely to be discharged in two or three days, said Deputy Director of Health Services Govindan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-persons-discharged-from-hosur-hospital/article31619312.ece
19 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||First ‘Shramik’ train from Madurai leaves for Uttar Pradesh||As many as 1,600 migrant workers from Madurai and neighbouring districts boarded a ‘Shramik’ special train to Uttar Pradesh at the railway junction in Madurai on Monday. The move was greeted with relief by hundreds of migrant workers who were struggling to make ends meet due to loss of income during the lockdown period. A total of 1,181 workers from Madurai, 174 from Theni, 125 from Virudhunagar and 120 Dindigul districts were sent by the train. An official from the district administration said the workers and their families were screened at 10 locations in the districts and were later dropped at the railway station by buses. They were also provided food and water. Collector T.G. Vinay said 66 persons hailing from Uttar Pradesh, 90 from West Bengal and 30 from Meghalaya and Mizoram had earlier left Madurai by bus to reach Chennai. Trains were scheduled to leave from Chennai to take to their respective States. “We have arranged a special train to Bihar on May 21. We are also working to arrange trains to drop migrant workers to Rajasthan and West Bengal,” the Collector said. Ramashekar Sahani, hailing from Mirzapur, said that since the imposition of lockdown, he could not sell toys at Mattuthavani and lost his only source of income. “My son and I struggled to feed ourselves during the lockdown period. When we reach our native village, we hope to get a new job to sustain ourselves,” he said. Habibur Rahman, who worked in a private saloon in Madurai, said with no income he could not pay rent for his house. “Being the eldest son, I had to send money to my family, which has been deeply impacted because of the lockdown. Once I reach home, I will at least be able to support my family,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-shramik-train-from-madurai-leaves-for-uttar-pradesh/article31619534.ece
19 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Activist alleges corruption at GRH||An activist of Makkal Satta Urimai Iyakkam, S. Jeganesan, has alleged that there is corruption at the labour ward of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here. The activist said that a nurse on duty between 6.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. on Sunday demanded Rs. 700 as bribe to show a newborn baby girl to a close relative of the mother. “The baby was born to Saraswathi and Mathiazhagan. When the relative wanted to see the newborn girl, the nurse on duty asked for Rs. 700. When the family members said they had got only Rs. 400, the nurse stuck to her demand of Rs. 700,” he said. The activist complained to the Resident Medical Officer of the GRH in this regard. Dean J. Sangumani said that he had spoken to the activist. “We have asked him to come to the hospital on Tuesday and identify the nurse. We will ensure stern action against the staff, if the charge is proved,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activist-alleges-corruption-at-grh/article31619519.ece
19 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Begging to raise funds for a bigger cause||On Monday morning, 68-year-old M. Pool Pandian was seen clutching two cloth bags as he stood on the Madurai Collectorate premises. One of the bags contained a towel, a kaavi dhoti, a tumbler and a plate. The other had Rs. 10,000, which Mr. Pandian had obtained by begging. Despite living in penury, he donated the entire amount to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to aid the efforts to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. Hailing from Aalankinaru village in Thoothukudi district, Mr. Pandian has been donating his earnings towards the development of panchayat union primary schools in Thoothukudi, Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts for many years. Being an ardent follower of former Chief Minister K. Kamaraj has helped him understand the importance of education, he said. “I donate mats and chairs to ensure that students don’t have to sit on the floor. I have also bought stationery items and water purifiers for these schools,” he said. Two weeks before the announcement of the lockdown, Mr. Pandian reached Madurai and took to begging at the central vegetable and flower market at Mattuthavani. “People of Tamil Nadu are generous. They ensure that no one starves in front of their eyes. While some donate money, others buy tea or idlis for me to make sure that I don’t go hungry,” he said. During the lockdown, he was accommodated in the Kakkai Padiniyar Corporation Girls’ Higher Secondary School, where Corporation officials provided him with food. “After witnessing how families were suffering due to the COVID-19 pandemic, I decided to give away all the money I had obtained by begging towards relief efforts,” Mr. Pandian said. He is planning to travel to other districts and continue donating his earnings to the COVID-19 relief fund. “I have studied only up to Class I. But even Kamaraj was a school dropout who nonetheless made a big difference to people’s lives. Being his follower, I want to contribute whatever little I have. In fact, this is the only thing that keeps me going,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/begging-to-raise-funds-for-a-bigger-cause/article31619287.ece
19 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court orders reinstatement of government employee||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the State to reinstate a government employee, who was wrongly discharged from duty even though she had a few months to retire from service. The court was hearing a petition filed by A. Brinda of Nagercoil, who was discharged from the post of Personal Assistant to the Chief Educational Officer (Higher Secondary), Kanniyakumari district, on April 30 despite the fact that she was to retire on August 31. The petitioner, who was appointed as P.G. Assistant in 1999 through direct recruitment, said she applied for rectification of her date of birth, which was wrongly mentioned in her education certificates and service records. She said she sent notice to the Chief Educational Office, Kanniyakumari district, for rectification of the date of birth in the records in 2001, within three years from the date of appointment to the post. With no response from the authorities, she filed a suit for declaration and a civil court ruled in her favour in 2006. However, despite the order, the authorities concerned did not take steps to rectify the date of birth. Also, they had not preferred an appeal against the civil court decree. In 2007, she sent a remainder on the decree passed by the civil court. But her request was turned down on the ground that she had applied for the rectification after the lapse of the limitation period of five years. The civil court had categorically held that the application for rectification was made within five years from the date of her appointment. But the authorities concerned went ahead and passed the relieving order, she said. Hearing her plea, Justice J. Nisha Banu directed the authorities concerned to reinstate her immediately into service. The court adjourned the case till the first week of June for reporting compliance of the order of the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-orders-reinstatement-of-government-employee/article31619530.ece
19 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Class 10 Board exams: government schools in rural areas grapple with logistics issues||Heads of government schools in rural areas in Madurai district say that they are battling a number of odds regarding the conduct of Class 10 board examinations starting June 1. Most concur that the examination ideally should be deferred as students may not be prepared and there is uncertainty regarding transportation. A headmaster from a school in Kottampatti block says that this is the first time his school will be used as a centre to conduct exams. They have just begun sanitising rooms as of Monday and have been calling all their Class 10 students to ensure that they are within the district. “Teachers have been calling students each day and telling parents to make their wards study at night too. However, since we are in a deep rural pocket, we are unable to reach some students. We have asked their peers to contact them but are still a bit unsure about their status,” he says. The head of a school in Melur block says that usually all students from government schools require training until the last minute. “Students are used to coming to schools, clearing their doubts and then studying further. Without any guidance for 60 days, how can we expect them to perform,” she asks. The head from Kottampatti block says that there are many concerns regarding travel too. “Even on a regular basis, it is hard to reach the school as there are small and winding roads which prevent any movement of public transport. Most of the students in my school do not have vehicles of their own. I wonder how they will make it,” he says. Also, what about the students from the containment zone, he asks. The HM from Melur block says that although several people have raised concerns regarding students, no one has spoken about the plight of teachers. “Will the teachers who are in-charge of invigilating students from containment zones be provided any special equipment?” she says. She adds that teachers must be provided a special bus to pick them up and drop them at their respective centres during each exam. A headmaster in Kallukudi block says that apart from problems regarding students and teachers, they have been finding it difficult to source conservancy workers to clean the school regularly. “The Education department has told us that we must clean our premises twice a day. Without any personnel, how can we ensure that the school is sanitised?” he asks. District Chief Education Officer R. Swaminathan says that at the moment, a total of 469 centres have been recognised. Students will have the ability to write the exam in their own schools and need not move out. Only 10 students will be allowed to sit in a classroom to ensure physical distancing. Apart from this, students can call their teachers at any point in the day to ask for doubts too. “We are yet to discuss with the health department about the measures to be taken in centres where students from containment zones will appear for the exam. However, all students and teachers must wear masks. We will not be providing any transport as there are 469 centres and it will be difficult to coordinate. We are hoping that buses begin plying by then,” the senior official says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-10-board-exams-government-schools-in-rural-areas-grapple-with-logistics-issues/article31619539.ece
19 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Over Rs. 3 crore collected||Collector T. G. Vinay said the administration had collected over Rs. 3 crore for COVID-19 relief up to May 13 here on Monday. The administration had collected Rs. 3,31,62,591 as on May 13. The Collector said people from all walks of life, including industrialists, small-scale entrepreneurs, non-governmental organisations and laypersons had contributed to the State-level Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. He thanked them for their efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-rs-3-crore-collected/article31619518.ece
19 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||50% extra tax on liquor in UT||The Puducherry government on Monday decided to levy 50% extra tax on alcohol when the Indian Made Foreign Liquor outlets resume functioning from Wednesday. They were closed for around 60 days due to the lockdown. Making the announcement after a Cabinet meeting on Monday night, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said the government decided to levy extra tax as “special corona fee.” Additional tax The Cabinet has also decided to impose additional tax on petroleum products. A detailed order would be issued on Tuesday. Earlier, the Cabinet decided to allow IMFL outlets to allow takeaways from Tuesday. Mr. Narayanasamy said that the Cabinet was convened again as there were certain procedural delays in allowing liquor shops to function from Tuesday. The Chief Minister said that the outlets would be open from 9 a.m to 7 p.m. Law enforcers have been directed to monitor compliance of personal distancing at liquor outlets. However, bars remain closed, he said. The Cabinet also decided to extend the lockdown till May 31, but with more relaxations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-extra-tax-on-liquor-in-ut/article31619275.ece
19 May 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Bid to murder minor girl||Police are on the look out for an unidentified person who allegedly attempted to murder a 13-year-old girl after harassing her sexually near Gandaravakottai in the district on Monday. The crime was committed when the girl was going to fetch water. Police said the person intercepted the girl and sexually harassed her before strangulating her neck. As she fell unconscious the accused fled from the spot. The girl was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital for treatment. Gandarvakottai Police have registered a case under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) read with section 12 of POCSO Act, said the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-murder-minor-girl/article31619556.ece
19 May 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||100 boats damaged in heavy winds||At least 100 anchored boats were damaged in the heavy winds that lasted for about an hour late on Sunday night in the coastal stretches of Pamban, Rameswaram and Thangachimadam, fisheries department officials said on Monday. Following the forecast that a cyclonic storm 'Amphan' had centred over the same region at 5.30 p.m. on Saturday, the cyclone warning signal two was hoisted by officials here. The IMD bulletin had said that the storm was 1040 km south of Paradip (Odisha) and 1200 km south-south west of Digha (West Bengal) and 1,300 km south-south west of Khepupura (Bangladesh). While anticipating heavy winds in this region, fishermen were advised to stay off from venturing into the sea here and in Thoothukudi stretch. The storm, which turned into a super cyclone since late Sunday night, had very little impact on the coastal side of Tamil Nadu, a State government official in Chennai stated in a press release. The winds, accompanied by showers, were experienced till Monday forenoon in many parts. Fishermen association leaders in Rameswaram said that with COVID-19 pandemic, the fishers were indoors since March 20. With the government announcing certain relaxation in the curfew norms beginning May 18, when things appeared to be sunny, the storm had damaged most of the anchored boats here. With the fishing ban period in vogue due to annual fish production time, when a majority of fishermen were off sea and indoors, they may require huge funds to repair the damaged boats, Rayappan, a fishermen leader urged the State government to provide funds for repair and upkeep. A highways official in Ramanathapuram said the Sunday night winds had uprooted many trees that had fallen in the middle of the roads in at least a dozen locations. As a result, power shutdown was effected as a precautionary measure. Work to re-install the poles back in its place was under way on a war-footing speed, TANGEDCO engineers at the site said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/100-boats-damaged-in-heavy-winds/article31619521.ece
19 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Five positive cases in Salem||Five new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem district on Monday. The five include a five-year-old boy and a 13-year-old girl. All the cases had travelled to Salem from Maharashtra and the patients are currently undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. The patients hail from Ethappur, Mettur and Gengavelli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-positive-cases-in-salem/article31619315.ece
19 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers welcome the announcement||Welcoming the State government’s announcement that water from the Stanley Reservoir will be released for irrigation on June 12, the delta farmers have urged the government to ensure quick and proper execution of the kudimaramathu works and also sought support package for kuruvai and samba cultivation. Welcoming the announcement, the general secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, Mannargudi S. Ranganathan said issuing a GO or a standing order to the effect that water would be released from Mettur dam only for cultivation of conventional crop seasons such as kuruvai, thaladi and samba in the districts would avert anxiety over the date of release and help farmers prepare themselves for the seasons every year. He also lauded the Public Works Department for maintaining the 100 feet storage level at the reservoir for nearly six months by not releasing water for summer crops, which has given confidence to the delta ryots to take up kuruvai cultivation. In a statement issued on Monday, the general secretary, Federation of Farmers Associations in Cauvery Delta Districts, Arupathy P. Kalyanam called upon the State government to convene district-level meetings of officials and farmers to chalk out plans for judicious use of water for irrigation. He also highlighted the need for support package by pointing out that farmers had taken up kuruvai and samba cultivations last season under enormous financial constraints in the absence of support package. Stating that this year too they were forced to take up cultivation under stressful conditions in view of the challenges thrown up by the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Kalyanam wanted the Tamil Nadu government to announce support packages on the lines of the agriculture investment support scheme announced by the Telangana government under which farmers were paid Rs. 5,000 per crop for two crops without any ceiling on landholding. Terming the announcement as a timely direction for the farmers to take up their preparatory works in a phased manner, the president, Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Nalasangam, Tiruvarur, G. Sethuraman wanted the government to ensure that the kudimaramathu works identified for the current year were executed in a proper manner by involving the real water users – the ryots. “No doubt that execution of kudimaramathu works will help improve the groundwater table as it will ensure filling up of waterbodies apart from irrigating the cultivable lands. But at the same time improper or sluggish execution of desilting and renovation works of water courses will only nullify the very objective of the scheme. If the scheme is to serve its purpose then farmers should be taken on board in large numbers”, he said. Welcoming the announcement, the Thanjavur district secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, N. V. Kannan also urged the government to expedite the kudimaramathu works to ensure that water reaches the tail-end areas in time. Further, he demanded that crop loans should be issued without any condition and support package for kuruvai be announced. The State secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, Sami.Natarajan, a progressive farmer, G. Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam and the president, Cauvery Delta Farmers Association, A. K. R. Ravichandar stressed the need for providing support package for kuruvai cultivation in view of the pandemic. They also urged the govt. to ensure that crop loans were issued without any delay.  Government should ensure that kudimaramathu works for the current year are executed in a proper manner G. Sethuraman Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Nalasangam, Tiruvarur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-welcome-the-announcement/article31619550.ece
19 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Plea for waiver of crop loans||The Tamil Nadu All Farmers Associations Coordination Committee president, P. R. Pandian has demanded that the governments should shoulder the responsibilities of ‘manufacturing and marketing’ of agriculture produce. In a statement, Mr. Pandian claimed that around 80% of farmers had incurred losses in the last five years due to natural calamities and have become ineligible to avail fresh loans as they were unable to repay loans. Thus increasing the credit for farmers to overcome the COVID-19 impact would be of no use to the sector. Though farmers expected waiver of loans, announcements such as adequate choice for farmers to sell produce at prices of their choice, formation of a committee to ensure minimum support price, barrier free inter-State movement of agriculture produce and others gave some hope for the ryots. But the entire expectations crumbled with the announcement that the agriculture sector would be thrown open to online marketing. Further, the announcements relating to privatisation, particularly for setting up lignite mines, methane extraction wells and others in agriculture fields had annoyed the farming community, he added. Hence, the Centre should review its announcements and waive the loans availed by the farmers in the past. The loss of horticulture crop should be compensated and the governments should shoulder the responsibility of manufacturing of agriculture produce and marketing of the same, Mr.Pandian urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-waiver-of-crop-loans/article31619558.ece
19 May 2020||THENI/TIRUNELVELI/RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||More people from Maharashtra test positive in southern districts||Though the number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 continued to rise in the southern districts – Tirunelveli crossed the 200 mark on Monday – a big relief is that the majority of the fresh cases had travel history. Health Department officials claim that the virus spread among the locals has been contained to a great extent. Officials collected blood samples of people coming from other States at specially set up check posts on district borders for the last three days. Eleven persons, whose blood samples were collected at the check posts, tested positive in Ramanathapuram (six), Theni (three) and Dindigul (two) districts. Health officials said all of them were working in Maharashtra. In Theni, five of the nine fresh cases had travel history, and three were in contact with persons with COVID-19 symptoms in Muthulapuram. The last case is a person from T. Kallikudi in Periyakulam, according to a release. In Dindigul and Ramanathapuram, the fresh cases had travel history. Sivaganga reported no fresh case on Monday, officials added. Thirty-two of the 40 fresh cases reported in Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari on Monday were from Mumbai. The total number of positive cases in Tirunelveli district increased to 206 with the addition of 12 more persons, all returned from Mumbai. The district now has 141 cases under treatment. In Tenkasi, the number of cases went up to 70, with six persons, all from Mumbai, testing positive. After 40 patients have been discharged from the hospital, the district now has 30 patients. Thoothukudi district recorded 15 fresh cases, 14 of whom were from Maharashtra. All of them were intercepted at the check post near Port Town. The district now has 55 positive cases, all under treatment at Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Kanniyakumari’s tally moved to 44 with seven more cases on Monday. Madurai With three persons testing positive, the total count in Madurai district rose to 163. The district has 53 active cases. Among the new cases was a five-month-old male baby. Collector T.G. Vinay said one of the persons who tested positive had returned from Maharashtra. While one person was a contact of a positive case, the third resided in a containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-people-from-maharashtra-test-positive-in-southern-districts/article31619529.ece
19 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘College hostels converted into quarantine facilities’||With the influx of people from the northern States increasing heavily, the district administration has created quarantine facilities at 9 places in the district to isolate for two weeks those who are coming from other States, Collector Sandeep Nanduri has said. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Mr. Sandeep said hostels of 9 colleges had been converted into quarantine facilities with adequate number of beds and medical facilities as the number of returnees from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan was swelling everyday. A total of 700 beds had been created in these places. He said the district administration had put in place all possible measures to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities and the medicines to the residents in 11 containment zones in the district. On giving e-passes to the SSLC students to enable them to write the public examination to commence on June 1, Mr. Sandeep said 800 SSLC students from the district and the teachers, who are all now stranded in other district, would be given e-pass ahead of the date of examination. Of the 8,700 migrant workers in Thoothukudi district, 2,500 labourers had been sent back to their home States such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh in special trains, the Collector said. Since all government offices had been allowed to function following relaxation in lockdown, thermal scanners had been installed at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-hostels-converted-into-quarantine-facilities/article31619522.ece
19 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Man, son held for double murder||Pasuvanthanai police have arrested a youth and his father for allegedly murdering a 70-year-old man and his son. Police said K. Kalisamy, 40, of Therkku Bommaiahpuram under Pasuvanthanai police station limits, K. Balamurugan, 22, of the same area and a few others were participating in a feast organised in the village on Sunday night to celebrate the victory of their party candidate in the local body elections held in last December. Since the banquet was conducted after a long delay after a few postponements, a good number of cadre of a political party from the village participated in the cocktail dinner. As an argument broke out between Kalisamy and Balamurugan even as they were under the influence of alcohol, others participating in the dinner pacified them. However, the altercation resurfaced even as they were returning home. An infuriated Balamurugan allegedly hacked Kalisamy. On getting information, Kalisamy’s younger brother Maharajan, 38, came to the spot and took the victim on a bike to the Primary Health Centre at Pasuvanthanai for treatment. Meanwhile, Kalisamy’s agitated father Karuppasamy, 70, rushed to Balamurugan’s house only to be hacked to death on the spot by Balamurugan, who also murdered Maharajan when he returned home. Balamurugan and his father Kalipandi were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-son-held-for-double-murder/article31619525.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||It is back to work for government staff as offices open||Government establishments and private companies resumed work with 50% of employees as lockdown norms were further relaxed by the Centre and State governments. Many, however, rued about the inconvenience caused by lack of public transport. While the administration has instructed employees to return to work, they have been instructed to work on a rotational basis to ensure 50% staff strength per day. At various government offices in Tiruchi city, sanitisers or soaps were kept at all entry points. Some offices like the District Collectorate and the Public Works Department had set up sensor-powered sanitiser dispensing machines. At the Collectorate waiting hall, Tiruchi City Corporation and PWD office, desks and chairs were arranged two metres away from each other to ensure personal distance. Wearing of masks has been made compulsory while employees can choose to wear gloves. A senior official at the Public Works Department, Water Resources Organisation, said that of the nearly 100 staff members who work at the office complex in Mannarpuram, at least 40 were present on Monday. The staff, who were stuck at home for over two months were eager to return to work, he said. “Even if you had asked 100% staff to resume work, they would have been ready,” the official said. However, employees of various offices complained about the lack of transport facilities hindering their daily commute to work. “I live in Aranthangi and am forced to travel to the office in Singarathope on my two-wheeler. It is a tiresome journey,” a junior assistant at the Revenue department office said. Another woman had met with an accident and as she could not ride a two-wheeler she had to hitch a ride with a colleague. At the PWD office too, staff requested transport facilities. “Although the central government and the State government has issued permission for transport facilities to be made available for staff, we are yet to get any in Tiruchi. I waited for a bus until 8 a.m. after which I was forced to take an auto-rickshaw at a cost of Rs. 600,” said R. Mutthazhagi. On a normal day, a bus ticket from Lalgudi, where Ms. Mutthazhagi resides to her office in Manappuram would cost her Rs. 8, she added. Three PWD officials hired a private van to drop and pick them up from work. L. Selvakumar, who owns a private bus service has decided to drive eight employees of various government offices to work. “I am charging Rs. 200 per head and only allow eight people on the bus at a time. I am also equipped with face masks and a sanitiser for the passengers. The employees are glad to avail my service as they are unable to get transport and I am happy to earn some money during these difficult times,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-back-to-work-for-government-staff-as-offices-open/article31619560.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||588 persons return by special train from Delhi||As many as 558 persons, including 292 people, who had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi, arrived here in the early hours on Monday by a special train that was operated from Delhi to Tirunelveli. The district administration along with Southern Railway, Railway Protection Force, Government Railway Police, City Police and the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) had made arrangements to ensure personal distancing and to take them by special buses for quarantine. The special train with 24 coaches arrived at around 4.40 a.m. on platform 1 where a posse of Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police personnel were deployed. RPF personnel were posted in front of every compartment as well as on the other side of the platform to ensure that passengers do not alight on the non-platform side. Official sources said there were 266 migrant labourers from various districts of Tamil Nadu on the same train. Special buses were arranged by TNSTC to take them to their home towns. The 292 passengers who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet were taken by buses belonging to a private college to the Arabic College in Khajamalai area in the city where samples were lifted to check for the novel coronavirus. Collector S. Sivarasu who was present at Tiruchi Junction at the time of arrival of the passengers later inspected the Arabic College. Mr. Sivarasu told The Hindu that all arrangements have been made for the New Delhi returnees at the institutional quarantine. The medical test results would be known in a day. They have been asked to be in the institutional quarantine for a week. Muzzamil Khan, coordinator for those quarantined at Arabic College, said that all 292 persons had completed 50-day quarantine in New Delhi. All of them were being given a balanced diet and would go home after clearance from the authorities. Out of the 266 migrant labourers, 64 were from Tiruchi district and the rest were from 22 other district. Special buses were operated to take the passengers to Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Dindigul, Madurai, Theni, Karur, Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Salem, Namakkal, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Ariyalur and Villupuram where they would be screened. Those belonging to Tiruchi district were taken in buses to the Government Engineering College at Sethurapatti near Tiruchi where they would be kept under quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/588-persons-return-by-special-train-from-delhi/article31619567.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Technical glitch disrupts interaction with Higher Education Secretary||Principals of government and government-aided colleges in Tiruchi region could not take part in an interaction with the Higher Education Secretary through video-conference on Monday due to a technical glitch. The principals were expected to provide details of the facilities that they had provided for COVID-19 quarantine during the interaction. There was a difficulty in continuing the interaction with more than 100 participants. Hence, the Higher Education Department later restricted the participants to college heads in and around Chennai, a principal of a government college here said. The college heads in the region were reportedly told by officials that the interaction with Higher Education Secretary will take place at a later date. Barring Jamal Mohamed College in Tiruchi, no other institution was used as a quarantine facility in the region. The office of the Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education had, last month, sought details of buildings and sanitary infrastructure from institutions in the region, indicating that the facilities could be put to use by the district administrations during the lockdown period for containment of COVID-19 virus. The colleges, in turn, furnished information about the classrooms in academic blocks, the number of rooms in the hostel, the toilets in each building and other such particulars. However, only the playgrounds of some of the colleges were utilised as temporary vegetable markets by the district administration. The National Centre for Disease Control has issued a series of guidelines to carry out disinfection of the quarantine facilities where people affected by the virus had been housed. Due to the potential survival of the virus in the environment for several days, disinfection of the buildings using anti-microbial agents has been advocated. The guidelines state that the lodging area, including furniture, railing, telephone, desks, curtain, should also be disinfected thoroughly with warm water and detergent solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/technical-glitch-disrupts-interaction-with-higher-education-secretary/article31619549.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Getting an e-pass is a cumbersome process: applicants||The tough norms being in force for granting e-pass have irked applicants. Until May 1, software of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) was used for receiving, processing and granting e-passes for the general public, who wanted to travel from one place to another for attending marriages, funeral and medical emergencies. Since May 2, the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency had taken over the responsibility of granting e-passes to move within districts, between districts and outside the State. People, who seek passes, have to log on to the website at https://tnepass.tnega.org The portal is accessible through mobile phones as well. The website enables individuals and organisations to apply for e-passes for movement of people or employees. It issues three types of passes — intra-district (within a district), inter-district (outside a district) and inter-State (outside Tamil Nadu). Organisations will have to upload their GST registration certificate/Udyog Aadhaar as proof and must follow the standard operating procedure as detailed along with any other orders issued by the government, and details of vehicles permitted for transporting employees. But the not-so-tech savvy e-pass seekers complain that they find it extremely difficult to apply for passes under the system. People have a number of reasons for travelling from one place to another. But, the system does not permit beyond few specific purposes such as applying for medical emergencies, marriages and death. After the partial relaxation on curbs, a number of people, particularly those employed in private companies, banks, sales executives and others, who want to travel to various places in the State, has gone up drastically. But, only a few managed to get the e-passes. Many applications are rejected. “I applied for e-pass thrice since Friday to travel from Tiruchi to Chennai to report for duty in Chennai on Monday. But, my application has been turned down. I was not informed of the reason and could not report for duty as scheduled. I do not know how to reach Chennai,” said a senior executive of a private bank in Chennai, who did not want to be identified. Moreover, e-passes were issued for round trips initially. Now, it has been restricted to one way trip. The power of issuing passes has been given to the destination Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/getting-an-e-pass-is-a-cumbersome-process-applicants/article31619551.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Three test positive||Three persons, two from Ariyalur and one from Karur, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday while 38 patients who had been undergoing treatment at various designated COVID-19 hospitals in the central region have recovered and were discharged. In Ariyalur district a 55-year-old man hailing from Periyathirukkonam, a village in Ariyalur block tested positive. He is said to be a contact of a man who tested positive after he returned to the village from Koyambedu market earlier. The patient had been kept at a quarantine centre and has now been shifted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital after testing positive. The other patient in Ariyalur was a 32-year-old man from Ayanthathanur of Sendurai block who returned to the district from Maharashtra. Although the mode of transport he availed to reach the village is unknown, the patient was found near a check-post and swab sample was lifted. As the test returned positive, he has been admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital. The sole patient who tested positive in Karur on Monday was a 40-year-old man who returned to the district from Maharashtra, where he had been working. The patient is undergoing treatment at the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. Meanwhile, 17 patients were discharged from the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital on Monday. Including the 17 patients, a total of 346 patients out of 355 patients have recovered. The number of active cases in the district on Monday was nine. As many as 16 patients were discharged from the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital. The patients were all given a warm send-off by district health officials and hospital staff who applauded them for successfully recovering from the infection. The patients have been instructed to stay in home quarantine for 14 days. In Tiruchi, two patients were discharged from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Monday. Of the total 67 cases in the district, 64 have recovered from the illness. As on Monday, there were only three active cases in Tiruchi, an official source said. Along with the three patients, 14 patients from Perambalur and two from Ariyalur are undergoing treatment at the MGMGH, which is a designated COVID-19 hospital. A patient hailing from Lakshmi Nagar in Pudukottai was also discharged from the Tiruchi MGMGH. The patient was received by District Collector P. Uma Maheshwari along with other health officials. The patient had tested positive after returning to Pudukottai from Koyambedu. Of the seven people who tested positive for COVID-19 in Pudukottai, four have recovered while three are undergoing treatment at the Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Hospital in Pudukottai town. Two patients hailing from Papanasam and Peravurani were discharged from the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Monday. Among the 72 patients who had contracted the infection in Thanjavur district, 66 have recovered. The total number of active cases as on Monday was six.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-test-positive/article31619563.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Stranded Malaysians fly back home||A group of Malaysian nationals who were stranded in various places in the State due to the lockdown left from Tiruchi for Kuala Lumpur via Chennai by a rescue flight operated by Malindo Air on Monday. The aircraft which flew from Kuala Lumpur landed at Tiruchi airport around 10.15 a.m. where the passengers had come hours before to complete their departure formalities. Airport sources said personal distancing was ensured among the passengers as they entered the terminal building. The baggages were sanitised and the passengers were subjected to screening using hand-held thermal scanners. Declaration forms were received from all passengers prior to being allowed to board the flight. After completion of immigration formalities and security checks, the passengers boarded the flight which left around 11.20 a.m. to Chennai for its onward journey from there to Kuala Lumpur. The sources said the flight took off with 111 passengers on board. In late March and early April, several Malaysian nationals have returned home in batches through rescue flights operated by Air Asia and Malindo Air from Tiruchi airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stranded-malaysians-fly-back-home/article31619565.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Allow us to ply, say autorickshaw drivers||Members of the Tiruchi District Autorickshaw Drivers Association petitioned the District Collector here requesting permission to resume services. The members complained that they had been without work for over 50 days. A large number of autorickshaw drivers gathered at the District Collectorate on Monday morning demanding an explanation as to why they were not allowed to ply. “We are ready to follow all the necessary norms laid down by the authorities but they need to give us a chance,” Abdul Shareef, an autorickshaw driver said. Speaking to The Hindu , A. Abbas, vice-president, Tiruchi District Autorickshaw Drivers Association said that the workers had been given a step brotherly treatment. “Taxis are allowed and what is wrong with us working? We do not even have air-conditioning, which could cause problems,” he said. The drivers have been struggling to make ends meet and have resorted to taking loans from friends and family members to sustain themselves, Mr. Abbas said. A petition was submitted to the District Collector. “The Collector said that he would forward our demands to the State government,” he said. The association also sought a financial relief of Rs. 15,000 for autorickshaw drivers. “We have not received any relief from any of the welfare schemes. We require money to restart our livelihood,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-us-to-ply-say-autorickshaw-drivers/article31619562.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Special train for railwaymen||Southern Railway began operating a workmen's special train from Erode to Tiruchi exclusively for railway employees on duty to reach their respective work spots. The special service is being operated in view of the lockdown. The workmen's special service via Karur Junction which commenced from Monday will be operated till June 30. The daily service will leave Erode at 7.30 a.m. and reach Tiruchi Junction at 10.30 a.m. It will leave Tiruchi at 3.30 p.m. and arrive at Erode at 6.30 p.m. It will run all seven days a week. Although there were no movement of passenger trains in view of the lockdown, Southern Railway has been operating freight trains on various sections moving essential commodities and others besides operating special parcel trains on select routes. Regular maintenance of the assets was crucial since freight trains were in operation. This has prompted the railway administration to operate the workmen’s special since there was no movement of buses, the officials said.  A senior official said freight trains with coal loaded daily from Karaikal Port are being operated to Mettur Dam and Puduchathiram. Similarly, rice was being loaded from different railway stations in the delta region to various destinations within the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-train-for-railwaymen/article31619555.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Compensation sought||Expressing disappointment over the relief given to agriculture sector in Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan economic package, members of the Desiya Thennidia Nadigal Innaippu Vivasayigal Sangam on Monday staged a protest in front of the Collector’s Office demanding sanction of compensation for crops that had perished during the lockdown and waiver of crop loans. Leading the agitation, P. Ayyakannu, president of the association, said a large number of farmers had suffered heavy losses due to the lockdown as they were unable to sell their produce at the markets. Even if they managed to do so, their produce did not fetch them fair return as prices had crashed due to poor demand, he pointed out. “A majority of the country’s population is dependent on farming. We were expecting immediate relief from the government and waiver of loans. But the economic package has come as huge disappointment to us. By offering us more credit, the government is trying to keep us eternally in debt,” Mr. Ayyakannu alleged. He and a few other farmers were clad only in loincloths during the protest. Mr. Ayyakannu demanded Rs. 20,000 as compensation to farmers, waiver of all crop loans until farmers were able to get fair remunerative prices for their produce, sanction of Rs. 5,000 as monthly pension to all farmers above the age of 60, and individual insurance cover for all farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compensation-sought/article31619552.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain brings relief||The widespread heavy rain in Tiruchi region on Sunday evening left banana crops damaged in a few places. The rainfall came as a big relief as the region had been experiencing searing heat over the past few days. Overcast conditions prevailed in Tiruchi on Monday. Standing banana crops in some places such as Vayalur, Mullikarumbur and Jeeyapuram were reported to have been felled by the heavy wind that accompanied the rain. In Tiruchi district, Ponnaniyar Dam recorded 65.60 mm of rainfall during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Monday. Thuvakudi recorded 60 mm followed by Vathalai Anicut with 38, Manapparai 29.40, Thuraiyur 25, Kovilpatti 24.20, Nandhiyar Head 23.20, Kuppampatti 20 and Tiruchi Town 17.30 (all in mm). Several parts of Pudukottai, Karur, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts also received good rainfall during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rain-brings-relief/article31619553.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco staff stage protest||A section of employees of the Tangedco staged a demonstration here on Monday urging the government not to privatise power distribution. The employees staged the stir in front of the Tangedco office at Thennur. They also demanded the Centre to withdraw the draft Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020. The stir was led by the Central Organisation of Tamil Nadu Electricity Employees state vice president Rangarajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-staff-stage-protest/article31619568.ece
19 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Special buses bring staff to Collectorate in Tirunelveli||With the government easing lockdown norms, operation of additional buses for the staff of government departments commenced on Monday. When around 50 Tirunelveli Collectorate staff and the staff of Department of Public Health were waiting for the special buses at Thoothukudi old bus stand on Monday morning, the public health department staff were asked to board the first bus leaving for Tirunelveli while the waiting staff affiliated to other departments were taken in the second bus. After dropping a few staff at Vallanaadu, Vasavappapuram and the Tirunelveli District Court, Samadhanapuram, Palayamkottai bus stand, all en route, and also at Vaeinthaankulam new bus-stand, the second bus reached Tirunelveli Collectorate at 9.45 a.m. While Rs. 50 is being collected as fare in the Thoothukudi-Tirunelveli point-to-point bus service and Rs. 35 in the Limited Stop Service, Rs. 45 was collected in the special bus from the government staff. Similarly, special buses were operated from Radhapuram, Papanasam, Tenkasi and Sankarankovil to the Tirunelveli Collectorate. Since, no bus was operated to Tirunelveli from Nagercoil and Tiruchendur, the government employees travelling in these routes had to look for other modes of transport to reach their offices on time. In all these special buses, the fare was collected in cash. In these buses with ‘3 + 2’ seating arrangements, the commuters were seated in ‘2 + 1’ format to ensure physical distancing though the mandatory norm went for a toss while they boarded the buses at respective boarding points. As the Department of School Education has decided to conduct the SSLC examination from June 1, heads of most of the government and the government-aided schools informally instructed their teachers to be ready to report for duty on May 21. Since more than 250 teachers would have to travel between Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts, special buses should be operated for the teachers also, the teachers feel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-buses-bring-staff-to-collectorate-in-tirunelveli/article31619524.ece
19 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||309 Delhi returnees quarantined||A total of 309 people, who had got stranded in Delhi for 56 days following the imposition of the nationwide lockdown, arrived here on Monday by a special train. The stranded passengers, who were from Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Virudhunagar districts, reached here by the special train at 10.05 a.m. As many as 221 of them were from Tirunelveli district. They included 77 participants of the Tablighi Jamaath conference, who were taken to Sadakkathullah Appa College for quarantine. The others were taken to Government Siddha Medical College Hospital to be quarantined. As Revenue, Police and Public Health department officials from Tenkasi, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Virudhunagar districts were waiting at Tirunelveli Junction, the Delhi returnees were taken in separate vehicles to be quarantined in their respective districts. Sources in the Department of Public Health said all the passengers who reached here by the special train would be quarantined for two weeks even though they tested negative for COVID–19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/309-delhi-returnees-quarantined/article31619543.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||CM lays foundation for Tiruppur Medical College Hospital||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday laid the foundation Tiruppur Medical College Hospital from Chennai. Sources in the district administration said that no official from Tiruppur, including Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and Tiruppur Medical College Hospital Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy, participated in the foundation laying event as it was held in Chennai. Mr. Palaniswami was initially scheduled to take part in the ground breaking ceremony on March 14, but the programme was postponed and remained suspended due to lockdown. However, following the event at the Secretariat on Monday, officials in Tiruppur have been asked to commence the work from Monday, according to the sources.  Estimated at Rs. 336.96 cr. An official press release said that Hospital would be constructed at the cost of Rs. 336.96 crore. The Central government will provide 60 % (Rs. 195 crore) of the cost and the State government will provide the rest (Rs. 141.96 crore). The Hospital would come up at Nallur and would have 150 students, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-lays-foundation-for-tiruppur-medical-college-hospital/article31619302.ece
19 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested on murder charge||Avinashi police on Monday arrested four youths on charges of murdering a woman. The accused – Sampathkumar, Vellingiri, Rajkumar and Varathan, all aged between 20 and 21 – attacked Kondal (35) on Sunday, who inquired about a brawl between them and her son, police said. She died due to injuries on the way to Avinashi Government Hospital on Sunday night. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.   Perumanallur police on Monday arrested a man on charges of attempting to murder his son-in-law. T. Manimaran (45), Tiruppur district president of Hindu Makkal Katchi, was attacked with a sickle by his father-in-law K. Dhandapani (53) on Sunday due to issues within the family, police said. Manimaran was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore and his condition was stable on Monday, according to police. The accused was booked under Section 307 (Attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and remanded in judicial custody.   Miscreants damaged an automated teller machine at Kodikambam area in Tiruppur city in the early hours of Monday after they allegedly attempted to steal cash. Police said that the accused left without stealing any cash and the glass on the ATM’s monitor screen was damaged. Tiruppur North police registered a case and efforts to nab the accused are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-on-murder-charge/article31619319.ece
19 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||No TNSTC buses operated in Virudhunagar district||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation is yet to operate buses in Virudhunagar district for want of modalities on following physical distancing measure inside the buses and economic feasibility in running buses with just 20 passengers. The Virudhunagar region of TNSTC has over 150 mofussil buses and over 230 town buses operated from eight depots across the district. However, after the lockdown was announced, the buses have remained parked in the depots and have not been operated so far. “We have got only a broad Government instruction allowing operation of buses. But, we still need to get permission from the district administration along with their requirement for operation of buses,” said a TNSTC official. “We are waiting for the district administration’s instruction about which routes the buses needed to be operated in,” the official added. However, sources in TNSTC are apprehensive about the economic feasibility of operating the buses with mere 20 passengers. “Who is going to compensate the Corporation for the losses incurred as bus fare hike has not been announced in the current situation,” a TNSTC employees’ association office-bearer said. Meanwhile, government employees’ associations have demanded operation of buses. With the State Government asking the government offices to function with minimum staff, operation of buses is of paramount importance to bring employees from distant places to the Collectorate and other offices across the district. Meanwhile, the work of overhauling of buses requiring annual fitness certificate to carry passengers too has suffered as many workers needed to come from the neighbouring district of Madurai. The fitness certificates of some 30 buses have expired in the nearly two-month-long lockdown. A conductor said that the special buses for government staff could be run effectively as only those having valid identity card would be allowed to board the bus. “In case of opening the buses for general public, the conductors will find it difficult to maintain social distancing by carrying only 20 passengers. The conductors will not be able to prevent passengers from forcibly entering the vehicles where a huge crowd of passengers is waiting at a particular bus stop,” he added. Eight buses Collector R. Kannan said that eight routes had been identified in the district for operating TNSTC buses to facilitate Government employees reaching offices across the district from Tuesday. “We have identified the routes in such a way that the employees could reach the Taluk offices and Panchayat union offices from various parts of the district and return home,” he added. The buses can accommodate a maximum of 20 persons given the new seating arrangement to ensure social distancing. Besides a maximum of five persons would be allowed to travel standing,” he added. The bus fare has been revised to a flat fare of Rs. 40 and Rs. 50. “As of now, these buses would ferry only Government employees and not members of public,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-tnstc-buses-operated-in-virudhunagar-district/article31619527.ece
19 May 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar reports 3 more cases||Virudhunagar district reported three fresh COVID-19 positive cases on Monday. Meanwhile, two patients got discharged from hospital after recovery. With this the total number of positive cases in the district has risen to 54. There are 17 active cases as 37 patients have so far been discharged. “All the three positive cases reported on Monday arrived from Maharastra,” Collector R. Kannan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-reports-3-more-cases/article31619526.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Families stranded at bus stand in Krishnagiri||Families stranded for over two months and desperate to get home found themselves in a desolate bus stand in Krishangiri relying on misinformation that transport services had commenced, here on Monday morning. Over three families were caught unawares in the central bus stand after they found out that buses were after all not plying as reported in some news media. Raj had come to Krishnagiri from Coimbatore along with his family of four members in March just before the lockdown for a wedding at their relative’s house. Then came the lockdown and the family was forced to take refuge at their host’s place. On Monday morning, they said goodbyes, and packed their stuff and reached the bus stand along with their two children only to find that buses were not plying. “How long can one stay at a relatives’s house? They too struggled and we too were not comfortable. We hoped the buses would restart as claimed in the news,” he says disappointed. His two children were seated on their luggage tired of what was happening around them. Sridhar, a studio owner in Tiruchi had come with his family to his sister’s house for their house-warming ceremony on March 6. “We stayed back helping with the shifting and then when we were about to leave, there came the first lockdown. Then the second and the story is repeating. Just how long does one live like this,” asks Sridhar unmasking his frustration. “Look at the others with children,” he says pointing to Raj and his family. When The Hindu met the families, they were resolute in not going back to their relatives and instead walk after waiting for few hours. “We read about people walking, we too will walk come what may,” he said. A local resident Venkatesh was waiting for a bus to Hosur to report to work. Employed in a real estate firm, he had to attend to a few hours of legal work at his office. “I saw the news reports and hoped I’ll hop into a bus for work,” he said. When contacted, an official source at the Dharmapuri division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation said, there were no plans to restart public transport. “The bus services, when started will only be for government and Collectorate employees. We are waiting for a list from the Collectorate on the government staff. Then, we will start the buses for them,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/families-stranded-at-bus-stand-in-krishnagiri/article31619299.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC operates six additional buses in Coimbatore district||With the relaxation of the COVID-19 lockdown in Coimbatore district, the Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) began operations of six buses for government employees on Monday. According to TNSTC officials, the buses were operated from Pollachi, Mettupalayam, Annur, Karumathampatti, Vadavalli, and Theethipalayam. These buses were exclusively for around 120 employees working at the Collectorate. With 16 buses already in operation in the city for the conservancy workers, a total of 22 buses are currently operated in TNSTC’s Coimbatore Zone for government employees, according to the officials. As per the State government regulations to curb the spread of COVID-19, a maximum of only 20 passengers will be allowed in a bus. Masks are mandatory for all those inside the bus, including the drivers and conductors. Upon checking the identity card of the employees, the conductor will provide hand sanitisers to them after boarding the bus. The employees are required to pay the ticket fare using cash, which is the usual fare collected in the given routes, officials clarified. The bus services are not point-to-point services and will stop at particular boarding points as per the information provided by the district administration. The six buses start in the morning to pick up the employees and drop them at the Collectorate at 10 a.m. At 5 p.m., the employees will board the bus outside the Collectorate to be dropped off in their respective locations, TNSTC officials said. No requests from Erode, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris Zones have been made for operation of buses for government employees as of Monday. In Coimbatore Zone, the buses are operated only for the employees and not for the general public , the officials noted. Meanwhile, Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced on Monday that five TNSTC buses will be operated for Collectorate employees from Tuesday. The buses will start from Udumalpet, Kangeyam, Avinashi, Dharapuram and Perundurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-operates-six-additional-buses-in-coimbatore-district/article31619307.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Free ticket, food and water||Hundreds of migrant workers on Monday patiently waited in queues at the railway junction in Madurai to board the first ‘Shramik’ special train to Uttar Pradesh. The workers, who underwent medical screening, were brought to the railway station from different parts of the district in special buses. While a majority of them were young male workers, there were also a few women and children. Some of the migrants, who came here in search of livelihood, sold pani puri and kulfi . Some worked as carpenters and construction labourers or were employed in shops and industrial units. On Monday, most of them carried only shoulder bags. All wore masks, but police had to intervene to ensure physical distancing. The different district administrations issued identity cards to workers, who were permitted to travel after verification of documents. Railway staff allowed them to board the train after checking their ticket. Some 50 ticket checking staff and over 100 personnel from local police, Railway Police and Railway Protection Force regulated the exercise. Over the last few days, Madurai Railway Division operated trains from Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi to transport migrant workers from many southern districts to their native States. But this train was the first to leave from Madurai. The district administration bore the cost of the railway ticket of the workers. It also distributed food packets and water bottles to them. The railways would take care of food and water till they reached their destinations. Nevertheless, some workers could be seen carrying big water cans. Several of them said they wished to leave for home even after relaxation in lockdown rules, allowing many trade and industrial units to resume functioning. “I am mentally tired after two months of lockdown. My [plastic industrial] unit is yet to start functioning. Besides, my family members are worried about my safety here,” said Dhup. Many of them said they would take up work, including farming, in their native villages. Another group said they would return to Madurai as they had regular jobs that paid higher wages. Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay and Commissioner of Police S. Davidson Devasirvatham were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-ticket-food-and-water/article31619537.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Forest dept. treating elephant for injury||The forest department in Gudalur is continuing to treat an injured wild elephant, whose injury sustained over 18 months ago has become steadily worse, necessitating an intervention. The elephant, known to be a middle-aged tusker primarily inhabiting Mel Gudalur and occasionally wandering into the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, had sustained injury near its tail in 2018, possibly during a fight with another tusker. As the animal continued to eat and move around relatively freely, a decision was taken to not immediately treat the animal for its injuries, in the hope that the wound would heal by itself. However, around six to eight months ago, forest officials said that the wound seemed to have gotten infected, prompting the department to intervene. “A team of experienced veterinary doctors were constituted to look into the treatment that can be given to the animal,” said the District Forest Officer, Gudalur Division, Sumesh Soman. After a course of treatment was decided, forest staff began administering the drugs to the elephant by hiding them in jackfruits, watermelons and pineapples. Direct treatment of the elephant by administering medicine hidden in fruits has been ongoing for the last two months, officials said. “The elephant in question is not very aggressive, and a team of forest staff has been regularly monitoring its injury,” added Mr. Soman, who said that the treatment of the animal seems to be showing signs of progress. “There are pictures and videos being shared showing the elephant’s injury, but these pictures are all more than eight months old, and the condition of the elephant does seem to be improving,” added the DFO. The forest department was also considering tranquillizing the animal to medicate the external wound of the animal if required, officials said. Local conservationists believe that the injury has changed the elephant’s behaviour, as it seems to be increasingly entering human habitations in search of food. Tarsh Thekaekara, Post-Doctoral Fellow at the National Center for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru, said, “As a researcher I would say the role of science is to collect data and knowledge and pass on to forest managers. We can give information about the elephant. It has been injured for over a year-and-a-half, probably through a natural fight.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-treating-elephant-for-injury/article31619305.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||536 new cases of COVID-19 in State||With this, a total of 81 persons have died in the State of COVID-19. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, during a media briefing, said that many of those who died had co-morbid conditions. Meanwhile, 234 persons were discharged across the State. So far, a total of 4,406 persons have recovered from COVID-19, he said. “There were no new cases in at least 15-16 districts such as Erode, Coimbatore, Salem and Sivaganga. Now, persons are returning to the State from abroad on flights, persons have arrived in two trains from Delhi and by road from Maharashtra and Gujarat. We are screening such persons, testing, putting them under quarantine, and are admitting them to hospitals in case they are positive for COVID-19,” he added. Among the new cases - 304 male and 232 female - were 46 children aged 0 to 12. The youngest among them were three month-old babies. There were three more infants aged less than a year. The fresh cases were reported from a total of 22 districts. There were nine cases in Theni, seven in Kanniyakumari, five in Kallakurichi, four each in Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram, three each in Virudhunagar and Madurai, two each in Ariyalur and Ranipet, and one each in Karur, Tiruppattur and Thoothukudi. Four persons who tested positive were in airport quarantine. Among those who had returned from Maharashtra, 14 tested positive in Thoothukudi, 12 in Tirunelveli, six each in Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi, five in Salem, two in Dindigul and one in Cuddalore. Two big clusters “We have managed two big clusters. We traced all contacts, brought them under quarantine, and took up aggressive testing. We held a meeting with a committee from the Central government and they appreciated Tamil Nadu’s best practices,” the Minister said. The number of samples tested on Monday stood at 11,121, while persons tested numbered 10,887. So far, a total of 3,37,841 samples have been tested in the State. “The Leader of the Opposition has said that the number of samples tested has reduced in the State. This is false information. We are testing as per protocols, and we do not fix the number of samples to be tested. It is done as per the situation, and as per the inflow of people from outside,” the Minister explained. As of Monday, there were a total of 7,270 active cases and 4,508 individuals with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 in isolation wards. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)   There were no new cases in at least 15-16 districts such as Erode, Coimbatore, Salem and SivagangaC. VijayabaskarHealth Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/536-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-state/article31619284.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Home, at last||Twenty-two senior citizens from Madurai, who were stranded in Gaya, Bihar, for over 50 days finally reached their hometown on Sunday morning. Following a medical test for COVID-19, they were asked to remain in home quarantine for two weeks. The senior citizens were on a pilgrimage to north India prior to the COVID-19 lockdown. The pilgrims were left stranded in Gaya following restrictions imposed by the Centre and the State governments in order to tackle the spread of the pandemic. Anxious over the safety of the senior citizens, their family members sought the help of Madurai District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) through Advocate K. Sami Durai. The DLSA Madurai got in touch with their counterparts in Gaya over the plight of the pilgrims. The DLSA Madurai was informed that the pilgrims were provided food and shelter by the Nattukottai Nagarathar Chathiram in Gaya. The DLSA Gaya also kept a tab on the condition of the pilgrims, which was communicated to DLSA Madurai. The family members also wrote to the Tamil Nadu and Bihar governments seeking help. They said that being away from home had taken a toll on the mental health of the senior citizens and they longed to come back to Madurai. With the lockdown conditions being eased, the pilgrims were finally able to get the travel e-pass. After, a five-day journey by road, the pilgrims finally reached their hometown. The family members said they were relieved to see their loved ones. What was intended to be a pleasant trip had turned into an ordeal unfortunately, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/home-at-last/article31619540.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Workers face hardship in Erode||With most of the industries allowed to operate with full worker strength from Monday and all shops functioning as usual, absence of public transport caused inconvenience to workers in reaching their work places. Many government employees, who are coming from far off places faced hardship in reaching the Collectorate and wanted special buses to be operated. Likewise, workers in rural areas could not reach their work places or shops in the city as they faced difficulty in commuting in two-wheelers. Kannan, a worker from Modakurichi, said that he was expecting buses to be operated from Monday to reach the city. In the absence of buses, he had to travel over 20 km to reach the work place, he said. A total of 850 buses are operated through 13 bus depots in the district to various destinations. Due to lockdown, buses were not operated for over 53 days and were parked at the depots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workers-face-hardship-in-erode/article31619297.ece
19 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||68% of 99 cases have inter-State travel history, majority of them to Maharashtra||As the State reported the highest number of new positive cases in a single day on Monday at 99, the Health and Family Welfare Department revealed that 68% of them have a travel history to other States, a majority of them to Maharashtra. A few others returned from Tamil Nadu. In quarantine According to the department’s media bulletin, 64 patients had reported a travel history to Maharashtra, where a large number of COVID-19 positive cases have been detected. A majority of them were quarantined in institutions after their return to the State and were later tested. Four patients have a travel history to Tamil Nadu. An analysis done by the State war room of the 84 COVID-19 cases (which were reported till Monday noon), 69% have domestic travel history. Meanwhile, 26% of them had a contact history with positive patients, 1% each are patients who had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and Influenza Like Illnesses (ILI), while 3% of the cases are under investigation. A senior official in the Health Department who acknowledged the rise in the number of cases attributed this to the State government’s decision to ramp up the tests. “Majority of these cases are people who have had inter-State travel. The good thing about these cases is that all of them were under institutional quarantine so that the infection is not spread among the community,” the official added.  Raichur and Koppal Monday saw Raichur and Koppal, where not a single case of COVID-19 was detected before, reporting cases. Six cases were reported from Raichur and three from Koppal district. Overall, 42.5% of the patients who tested positive have been discharged, while 12 of the 678 patients in Karnataka are admitted in the intensive care units of the hospital as on Monday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/68-of-99-cases-have-inter-state-travel-history-majority-of-them-to-maharashtra/article31619227.ece
19 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nikhil’s wedding: ‘Government not coming out with the truth’||The State government on Monday faced embarrassment as the Karnataka High Court declared that the government was “not coming out with the truth” and “ attempting to keep out certain materials from the court” on the manner of allowing the marriage of Nikhil K., son of former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, during lockdown. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna passed the order while hearing through video conference PIL petitions on issues owing to lockdown. The court made these observations in its order as the government in its written statement claimed that no application was filed for vehicle passes for the marriage nor passes were issued but during argument claimed that many guests, who attended the marriage held on April 17, were guarded with Y or Z category security and hence did not not require passes. Also, the government on May 12 claimed that the Ramanagaram district Deputy Commissioner ought to have specified the number of guests permitted for the marriage but had defended the DC saying that Ministry of Home Affairs as on April 17 had not fixed any upper limit for guests to be allowed for a marriage ceremony during lockdown. The government had given this explanation in response to the court’s May 5 query as to why the DC had not limited the number of guests in the permission granted. Interestingly, the government on Monday claimed that Mr. Kumaraswamy, who had filed an application on April 15 seeking permission for marriage, had submitted second application, on the request made by the DC on the same day, specifying that around 100 members of the family would attend the marriage. The government produced copies of both the letters. However, the Bench orally termed the second letter as “manufactured” and appears to have been “ inserted with anti-date” as the government had not whispered about this letter during earlier hearings. “To put it mildly, its shocking,” the Bench said in its order on government’s claim of existence of second letter. “State should not fabricate documents. Cover up is going on. State should accept the mistake and admit that many persons, without passes, from different districts attended the marriage held in Ramanagaram district, which was in green zone then,” the Bench orally observed.   The Bench also orally observed that “the State government had some compulsion and wanted to defend the illegalities,” while asking if the DC would request a common man to give a second letter. On the government’s claim on security cover for guests, the Bench observed that neither the government was prepared to make an enquiry on whether all those who attended had such security cover nor ascertain the fact by holding an enquiry. “...the government was not willing to accept the errors committed by its officers,” the Bench said while closing the issue as marriage was already held and it wanted to concentrate on issues of migrants and needy persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nikhils-wedding-government-not-coming-out-with-the-truth/article31619220.ece
19 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Thousands march towards Bangalore exhibition centre in hope of getting home||As those walking home along the highways were rounded up, housed in the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) and put on trains by government authorities, the Centre has emerged as a new focal point of hope for migrant labourers desperate to go home. Inspired by their friends who found a berth on that elusive train home from BIEC, thousands are marching towards the Centre, overwhelming the facility. On Monday, over a thousand labourers mostly headed to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand, were not allowed into the centre, leading to some tension. “Our friends who began walking home a week ago to Bihar were picked up by the police and brought to BIEC. They have already reached home on a train. They called and asked us to somehow get into BIEC to get both food and a train home. We are a group of four who spent nearly Rs. 1,000 to get here in an autorickshaw from Bommanahalli. But here the police caned us and chased us away from the Centre,” rued Subodh Paswan, 26, from Muzzafarpur, Bihar working as a construction worker. He was among a group of over 30 migrant workers on a trek along Tumakuru Road back towards the city on Monday evening. “We want to go home. The building we were working in got completed and we haven’t found any new work. We are out of money and even struggling to get two meals a day. We are desperate to go home. We also came to BIEC because my friend who is inside told me they are also giving three meals a day,” said Ramakrishna Pandit from Gorakhpur district, Uttar Pradesh. K.V. Sharath Chandra, IGP, Central Range, who visited BIEC over the issue, told The Hindu that though the centre could house 10,000 persons, the optimal capacity in the present circumstances was only 4,000, given social distancing and the number of toilets available (130) at the centre. “The facility was created at BIEC for those walking back home on foot, rounded up and brought here by the police. But taking a cue from their friends, people have begun walking to the centre. We were full today, so we had to send them back,” he explained. But Lekha Adavi, a labour activist at BIEC alleged that the police forced the migrants into buses which reportedly dropped them off at K.R. Market. “There is space to accommodate more people in the Centre and authorities must arrange mobile toilets if that is limiting the centre’s capacity,” she said. All five halls in the BIEC has migrant labourers. On Monday, they were seen watching Hindi films being screened for them. “Managing the crowds is an issue. So we decided to screen films to keep them engaged,” said Ravi B. Chennannavar, SP, Bengaluru Rural district. With 900 people housed in BIEC leaving for their home on a train Monday evening, the occupancy dropped to 3,200 and authorities decided to let 800 more people in. “We are a group of six painters who came walking from Marathahalli to BIEC. But the police here chased us away in the evening. But as we were walking back, they again called us and let us in,” said Mohammed Riyaz, from Jharkhand. Meanwhile, authorities are considering opening up two more temporary shelters to manage migrant labourers walking the streets. “We are considering opening such centres in Kanteerava Indoor Stadium and Palace Grounds,” said Sarfaraz Khan, Joint Commissioner, BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/thousands-march-towards-bangalore-exhibition-centre-in-hope-of-getting-home/article31619219.ece
19 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Confusion at Passport Seva Kendra||Confusion prevailed outside the Passport Seva Kendra on Lalbagh Road on Monday morning, as many applicants turned up for their appointments. The officials of the Regional Passport Office (RPO), along with civic and police officials, had a tough time convincing people who had gathered to come back at the appointment time. Admitting that there was some confusion with regard to appointments, Regional Passport Officer, Bengaluru, Bharath Kumar Kuthati, told The Hindu that the situation was under control. He said the operations had resumed after a two-month gap. The Passport Seva Kendra that operates from 9.15 a.m. usually gives 1,500 appointments a day. The RPO has now reduced it to around 350 a day (33%). The appointments slotted for Monday were rescheduled to Tuesday and Wednesday. “Considering the extraordinary situation, we had reduced the number of appointments, so that we are able to maintain social distancing on the premises. The applicants were also sent messages on re-scheduling of appointments. However, many people were confused after receiving a series of messages and turned up at the seva kendra,” Mr. Kuthati said, and added that a few people, who applied for new passport or renewal through agents, may not have been informed by them. He said applicants should download the Arogya Sethu app on their mobile phones compulsorily. “Those who don’t have smartphones may furnish a non-COVID certificate from a registered medical practitioner,” he said, and admitted that this could have been another reason for the confusion. “To reduce confusion, we are checking at the gate and only letting in people based on the appointment time slot,” he pointed out. Applicants are also required to wear masks and bring their own sanitisers. The number of officials attending to the applicants had been increased to reduce congestion on the premises. That apart, the biometric machines and common areas, door knobs and washrooms are sanitised periodically, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/confusion-at-passport-seva-kendra/article31619233.ece
19 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parks, parlours to open||Parks and parlours are finally set to reopen on Tuesday after the State government’s green signal. In a video message, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said that parks in the city would be open between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. He said citizens may use the public facility at these times, provided existing norms such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing are followed. According to an order issued by the State government, all shops, including barber shops, spas and saloons will be allowed to function on the condition that they follow the Standard Operating Procedures that will be issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Despite relaxations, it was decided that pubs, bars, restaurants, malls and hotels would remain closed until further orders. Mr. Kumar said it was also decided to restrict all social, political, entertainment, cultural, or religious gatherings. “As before, permission from police is needed to conduct marriages. However, there may be no more than 50 guests at weddings and no more than 20 people at funerals,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parks-parlours-to-open/article31619212.ece
19 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PG stipend hiked||After nearly five years, the Department of Medical Education has bowed down to the grievances of PG students and approved a hike in stipend. According to the department, interns will get Rs. 30,000 against the Rs. 20,000 they were receiving. An order from the department stated that first, second and third year PG medical students will get revised stipend of Rs. 45,000, Rs. 50,000, and Rs. 55,000 respectively. Super-specialty doctors with experience of one year will be paid Rs. 60,000, while those with two and three years of experience will be paid Rs. 65,000 and Rs. 70,000 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pg-stipend-hiked/article31619244.ece
19 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hotels to stop parcel service||Hotel owners across the State have decided to stop takeaway service as the State government has not given them permission to open dining facility. P.C. Rao, president of the Bangalore Hotel Association, said they would meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday. He said the association had requested the government to allow them to run their business and had assured that they would maintain social distancing norms. If the CM agrees to our demand, we will resume parcel service, or else it will stay discontinued, he said. “The government has given permission to run buses where people will spend more time in proximity to others, but not to hotels where people can quickly eat and leave,” he argued. The Karnataka Pradesh Hotels and Restaurants Association said they would not be able to run their hotels if the government does not given them permission. There are around 40,000 hotels under the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hotels-to-stop-parcel-service/article31619243.ece
19 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Autorickshaw driver slips to death||A 51-year-old autorickshaw driver died after slipping from the terrace of a movie theatre in Kengeri on Saturday. The victim, Puttarame Gowda, was unemployed for many days due to the lockdown. He was offered a part-time job by Jagadisha, the contractor of Venkateshwara theatre, to fix a leak in the roof. On Saturday, Gowda went to the theatre and climbed up the roof. He was checking the roof when a part of the structure cracked and he fell. He sustained multiple injuries and was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed on Sunday. Based on a complaint by the family, the Kengeri police charged Jagadisha and the theatre owner for death due to negligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/autorickshaw-driver-slips-to-death/article31619213.ece
19 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||All Hassan cases have travel history||Hassan district, earlier a green zone with zero cases, has reported 30 COVID-19 cases after inter-State travel was allowed. Every case so far recorded here has travel history to Maharashtra. The administration has made COVID-19 test mandatory for all those returning from Maharashtra. Security at check-posts has been tightened. However, there was a case of a family, which travelled by truck, escaping at the check-post and reaching Alur. They were caught and quarantined later. The administration has converted government hostels, hotels, and guest houses into quarantine centres. It has taken over guest houses belonging to the Jain Mutt at Shravanabelagola, a prime tourist place, and an agriculture research centre belonging to Agriculture College at Karekere on Hassan-Bengaluru Road. Until Sunday, 1,212 people returned from Maharashtra and over 1,200 people were expected in the next few days. According to the Deputy Commissioner, another 1,200 applications are pending. People of Channarayapatna taluk have a special connection with Mumbai for four-five decades. During days when there was no irrigation, people moved to the commercial capital in search of jobs. “My father-in-law went to Mumbai about 40 years ago. He got a job there. The entire family stays in Mumbai,” said a woman, who has been quarantined with her family. “A majority of them work in hotels and roadside canteens with meagre income. They live in slums with no basic facilities. Now they are jobless and have moved back,” said Nagendra, a resident of Shravanabelagola. Except those with a house and other properties in Mumbai, many are clueless on their return. “They went to Mumbai when taking up agriculture was difficult with no irrigation facility. Now, many have returned,” said Raghavendra Bekka, a progressive farmer near Shravanabelagola.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-hassan-cases-have-travel-history/article31619229.ece
19 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Two men arrested after video goes viral||After a video showing women being prevented by men from purchasing clothes in a shop went viral, the Davangere Police have arrested two persons. The video that went viral shows the men intercepting women who had come in an autorickshaw to buy clothes from a cloth shop. The men admonished the women for visiting the cloth shop and sought to know why they had gone to the shop despite a warning. The women are seen clarifying to the men that they did not purchase anything. They were issued a warning and asked to leave the place in the autorickshaw. Superintendent of Police of Davangere Hanumantharaya gave the names of the arrested as Sayyed Mohammed (24) and Fayaz Ahmed (32), both residents of Davangere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-men-arrested-after-video-goes-viral/article31619377.ece
19 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Nine more positive cases in Uttara Kannada||Uttara Kannada district recorded nine more COVID-19 positive cases on Monday taking the tally to 51. With 11 patients being discharged, Uttara Kannada has 40 active cases now. And, Gadag district has added five more positive cases to its tally taking it to 17. With four patients already discharged and one death, the total number of active cases in Gadag district is 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-more-positive-cases-in-uttara-kannada/article31619378.ece
19 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||First COVID-19 case in Koppal||Koppal district that remained unaffected by COVID-19 pandemic reported its first positive case for the disease on Monday. As per a media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare and the information provided by Koppal Deputy Commissioner P. Sunil Kumar, three people, a 24-year-old man (P-1173), a 20-year-old woman (P-1174) and a 25-year-old man (P-1175), tested positive for COVID-19. All the three patients have a history of travelling to different COVID-19-affected States: P-1173 returned from Mumbai in Maharashtra to Kushtagi on May 14, P-1174 from Raigad in Maharashtra to Koppal on May 12 and P-1175 from Chennai in Tamil Nadu on May 13. The administration has launched contact tracing just as the new cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-covid-19-case-in-koppal/article31619373.ece
19 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||10 new cases in Kalaburagi||As many as 10 more people from Kalaburagi, including a six-month-old baby girl and four children aged between four and six, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday taking the total number of people infected in the district to 114. The new cases are a 22-year-old woman (P-1194) and a 24-year-old woman (P-1195), both from Shaha Bazaar Tanda in Kalaburagi city who recently returned from Mumbai; a 29-year-old man (P-1196), a 27-year-old woman (P-1197) and a six-month-old baby girl (P-1197), all the three from Bugdi Tanda, Chittapur taluk, who recently returned from Mumbai; a four-year-old girl (P-1242) and a six-year-old girl (P-1243) who recently returned from Mumbai; and a four-year-old boy (P-1244), a five-year-old girl (P-1245) and a 25-year-old woman (P-1245), who returned from Pune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-new-cases-in-kalaburagi/article31619376.ece
19 May 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Mandya district too sees a jump in cases||Of the 87 COVID-19 cases reported in Mandya district, 65 are linked to Maharashtra. Mumbai is considered as the employment hub particularly for K.R. Pet taluk residents since the past several decades. Every household in this eternally-drought affected taluk has one or more relative working/settled in Mumbai. They work as waiters and helpers at hotels, attendants at lodges, as dabbawallahs, rickshaw pullers, cooks, gardeners, and in factories/industrial units. First case The first case linked to Maharashtra was reported on May 1 with four persons visiting the district on April 24 along with the body of an autorickshaw driver who had died in Maharashtra on April 23. The body was cremated amidst heavy security on the outskirts of B. Kodagahalli near Melkote of Pandavapura district on April 24. Though there was no medical report that said that the deceased was positive, three who arrived with the body and one from K.R. Pet (daughter of the deceased) who attended the cremation had tested positive for the virus on May 1. Two Mumbai returnees had tested positive for COVID-19 on May 4, while two more on May 11. The number of positive cases linked to Maharashtra was 1 on May 12, four on May 14, 13 on May 15, 18 on May 17, and 17 on May 18. Four primary/secondary contacts of a Mumbai returnee, who skipped the quarantine conditions in Mysuru and tested positive in Mandya, also tested positive for the virus on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mandya-district-too-sees-a-jump-in-cases/article31619222.ece
19 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man dies as boat capsizes; heavy rain lashes Dakshina Kannada||A 40-year-old man died while one has gone missing after a boat capsized near Tannirbavi due to strong winds late on Sunday. The boat had five workers onboard and four among them have been rescued. Of them, Santosh Poojary (40) of Valpady in Moodbidri who was admitted to a hospital died on Monday. A search is on to trace the missing person. The boat, which was not a fishing vessel, was out alerting fishing boats to the presence of a pipeline belonging to an upcoming desalination plant being laid in the sea, the police said. Meanwhile, moderate to heavy rain accompanied by gusty winds lashed Mangaluru and other parts of Dakshina Kannada on Monday. Vegetables and fruits in the wholesale market in APMC Yard in Baikampady in the city were damaged due to the sudden spell of rain. The market had been recently shifted to Baikampady from the city. About 20 quintals of rice stocked by the district administration at the makeshift godown on the Karnataka Polytechnic premises in the city became wet as water from a clogged drain entered the premises. Steps were taken to shift the other rice bags to the adjoining godown, an official said. There was traffic jam near Gurupura bridge on Mangaluru-Moodbidri highway where a new bridge is being constructed. The Indian Meteorological Department has forecast heavy rain in the district for Tuesday. A release said that an Yellow alert has been sounded for Dakshina Kannada and there is a likelihood of heavy rainfall ranging between 64 mm and 115 mm from Monday night to Tuesday morning. Widespread rain Hassan Special Correspondent writes: Hassan and Chikkamagaluru districts received widespread rain accompanied by rain on Sunday night. The heavy downpour in parts of Chikkamagaluru reminded the residents of the days of landslips and flooding witnessed last year. By and large, all taluks in the two districts received more than normal rainfall for the day. The average rainfall recorded in Hassan in the 24 hours that ended at 8.30 am on Monday was 29 mm against the normal of 5 mm. The highest rainfall of 120 mm was recorded at B. Hosahalli in Mudigere taluk. Parts of Mudigere, N.R. Pura, Sringeri, Tarikere and Koppa received moderate to heavy rainfall. Many people woke up in the night worrying about their safety as many were rendered homeless following heavy downpour last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-dies-as-boat-capsizes-heavy-rain-lashes-dakshina-kannada/article31619381.ece
19 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Withdraw deposits from banks failing to launch flagship programmes’||Member of Parliament from Dakshina Kannada Nalin Kumar Kateel on Monday instructed Chief Executive Officer of Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat R. Selvamani to withdraw bulk deposits, if any, that the government departments have kept in such banks that have lagged behind in implementing flagship programmes of the Union government. He was speaking at a meeting to review the implementation of flagship schemes of the Union government such as lending to MSMEs, PMEGP and PMJDY. Mr. Kateel also instructed Canara Bank, Lead Bank of the district, to ensure that such non-performing banks do not get bulk government deposits in future. Mr. Kateel said that various flagship programmes of the Union government are a crucial cog in the efforts of the Union government in rolling out relief measures to people affected by the global pandemic. Banks taking such programmes lightly cannot be tolerated, he said and added that banks should take interest in explaining the benefits of various flagship programmes to the intended beneficiaries. He asked B. Yogish Acharya, General Manager, Canara Bank, to report the non-performance of banks to State Level Bankers Committee headed by the State Chief Secretary to make them fall in line. Banks which have achieved their targets under these schemes should be patronised, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/withdraw-deposits-from-banks-failing-to-launch-flagship-programmes/article31619379.ece
19 May 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Kodagu flood victims look forward to new homes||Come monsoon, the 2018 flood victims of Kodagu, whose houses were devastated in the rain fury leaving them homeless, can hope to start a new life as the title deeds of about 463 brand-new houses constructed at two sites with basic facilities will be handed over to them. This is the first major allotment of identical-looking houses in a row to the victims of floods and landslips since the tragedy struck them two years ago. Kodagu witnessed two back-to-back calamities in 2018 and 2019. After having stayed in rented homes since the disaster, the flood-affected can occupy the 2-BHK houses built on 30 x 40 sq. ft dimension in June as Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is slated to hand over the documents of the newly-built properties on May 29. About 383 houses at Jambooru and 80 houses in Madhenadu are ready for ownership. The Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Limited had constructed the houses on the sites developed on government land. Each house has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 9.85 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kodagu-flood-victims-look-forward-to-new-homes/article31619234.ece
19 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||One case each in Mysuru, Kodagu districts||Mysuru and Kodagu, which did not have COVID-19 cases for a long stretch, reported one case each on Monday. Both have travel history to Mumbai. The Mysuru patient, a 46-year-old man, has a travel history to Maharashtra and returned from Mumbai recently. The patient number 1225 was kept under institutional quarantine here. Kodagu’s patient number 1224, a 45-year-old woman, is also a Mumbai returnee. The two patients have been shifted to COVID-19 hospitals in Mysuru and Madikeri, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-case-each-in-mysuru-kodagu-districts/article31619230.ece
19 May 2020||Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||Family waits for a week to perform last rites of son||A mother had to wait for a week after the death of her son to perform his last rites, allegedly due to a delay in getting his laboratory test report for COVID-19. He finally tested negative and was laid to rest on Monday. Manjunath was a construction worker and resident of Heggare in Tumakuru. He complained of breathlessness and cough when he was admitted to Sri Siddhartha Medical College and Hospital on May 11. He did not respond to treatment and died the next day. The authorities concerned suspected that he had COVID-19 and sent the body to the designated hospital in Tumakuru for test. His samples were collected and the body was kept in the mortuary. Though the samples were sent on May 12, the test report came only on May 18. Malligemma, mother of Manjunath, was inconsolable as she could not perform the last rites of her son. Manjunath’s brother, Ranganath.H.R. told The Hindu: “I could not see my mother crying and starving as we were not given the body to perform his last rites. It was a very painful period.” District Health Officer M.B. Nagendrappa said: “The deceased tested negative for COVID-19 on Monday and the body was immediately handed over to the family.” He said that there was some confusion in getting the report due to changes in the report portal. “When we tried to get the report, we used to get a message saying ‘report awaited’. On Monday, district surgeon T. Veerabhadraiah and I contacted the National Institute of Virology in Bengaluru and got the report. The testing laboratory in Tumakuru will be functional in a week and will be helpful to conduct COVID-19 tests,” he said. Manjunath’s body was finally handed over to his family on Monday and he was buried in their native village Goolaharive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/family-waits-for-a-week-to-perform-last-rites-of-son/article31619221.ece
19 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||KSRTC long-distance buses from today||The Udupi depot of the Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will run 10 buses to destinations, including Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Hubballi and Chikkamagalu, starting on Tuesday. However, the KSRTC will not be running any additional buses within Udupi district or in Udupi city than it has been doing since May 13. This is because of lackadaisical response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-long-distance-buses-from-today/article31619382.ece
19 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Pregnant woman tests positive||A 27-year old pregnant woman, who had come from Mumbai, has tested positive for COVID-19, and was admitted to the designated hospital here on Monday, according to Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pregnant-woman-tests-positive/article31619383.ece
19 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Warning against violations||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Monday issued a warning stating that criminal cases would be filed against those found violating and stepping out of institutional and hotel quarantine centres in Udupi district. Nearly 6,000 persons from foreign countries and other States who have come to the district have been kept under quarantine and he had received some complaints of violations, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/warning-against-violations/article31619384.ece
19 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Disruption in water supply today||There will be disruption in water supply in Udupi city on Tuesday because of interruption of power supply at the water pumping station at Baje dam. People have been urged to cooperate, according to a release from the Udupi City Municipality here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disruption-in-water-supply-today/article31619385.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Cash transfer inadequate, food support confined mainly to rice’||Alarmed by the potential negative consequences of COVID-19 on the poor, the Karnataka government sought to provide support in the form of ration and cash to women, farmers and pensioners. Did the rural poor receive food and cash support? The study by the Centre for Decentralisation and Development, Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru, of rural households from Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, and Kalaburagi districts through telephone survey in April-May 2020 shows that food support was confined mainly to rice and wheat and cash support was inadequate. Soon after the lockdown, two-month ration, notably rice and wheat, was provided to 1.27 crore BPL cardholders at one go to avoid repeated visits to ration and other shops. Our data show that over 95% and 67% of eligible households obtained rice and wheat, respectively, from ration shops. The government’s prompt action and ration provision as per eligibility norms has come in for praise from the rural poor. Many said that they would otherwise have gone hungry, although some felt that the quality of rice was inferior. Some said with pride that social distancing norms at ration shops were maintained despite long queues. Pulses were provided to only 6% of the households including those with children receiving it from school, which was widely protested. A tribal from Chamarajanagar remarked that “along with rice and wheat, pulses and oil should have been provided.” Many households complained that pulse consumption by purchase was difficult due to lack of work and income. Under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), Rs. 750 was provided to 29.23 lakh Ujjwala LPG gas subscribers. But, only 11.2% of the total households received the benefit as the rest did not have Ujjwala gas connection. Milk was rarely distributed in rural Karnataka. Bank account issues Monthly cash support of Rs. 500 for three months was announced to woman Jan Dhan account holders under PMGKY, and Rs. 234.74 crore was released to 47,15,362 account holders. But, only 21% of the total households studied confirmed cash transfer. 85% of those who did not not receive it stated that they did not have accounts, while 15% said money was not credited. According to the World Bank Global Findex, 80% of Indian adults had a bank account in 2018; this then implies that less proportion of women have Jan Dhan membership and focusing on women to provide cash support is not a good policy. Cash support of Rs. 2,000 to farmers amounting to Rs. 1,011 crore to 50.57 lakh farmers in Karnataka under Pradhan Mantri Samman Yojana was announced. Cash transfer was confirmed by 43% farmers. Others did not receive due to non-possession of Kisan credit cards and non-registration of inherited land in their name. Rs. 1,296.63 crore was allocated for the release of two-month pension to 62.28 lakh pensioners (elderly, physically challenged, destitute widows, single women, and transgenders) in one go. However, only 39.7% of pensioners received two-month pension. Of the remaining, 51% received one-month pension, while 31% did not receive at all. Cash support to construction workers reached only 1.6% (all of them from Dakshina Kannada) as most of the households with construction workers did not have registration – which is mandatory to receive the benefit. Public policies of providing food and cash support need to be therefore reformed as COVID-19 will continue to unleash despair upon the poor. First, food support should be qualitative and well-balanced (consisting of rice, wheat, pulses, and oil). Second, as the policy of targeting women Jan Dhan account holders did not work, cash transfer to all Jan Dhan account holders is a better policy option. These reforms have greater potential to help the poor during the pandemic.  (The authors are Professor and Assistant Professor, respectively, at the Centre for Decentralisation and Development, Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru. This is the third and final part of the series.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cash-transfer-inadequate-food-support-confined-mainly-to-rice/article31619240.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMTC bus travel only for pass holders, weekly pass introduced||The eagerly awaited resumption of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) bus services from Tuesday has come as a relief, but commuters will end up paying more for short distance travel as only pass holders will be allowed to travel and no tickets will be issued by conductors. This will compel passengers, who are travelling short distances, to shell out Rs. 70 for a daily pass. Weekly bus passes have been introduced for the first time. C. Shikha, MD, BMTC told The Hindu that weekly passes will cost Rs. 300. The BMTC is also introducing QR based payments in 75 buses on a pilot basis at daily pass rates. “For maintaining social distancing and minimal contact between passenger and the bus crew, we will restrict bus travel to those who are holding passes. For the time being, conductors will not issue any tickets. People are advised to buy monthly pass, weekly pass or daily pass,” she said, adding that monthly and daily passes can be purchased at the 50-odd major bus stands in the city, and daily and monthly passes will be available at the old rates.  Waiting time will increase As the State government directed the BMTC to allow only 30 persons per bus to maintain social distancing, the wait time is expected to increase. Standing inside the bus is strictly prohibited. Passengers must follow a queue system at bus stands. No one without a mask will be allowed inside. Medical tests have been conducted for the crew prior to reporting for duty, she added. “Wait time to catch a bus will increase. Passengers have to be patient while boarding and de-boarding buses. We are operating buses as per our route plan. If a bus has 30 passengers on board, the crew will not allow another person to board the vehicle at the next stop,” Ms. Shikha said. As many as 2,000 buses will be operated in high traffic areas. “We will be operating buses with high frequency on these routes. In case there is more demand, additional buses will be operated on these routes,” she said. She said it would be a challenge to manage crowds at major bus stands, such as Majestic where the footfall is in lakhs.         Autorickshaws and taxis, including maxi cabs, are expected to run in large numbers. There are 2.18 lakh autos, and 1.87 taxis and maxi cabs registered in the city. Ola, in a statement, said that it will provide flexible cancellation of rides for drivers and passengers in case one of them is not wearing a mask, and AC will be switched off during the journey. The aggregator has introduced selfie-authentication before starting every ride.  We understand the need for preventing cash changing hands, but achieving it by charging Rs. 70 for a bus pass is criminal. Why cannot a daily pass be charged at Rs. 10 or Rs. 20? Domestic workers and garment workers are waiting for buses to start. How can they pay Rs. 70 a day? Bengaluru Bus Prayanikara Vedike||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-bus-travel-only-for-pass-holders-weekly-pass-introduced/article31619217.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State, Centre differ on payment of train fares of migrant workers||The State and Union governments on Monday took different stands on payment of train fares of migrant workers leaving from Karnataka to their home States. While the State claimed that it was right in collecting the prescribed train fare from the workers if their home States had not deposited advance fare for their travel, the Union government said Karnataka has to pay the fare and get it reimbursed from home States later. Following these contentions, a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna directed the State government to reply whether it would allow migrant workers to leave in Shramik special trains even if they don’t have money to pay for the tickets. From the submissions, the Bench noted that the State government was bearing the travel cost of return of migrant workers of Karnataka origin from other States while not paying the travel expenses of migrants going to home States. It was contended by the counsel appearing for People’s Union for Civil Liberties that the State government must bear the expenses of migrants irrespective of their origin and not allowing them to travel sans paying fare would violate fundamental rights. Meanwhile, the government told the court that so far around 1.3 lakh migrants have left the State in several special trains. No clarity However, the Bench noted that there was no clarity in the State government’s statement on whether all migrant workers registered for travel would be allowed and how many were waiting to go back. The Bench adjourned further hearing asking the State government to submit approximate number of workers waiting to leave Karnataka on special trains, and number of buses arranged to take them to the neighbouring States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-centre-differ-on-payment-of-train-fares-of-migrant-workers/article31619242.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Yellow alert in 15 districts; heavy rain expected in isolated pockets||Fifteen districts in coastal Karnataka, Malnad and South and North Karnataka have been issued yellow alert, with a forecast of heavy rain in isolated pockets in a region over the next two days. Monday saw heavy rain in coastal Karnataka and Malnad districts such as Shivamogga. One rain-related death was reported from Udupi, while a fisherman was missing at sea at Dakshina Kannada. “The rain is a result of the combined effect of Cyclone Amphan in the Bay of Bengal impacting pockets of the State and an independent offshore trough off Kerala coast in the Arabian Sea,” said G.S. Srinivas Reddy, director, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). The districts given a yellow alert are: Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi in coastal Karnataka, Shivamogga, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan in Malnad region, Bengaluru Urban, Ramanagaram, Tumakuru, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, and Mandya in South Karnataka, and Ballari and Raichur in North Karnataka. Meteorological Centre, Bengaluru, has also forecast heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning accompanied by gutsy winds of 30-40 kmph speed in pockets of coastal Karnataka, South and North Interior Karnataka over the next 24 hours. KSNDMC predicts rain to lash pockets of the State for the next two to three days, following which the impact of both Cyclone Amphan and the offshore trough the Arabian Sea will blunt, Dr. Reddy said. In Kodagu, the authorities have requested the public to be alert and seek help from them in case of an emergency. Floods and landslips for two consecutive years had battered Kodagu, causing extensive damage. The officials have shifted focus to monsoon preparedness, identifying vulnerable areas based on the previous calamities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yellow-alert-in-15-districts-heavy-rain-expected-in-isolated-pockets/article31619236.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Public transport is back||Metro rail services in Bengaluru, cinema halls, malls, and gyms will remain shut till the end of May. Hotels will be allowed to supply only parcelled food. Action will be taken in case hotels refuse, the Chief Minister warned.  On Sundays Mr. Yediyurappa said that a total lockdown would be enforced on Sundays till May 31. “Movement of people will not be allowed. All buses and private vehicles will remain off the road on Sundays. All business establishments and roadside shops too will remain closed,” he said. Noting that the Centre has issued guidelines till May 31, he said curfew would be in force from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. daily. Criminal cases can be registered against all those who violate the law and lockdown norms, he warned. On the classification of zones, he said the government’s main focus was the containment zones. “We are particular about containment zones. For instance, in Uttara Kannada district, Bhatkal will be a containment zone and no other taluk will have restrictions,” he said. Based on the experience till May 31, Mr. Yediyurappa said, the relaxations will be reviewed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/public-transport-is-back/article31619228.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||SSLC exam from June 25||This will also be applicable to students who were staying at SC/ST and Morarji Desai hostels who have moved out. Mr. Kumar said that in case any student is found to be ill or having fever, cough or cold, special arrangements would be made for them to write the exam in a separate classroom. He also said they would have additional exam centres to ensure that social distancing is maintained. The exam will be held at 2,879 centres across the State. The Minister said scouts and guides, as well as NGOs, have come forward to distribute masks to students writing the SSLC examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sslc-exam-from-june-25/article31619224.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KSRTC to run 1,500 buses||After incurring revenue loss worth hundreds of crores due to non-operation of buses for over 50 days, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will resume services in all divisions on Tuesday. In a press release, the KSRTC states that in the first phase, 1,500 schedules will be operated. There will be no changes in the fare structure. From Bengaluru, buses will be operated to Mysuru, Shivamogga, Davangere, Hassan and Mangaluru. Only non-AC buses will be operated between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. The public can also book tickets online. At bus stations, passengers’ body temperature will be checked and they must wear masks before boarding the bus. Point-to-point services A KSRTC official said, “For the time being, we are introducing point-to-point services. People have to come to departure points to board the bus. We are operating Karnataka Sarige and Rajahamsa during the day time.” The KSRTC has a fleet of 7,000-odd non-AC buses. As per the decision of the State government, no-interState buses will be operated. The buses will not halt en route for food. The passengers have been advised to bring food and water. The corporation has insisted that the public carry their ID cards and travel with minimum luggage. Rs. 30 lakh insurance The government has announced Rs. 30 lakh compensation for the kin of drivers and conductors in case of loss of life due to COVID-19. In a press release, Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said that compensation will be issued through the Transport Department. In the wake of resumption of services on Tuesday, Mr. Savadi has appealed to the bus crew and the public to follow protocol and contain the spread of COVID-19 by wearing masks. Private bus operators On the other hand, private bus operators have decided not to operate buses because the government is yet to attend to their grievances. “The State government has completely ignored us. We demand waiver of road tax for at least six months and thereafter, 50% tax for another six months. The operators have already incurred huge financial losses due to the lockdown. It would take another two years to recover,” said Nataraj Sharma, general secretary, Karnataka State Tourist Operators’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-to-run-1500-buses/article31619214.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. staff to attend office||The government has ordered its employees to attend offices from May 19. Employees of A, B, C, D categories of government, semi-government and other government owned corporations must ensure 100% attendance, said Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-staff-to-attend-office/article31619223.ece
19 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Two more cases in Alappuzha||Two more persons from the district tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. According to the district administration, one of the patients, a child hailing from Thrikkunnapuzha, reached the district from Dammam in Saudi Arabia on May 13. The child’s mother, a pregnant woman, tested positive for the disease last Friday. The child, who was in quarantine period at the family home, was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, for treatment. The second patient, a pregnant woman from Ambalapuzha, arrived at the Karipur airport from Kuwait on May 13. She was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, in Malappuram. At present, there are three active COVID-19 cases in the district, all undergoing treatment at the MCH, Alappuzha. Besides, the mother-child duo, a youth from Purakkad who came from Navi Mumbai tested positive on May 15. Meanwhile, three persons were hospitalised with symptoms of the disease on Monday, taking the number of people under observation at hospitals to 15. The district has so far reported nine COVID-19 cases, including the person undergoing treatment at MCH, Manjeri. Of the total cases, five have made a full recovery. In quarantine According to the district administration, 2,815 people are in quarantine/observation in the district.Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has directed local bodies to ensure that those serving the mandatory quarantine period in their respective limits were not violating norms. The Minister was interacting with MLAs and local body members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-cases-in-alappuzha/article31619501.ece
19 May 2020||Alok Deshpande,KERALA||Maharashtra Health Minister takes some tips from Kerala||In a display of much-needed camaraderie between States in these times of crisis, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Monday held a videoconference with his Kerala counterpart K.K. Shylaja to understand the measures taken by her to tackle the pandemic and to flatten the curve of rising cases in her State. Kerala was one of the first States to detect a positive case in the country, after which it swung into action with its people-centric measures and effective communication modes, making it possible to flatten the curve. Maharashtra, on the other hand, is handling the largest number of patients in the country. Mumbai, especially slum areas such as Dharavi, is reporting large number of patients. Issues discussed The issues discussed between the Ministers ranged from ensuring physical distancing, setting up quarantine facilities, and treatment to ensure minimising deaths. Mr. Tope also discussed Kerala’s progress in plasma treatment. He tweeted, “I interacted with Kerala’s Health Minister to understand the measures taken by that State to control the disease. It was an extremely useful discussion as we will surely try to implement few of the measures by them.” Ms. Shylaja, tweeting from her official Twitter handle @shailajateacher said, Mr. Tope lauded Kerala’s efforts in providing best quarantine system. “The Minister shared that the challenge in Maharashtra is the inability to ensure social distancing in places like Dharavi,” she tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maharashtra-health-minister-takes-some-tips-from-kerala/article31619472.ece
19 May 2020||Bengaluru,KERALA||Karnataka to allow people from some States||In an effort to control the spread of COVID-19 from States that have had high incidences of infection, the Karnataka government on Monday said that it has restricted the entry of people from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu to the State till May 31. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa told mediapersons that in compliance with the Government of India guidelines, the State government had decided not to allow people from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu till May 31, but open up in stages. Special cases “People from other States will be allowed in a staggered manner. Special cases will be allowed on request,” said an official press release from the Chief Minister’s office. The announcement came following a spike in cases in the State, mostly among those with domestic travel history. Mr. Yediyurappa said people from other States would be allowed if there are emergencies. He added that those who come to the State must mandatorily undergo quarantine. This is already being followed with all those arriving into Karnataka from States that have a high number of cases. Meanwhile, officials at the Karnataka-Maharashtra border in Belagavi district said that as of now, there are no written orders from Bengaluru on any additional measures to be taken. “But officers have received oral instructions to strictly monitor the movement at Kuganoli check-post set up as per the standard operating procedure,” said a senior officer. He added that issue of e-passes for those trying to enter from Maharashtra will be stopped. No more e-passes “We understand that all those who have received electronic transit passes (e-passes) after applying on the Seva Sindhu platform will be allowed to enter. However, issue of e-passes will be stopped and no further passes will be issued. This is what we understand,” an officer, who is a member of the district COVID-19 management committee, said. As on Monday evening, there was no build up at Kuganoli check-post. Officers said that movement of vehicles and persons was as usual, at the only official entry point on Karnataka-Maharashtra border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karnataka-to-allow-people-from-some-states-in-stages-says-cm/article31619231.ece
19 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||High vigil at Thirunelli||The Wayanad district administration has stepped up surveillance at three tribal hamlets in the Panavally area of Thirunelli village where a person was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 recently. According to a contact list prepared by the Health Department, the man had primary contacts with 78 persons in the area. Apart from them, 340 tribal people at Kolly, Sarvani and Kundra tribal hamlets and 260 others in the area are under observation. Entry and exit to the hamlets were restricted. A five-member team of doctors was constituted to organise camps in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-vigil-at-thirunelli/article31619471.ece
19 May 2020||KANNUR/ KASARGOD,KERALA||Kannur, Kasaragod see spike in COVID-19 cases||The opening of borders for Keralites stranded in other States has resulted in a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases, with three more persons testing positive in Kannur on Monday. Two persons who arrived from Mumbai and another who came into contact with infected patients were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. They are a 35-year-old man from Chokli who arrived in Kannur on May 9 and a 31-year-old from Payyambalam who reached on May 10 from Mumbai. A 54-year-old woman health worker from Chirakkal too contracted the disease. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients in Kannur has touched 126. As many as 118 persons were discharged from hospitals. Meanwhile, 5,554 people are under observation in the district. Among them, 27 are at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital, 13 at the COVID-19 treatment centre, five at the Thalassery General Hospital, 11 at the Kannur District Hospital, and 5,498 in home quarantine. So far, 4,865 samples have been sent for testing. In Kasaragod Two more persons were tested positive for the virus on Monday in Kasaragod. Both of them, aged 28, are residents of Paivalike panchayat and had arrived from Mumbai on May 15. They have been admitted to the COVID-19 hospital at Ukkadukku. As many as 2,456 people are under observation in the district. Of them, 2,101 are in home quarantine and 355 in hospitals. Kasaragod District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said preventive measures needed to be strengthened as more number of people were arriving in the district. He informed that a total of 2,587 people had arrived in the district from other States till Sunday. “Following lockdown relaxations, crowding was witnessed in towns and shopping centres. This could increase the risk of disease spread. Unnecessary visits to hospitals should also be avoided,” he warned. The DMO said diligent interventions in the early stages had prevented the spread of community outbreaks in the district. He added that squads of health workers and volunteers would make house visits to monitor those under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-kasaragod-see-spike-in-covid-19-cases/article31619463.ece
19 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KSRTC buses ferry govt. staff||A total of 39 special buses of the KSRTC operated 106 trips on Monday, ferrying government staff from various parts of the district to their offices, following relaxations for public transport during the lockdown. The buses charged the temporarily hiked fare, which is 50% over the normal fare, in keeping with the temporary hike in minimum fare from Rs. 8 to Rs. 12. This is due to the fact that each bus having seating capacity for 45 passengers can carry only a maximum of 30 as per social distancing norms. Only officials with identity cards were allowed into the buses, said a senior KSRTC official. More services will be conducted in keeping with the demand on various routes in the coming days. Meanwhile, it is not clear as to when private buses will resume services despite the government permitting operators to conduct services with 40% of permitted passenger capacity. “The government has only spoken about the temporary fare hike. We were not consulted before finalising the revised fare. Other aspects like helping bus operators surmount issues like paying taxes, insurance and welfare funds during the lockdown period have not been taken into account. There is no word either on providing diesel without taxes to private operators,” said Lawrence Babu, secretary, Kerala State Private Bus Operators’ Federation. “The government has not announced a relief package for us, although it wrote off tax arrears of the KSRTC, and wages were paid during the two-month lockdown period. Private buses will operate only from June, since most of them have applied for suspension of service under G-form norms,” Mr. Babu added. Drivers in crisis A section of autorickshaw operators resumed service on Monday, adhering to the one-passenger norm, said Binu Varghese, secretary, Autorickhaw Drivers Union (AITUC). Most drivers are in crisis as they have not enrolled in the Workers’ Welfare Board, he added. The State Water Transport Department (SWTD) will resume ferry service from Wednesday, said Shaji Nair, Director, SWTD. “Each ferry can carry 50% of the seating capacity, while the minimum fare has been temporarily hiked by 33% from Rs. 8 to Rs. 12. All ferries have been repainted and disinfected in adherence to my Cleaning Challenge,” he said. Metro and regular train services will resume only after May 31 in keeping with the Centre’s guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-buses-ferry-govt-staff/article31619460.ece
19 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||The way to immunity through nutrition||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja recently asked the public not to be complacent about COVID-19 considering the State’s success in reining in the disease and to concentrate on building immunity as it will be the most effective weapon against a virus with which the people would have to learn to live. But, how exactly does one build immunity? Wholesome nutrition, by including all foods available in the right proportion, is crucial to boosting immunity, according to K.G. Sreelatha, State nutrition officer. A person’s daily intake of vegetables and fruits has to provide the necessary vitamins and minerals to build immunity. This would mean including at least 400 gm of vegetables and fruits in the daily diet. People do not have to include fancy fruits in their diet. It is best to eat what is available seasonally, Ms. Sreelatha says. The break-up While carbohydrates provide the body with fuel, proteins add to the body’s capacity to grow, repair and rejuvenate, and vegetables and fruits give the body the ability to fight back invasion. Water intake Enough water intake and exercise will keep the body ready to deal with any attack, according to nutritionists. During the lockdown period, Mumtaz Khalid a former consultant nutritionist with the World Health Organisation, has been directing her patients through telemedicine on ways to get a balanced diet with what is available at home. A gooseberry, ginger, and mint drink, all of which are easily available, gives the body a good mixture of vitamins and minerals. Papaya is a rich source of beta carotene, a precursor of vitamin A. Watermelon has iron and vitamin A. Leafy vegetables are sources of vitamins and fibre. Parboiled rice has minerals like riboflavin and thymine. Sprouts have proteins as well as vitamin E. Fats are important too, about 500 ml a month, which is about 15-20 ml a day, says Ms. Khalid. In the absence of any of these components in food, the body’s functions gets compromised. Malnutrition is a major cause of low immunity and does not imply lack of food. Even obese people can be malnourished, P.K. Sasidharan, former professor of internal medicine, Government Medical College, Kozhikode, says. It is also important to remember that during lockdown and in its aftermath, when a person’s physical exertion is limited, food should be taken to fill only half the stomach, says Dr. Sasidharan.  Including at least 400 gm of vegetables and fruits in daily diet is important for immunity. One need not eat fancy fruits. It is best to consume what is available seasonally K.G. Sreelatha State nutrition officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-way-to-immunity-through-nutrition/article31619486.ece
19 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court extends term of interim orders till June 30||The interim orders granted by various courts and tribunals which are due to expire during the lockdown period have been extended by the Kerala High Court till June 30. However, the aggrieved parties in such cases can move the appropriate courts for vacating such orders, ordered a Division Bench of the High Court, which included Chief Justice S. Manikumar, Justice C.T. Ravikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly, on Monday. Recovery proceedings The Bench directed the State government, local self-government unstitutions, Union government, and public sector undertakings not to initiate any coercive actions till June 30. However, the agencies can approach the court seeking permission for initiating/proceeding with recovery proceedings, it said. The time granted for prisoners who were released on interim bail to appear before the jurisdictional courts was also extended. On anticipatory bail, arrest and bail, the court had earlier held that arrests shall be made only when inevitable, considering the pandemic situation and the efforts to decongest the jails. The Bench on Monday made it clear that the State was free to take appropriate decision on arrest in cases of heinous/serious offences. Regarding the cases of recovery of material objects used in the commission of offences, the State can take appropriate decisions. The Bench authorised the sessions judges in the State to consider the bail applications of undertrial/remand prisoners who do not fall in the category for which interim bail was granted. Bail applications The bail applications can be submitted through e-mail. The applications can be disposed of through videoconferencing after hearing the lawyer concerned and the public prosecutor, the court ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-extends-term-of-interim-orders/article31619484.ece
19 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Short film turns hit||The Ernakulam district administration in association with the Indian Medical Association, Kochi, seems to have hit the right note with a short film that has garnered over seven lakh views after it was released online on Sunday evening. Titled Arikil , the 5-minute film directed by Amruth Raj, revolves around the return of an expatriate and the arrangements made at his house for his quarantine. Getting one’s priorities right during the COVID-19 pandemic is the underlying theme of the film made with the support of the district units of the Directorate of Health Services and the National Health Mission. The film is part of the State government’s efforts to create awareness about quarantine issues. It was released by District Collector S. Suhas on his Facebook page and later shared by actors Mohanlal and Dulquer Salmaan. “As of now, the film has crossed 7,10,000 views,” said Mr. Raj on Monday evening. Actors Sunny Wayne, Tara Joseph and child artiste Jess Sweejan have played the main roles. Raam H. Puthran is the cinematographer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/short-film-turns-hit/article31619462.ece
19 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Fort Kochi beachfront to get a facelift||Fort Kochi will have an upgraded beachfront and public square soon with a Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) project set to be over by September. The Vasco da Gama public square and walkway development project, once completed, will improve the existing beach walkway and connected landmarks. CSML planned to improve connectivity and efficient utilisation of the public space with uniform pavements, said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, CSML’s Chief Executive officer, according to a press release here. The project worth Rs. 1.95 crore could turn the square into a space for public functions and cultural events. and organised parking. The upgradation of the beachfront will be pedestrian-centric with controlled entry points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fort-kochi-beachfront-to-get-a-facelift/article31619458.ece
19 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Report sought on steps to check Periyar pollution||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has asked the State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management and the State Pollution Control Board to file reports on the measures taken to check pollution of Periyar river, before August 19. The directive was issued while considering the original application no. 395 relating to the issue of pollution caused owing to the illegal disposal of solid waste, sewage and biomedical waste. Besides the report on the remedial measures suggested, the SLMC has been asked to update on the implementation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 by the local bodies located along the river. The directive was issued to avoid further disposal of waste into the river and to prevent its pollution, according to an order issued by the Bench.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/report-sought-on-steps-to-check-periyar-pollution/article31619469.ece
19 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Directive to curb pollution||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has asked the Southern Railways and the State Pollution Control Board to regulate the air pollution caused while unloading cement and loading vehicles at the goods shed in Aluva railway station as per the norms fixed by the Central Pollution Control Board. SHRC Chairman Antony Dominic asked the Thiruvananthapuram Divisional Railway Manager to comply with the directive urgently. The directive was based on complaints filed by people residing near the goods shed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-to-curb-pollution/article31619466.ece
19 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC order on Brahmapuram energy plant||The Principal Secretary of the Local Self-Government Department should decide on the cancellation of the agreement with GJ Ecopower Limited for setting up a waste-to-energy plant at Brahmapuram, ordered the Kerala High Court. It was while considering the petition filed by the company that the court ordered the official to consider the application of the company. A decision has to be taken within two months after hearing the company, it directed. It was in 2016 that the firm was awarded the tender for setting up of the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-order-on-brahmapuram-energy-plant/article31619465.ece
19 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Opportunity for reform: CMFRI||The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) has said that reforming the marine fisheries sector may be given emphasis while utilising the financial package of Rs. 20,000-crore announced by the Union government.  Seaweed mariculture can get a fillip from the proposed reforms in contract farming laws, A. Gopalakrishnan, director of CMFRI, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opportunity-for-reform-cmfri/article31619461.ece
19 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Six positive in Kollam||Six more persons from Kollam, all expatriates who travelled on IX-538 Abu Dhabi-Thiruvananthapuram flight on May 16, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. While three of them have been admitted to the Government Medical College, Parippally, others are undergoing treatment at General Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. The patients in Kollam, including a 40-year-old person from Chandanathoppe, a 42-year-old from Chirakkara and a 30-year-old from Thrikkaruva, have been quarantined at KILA Centre for Socio-Economic Development, Kottarakara, since May 16 night. Reportedly, they had undergone rapid testing twice at Abu Dhabi, which is very unusual, and were given permission to fly at the last moment. They were immediately shifted to GMC, Parippally, after they revealed the results of rapid test conducted at Abu Dhabi. The persons who were shifted to medical isolation in Thiruvananthapuram include a 44-year-old from Pathanapuram, a 40-year-old from Ezhukone and a 57-year-old from Parippally. “From the airport, they were shifted straight to the hospital with minor symptoms.”  “The three who travelled to Kollam were asymptomatic and their samples were collected after they told officials that they tested positive in the rapid test at Abu Dhabi,” said an official.  The Kollam Rural police have registered a case against the three under the Epidemic Diseases Act for hiding crucial details. With this the total number of COVID-19 patients from Kollam currently undergoing treatment has reached eight. The Health Department has traced a total of 1,032 primary contacts and 794 secondary contacts of the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-positive-in-kollam/article31619503.ece
19 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Finally, migrants leave for Bengal||After a wait that lasted nearly two months, the first Shramik Special train carrying 1,463 migrant workers and their family members left for West Bengal from Kottayam on Monday. As the train departed from the station here by 6.30 p.m, many passengers raised a cheer, relieved at being able to go home after being stranded in the camps here for long. The New Cooch Behar-bound train, carried labourers hailing from Malda, Murshidabad and Uttar Dinapur districts of West Bengal. Of the passengers, 1,180 persons were selected from the labour camps at Payippad while the rest were from the camps at Kottayam and Meenachil taluks. The passengers had been transported from their camps to the Kottayam railway station on 43 KSRTC buses. As many as 17,392 migrant workers had registered with the district administration for returning to their home States. Though the preliminary list had also included 1,400 workers from Payippad, some backed out in view of the reopening of the local labour market. Earlier, a team of officials led by Jinu Punnoose, Changanassery tahsildar, had met the workers at Payippad and coordinated the arrangements for their return. Officials were deployed to monitor their local transportation in line with the social-distancing norms. Prior to boarding the train, the passengers were subjected to temperature-screening. The Labour Department provided face masks for the passengers.  According to District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu, arrangements were also made to ensure food and drinking water to the passengers on board with contributions from the Amal Jyothi Engineering College, Kanjirappally, and the Malanad Development Society. The drinking water for the passengers was arranged by the district administration. 3 more trains Meanwhile, the authorities are likely to operate three more trains, including one to Uttar Pradesh on May 21 and two to West Bengal on May 26 and June 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/finally-migrants-leave-for-bengal/article31619509.ece
19 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two test positive in Kottayam||Two more persons, who returned from Abu Dhabi and Maharashtra to Kottayam, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, taking the number of patients in the district to four. The first patient, a 29-year-old native of Athirampuzha, reached Kottayam from Abu Dhabi via Kochi on May 7 and had been serving institutional quarantine at Kothanallur. The sample of the youth along with seven others who travelled by the same flight was sent for examination after one of their fellow passenger from Ernakulam tested positive for the disease. While the youth tested positive, the other seven samples were negative. Based on the finding, the person was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Kottayam on Monday evening Isolation ward The second patient, a 23-year-old from Madukka in Mundakayam, reached Kozhikode from Maharashtra on May 13 and was picked up by his father and a relative. He was shifted to the isolation ward of the Kottayam General Hospital from home quarantine upon developing symptoms of the virus infection. The family members of the youth who came into close contact with the youth are in home quarantine. A Palakkad native who travelled along with the youth by the same bus too tested positive for the disease. Test negative Meanwhile, the samples of nine persons who landed from Kuwait on May 9 tested negative on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-test-positive-in-kottayam/article31619506.ece
19 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rain, gusty winds wreak havoc in Vaikom||Heavy rain and strong winds that lashed the western parts of Kottayam on Sunday evening left a trail of destruction, bringing life to a complete standstill on Monday. According to revenue officials, the incessant rain, accompanied by squally winds, brought down several trees, snapping power cables and damaging vehicles and houses. However, no causalities were reported. Eyewitnesses said thet wind started lashing the region around 6.30 p.m. and wreaked havoc in and around the backwater town of Vaikom. Traffic along several roads has been suspended. Fire and Rescue Services personnel are engaged in clearing roadblocks. Houses destroyed Preliminary estimates suggested that Vaikom taluk recorded a cumulative loss of Rs. 147 crore. A total of 313 houses were damaged and 16 houses destroyed. In Perumbaikkad in Kottayam taluk, five houses were damaged. Severe damage to temple The tiled roof of the centuries-old Vaikom Mahadeva temple sustained severe damage. Roof tiles of buildings of the temple complex, including the Vadakke Nada (North Gate), Chuttambalam, Aankkottil, Oottupura, Kshethra Kalapeedam, and Devasom offices, flew away. The Vaikom area committee office of the Communist Party of India and the Government Girls Higher Secondary School too sustained severe damage. KSEB officials are working to restore power supply in the region. The paddy crop that remains to be harvested in northern Kuttanad now faces the prospects of a complete washout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-gusty-winds-wreak-havoc-in-vaikom/article31619505.ece
19 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU services go online||Seven more services offered by Mahatma Gandhi University to students have gone online from Monday onward. The applications that can be sent through the digital platform include the original and provisional degree certificates, consolidated grade cards, semester grade cards, genuineness verification of mark lists and degree certificates and official transcript of marks. To avail the service, students need to log on to the varsity’s official website and submit the application though the link application.mgu.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-services-go-online/article31619507.ece
19 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Suspected murder victim’s image recreated||Using forensic facial reconstruction technique, the Crime Branch on Monday released the image of a suspected murder victim, whose body was found in a burnt state at Poloor near Parambil Bazaar about three years ago. The image was developed using the skeletal remains that were exhumed two months ago from a graveyard at West Hill. Crime Branch officials said the identification of the victim using the newly released image was their only remaining option. It was in September 2017 that the charred body of a 40-year-old man was found abandoned in a bush. The body was burnt beyond recognition. The local police investigation had reported it to be a case of strangulation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suspected-murder-victims-image-recreated/article31619457.ece
19 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Two-year-old tests positive in Kozhikode||A two-year-old, whose pregnant mother was earlier tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, and a 37-year-old man from Thottilppalam are the new COVID-19 patients in Kozhikode district on Monday. According to V. Jayasree, District Medical Officer, the child had arrived from Dubai along with his mother on May 8 morning. Both had been home-quarantined thereafter. The Thottilppalam native had reached the Calicut airport on March 16 from Abu Dhabi. He was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital after symptoms were noticed during a screening at the airport. The number of patients from Kozhikode now stands at 11. A total of 5,783 people are under surveillance now, including 488 expatriates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-year-old-tests-positive-in-kozhikode/article31619455.ece
19 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Interview for varsity VC post held||The search panel to choose a new Vice-Chancellor for Calicut University is reported to have held an interaction with short-listed candidates in the State capital on Monday. Sources told The Hindu that two of them had come there and some others had attended the process through videoconferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interview-for-varsity-vc-post-held/article31619464.ece
19 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Mumbai returnee tests positive||A 35-year-old man who returned from Mumbai tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. The man from Koppam, near Pattambi, was shifted to the District Hospital here. He was working at a travel agency in Mumbai owned by a man from Kannur. He entered Kerala at Thalapadi border on May 10 along with four persons from Kannur, two from Wayanad and one from Perinthalmanna in a Tempo Traveller. From Thalapadi, he reached here in a car and went into quarantine. There are 13 COVID-19 patients currently in the district. Ten civic wards in the district were declared containment zones on Monday. They were in Kadambazhipuram, Muthuthala, Karakurissi, Kottayi and Muthalamada panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mumbai-returnee-tests-positive/article31619470.ece
19 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Two cases in Pathanamthitta||With two more quarantined persons who came from abroad testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday, the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district has gone up to four. A 39-year-old man who came from Qatar on May 12 and a 65-year-old man from Dubai are the new patients. Both of them have been admitted to the isolation ward at Pathanamthitta General Hospital. The other two patients are undergoing treatment at the General Hospital that has been designated as a COVID hospital. The administration has identified as many as 250 corona care centres and first-line treatment centres in different parts of the district to quarantine and treat the large number of NoRKs reaching the district in the next few weeks. Seventy-one care centres have already started functioning and 507 persons have been quarantined in them as on Monday. 2,454 quarantined A total of 2,454 people, 2,164 of them who came from different parts of the country and 279 others who came from abroad, have been quarantined both at homes and at corona care centres as on Monday. The district that had become the epicentre of the viral disease on March 7 had successfully treated a total of 17 COVID-19 patients in the first spell. The treatment protocol pursued by the health-care team here has succeeded in keeping the district free of any new COVID-19 case for one month from April 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article31619510.ece
19 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Exams from May 26 as planned||The remaining SSLC, higher secondary education (HSE), and vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) examinations will be held as scheduled from May 26 to 30. This was announced by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at his press conference on Monday evening. Necessary travel arrangements, including use of school buses, will be made to transport students to exam centres. Permission has been granted to government, aided, and unaided institutions to make arrangements for the conduct of examinations. They can open for exam-related work on Saturdays too. The exam notification was issued on May 13, ahead of the Union government’s decision on extending the lockdown. However, with intra-State travel permitted and public transport within districts too allowed, the government decided to stick to the published timetable for the exams. The SSLC and VHSE exams will begin on May 26 and HSE exams on May 27. Three papers are pending for the SSLC examinations – Mathematics, Physics, and Chemistry. 13 lakh students With SSLC and HSE exams to be held across morning and afternoon schedules, nearly 13 lakh students, besides teachers and other employees, will leave homes to appear for the examinations. Besides private transport used by students and public transport, if need be schools buses or vans too will be arranged for the students. A proper data collection in this regard has been carried out, Education Department officials said. Concerns have been raised about conducting the exams from May 26 in the wake of the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases. The Centre’s decision to conduct the remaining Central Board of Secondary Education examinations only in July has been pointed out. Lakhs of people, some of them belonging to families where people coming from abroad and other States are in home quarantine, will step out of their homes for the examinations, increasing the risk, a statement from the Kerala Pradesh School Teachers’ Union said, demanding that the government roll back its “hasty” decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exams-from-may-26-as-planned/article31619483.ece
19 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC valuation begins at 35 centres||Valuation of answer scripts for the SSLC examinations held in March got under way at 35 centres in the State on Monday. Nearly 46.6% of the teachers deployed for valuation duty reported for work at the valuation camps on the first day of the five-day camp. Around 6,000 teachers have been posted for valuation camp duty. The lowest attendance was in two schools in Kannur and Wayanad districts – at around 23%. However, in Thalassery, the turnout was over 55%, Education Department officials said. At Chittur in Palakkad, 86% of the teachers took part in the camp. Low turnout Confusion on the first day led to the low teacher turnout in some camps, the officials said, adding the attendance would increase in the coming days. Of the 54 valuation centres, 36 were scheduled to get going on Monday. However, with the camp planned at Amrita school in Paripally, Kollam, coming in a hotspot area, the valuation there was put off. Camps began for subjects other than Maths, Physics, and Chemistry for which exams are pending, as well as for Arabic, Urdu, and Sanskrit for which examinations have been held. Meanwhile, admission to State schools for the new academic year began on Monday. With the lockdown getting extended to May 31, the admission process got under way in the absence of students. Slow start In some schools, it was a slow start while in others, admissions were given to a fair number of students. In some cases, parents who had registered were allotted time to come for admission in the coming days to ensure social distancing. Parents of students entering Class 1 and those coming from other States and the Gulf region were among those who came to take admission. Those seeking admission to other classes also turned up, though their promotion list will be out only on May 20. Online admission through the Sampoorna portal will begin on May 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-valuation-begins-at-35-centres/article31619481.ece
19 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital back on COVID list||Three men who reached Thiruvananthapuram from abroad over the past few days were diagnosed with COVID-19 on Monday. With these, the capital district has reported its first set of case since April 29. Two of them, a 32-year-old Kattakada native and a 44-year-old Murukkumpuzha native, came on a special flight from Abu Dhabi on Saturday and were subsequently sent to institutional quarantine at the Mar Ivanios College hostel. The third patient, a 43-year-old man from Vellanad, came to Kochi from the Maldives on a ship, and was taken to the General Hospital when he arrived in the city. The three have been placed under treatment in the Government Medical College Hospital here. One hospitalised Meanwhile, one person who had come on the special flight from Muscat on Sunday evening was hospitalised after developing symptoms. Among the other 43 Thiruvananthapuram natives who came by the flight, 22 were sent to institutional quarantine and 21 for home isolation. In all, 183 people travelled on the flight. One passenger was hospitalised in Kollam.  A Rajdhani Express train from New Delhi is scheduled to reach here on Tuesday at 6.15 a.m. Meanwhile, as many as 270 people entered the State through the inter-State border at Inchivila on Monday. Among them, 224 people were from Tamil Nadu, while there were 18 from Maharashtra, 15 from Karnataka, 12 from Puducherry, and one from Andhra Pradesh. The district administration placed 535 people under quarantine. With this, the number of people under surveillance has gone up to 5,667 out of which 5,169 people were quarantined in their homes. As many as 446 people were being monitored in corona care centres. Case against violators The Thiruvananthapuram City police have booked 13 people for violating lockdown norms and 98 others for failing to wear masks outdoors. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police registered 409 cases, arrested 429 people, and seized 219 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-back-on-covid-list/article31619512.ece
19 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Public transport within districts to be allowed||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation and private buses can operate services within the districts with 50% of the seating capacity and adhering to the social-distancing norms and standard operating procedures (SOPs) during the extended lockdown period. However, inter-State and inter-district bus services will not resume. “The government will not allow commuters to stand and travel in the various modes of public transport,” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday. Masks must Passengers will have to wear masks and bus operations will not be allowed in containment zones. Autorickshaws and taxies have been given the nod to ply. In private four-wheelers, including taxies, the driver and only two persons will be allowed. If family members are travelling, three persons will be allowed. In auto, the driver and one passenger will be allowed. In case all are from the same family, three can travel. On two-wheeler, pillion rider will be permitted if he/she is a family member. For inter-State travel for permissible things, permission will be accorded. Separate passes will not be required for travel during the 7 a.m.-7 p.m. period. The traveller needs to carry only valid identity card with them. Electricians and other technicians will have to carry their trade certificate. Those proceeding to other districts far from their home district will have to secure permission of the police station or District Collector. Those going for work-related needs in other districts regularly will have to secure a special pass from the District Collector. Permission will be accorded to bring back those stranded in other States. The Chief Minister said inter-State travel will be allowed in emergency situations also. Nod for fare hike Meanwhile, the government gave its nod for increasing the minimum fare for KSRTC and private buses by 50% and subsequent km from the existing 70 paise to Rs. 1.10. The minimum fare in ordinary stage carriers will go up from Rs. 8 to Rs. 12. Official sources said the gazette notification on the fare hike for subsequent fare stages is possible only on Tuesday. The services of the KSRTC and private buses will resume only on Wednesday. The government waived the motor vehicle tax of the stage carriers in view of the operational loss they will have to bear with due to social distancing norms and the fewer number of commuters. The fares in the water transport services will go up by 33%.  Passengers not allowed to stand and travel in modes of public transport Approval for increasing minimum fare for KSRTC and private buses by 50%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-transport-within-districts-to-be-allowed/article31619489.ece
19 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Liquor sale may be delayed||The resumption of liquor sale will not be immediate. Excise officials said the government required time to amend the rules to legalise the sale of alcohol as takeaways through bars and beer parlours. They fixed Friday as a tentative date to resume liquor sales, but warned that the date could be postponed. Moreover, the mobile phone application to enable the public to order liquor online and in advance is still on trial. Customers’ choice The system empowers customers to choose their brand online, select the point of sale, and set a time and date for the purchase. The application would signal the time customers can collect their order from the point of purchase they had chosen earlier. It also has an e-payment option. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday lifted the ban which was in place for liquor sale since March 25. He said bars and beer and wine parlours could sell liquor as takeaways. So could exclusive clubs to their members. Private clubs Unlike clubs, bars and beer and wine parlours could not sell liquor independently. They could only execute the order placed by customers on the mobile phone-based online order and virtual queue system application currently on trial by the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco). The clause has put a dampener on the willingness of bar hotels to resume liquor sales. Low sales volume Several bars have backed out anticipating low volume of sales. The bar licensees have baulked at incurring overhead expenses without a financially justifying scale of retail purchase. Moreover, bars can only charge the commercial rate fixed by Bevco and the government has restricted their profit margin to 20% of the warehouse cost of duty-paid liquor. Illicit supply The government, in an order, said the temporary ban on liquor had spawned illicit supply networks dominated by bootleggers who sold alcohol of dubious quality at an exaggerated rate.  The app through which orders can be placed for takeaways from bars, beer parlours still on trial||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/liquor-sale-may-be-delayed/article31619490.ece
19 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No pass for inter-district travel||Inter-district travel from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. will not require pass from May 19 except for containment zones. Travellers will only have to produce their identity card, State Police Chief Loknath Behera said here on Monday. However, police pass will be mandatory for travel between districts during night time, except for essential services. Special task force units of the police will be deployed in cities and small towns to ensure the use of masks by the general public. Masks would be supplied free of cost in rural areas under the #BaskInTheMask campaign. Mr. Behera said the police had tightened controls and stepped up surveillance in containment zones following the extension of the nationwide lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-pass-for-inter-district-travel/article31619497.ece
19 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A verdant mini-forest in capital in just 16 months||Five cents on the Kanakakkunnu Palace premises where the Miyawaki method of afforestation has been replicated has transformed into a luxurious mini-forest in just 16 months. Many of the 420 saplings belonging to 200 species planted on January 2, 2019 have grown considerably tall. The tallest is Ceiba pentandra (tree cotton) which stands over 31 ft. Many trees have begun fruiting much ahead of their normal period. The forest has started attracting many birds too. The yellow-eyed Oriental Scops owl, which is not sighted in the urban landscape usually, has come calling at the mini-forest. Over 20 insect varieties have been spotted in the forest that has creepers, subtrees, shrubs and trees. Botanists attribute the fast-paced growth to the method of planting that makes it necessary for the plants to compete for sunlight. Also, when humidity is high, the growth will increase. The rapid growth comes at a time when the Miyawaki method of afforestation is being adopted across the State. Self sustaining “This plot has shown us how it can sustain itself with minimum human intervention. Natural forests sustain themselves and that can be seen here too,” says Mathew Dan, scientist, Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI), who has been guiding and observing the Miyawaki model of afforestation. “Some trees have reached a height of over 30 feet, which means 2 ft a month on an average. This is a unique record even in Miyawaki model afforestation,” says city-based nature lover M.R. Hari, who spearheaded the initiative in the capital. The project was taken up by the NGO Nature’s Green Guardians Foundation (NGGF) and is sponsored by Invis Multimedia, the ICT solution provider of Kerala Tourism. The afforestation work was done by Culture Shoppe. Environmentalist and chairman of the NGGF V.K. Damodaran says they never expected such a growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-verdant-mini-forest-in-capital-in-just-16-months/article31619477.ece
19 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SI transferred||A sub-inspector (SI) attached to the Kazhakuttam police station was transferred to the City police control room following complaints that he manhandled a pharmacy owner in Menamkulam on Sunday. Disciplinary action was initiated against sub-inspector Santhosh Kumar after he was accused of assaulting the owner of the outlet. The complainant alleged that he was ordered to close the pharmacy on the day of the shutdown despite his insistence that drug sale was considered an essential service. Despite the officer maintaining that he had merely directed the shop owner to wear mask, a CCTV footage from the pharmacy validated the pharmacy owner’s claim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/si-transferred/article31619511.ece
19 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special train from New Delhi on Wednesday||A special train to bring back stranded Keralites, especially students and nurses, will start from New Delhi on May 20. Arrangements were also in full swing to operate special trains from Punjab, Karnataka, Andhra, Telengana, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar to bring back stranded Keralites, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told presspersons here on Monday. Special trains are operated from a State or railway station when commuters touch 1,200. The State has asked for an additional stoppage in the source stations for the benefit of the travellers. Those wishing to travel have been asked to use the link in registernorkaroots.org and pay the ticket fare online. Such travellers would get details of the travel as messages in the mobile phone and this would be treated as pass to enter the State, the Chief Minister said. 38 flights Till June 2, 38 flights will arrive in the airports of the State to repatriate the stranded Non Resident Keralitess. As many as 5,815 persons had arrived in the State by flights and ships. Another 6,530 NoRKs were expected in the 38 flights, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-train-from-new-delhi-on-wednesday/article31619478.ece
19 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Clerics agree to forgo mass Id prayers||A meeting of Muslim clerics and Islamic theologians chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan via videoconferencing on Monday agreed to forego public prayers on Id-ul-Fitr. The day marks the end of the sacred month of Ramzan characterised by prayers and fasting during the day. Traditionally, the faithful congregate in considerable numbers in stadiums and mosques to offer namaz, exchange gifts and greet each other with hugs and handshakes. It is a season of coming together for many Muslim families. Mr. Vijayan said the meeting agreed to observe Id prayers at homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clerics-agree-to-forgo-mass-id-prayers/article31619479.ece
19 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM asks 50% of govt. staff to come to office from today||At least 50% of government employees of “all categories” should report to their respective offices from Tuesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday. He said the rest should work from home and attend calls from supervisors. He declared Saturday a holiday for government offices until further notice. Government employees would have to carry their identity card during travel. Employees unable to report for work at their offices in far-flung districts should immediately report to the District Collectors of their respective areas. The Collectors could use their services as required and deploy them at local body offices or at the Collectorate. The holiday on Saturday would not apply to offices of the Education Department. Mr. Vijayan said up to 50 persons could attend weddings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-asks-50-of-govt-staff-to-come-to-office-from-today/article31619492.ece
19 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Film, serial shooting set to resume||The government would allow the entertainment industry to shoot films, television serials and reality shows in indoor locales or sets. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the State could not allow shooting on large sets and outdoor locales given the threat of crowding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/film-serial-shooting-set-to-resume/article31619491.ece
19 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Quarantine row: Cong. MP, MLA to go on one-day fast||T.N. Prathapan, MP, and Anil Akkara, MLA, will observe a day’s hunger strike in their homes in protest against alleged double standard of the medical board in sending them in home quarantine while exempting Local Self-Government Minister A.C Moideen. Both of them will fast for 24 hours from 10 a.m. on Tuesday. They said here on Monday that five people at the quarantine centre in Guruvayur where Mr. Moideen had visited tested positive for SARS-Cov-2. The medical board could not, however, establish whether the Minister had come into contact with the patients even after checking photos and videos of the visit. Home quarantine The panel asked the United Democratic Front leaders to go in home quarantine even though it could not produce any proof of them meeting one returnee who later tested positive at the Walayar check-post, the Congress leaders alleged. Meanwhile, the UDF staged a dharna in front of the Corporation office on Monday alleging that the decision by the medical board to send the UDF leaders in home quarantine was politically motivated. Meanwhile, the medical board said there is no need for any further steps on the complaint that the Minister contacted the expatriates who reached Guruvayur. The medical board gave the report to the Thrissur District Medical Officer on Monday on a complaint given by Mr. Akkara. The Minister is already undergoing restrictions under the secondary contact category for attending a meeting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarantine-row-cong-mp-mla-to-go-on-one-day-fast/article31619475.ece
19 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Water to be released from Peechi dam into Manali river||As part of the preparations for receiving water during the monsoon season, water from the Peechi dam will be released into the Manali river after power generation, according to the Executive Engineer of the Irrigation Department. Sluices of the dam will be opened on Wednesday morning for power generation and the water will be released into the river in a controlled manner. This will result in an increase in water level in the Manali and Karivannur rivers. People living on the banks of these rivers and those who venture into the rivers for fishing and other works should be careful, according to an official release from the Executive Engineer on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-to-be-released-from-peechi-dam-into-manali-river/article31619474.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rainy days||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rainy-days/article31619514.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Natural decor||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/natural-decor/article31619499.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||When heavens opened up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-heavens-opened-up/article31619468.ece
19 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganesh idol makers at their wits’ end||Traditional potters who have taken to making Ganesh idols are facing a major financial crisis. A majority of them have obtained loans at high interest rates as part of their preparation for the festival. With the chances of celebrating Vinayaka Chavithi on a mass scale on August 22 being remote, going by the spread of COVID-19, the potters are at their wits’ end. During the festival, Ganesh idols of all sizes are installed in almost every lane and bylane across the district. Last year, more than 6,000 idols of various sizes were installed. Huge debts Traditional potters K. Nallappa Kumar and his brother have borrowed Rs. 15 lakh at high interest rate to purchase materials such as dyes, coconut fibre and plaster of Paris (PoP) with a view to making the idols from March (usually after Holi) at Rudrampeta. Similarly, Bommula Suryanarayana of Syndicate Nagar has invested Rs. 13 lakh. A couple of weeks after beginning work on the idols, lockdown was imposed for the first time. As a result, piles of PoP packets and fresh bales of coconut fibre are lying in the work sheds at many places. The activity usually fetches work for about 100 labourers for three months, and each of them earns Rs. 600 for a 12-hour duty per day. But fortune seems to be not smiling on the more than 30 small and big potters in and around the city as one can see 600 half-finished idols all along the State highway. “There is a belief that if public celebration is stopped for one year, it will be so for two consecutive years,” says Mr. Suryanarayana, expressing fear that such a situation will land them in a debt trap. ‘Promises not kept’ “The TDP government had promised to give us implements under Aadarana. But we did not receive the promised motorised wheels and dyes for idols though we deposited Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 6,500 with the BC Corporation,” says Mr. Kumar. “The government has provided financial aid to all but potters,” he points out, seeking a helping hand at the earliest. The tale of woe of Daula Ram, a trader in dyes, is similar. Hailing from Pedda Amberpet in Hyderabad, he has invested Rs. 35 lakh to procure 30 new dyes. In addition to the 70 dyes in his possession, he thought of leasing them all to the idol-makers in Andhra Pradesh. “I have done no business worth the name so far. I have been able to recover only Rs. 3 lakh,” he rues. COVID-19 has dealt a severe blow on those who eke out a living by making earthen pots that are usually in demand during summer. “People have a misconception that they will contract coronavirus if they consume water from the traditional pot. As a result, we are unable to clear the stock produced last year,” says Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganesh-idol-makers-at-their-wits-end/article31619591.ece
19 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on small farmers in seed distribution: Minister||Kharif season farming activity was kicked off in a grand way in Anantapur district on Monday when B.C. Welfare Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana launched the subsidised groundnut seeds distribution at Rythu Bharosa Kendras at Village Secretariats level. Formally launching the programme at Bukkarayasamudram, the Minister said: “Focus is on providing seeds to the small and socially disadvantaged farmers in villages to some extent so that they do not face financial burden. Financial assistance under Rythu Bharosa has also been given to the farmers in time for meeting their input costs in the coming Kharif season,” Mr. Sankaranarayana added. Supply at doorstep District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said that earlier, the farmers had trekked a long way to mandal headquarters and waited for hours in a queue to get the seeds, but now they get their quota at their doorstep. The farmers were promised 120 kgs of seeds at Rs. 47.10 per kg, but in view of the huge demand, it has been restricted to a maximum of 90 kgs at subsidised price. The open market price was between Rs. 65 and Rs. 68 a kg. More than 2.04 lakh farmers out of 5.67 lakh projected beneficiaries registered for the supplies till Sunday night. At the rate of 30 kg per half an acre landholding, the government wants equitable distribution of seeds to all the backward classes, SC, ST and other sections of the society, the Collector said. So far, the demand is 1.78 lakh quintals and the total projected demand was 3.4 lakh quintals, against which 1.99 lakh quintals of seeds was procured and stationed at 98 locations in the district, the JD Agriculture added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-small-farmers-in-seed-distribution-minister/article31619164.ece
19 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||First batch of migrants at Anantapur leave for U.P.||The excitement was palpable at Anantapur railway station among 1,500 migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh as they boarded the first Shramik Train on Monday evening. Police personnel, wearing protective gear, guided a small batch of 25 persons on to the platform and asked them to wait in the squares drawn on the platform to maintain social distancing. All these persons were either working in the district or were spotted by the district administration officials while they were walking on National Highway-44, from Bengaluru to Gorakhpur (most of them). ‘Workers not charged’ Food and water was arranged for them, said District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, adding that the State government would foot the travel bill. On Tuesday, another batch of 1,500 persons would be sent by train to various destinations in Bihar, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-batch-of-migrants-at-anantapur-leave-for-up/article31619160.ece
19 May 2020||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Highest single-day spike of cases in Karnataka||Karnataka reported the highest number of new COVID-19 cases in a single day on Monday at 99. Andhra Pradesh registered 52 new cases, while Kerala recorded 29 cases, mostly from expatriates and non-resident Keralites. In Telangana, the total number of cases touched 1,592 as 41 more tested positive. Tamil Nadu added another 536 cases, taking its tally to 11,760. The Karnataka Health and Family Welfare Department said on Monday that 68% of the 99 cases recorded had a travel history to other States, a majority of them to Maharashtra. A few others returned from Tamil Nadu. According to the department’s media bulletin, 64 patients had reported a travel history to Maharashtra. A majority of them were quarantined in institutions after their return to the State and were later tested. A senior official in the Health Department, who acknowledged the rise in the number of cases, attributed this to the State’s decision to ramp up the tests. A day after witnessing just 25 cases, one of the lowest daily tallies, Andhra Pradesh registered 52 new cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 2,432, including 150 migrant cases. The number of recoveries continues to increase with more patients getting discharged in various districts. As many as 96 patients, have recovered. So far, 1,552 patients have recovered taking the recovery rate in the State to 63.8%, while 34.1% of the positive patients are currently undergoing treatment. No new deaths were reported. Meanwhile, cases related to the Koyambedu wholesale market hotspot continue to come up in various districts. Of the 52 new cases, 19 are those who visited the market in Chennai and their contacts. 29 cases in Kerala In Kerala, expatriates and non-resident Keralites from other States made up almost all of 29 cases reported on Monday, as it has been since May 7 when NoRKs began returning home. While 21 of the new cases were people who had returned from the UAE and other Gulf nations and the Maldives, seven were who had come from Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. One lone case of infection was picked up from the community by a health care worker in Kannur.  Of the 41 new cases in Telangana on Monday, 26 are from the GHMC area, three from Medchal, and 12 migrants. Besides, 10 people were discharged. Of the total 1,592 cases, 556 are active cases, 1,002 were discharged and 34 have died. Tamil Nadu added another 536 cases on Monday, taking its tally to 11,760. Of the new cases, 46 persons had returned to the State from Maharashtra. Three women who tested positive for COVID-19 died in Chennai. With this, a total of 81 persons have died in Tamil Nadu of COVID-19.   (With inputs from Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Telangana and Tamil Nadu Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/highest-single-day-spike-of-cases-in-karnataka/article31619125.ece
19 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Public transport back in Karnataka today||Buses, autorickshaws and cabs are set to return to roads in Karnataka from Tuesday, after a gap of nearly two months, with some conditions in place. More commercial establishments will also reopen. The State government has further eased lockdown restrictions in many areas by allowing BMTC and KSRTC buses to provide services by fixing the passenger strength at 30 from Tuesday. Wearing masks will be mandatory for all passengers. All activities, businesses, and buses will be allowed only between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. till May 31. However, Sundays will see a total lockdown. All non-AC buses will operate from Tuesday in all parts of the State, except in COVID-19 containment zones. All four government-owned road transport corporations and private operators will provide bus services. Though the government has announced that trains will ply within the State, the nod of the Railways is awaited. “The condition on resumption of bus services is that only 30 passengers will be allowed to travel in one bus to ensure social distancing,” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said after discussing the Centre’s lockdown 4.0 guidelines for nearly two hours with his Cabinet colleagues and officials. On the proposal to hike bus fares, he said this would not happen. “I know there will be losses. The government will reimburse the losses,” he said. While autorickshaws and taxis will be allowed to operate with a driver and two passengers, maxi-cabs (six passengers) will have a driver and three passengers. Wearing of masks is mandatory for drivers and passengers. “Those not wearing a mask will be penalised,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. He announced that salons and barber shops could also be opened. For the benefit of walkers, all parks will be open from Tuesday between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. Street vendors are allowed to sell commodities during the day.  Metro rail services in Bengaluru, cinema halls, malls, and gyms will remain shut till the end of May. Hotels will be allowed to supply only parcelled food. Action will be taken in case hotels refuse, the Chief Minister warned. He also said stadiums would be opened, but no spectators would be allowed. On Sundays Mr. Yediyurappa said that a total lockdown would be enforced on Sundays till May 31. “Movement of people will not be allowed. All buses and private vehicles will remain off the road on Sundays. All business establishments and roadside shops too will remain closed. It will be a complete rest day,” he said. Noting that the Centre has issued guidelines till May 31, he said curfew would be in force from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. daily. Criminal cases can be registered against all those who violate the law and lockdown norms, he warned. On the classification of zones, he said the government’s main focus was the containment zones. “We are particular about containment zones. For instance, in Uttara Kannada district, Bhatkal will be a containment zone and no other taluk will have restrictions,” he said. Based on the experience till May 31, Mr. Yediyurappa said, the relaxations will be reviewed. “States have been given freedom, so we can withdraw or modify as necessary,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/public-transport-back-in-karnataka-today/article31619128.ece
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘harassed’ in Dubai returns||A 25-year-old woman who had gone to Dubai after being promised the job of a baby sitter was forced to leave the country, unable to bear the alleged harassment of her employer. The victim, with the help of the Indian embassy, reached the city on Sunday and filed a complaint with the police accusing her agent, identified as Kumar, of sexually assaulting her before sending her to Dubai. The victim, a resident of Shivajinagar, said that she was introduced to Kumar through her aunt in November 2019. Kumar offered to get her a good package in Dubai. She then submitted her passport for visa processing. The accused allegedly took her to his apartment and sexually assaulted her, threatening not to get her the job if she did not cooperate. She went to Dubai in January this year and met Kumar’s contact there, who took her to a family. The victim said that her ordeal only continued as her employer also started harassing her. She then escaped and reached the Indian embassy seeking help. The embassy got her an emergency passport and a flight ticket to Bengaluru. After reaching Bengaluru on Sunday, she approached the Shivajinagar police with a letter issued by the Protector of Emigrants seeking action against Kumar. The Shivajinagar police have charged Kumar under the Emigration Act and with criminal intimidation and outraging the modesty of a woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-harassed-in-dubai-returns/article31619126.ece
19 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials worried as cases spread in border villages in Chittoor||Chittoor district on Monday registered 15 new COVID-19 positive cases, with 12 of them linked with traders of the Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai. With this, the total number of cases stood at 192, doubled in just a week. The market-linked cases surfaced from Nagalapuram with 7 persons testing positive, followed by Satyavedu(3) and one each from Pichatur and Ramakuppam. The temple town of Srikalahasti registered five new cases, which are not linked to the market. What’s worrying the officials is that the market-linked cases are not concentrated to a single area, but are spread among villages along the 200 km border that the district shares with Tamil Nadu, from Satyavedu in the east to V.Kota in the west. It is interesting to note that while the western mandals in the district export the vegetables to Koyambedu market, the eastern ones import the stocks from the market. Rural life affected Due to the rising numbers, rural life in the eastern mandals has come to a grinding halt. While Nagalapuram mandal registered 20 cases, V. Kota mandal registered 19. DIG (Anantapur) Kanthi Rana Tata and Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar went on a three-day inspection of the red zones at Satyavedu, Nagalapuram, Pichatur, Chittoor and V.Kota mandals, and instructed the mandal level personnel to keep a strict vigil along the border areas and check posts to prevent unauthorised movement of public. Meanwhile, six cases, in the age group of 9-50, from different mandals were discharged from the Padmavati COVID hospital in Tirupati on Monday. At Matsyam village of Tavanampalle mandal, twelve persons had undergone testing. Much to the relief of the officials, all the cases turned negative. Four days ago, this village registered one positive case linked to Koyambedu market. In the recent past, Chittoor district has witnessed unrelenting spike in COVID cases linked with the vegetable market in Chennai, that has emerged as the hotbed of infections. However, on May 17, for the first time in a week, none of the cases was related to Koyambedu. But no sooner had this raised hopes of situation easing in the district than the next set of cases emerged on Monday. District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) M. Penchalaiah said that the number of patients recovering and getting discharged is increasing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-worried-as-cases-spread-in-border-villages-in-chittoor/article31619167.ece
19 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur, Narasaraopet to be in total lockdown till month-end||The lockdown restrictions will continue to be in force in Guntur and Narsaraopet till the end of May, while in other towns, the local administration will take measures for a graded opening of commercial activities. While this effectively means that residents of these two towns will continue to have to remain indoors and all commercial establishments would remain closed, there would be some relaxation in buffer zones, as announced by the local administration. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar and DIG P.H.D. Ramakrishna said that all lockdown protocols would be followed in Guntur and Narsaraopet. However, in areas where no new cases have been reported in the last 28 days, there will be some relaxation from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. Mangaldas Nagar, Koretipadu, Chaitanyapuri Colony, LB Nagar and Nallacheruvu are being declared as containment buffer zones. In Guntur city, there would no opening of malls, schools and colleges, hotels, multiplexes and saloons, the Collector said. In other towns, the local administration will take steps for a graded exit from the lockdown . While most commercial establishments can be opened till 7 p.m., sports centres can be opened after ensuring compliance with social distancing protocols. Wearing of masks has been made compulsory and a fine of Rs. 1,000 fine would be levied on those who spit in public places, the Collector said. Mr. Ramakrishna said that that the lockdown would continue to be in force in most parts of Guntur Urban Police limits, including Guntur town, Mangalagiri and Tadepalli towns, as fresh cases have been reported in the last 15 days. The number of positive cases in the district stands at 417 and 20,000 tests have been conducted so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-narasaraopet-to-be-in-total-lockdown-till-month-end/article31619581.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana relaxes restrictions||To sync with Centre’s decision to enforce lockdown till May 31, the Telangana government on Monday extended the same by two days from May 29 and opened up shops and establishments all over the State, except Hyderabad, from Tuesday morning. The night curfew in the State from 7 p.m. will remain. Shops will be opened on alternate days in Hyderabad as per a schedule to be drawn up by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Commissioner. Except Hyderabad, the Road Transport Corporation will ply buses all over the State but will not cross inter-State borders. Buses from neighbouring States will be allowed into the city but terminate only at Jubilee bus station and not Imlibun station which will remain closed. The buses will follow COVID-19 restrictions like mandating crew and passengers to wear masks and sanitising the fleet, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao told a post-Cabinet media briefing. He said transportation within Hyderabad will be restricted to autorickshaws, cars and cabs. While only the driver and two passengers will be allowed in autorickshaws, an additional passengers will be permitted in cars and cabs. The Metro rail services, however, will continue to remain suspended. Hair cutting salons will open in Hyderabad as elsewhere in the State. All government and private offices, industries, factories, manufacturing units and e-commerce businesses will function throughout the State. The places that will remain closed in the State include places of worship, function halls, malls, cinema halls, educational institutions, bars, pubs, clubs, stadia, grounds, swimming pools, gyms, parks and amusement parks. He warned shopkeepers to ensure that their salesmen and customers followed physical distance norms and wore masks, otherwise a penalty of Rs. 1,000 will be levied on them. He also warned people not to take the freedom granted to go on roads for granted. Answering a question on SSC exams which were suspended after three papers, he said it will depend on court judgment. Mr. Rao said the restrictions in containment zones will be enforced strictly by continuing to barricade them. There were 1,452 families in these zones which will get door-delivery of essential commodities and medicines. The people living in them, houses and apartments will be completely isolated from the outside world. The government had decided that life in the State must coexist with coronavirus as there was no possibility of discovery of vaccine in the near future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-relaxes-restrictions/article31619129.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TS won’t tolerate violation of its right’||“Both the Telangana State and KCR have crystal clear understanding over the State’s rights on water resources in Krishna and Godavari Basins,” Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said here on Monday. The Chief Minister made the comment when asked to react on the plans of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh to divert 8 tmc ft water every day from Srisailam to Rayalaseema and South Coastal Andhra by taking up a new lift scheme as well as increasing the water drawal capacity of Pothireddypadu (PRP) head regulator to 80,000 cusecs, during the briefing after Cabinet meet. “We are building projects within the limits of our allocation, made during combined AP, and the neighbouring State too has to follow it,” the Chief Minister said adding that he would react on PRP expansion and other plans of AP at an appropriate time. To a question on the Opposition criticism of the State government in handling the issue, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said it was better to speak as less as possible on their deeds in the past. The Chief Minister said people know very well as who kowtowed the then AP Chief Minister when the plans of PRP’s earlier expansion were taking shape. “We are fighting the issue at appropriate fora as part of our commitment to protect the State’s rights. The government can’t keep quiet on any plans to violate its riparian rights,” he added. “They (AP) went to Supreme Court against our (Telangana’s) Palamuru-Rangareddy project and the Centre convened the Apex Council meeting too on it. We explained our stand of utilising the allocated water and doing justice to our people,” he mentioned. When pointed out that it was he (KCR) who had said in the past that he was not against giving water to Rayalaseema, Mr. Rao said he still stood by it and reiterated that Rayalaseema should get water and it could be met from the surplus available in Godavari. “Nobody stops them on that, but violation of our rights cannot be tolerated,” he asserted. “Can we keep quiet if they run amuck on our rights. If they are for amicable solution we are ready for it and if they favour legal battle, we are game for it,” the Chief Minister clarified and said Telangana was still working together with AP and had no disputes except some issues such as row over Krishna waters. Stating that it was he who had invited AP Chief Minister for talks and proposed taking waters beyond basins with suggestion that surplus water available in Godavari could be utilised for that instead of quarrelling on water in Krishna Basin, which is already tied-up. “I have convinced Maharashtra and completed Kaleshwaram project. People are already enjoying the benefits,” he noted. He stated that Telangana was also going to ask for allocation of another 650 tmc ft water in the surplus available in Godavari in addition to 950 tmc ft of allocated water for drinking, irrigation and industrial needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-wont-tolerate-violation-of-its-rights/article31619433.ece
19 May 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||US national dies after accidental fall while cycling near Hyderabad||A 42-year-old U.S. national was found dead on a hillock near here after he accident-ally fell while cycling, police said on Monday. A cross-terrain cycling enthusiast, he was staying in Hyderabad with his wife for over a year.  While he was cycling on Sunday, he fell and sustained head injuries and died, they said. After his wife complain-ed that he was not answering her phone calls and police tracked cell phone tower signals to locate him, a senior official said, adding that it was an accidental death.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/us-national-dies-after-accidental-fall-while-cycling-near-hyderabad/article31619136.ece
19 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth feared drowned at U.Kothapalli beach||An 18-year-old youth was feared to have drowned while three of his friends were rescued by the locals at U.Kothapalli beach in East Godavari district on Sunday evening. The police and the locals launched a search for the body of the youth identified as Dadaala Sudheer on Monday. He used to work in an aqua hatchery. All the four youth belong to Seelamavaripalem village in U.Kothapalli mandal. According to U.Kothapalli Sub-Inspector K. Partha Sarathy, the incident occurred when the four youth were taking bath and attempted to venture into the deep sea at the beach. “Two boats have been deployed to locate the body,” said police. A pall of gloom descended on the village on Monday. The police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-feared-drowned-at-ukothapalli-beach/article31619606.ece
19 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor girl found dead in East Godavari||A 17-year-old girl on Monday allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a fan hook at her residence under Amalapuram town police limits in East Godavari district Amalapuram Town Sub-Inspector L. Deva Sudha said, “The girl has resorted to the extreme step reportedly unable to cope with the depression as her parents have been living separately for the past five years. Previously, the girl had expressed her concern over the issue with the family members.” Ms. Deva Sudha said that the girl had ended her life on Monday morning after her mother and brother have left for their daily work. The locals and family members have found her hanging in her residence by afternoon.The girl was studying senior Intermediate. Those suffering from suicidal tendencies can dial the police at 9502947778 (Disha police wing).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minor-girl-found-dead-in-east-godavari/article31619605.ece
19 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ammonia leak from ice factory creates panic||Ammonia gas leak from an ice factory at Visveswarayapuram of Malikipuram mandal in East Godavari district created panic on Monday. Scores of families fled from their houses due to fear. However, there was no casualty as per the latest reports. East Godavari district fire officer Ch. Ratna Babu said the leak was reported around 6.30 p.m. while the crew was preparing to resume the operations following relaxations in the lockdown. The unit, identified as Sri Venkateswara Ice factory, supplies ice for the aqua industry in Amalapuram and its surrounding areas. Ammonia has leaked from three cylinders, each containing 50 kilos of the gas. As many as ten cylinders were in the factory at that time. “The leak has been plugged with the support of ONGC. However, people from surrounding villages have been evacuated as a precaution,” said Mr. Ratna Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ammonia-leak-from-ice-factory-creates-panic/article31619601.ece
19 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Search continues for the elusive tigress||Armed with tranquilliser guns and rifles, an army of 110 men sifted through plantations and vegetation at Vadasserikkara in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district from 8 a.m. on Monday for a stray tigress, only to return empty-handed in the afternoon following downpour. It was the 12th day of search and for the last six days there has been no sign of the big cat. The tigress, which killed a man at Vadasserikkara and made a cattle kill, gave the slip to the team. Yet, the perambulation has been widened from the area where it killed a rubber tapper a few days ago to the place where it was reportedly last found. “There is the possibility of the tiger returning to the interior forest. Camera traps will be set up on the forest border and surveillance stepped up,” said Arun Zacharia, forest veterinarian leading the team. A group of tribespeople familiar with the terrain form the front-line of the search team followed by a few rifle-wielding men. They have prop guns too to scare animals away. Veterinarians Zacharia, K. J. Kishore Kumar, Shyam Chandran, who have tranquilliser guns with them, form the next layer, followed by a support group. On an average, the team covers around 15 km by foot. The pug marks and other information indicate that it is a female, aged around 5 years. Photo shot by drone “The plan is to tranquillise the animal. The protocol set by the National Tiger Conservation Authority in dealing with such animals in such situations will be strictly followed,” explained Dr. Kumar. “Its unjust to call it a man-eater. It could be a stray animal which accidentally entered human habitations. All that we have is her drone picture captured from a height of 500 metres,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/search-continues-for-the-elusive-tigress/article31619138.ece
19 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deportees from Bahrain quarantined||A total of 127 Indian deportees from Bahrain who were brought to the Cochin international airport at Nedumbassery by a special Gulf Air flight on Sunday have been shifted to the naval quarantine facility at the School for Naval Airmen, said a press release from the Press Information Bureau. The deportees were transported from the airport to the facility by special KSRTC buses under the aegis of the Ernakulam district administration. As per the directives of the Government of India, the deportees are to be quarantined initially at a military base — at Kochi Naval Base — where they would be regularly monitored by trained naval health professionals. After the mandatory 14 days’ quarantine period, the deportees would be handed over to the care of State agencies for further transfer to their home stations. The Navy’s 200-bed quarantine facility here was set up in March 2020 and has been serving as a transit quarantine camp for naval personnel returning to Kochi for duty after leave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deportees-from-bahrain-quarantined/article31619130.ece
19 May 2020||KURNOOL / ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. fleecing power consumers: left parties||Members of the Communist Party of India and CPI (Marxist) Kurnool and Anantapur district units held demonstrations against the burden imposed on power consumers and demanded new bills be generated based on old slabs. Communist Party of India (Marxist) Kurnool district Secretary Kommireddy Prabhakar Reddy and Communist Party of India former mLA M. Abdul Gafoor, participating in the dharna, alleged that power bills had been inflated and due to clubbing of the bills for two months, the slabs had increased leading to higher tariff. Displaying some of the bills, Mr. Prabhakar Reddy alleged that these consumers were getting Rs. 600 to Rs. 700 a month, but this time they had got Rs. 3,000 or more . When contacted, Kurnool APSPDCL Superintendent Engineer Bhargava Ramudu said that the tariff had increase only for those who had consumed above 500 units a month and in the highest category it had gone up by 90 paise from Rs. 9 to Rs. 9.90, while in all other slabs, the increase was very minimal and does not lead to substantial increase in the bill amount. “We had last taken reading by March 12, hence the current bill for many was a combined bill for two months and they were perceiving it as though it was for a month. The total power consumption has been divided pro rata for two months and charges calculated on monthly slabs basis. People should not compare their consumption with their February bill, but their April, May 2019 bills for a comparison,” said the SE. Demonstrations were also held in Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam, where left parties opposed the power reforms announced by the Centre ultimately leading to privatisation and encroaching upon the rights of the States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-fleecing-power-consumers-left-parties/article31619158.ece
19 May 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB gets down to business; liquor seized in huge quantity||The Andhra Pradesh police had a tough time in preventing illegal sand and liquor smuggling from Telangana. Few days after the government announced creation of State Enforcement Bureau (SEB), the police seized thousands of liquor bottles being smuggled into the State. The government has shifted 3,304 employees to the newly created SEB and directed the bureau to act tough against the liquor and sand smugglers. The Dachepalli police seized 1,846 bottles of liquor worth about Rs. 6 lakh, being smuggled from Telangana through Krishna River. A car has been seized and two persons of Chinna Agraharam village, Pidiguralla, have been arrested, according to Guntur Rural Superintendent of Police (SP) Ch. Vijaya Rao. The Krishna district police formed special teams and conducted drives to prevent Illicitly Distilled (ID) liquor and sand smuggling. They confiscated 15 kg of alum, about 100 kg of jaggery, 542 litres of ID liquor and destroyed 21,480 litres of jaggery wash. Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu has said that mobile parties, check-posts and pickets have been set on the borders under Mylavaram, Tiruvuru, Vissannapeta, Nandigama, Chandarlapadu and other police station limits and police have been directed to check each and every person and vehicle crossing the borders. “Many villagers were caught while smuggling liquor bottles on two-wheelers through fields and small lanes in villages from the adjoining villages in Khammam district,” the SP told The Hindu on Monday. In the last eight days, police seized nearly 8,000 liquor bottles of different brands, worth about Rs. 25 lakh, seized 160 two-wheelers and 15 cars, booked 300 cases against liquor smugglers and arrested 450 persons in three districts. Sand mining With regard to sand mining and smuggling, police booked 57 cases against the smugglers, mostly under Water, Land and Trees (WALTA) Act, 2002, and seized 61 tractors, two lorries and 19 other vehicles. As many as 352 tonnes of sand has been seized, according to Mr. Ravindranath Babu. The Jangareddygudem Excise police seized 280 liquor bottles, being smuggled from Jeelugumilli from Telangana. They arrested 14 persons and seized eight motorbikes. Meanwhile, Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang, along with SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal, reviewed the situation on the steps being taken to prevent ID liquor, sand and liquor smuggling, with officers of all districts after constitution of the bureau. Surprise checks Meanwhile, SEB Additional Superintendent of Police Vakul Jindal conducted surprise checks on AP-Telangana border at Garikapadu checkpost. The police took three persons into custody, seized one car, a bike and 55 liquor bottles from their possession. The surprise checks will continue on the State borders, Mr. Jindal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-gets-down-to-business-liquor-seized-in-huge-quantity/article31619428.ece
19 May 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central team inspects health infrastructure in Masula||The two-member Central team on COVID-19 on Monday inspected and documented the preparedness and containment measures being adopted to prevent the spread of coronavirus in Machilipatnam. The team, comprising Dr. Vivek Adish and Dr. Ruchi Gelang, has observed the quarantine facilities, at the District Government Hospital (DGH) and testing facilities to detect the new cases. By Monday, the town has witnessed seven COVID-19 cases and one death. The District Medical and Health authorities and the DGH doctors explained the containment measures, deployment of field-level staff for a door-to-door health survey in the containment zones, and availability of infrastructure such as test kits and beds. The police led by Bandar DSP Mehaboob Basha gave a demonstration on the vigil in the red and containment zones through drones in Gandhi Nagar and Chilakalapudi areas of the town. The team inspected the Varalakshmi Polytechnic College which has been turned into a quarantine centre. Municipal Commissioner S. Sivarama Krishna explained the role of ward volunteers and Secretariat staff in implementing the guidelines in containment zones to prevent the spread of the COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/central-team-inspects-health-infrastructure-in-masula/article31619582.ece
19 May 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore continues to see steady rise in cases||There was no respite for Nellorians from COVID cases as seven more persons, who came into contact with traders in Koyambedu market in Chennai, tested positive in the district in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, Ongole reported a case of a 24-year-old person who had returned from Maharashtra. With this, the number of active cases rose to four in Prakasam district. Sullurpeta, which has turned into a COVID-19 hotspot in SPSR Nellore district accounted for six new cases. The seventh patient was from Manubolu, near Gudur, health officials said. The tally in Nellore district has risen to 158, while the number of active cases stood at 52 following discharge of 10 patients on recovery during the period. As many as 508 persons were quarantined, according to a health bulletin released by the district administration. Meanwhile, a steady stream of migrant workers were seen going to their hometowns by various means of transport, including cycles and trucks, on the Chennai-Kolkata highway. A group of workers hailing from Madhya Pradesh urged the district administration in Nellore to arrange for their travel to Bhopal. Food distributed Revenue officials provided food for 35 workers on the outskirts of Ongole, near the Pace College of Engineering and also arranged for their travel. The workers, who had embarked on a journey of pedalling all the way to their home, happily put their cycles on top of the bus and resumed their travel. Meanwhile, activists of the CPI(ML) New Democracy arranged food for a group of migrant workers from Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-continues-to-see-steady-rise-in-cases/article31619169.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre notifies Karnataka judge’s appointment||The Ministry of Law and Justice on Monday notified the appointment P. Krishna Bhat as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court, almost four years after his name was first recommended by the Supreme Court collegium. A Law Ministry notification said Mr. Bhat has been appointed for two years. Additional judges are usually appointed two years before being elevated as a permanent judge in the High Court. The Supreme Court collegium had first recommended Mr. Bhat, then a District and Session’s Court judge, in 2016. However, the government did not act on the recommendation as a woman law officer gave a written complaint against him to the then Chief Justice of India (CJI), T.S. Thakur. Justice Thakur got an inquiry done by the then-Karnataka High Court Chief Justice Subhro Kamal Mukherjee, who found the complaint to be ‘without any basis.’ The Law Ministry, however, again wrote back to the then CJI, Dipak Misra, for a ‘fair and proper inquiry’ after the woman law officer alleged she was being summoned to Mr Bhat’s residence at ‘odd hours’ on the pretext of official work. In October 2019, the Collegium reiterated its recommendation and the government accepted it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-notifies-karnataka-judges-appointment/article31619139.ece
19 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mobile tracking helps police rescue man||The Ongole Taluka police managed to prevent a man from ending his life by tracking his mobile phone and reaching his house in the nick of time here on Monday. Police said that the man had called up his brother in a depressed state, and said that he was thinking of taking the extreme step. The man’s brother then frantically rung up the police and sought help. An IT core team of the police then swung into action and began tracking the person’s mobile phone and found that the person was living near Thoravagunta on the city outskirts. Soon, sleuths led by Circle Inspector M. Lakshman made a frantic search and found the person in an unconscious state in a farm near Thoravagunta. He was found to have consumed poison in a bid to end his life. Police rushed him to the Government General Hospital where doctors immediately attended to him. The man’s brother Sriman Narayana profusely thanked the police for their timely action. Those battling suicidal thoughts are urged to call the 100 helpline for free counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mobile-tracking-helps-police-rescue-man/article31619170.ece
19 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala set to allow public transport, outdoor activity||Kerala appears poised to gradually edge away from COVID-19 lockdown restrictions on Monday with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan permitting limited resumption of outdoor activity, public transport, retail trade, and sale of alcohol. Mr. Vijayan did not specify when the relaxations would kick in. When pressed, he merely said ‘soon.’ The relaxation of regulations in the fourth phase of the lockdown, albeit rather sparsely, offers the prospect of some measure of social freedom to citizens who have remained cooped up indoors mostly since March 24. People could now get back to work, open their businesses, go for morning walks and cycling, shop in supermarkets, visit beauty parlours and hair salons, travel on buses, taxis and autorickshaws within their district, and buy liquor as takeaways from bars, private member clubs and State-owned outlets. Banned activities However, gymnasiums, public parks, beaches, weekend leisure destinations, swimming pools, cinema halls, shopping malls, dine-in facility at restaurants and team sports would remain shut until further notice. Mr. Vijayan said a surge in persons eager to savour the long-denied outdoors would not augur well for the State’s containment strategy. Worries loom The State feared new flare-ups as more Keralites arrived from abroad and other regions in the country. Hence, it would impose the lockdown restrictions mandated by the Union government strictly, he said. Own towels Hair salons should not administer cosmetic treatment to clients. Customers at barbershops should carry their own towel and wear masks. They should not entertain more than two customers at a time or switch on the air-conditioner. Sunday lockdown The government would lock down the State on Sundays. Only essential service personnel and those in dire need of medical attention could travel. On other days, non-essential business establishments should shut shop by 7.30 p.m. Hotels could give parcels till 9 p.m. and deliver food home till 10 p.m. The police would impose a curfew from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. on weekdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-set-to-allow-public-transport-outdoor-activity/article31619131.ece
19 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yellow alerts in 9 districts of Kerala||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued yellow alerts in nine districts for Tuesday, indicating that the pre-monsoon showers would continue to be active over Kerala. Yellow alerts signal the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall (6.4 cm to 11.5 cm in a 24-hour period). The alerts have been issued for Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, and Malappuram. The other districts can expect light to medium rainfall, according to a Monday evening update by the IMD. The IMD has reiterated its warning that thunderstorms accompanied by lightning are likely in the State till May 21. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea as there is a likelihood of strong winds blowing from the northwesterly direction along and off the Kerala coast and Lakshadweep. The IMD had forecast that the pre-monsoon showers are likely to last till May end in Kerala. From March 1 to May 14, Kerala has received its normal quota of summer showers. For Monday, the national weather agency had issued yellow alerts in 13 districts except Thiruvananthapuram. By evening, Thiruvananthapuram, which too had received copious showers, was added to Monday’s list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yellow-alerts-in-9-districts-of-kerala/article31619133.ece
19 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Locals get a chance to buy laddus||After a long gap, the authorities have resumed the sale of the famed and a favourite of everyone, Srivari laddus. The laddus had been sold for three days at the employees’ counter located behind the administrative building, but as the counter witnessed heavy rush, it was shifted on Monday to ‘Srinivasam’ pilgrims accommodation complex, where special counters and queue lines are readied. On getting the information, people made a beeline to the counters to receive their favourite and sacred delicacy. The big and small laddus are priced at Rs. 200 and Rs. 50 each, while the vada is sold for Rs. 100. As intra-district movement of vehicles has been eased under the lockdown 4.0, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) got the sale counter shifted to ‘Srinivasam’, so that at least the locals from across the district could relish their favourite ‘Prasadam’. This exercise is also considered a rehearsal ahead of the full-fledged functioning of the kitchen and the extensive sale of other ‘Prasadams’ once the kitchen gears up for their preparation. As Sri Venkateswara temple at Tirumala remains closed for public due to the lockdown for nearly two months, the TTD had stopped preparing the laddus for pilgrims. But since the laddus are to be offered every day to the presiding deity, they continued preparing the sweet in small quantities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/locals-get-a-chance-to-buy-laddus/article31619172.ece
19 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recovered nurse offers to donate plasma||A healthcare worker at the SVIMS superspecialty hospital was discharged from the State COVID hospital on Monday, as she tested negative after a fortnight-long stay and treatment at the isolation ward. As the staff nurse was found infected with COVID-19, it initially spread panic among the medical and paramedical fraternity, lab technicians and sanitary workers rendering service in the sensitive zone, but the persistence exhibited by the patient and determination of the supporting staff ensured her full recovery and finally, her discharge. SVIMS Director B. Vengamma and Medical Superintendent Ram announced that she would have to undergo home quarantine for two weeks and join duty later. As a warm gesture, she announced her willingness to donate her plasma for the plasma therapy to be taken up by SVIMS soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recovered-nurse-offers-to-donate-plasma/article31619173.ece
19 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC suffers Rs. 700-crore loss during lockdown||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has suffered a loss of about Rs. 700 crore due to the lockdown, said Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani). The government was giving priority to the safety of the public than the losses, and the State government would take a decision on increasing fares, the Minister said. “During the global health emergency, the APSRTC had suffered losses. But government is more concerned about the public health and COVID-19 protocol will be followed to prevent the spread of the virus,” Mr. Nani said. Following the directions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the corporation is planning to resume its operations shortly within the State. Public were requested to travel in emergency cases only by following the norms, he said. The Minister thanked the RTC employees who extended services during the pandemic for shifting migrant labourers, transporting agriculture and horticulture produce and other essential goods. He promised job security for all the employees.  1.15 lakh migrants transported The APSRTC operated about 3,935 buses to shift migrant workers to railway stations from different places in the State, and transported 1.15 lakh migrants since April 27, said Executive Director (ED-Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy. “RTC will continue to run buses to shift migrant labourers from all depots. We will follow the instructions of the government in this regard,” Mr. Reddy said. Meanwhile, thousands of migrant workers reached the Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS) on Monday. The stranded workers requested the RTC officials to arranges buses to reach their native States. The corporation officials said that safe transportation would be arranged for all the migrant workers stranded in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-suffers-rs-700-crore-loss-during-lockdown/article31619603.ece
19 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||City airport set to receive foreign returnees||The Vijayawada airport has made all arrangements to receive foreign returnees headed to their native places in the State starting May 20. According to the airport Director G. Madhusudhana Rao, the city airport in Gannavaram was scheduled to receive four flights on three days – two flights on May 20 and one each on May 23 and May 27. On May 20, the first flight via Mumbai would land at the airport by 6.45 am and around 10 pm the second flight from Jeddah in Saudi Arabia. On May 23 another flight from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia and on May 27 a connecting international flight from New Delhi would bring in natives of various districts in and around Krishna district. Arrangements Explaining the process of receiving the passengers, Mr. Madhusudhana Rao said that passengers would be provided masks and sanitisers at the apron area immediately after they alight the flight and they would have to undergo thermal screening after filling self-declaration forms. Asymptomatic passengers would be sent to the reception counters established by the district administration where they would be provided with a mobile SIM card followed by the installation of Aargoya Setu application, he said. The passengers would have to select one of the paid quarantine and institutional quarantine after which they could board a bus meant for their respective district. They would be quarantined in their respective districts, said Mr. Madhusudhana Rao. COVID Care Centre Symptomatic passengers would be isolated and counselled by the Health Department officials at the airport. They would be taken to COVID Care Centre (local quarantine centre) in the district after completion of immigration and customs formalities. The airport is equipped with automatic sanitiser dispensers, markings on the floor to ensure social distancing and other measures, Mr. Madhusudhana Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-airport-set-to-receive-foreign-returnees/article31619577.ece
19 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pothireddypadu not detrimental to TS interests’||The Andhra Pradesh Water Resources Department (WRD) has informed the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) that the execution of the Pothireddypadu head regulator project will not harm the interests of Telangana as the drawls are within the allocations made to the respective States. While giving an assurance to that effect, the department has complained that the Telangana government is constructing several projects that will jeopardise the interests of Andhra Pradesh when it comes to meeting the drinking water requirement of Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts. Despite repeated pleas by Andhra Pradesh to the KRMB and Central Water Commission (CWC) to prevail on Telangana to ensure that no Detailed Project Reports (DPR) are placed without taking the recommendations made by the KRMB into account and obtaining necessary approvals from the Apex Council, the neighbouring State is going ahead with several projects, the WRD pointed out. In a letter to the KRMB, the WRD stated that Telangana has several outlets and pump houses for drawing water from Pothireddypadu at a level of 800 feet and it can also draw 42,000 cusecs for power generation from a level of 796 feet. “Such moves will deprive Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts of both drinking and irrigation water,” the letter said. On the other hand, for Andhra Pradesh, full drawls can be achieved above 881 feet only and the drawls will keep falling from level of 881 feet to 854 feet and drops to 7,000 cusecs at 854 feet. Moreover, the scope for full drawl through Pothireddypadu head regulator is available for 15 days at best on an average in a year. As such Andhra Pradesh is unable to draw its share of water in the available short period, the WRD officials argued. The WRD also said that the planning of new projects planned by by A.P. and Telangana is to be recommended by the KRMB, the CWC and the Apex Council as per the A.P. State Reorganisation Act, 2014.  ‘TS flouted norms’ “However, Telangana has flouted the norms and since the bifurcation, the government has undertaken five projects —Palamuru-Rangareddy, Dindi, Bhakta Ramadas and Tummilla lift irrigation schemes, apart from the water grid project which is based on the surplus water, envisaging utilisation of 150.53 tmcft of Krishna waters without allocations by the Krishna Waters Disputes Tribunal-I and clearances from the KRMB, the CWC and the Apex Council. These projects are affecting the interests of the lower riparian State (A.P.),” the WRD said. Scrutiny of project sought Besides, Telangana has enhanced the scope of Kalwakurthi and Nettempadu lift schemes and Srisailam Left Bank Canal without prior approvals. The Telangana government should be made to place the DPRs of all the above projects before the KRMB, the CWC and the Apex Council for scrutiny, the WRD appealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pothireddypadu-not-detrimental-to-ts-interests/article31619597.ece
19 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delay in blood supply may affect thalassemics’ health||Hanuma Nayak, an agriculturist from Jettipalem village under Rentichentala mandal of Guntur district, is a worried man. Both his grandsons Deva Pratap Nayak (11) and Anji Nayak (9), have turned anaemic. The little boys throw up whatever he feeds them due to indigestion. “This is due to a delay in blood transfusion,” said Mr. Nayak, informing that the two boys are thalassemic and explains how the lockdown has caused a delay of over a month that has resulted in a deterioration of their health. Every fortnight, the boys are taken to Hyderabad for blood transfusion as that is the only way to keep their health ‘normal’. But this time, he is waiting for official permission to visit a blood transfusion centre in Vijayawada, thanks to SAPTHA Foundation (Support and Awareness for People with Thalassemia) and a hospital called Thalassemia Daycare Transfusion Therapy Centre. Established by Sarath Babu Voggu, thalassemia patients visit this place for blood transfusion. Life is difficult for people who inherit this blood disorder that reduces the production of functional haemoglobin (the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen). This causes a shortage of red blood cells and low levels of oxygen in the bloodstream, leading to a variety of health problems. “It is difficult to find blood donors during the lockdown period. The ones who are coming forward are being asked to undergo an ‘observation’ period of 14 days,” said Mr. Sarath Babu, adding that in view of the plight of the thalassemia patients, the officials should evolve a mechanism to bring down waiting times. “They could conduct the COVID-19 tests on them and allow those who test negative to donate blood,” he suggested, reminding that thalassemia patients need fresh blood. The National Blood Transfusion Council, which works under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, has said that activities of blood collection and voluntary blood donation should be allowed to meet blood requirements. Citing its directives, Mr. Sarath Babu said that authorities concerned should act on this with haste. “The 14-day period is being insisted keeping in view the COVID-19 guidelines. We do not want to put thalassemia patients at risk. We are in talks with the district administration and after getting its nod, we will allow people who test negative for COVID-19 to donate their blood immediately,” said Usha Rani, Additional District Medical and Health Officer (AIDS, Leprosy). May 8 is International Thalassemia Day that calls attention to issues faced by people suffering from this blood disorder. This year’s theme is ‘The dawning of a new era for Thalassemia: Time for a global effort to make novel therapies accessible and affordable to patients’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delay-in-blood-supply-may-affect-thalassemics-health/article31619576.ece
19 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hundreds board spl train to northeastern States||Hundreds of migrant labourers hailing from northeastern States and stranded in the State since the beginning of the lockdown arrived at the Rayanapadu Railway Station to board special trains for their hometowns. Around 1,550 people who had booked their tickets on the first Shramik Special Train leaving for the North-East were given a warm send-off by Director General of Police Gautam Sawang, Collector A. Md. Imtiaz and senior officials on Sunday night. The train will reach Jirbaum station in Manipur on Tuesday. DGP Gautam Sawang, who hails from Arunachal Pradesh, was delighted to interact with migrant labourers hailing from his home State. “I take a lot of pleasure and satisfaction in sending the migrants back to their home States on a special train,” he said. Mr. Sawang interacted with migrants from Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Meghalaya. The migrants thanked the DGP, Collector and railway officials for the travel arrangements. “I was born in Assam and bought up in Arunachal Pradesh. I did my schooling mostly in Manipur, Tripura and Delhi, and completed college in Chennai. My wife Shilloi Sawang is from Nagaland,” Mr. Sawang said. The DGP, who is conversant in Assamese, Bengali and Hindi, spoke with many migrants in their language at the railway station, and enquired about food and other arrangements. “There are quite a few students from Assam, Manipur and Nagaland who are pursuing nursing and para-medical courses in A.P. There are also many employees working in different companies and as security guards. They are known for their simplicity and integration,” he said. “The migration shows the unity and diversity of our country. I thank Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the Centre for supporting the migrants and arranging for transportation to reach their home States. Many people from the North-East are still stranded in A.P. at different places and one more train has been planned,” the DGP said. “I served in Telangana, A.P. and Chhattisgarh and also as United Nations Police Commissioner, but not in my home State. I felt happy to meet the people from North-Eastern States and helping them in the ongoing crisis,” Mr. Sawang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hundreds-board-spl-train-to-northeastern-states/article31619586.ece
19 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lawyers' union condemns notice to SCBA members||All India Lawyers' Union (AILU) national secretary N. Srinivasa Rao condemned the notice of disciplinary action issued by the Bar Council of India (BCI) to Supreme Court Bar Association(SCBA) president Dushyant Dave and other office bearers/executive committee members. He stated in a press release that the notice was arbitrary, whimsical and beyond the scope of the BCI and observed that it (BCI) would proceed against advocates expressing their dissent against persons attempting to rob the judiciary of its independence and those raising their voices against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Srinivasa Rao demanded that it (BCI) should withdraw it's purported notice in the best interests of the Bar and judiciary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lawyers-union-condemns-notice-to-scba-members/article31619578.ece
19 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Chalk out plans for stimulus package’||Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney has asked the officials to effectively implement the stimulus package announced by the Central government as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. “At the same time, priority should also be accorded to the Navaratnalu, the flagship programme introduced by the State government. Chalk out plans and prepare estimates on the possible allocation of funds to each department. Take the necessary steps that benefit people,” said Ms. Sawhney while addressing a preliminary meeting on State Level Committee (SLC) meeting on Monday. The Chief Secretary said that a detailed discussion on each department would be done in the next meeting. Principal Secretary (Finance) S.S. Rawat made a power point presentation on the benefits the State would get under the stimulus package. Special Chief secretary (Agriculture) Poonam Malkondaiah, Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj and Rural Development) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi, and others also made presentations on their respective departments. SLBC convener Nancharaiah and others were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chalk-out-plans-for-stimulus-package/article31619592.ece
19 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JAC urges govt. to pay full salary to employees||The Amaravati chapter of the A.P. JAC of Employees, Teachers, Workers and Retired Employees Associations has submitted a memorandum to Chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, seeking the release of full salaries for May (payable in June) to all employees and the contract workers. The JAC also wanted that orders be issued to pay the 50% deferred salaries for two months (March & April), saying that the employees were facing financial crisis. JAC chairman Bopparaju Venkateswarlu said that the government had issued orders deferring the release of 50% of the salaries to all government employees and pensions to retired staff. Further, the orders were modified to exempt the health employees, police personnel and sanitation workers working in rural and urban local bodies. Financial crisis “All employees and contract workers are facing difficulties to make their ends meet owing to the deferment of salaries for two months. They need to pay school and college fees, electricity bills, house rents and loan instalments and etc,” said Venkateswarlu. The JAC also pointed out that during the meeting conducted with the employees’ associations, the government had informed that 50% salary deferment would be only for a month. “However, the deferment continued for the second month, causing agony to the employees,” said Mr. Venkateswarlu. He urged the Chief Minister to issue orders to release the full salaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jac-urges-govt-to-pay-full-salary-to-employees/article31619593.ece
19 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Distribution of seeds for kharif begins||The State government has made arrangements for distribution of seeds to farmers at village secretariats for the ensuing kharif season. The distribution began on Monday, Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu said. About 8 lakh quintals of seeds would be distributed this season. The seeds would be supplied based on the e-crop booking to farmers, he said. Arrangements have been made to supply 5,07,599 quintals of groundnut seeds and 2,28,732 quintals of paddy for the kharif. Also, the seeds of fodder and other crops would also be supplied. As part of the scheme, 88,215 quintals of sesbania (jeeluga in local parlance), jute, and phaseolus trilobus, a kind of green gram used as fodder (pilli pesara) would also be distributed.  “The government will extend a subsidy of Rs. 500 per quintal of 13 varieties of paddy. Also 50% subsidy on fodder and other crops, and 40% subsidy on groundnut will also be given,” said the Minister, adding that the price list would be displayed at the village secretariats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/distribution-of-seeds-for-kharif-begins/article31619595.ece
19 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pilot project works on land demarcation resume||Director of Survey, Settlements and Land Records N. Prabhakar Reddy has stated that the pilot project works at Takkellapadu village have resumed. The Continuously Operating Reference Stations (CORS) pilot project works had come to a halt due to the lockdown. The survey works would be completed as per schedule. The objective of the survey is to fix boundaries for each landholding. Mr. Prabhakar Reddy said that as the Takkellapadu village falls under green zone, the resurvey pilot project works were resumed again. As part of the resurvey, the old records would be measured and recorded. The government was not collecting any fee from farmers to survey their lands. Andhra Pradesh would be the first State in the country to use advanced technology to survey land. It would be the first State to use advanced technology to survey the lands, he said. Given the accuracy, the exercise will help minimise land disputes . The government launched the Continuously Operating Reference Stations (CORS) project in Krishna district. The pilot project was expected to be completed by March-end this year, and another two to three years to complete a resurvey of the entire State. The survey helps find a permanent solution to issues relating to extent of land, disputes relating to boundaries and ownership rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pilot-project-works-on-land-demarcation-resume/article31619598.ece
19 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman held for ‘false’ comments||The Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Monday arrested a woman named P. Ranganayakamma in Guntur for allegedly posting false comments against the State Government regarding the L.G. Polymers gas tragedy on a social media website. The role of another man named M. Raghunath is being probed.  Case registered Police registered a case and served a notice on the woman under Section 41-A of the CrPc. An investigation is under progress. “Action would be taken against those who post false comments against the State Government and misguide the public,” the CID police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-held-for-false-comments/article31619589.ece
19 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanna seeks review of SC verdict on teacher posts||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has urged the State government to file a petition in the Supreme Court seeking a review of its judgment on the appointment of teachers in the Scheduled areas. It may be noted that the government of the unified Andhra Pradesh had issued a G.O. some two decades ago, guaranteeing 100% reservation to Scheduled Tribes (STs) in the appointment of teachers in schools in Scheduled areas. However, the apex court declared the G.O. as unconstitutional last month. Letter to CM In a letter to the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday, Mr. Lakshminarayana pointed out that the G.O. was issued after considering the fact that teachers belonging to outside areas were not showing interest to work in the schools located in tribal pockets and they were also unable to understand the culture and traditions of the tribal folks. Besides, the then government had reached the conclusion that local candidates would be more committed to the interests of the children hailing from tribal communities. The government should, therefore, plead with the Supreme Court to review its verdict, he suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kanna-seeks-review-of-sc-verdict-on-teacher-posts/article31619599.ece
19 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||90% of cases in Vizag are asymptomatic: Collector||The district has so far recorded 76 COVID-19 positive cases, of which 85-90% are asymptomatic, District Collector V. Vinay Chand told The Hindu on Monday. “These are cases in which the patients showed no symptoms but yet tested positive for coronavirus. They were fast to recover when kept under normal symptomatic treatment and discharged. In fact, the 12 cases that we discharged in the last two days were mostly such cases,” Mr. Vinay Chand said. In total, there have been 37 discharges and one death so far in the district. Lockdown 4.0 Talking about ‘Lockdown 4.0’, the Collector said that there will not be any major changes, and that status quo will continue till May 31. The only change is that it is now up to the State Government to declare red, orange and green zones. While Visakhapatnam was declared as an orange zone by the Union Government in Lockdown 3.0, there was a spike in the last 15 to 20 days during which the rate of transmission has doubled, he said. By the end of April, the number of positive cases was close to 30, which has now shot up to 76. “It is now up to the State Government to take a call on the colour codification,” Mr. Vinay Chand said. According to him, the guidance given by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will be followed with some additions from the State Government. “But there is no change as far as the containment zones are concerned. Everything will be under lockdown in the notified red zones, except for supply of essentials,” he said. In Visakhapatnam, there are about 29 containment zones as of today. The curfew from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m, will also continue and in non-containment zones, the standalone shops will remain open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. What’s allowed Inter-State travel will be regulated and will be opened only for migrants and stranded people and essential services staff such as medical personnel, with consent between both States. Inter-district travel will be allowed only for emergency needs. E-commerce firms can deliver non-essential items to red zones and from now on and restaurants will be permitted to operate kitchens for home delivery of food items, he said. He also said that marriage gatherings will have to strictly adhere to the protocol of social distancing, with only a maximum of 50 guests in attendance. For funerals, a maximum of 20 people will be allowed. No permission will be granted for social, political, religious, entertainment, academic and cultural gatherings and schools and religious places will also remain closed, Mr. Vinay Chand said. Regarding testing, the Collector said that it will be now more focused and that the emphasis will be on people with co-morbidities, children and people above 60 years and those with respiratory illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/90-of-cases-in-vizag-are-asymptomatic-collector/article31619616.ece
19 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Compensation paid to people affected by Vizag gas leak||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday deposited Rs. 10,000 in the accounts of each of the persons affected by the LG Polymers gas leak, thereby fulfilling his promise made to the people during his visit to the city. As many as 19,893 persons living in the affected villages were given compensation of Rs. 10,000 each. Interacting via video-conference with the officials, the Chief Minister assured the affected people that based on the panel reports, stringent action would be taken against those responsible for the gas tragedy irrespective of their position. Health card “We will issue health cards to these families to provide better health facilities and monitor their health for which village health clinics are going to be established,” Mr. Jagan said. He clarified that all the clearances and permissions for the company were given during the Telugu Desam Party regime and not a single order was issued by his government. “During the ONGC tragedy, we demanded the government to pay Rs. 1 crore ex gratia to the kin of the deceased but only Rs. 5 lakh was paid to them. We have given people who were put on ventilator Rs. 10 lakh, and Rs. 1 lakh to those who were treated for more than two days. Those with minor injuries received Rs. 25,000. He also said that within 10 days, not only the compensations were paid but 13,000 tonnes of styrene gas was shifted to the parent company in South Korea. The CM also said that investigation was under progress by the high-power committee constituted by the government and based on the report and other findings, strict action will be initiated against the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gas-leak-compensation-paid-to-affected-people/article31619135.ece
19 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag airport ready to receive ‘Vande Bharat’ flights||It was around noon on Monday and the terminal building at Visakhapatnam International Airport was abuzz with activity. It makes one think that whether the operation of flights has resumed. There was a small queue of passengers, awaiting their turn, outside the ‘entry’ gate at the terminal building complex. CISF personnel were seen checking the credentials of the 'passengers', albeit, without touching any of the documents. 'Passengers' were asked to stand in front of the camera, while holding their documents and pointing them towards the camera. The details as also the facial identity of the person were caught on camera and transmitted to the computer screen kept in front the CISF officials, sitting inside the terminal building. A similar ‘touch-free’ method was followed as 'passengers' proceeded for the baggage check and issue of boarding pass, even as Airport Director M. Raja Kishore, and CISF Deputy Commandant Sadiq Masih, were seen supervising the process. It was all a part of the trial run being conducted to test the preparedness of the staff with regard to implementation of the social distancing norms as Vizag Airport will receive four flights from different destinations between May 19 and 21 under ‘Vande Bharat’ scheme of the Union government to bring back Indian nationals, stranded in different countries due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19.Nearly 400 passengers are expected to come by the first two flights from Manila and Abu Dhabi, which will arrive here on May 19. One flight from Doha and another from Kuala Lumpur are expected to arrive with 150 passengers each, on May 20 and 22 respectively. “We are expecting to get clearance for another two flights from Kuwait. These flights will be operated by Jazeera airlines, while the other four flights will be operated by Air India. We have already made Vizag Airport a ‘touch-free’ one by leveraging the available technologies for screening of passengers,” Airport Director M. Raja Kishore, told The Hindu.   Quarantine “All the passengers coming by the Vande Bharat flights will be tested for COVID-19 on arrival at the airport. They will sent for compulsory quarantine either for ‘paid’ or ‘general’, based on their paying capacity. The quarantine will be done in the native district of the passenger,” said P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College. The cost of food and accommodation for those opting for hotels above 3-Star has been fixed at Rs. 35,000, for 3-Star at Rs. 28,000 and for budget hotels at Rs. 15,000 for the 14-day quarantine period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-airport-ready-to-receive-vande-bharat-flights/article31619609.ece
19 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Gas leak: action will be taken against company after receiving reports’||There will be no escaping for LG Polymers after the final report is tabled by the five-member expert committee that was constituted by the State government and that from the National Green Tribunal (NGT), said Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao. Based on the reports of the committees that are probing the styrene vapour leak from the chemical plant , action will be initiated, he said, addressing a press conference here on Monday. Referring to a question that the plant did not have the requisite environment clearance, he said that all angles are being probed and decision on harsher punishment, including shifting or closure of the plant, awaits the reports. He also accepted that as per the initial investigation, there is an indication of negligence on part of the management in plant operation. “We are tightening our case so that there is no element of doubts and they can (management) can slip away in the court of law,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao. The Minister also informed that apart from giving away Rs. 1 crore to the family members of the deceased and Rs. 1 lakh to the people who were hospitalised and Rs. 10 lakh to those who were put on ventilators, cash relief to the tune of Rs. 20 crore has been given away to the affected people. “Based on enumeration by the GVMC, about 19,800 people from 6,398 families from 17 affected villages have been identified and given Rs. 10,000 each. The State government has also distributed Rs. 8.75 lakh to those who have lost their cattle. And all these were done in a week’s time after the incident,” he said. The Minister also said that job will be provided to at least one dependant from the family of the deceased. NEERI report GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that the GVMC has already conducted two tests on the Meghadrigedda reservoir water and have found that there is no contamination. “But we will start drawing only after receiving the final report from the NEERI (National Environmental Engineering Research Institute). We are also awaiting the report on groundwater from the NEERI,” she said. Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena, who is one among the five-member team, said that investigation is in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gas-leak-action-will-be-taken-against-company-after-receiving-reports/article31619613.ece
19 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU stages protest at RTC RM’s office||CITU district president R.K.S.V. Kumar has demanded that the State government withdraw its circular issued on the termination of ‘outsourcing workers’ in Public Transport (APSRTC). The CITU staged a protest outside the RTC Regional Manager’s Office here on Monday. Addressing the participants, Mr. Kumar said that the circular had stated that the services of 6,200 outsourcing workers across the State would be terminated. The Transport Minister, following protests, had told the media that no one would be removed from their jobs. However, when the outsourcing workers reported at the bus depots, the Depot Managers were telling that they had no written orders on the assurance given by the Minister.  Job security He sought job security and payment of wages for the lockdown period. Staff and Workers Federation Union honorary president N. Rajendra Prasad was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-stages-protest-at-rtc-rms-office/article31619607.ece
19 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more case reported in Vizag||One more positive case was reported in the city on Monday. A 28-year-old woman from Dibbapalem in Dandu Bazaar area tested positive. With this total number of cases went up to 76 and of them 38 are active cases and 37 discharged. There are two more suspected cases in the district which are likely to be notified in a bulletin on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-more-case-reported-in-vizag/article31619604.ece
19 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. fleeced power consumers: Left parties||Leaders of the Left parties on Monday staged a dharna at the CPI(M) district office opposing hike in power tariff. The government that assured power supply for three months even if bills were not paid in the wake of the lockdown, stealthily brought in the new tariff and resorted to levy of reconnection charges, the leaders alleged. They also opposed the power reforms announced by the Union government ultimately leading to privatisation and encroaching upon the rights of the States. CPI(M) district and city secretaries K. Lokanadham and B. Ganga Rao respectively, CPI city secretary M. Paidiraju, Y. Kondaiah (CPI ML- New Democracy) and Ganesh Panda (CPI ML) participated. In Srikakulam, CPI district Secretary S.Narasimhulu, CPI(M) Secretary Bhaviri Krishnamurthy and others organised protest. CPI leaders P.Krishna and Neelakanteswara Yadav submitted a memorandum to electricity department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-fleeced-power-consumers-left-parties/article31619610.ece
19 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Help extended to the needy in Vizag||Several residents of the city have come forward to help those in need during the lockdown. Managing Director of Jyothi Group Kaasi Viswanatha Raju and O. Naresh Kumar of Symbiosis Technologies have helped several sections of people who lost their livelihood. A total of 2.85 lakh food packets were distributed with the help of BJP cadres and volunteers during the three weeks. Besides, over 25,000 bananas, 25,000 buttermilk sachets and 2,000 hygiene kits, each consisting of one set of brush and paste, shampoo and soap, coconut oil and comb, shave foam and razor were given away. When the styrene monomer leak occurred at LG Polymers, essentials were distributed among the victims and their attendants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/help-extended-to-the-needy-in-vizag/article31619611.ece
19 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC disposes of PIL by two law varsity students||A public interest litigation by way of writ petition was filed by two students of the Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University(DSNLU), before the Andhra Pradesh High Court to consider the plight of students across universities in the State due to the lockdown imposed to contain COVID-19 pandemic. The petitioners — Anurag Tiwary and Keshav Baheti — appealed to the court to consider the economic/social and mental impact on COVID-19 on students in the State. The PIL was heard by a Division Bench of the High Court with the sitting judges being Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice K Suresh Reddy. It was the first hearing before the court on Monday. From the side of the petitioners, argued about the urgency of the situation and sought interim relief from the court, at least for the final year students in the State whose fees and exams should immediately be done away with as the majority of them survive on agriculture as it forms 65 % of the economy of the State and they have become most vulnerable in the status quo. The High Court, passed an order stating that the petitioners must immediately approach the competent authority and seek remedy. Once that fails, the court will be competent enough to intervene in the matter. We will now be approaching the Vice-Chancellor of DSNLU and seeking remedy for the grounds mentioned within a reasonable time period. If the demands aren’t met, we will approach the High Court again, said Mr. Keshav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-disposes-of-pil-by-two-law-varsity-students/article31619174.ece
19 May 2020||Wayanad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wayanad’s giant jackfruit eyes Guinness entry||A massive jackfruit, weighing over 52 kg and 117 cm long, is eyeing to enter the Guinness record book. The fruit was found in a private plantation at Kappattumula here in Kerala. The 52-kg ripe fruit, with a circumference of 77 cm, attracted the attention of residents who plucked it carefully and informed panchayat officials. As on date, the world’s heaviest jackfruit, according to the Guinness, came from India. It weighed 42.72 kg and was 57.15 cm long with a circum-ference of 132.08 cm.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wayanads-giant-jackfruit-eyes-guinness-entry/article31619140.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helping hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/helping-hand/article31619588.ece
19 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||BJP president accuses officials of being partisan||Bharatiya Janata Party State president Bandi Sanjay on Monday accused authorities of favouring one section of society as well as targeting his party workers and leaders in the State. He cited the instances of the alleged false case registered against youths of one section of society at Bhainsa town in Nirmal district as well the manhandling of the BJP district president of Nagarkurnool in another incident, to buttress his accusation. Mr. Sanjay addressed media here after meeting victims of the recent communal incident in Bhainsa town. He demanded that the government to prove its sincerity by taking action against the police officers in the district responsible for partisan attitude and foisting of false cases. The BJP president accused the police of beating up an innocent minor youngster in the Bhainsa case. He spoke of a conspiracy of authorities in collusion with a political party to drive away one community from the town like Kashmiri Pandits were driven away from Jammu and Kashmir. Mr. Sanjay also cited the instance of police manhandling the Nagarkurnool BJP unit president Sudhakar Rao in the issue pertaining with sweet lime marketing. He said the video records clearly showed that the local police had manhandled and verbally abused the BJP leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-president-accuses-officials-of-being-partisan/article31619441.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Home isolation for very mild positive asymptomatic cases||Telangana government has decided to home-quarantine asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic COVID-19 positive patients with very mild infection, subject to certain conditions. In accordance with the revised guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on May 10, the government has issued orders to implement the home isolation of positive patients as a pilot in Hyderabad district. According to sources, the apartment complex in Madannapet where 23 persons tested positive for the infection has been chosen for implementation of the pilot, and 11 persons have been already home-quarantined. As per guidelines, very mild or pre-symptomatic patients having the requisite facility at residence for self-isolation and quarantine of family contacts alone will have the option. They may continue at home even if they develop mild symptoms. Caregiver should be available 24x7, with communication link to the hospital. The Hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis may be given to the care giver and all close contacts of such cases, as per protocol and prescribed by the treating medical officer. Aarogya Setu app should be downloaded on mobile phone by the patients concerned, and should remain active all the time. An undertaking will be taken from the patient for self isolation and adherence to quarantine guidelines. The patients may be taken to hospital in case he or she experience severe symptoms such as difficulty in breathing, pressure in chest and mental confusion. Home isolation may end after 17 days of onset of symptoms or date of sampling for pre-symptomatic cases, provided there is no fever for previous 10 days. The guidelines include detailed instructions for patients as well as care givers. The State government is said to have issued additional instructions for home isolation of patients only if they are between 10 and 50 years of age with good immune response. Unabated spread Meanwhile, community spread of COVID-19 continues unabated in the Southern part of the city, with fresh cases surfacing in places such as Jiyaguda, Kurmaguda, and Dhoolpet areas. In Dhoolpet, virus spread from a single patient to about 13 persons during a family event. According to sources, the index case was from a family with relatives in Jiyaguda. The patient did not report the illness for long despite symptoms and was confirmed positive recently. Contravening the home quarantine norms, the family organised an engagement function the very next day, which was attended by close to 150 persons. The authorities could so far trace 38 persons, of whom 13 persons tested positive for the virus. Attempts are on to trace the remaining too, several of whose phones are switched off, sources said. The number of cases in Jiyaguda is said to have touched 100, with a wholesaler of meat testing positive along with three members from his family and three from his watchman’s. In Kurmaguda area too, about 10 fresh cases surfaced on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/home-isolation-for-very-mild-positive-asymptomatic-cases/article31619405.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Durgam Cheruvu cable-stayed bridge to be ready by July- end||The first-ever cable-stayed bridge of the city at Durgam Cheruvu, which is as much publicised for its aesthetic value as for its commute facility, might be opened for traffic by July-end. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development, K.T. Rama Rao tweeted a video clip of the bridge on Monday, and captioned it saying, “The world’s largest extradosed cable-stayed bridge in concrete across Durgam Cheruvu lake in Hyderabad is getting ready for inauguration soon.” and hash-tagged it as #HappeningHyderabad. Civil works of the bridge have long been completed, and the job of installing side railings and architectural lighting were in progress, when works had to be stalled owing to the spread of COVID-19. L&T Constructions, the agency carrying out the project work as part of the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP), stopped the work even before the lockdown was imposed throughout the country in order to curtail the spread of novel coronavirus, officials said. The bridge works has not progressed much since then, and it will take about a month’s time for the remaining works to be completed, they said. “After lockdown, the agency did not do any work citing its internal policy. After continuous persuasion, the work restarted slowly two to three weeks ago,” an official informed. Since then, part of the road work has been completed. Lighting too has been installed partially, and a few more finishing works are pending, which will need 30 working days, officials informed. For the bridge to be launched, however, the flyover under construction on Road No.45, Jubilee Hills needs to be ready, which may take more than two months’ time. Once complete in all respects, the cable stayed bridge will shorten the distance between Madhapur and Jubilee Hills and connect the Hitech city and Financial district with the rest of the city. It is also expected to ease traffic congestion on Road No. 36 and Madhapur. Length of the bridge alone is 426 metres, and coupled with approaches, it will reach up to 736 metres. Being constructed at a cost of Rs. 184 crore, the structure is being touted as the longest extradosed cable-stayed bridge in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/durgam-cheruvu-cable-stayed-bridge-to-be-ready-by-july-end/article31619423.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre’s economic package to States is statistical jugglery: KCR||Expressing his strong displeasure with the economic package announced for the States by the Centre, Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao termed it as an empty shell and a statistical jugglery. “This is not what we have asked,” said the Chief Minister in the media conference here on Monday. At a time when the global economy was impacted by the Coronavirus, States requested a package to put money directly into the hands of people. The Centre in its package increased the FRBM limit just by 2 % but with several conditions reflecting a feudal and authoritarian attitude towards the States in violation of the spirit of cooperative federalism. The 2% hike in FRBM would enable the State to raise Rs. 20,000 crore additional loans to be repaid by the State itself. How could it be considered a special package for State. The FRBM hike was given with several conditions. The States would have to fulfil five reforms — power reforms, market committee reforms and municipal reforms to increase taxes, ease of doing business and one nation and one ration card. They would let States borrow an additional Rs. 5,000 crore but later they would have to fulfil the reforms and for each one such reform implemented, States would get additional Rs. 2,500 crore. “These conditions are laughable and people will understand the deceptive package announced by the Centre. Centres brought down its own dignity by announcing this ‘fake’ package,” he said. “As State government, I feel pained. This is nothing but an attempt to ride roughshod over the States. A big blow to the concept of Cooperative Federalism. This attitude is not desirable as States are being treated as beggars,” Mr.Chandrasekhar Rao said. Not subordinates He said that State governments were not subordinates and they are Constitutionally elected governments with more responsibility towards people in their States and accountable to the people. He also said that share of States in Central tax devolution was a constitutional condition and right of the State. But Centre was collecting money in the form of cess from people instead of tax and depriving States of their rightful share in Central taxes. The CM made it clear that the State would not implement power reforms and it would rather let go of that additional Rs. 2,500 crore. “Telangana is a progressive State and it already achieved three of the five reforms and is a leading State in Ease of Doing Business,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centres-economic-package-to-states-is-statistical-jugglery-kcr/article31619438.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC to resume services from today||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) will resume services on Tuesday but city buses will stay off the roads as will inter-State services, said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Mr. Rao was speaking to the media on Monday at Pragathi Bhavan where he said that resumption of bus services will begin at 6 a.m. He clarified that there would be no inter-State buses, while services within the State will be operational. On the operation of TSRTC services, he said buses coming from districts would stop at Jubilee bus station in Secunderabad. They would, however, not be allowed to reach Imlibun or Dilsukhnagar bus stations which are either located in the containment zones or in their vicinity. The same restrictions would be applicable for private buses, but restrictions on the movement of people and vehicles would continue as it is after 7 p.m., the time when the curfew would start, he said. The Chief Minister said that while the Centre has accorded permission for inter-State bus services, due to the number of cases in neighbouring States, Telangana has decided not to go ahead with this. However, bus services will have to end operations before 7 p.m. Exemptions for valid reasons will be given, he addded. Earlier in the day, before the Cabinet meeting, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar chaired a meeting with TSRTC Managing Director Sunil Sharma and executive directors. The meeting also deliberated how social distancing should be implemented in buses and bus stations. Discussions touched upon reduction in passengers permitted per bus. For instance, a 48-seater bus will be permitted to have 22 to 24 passengers on board. In line with the CM’s announcement, entry without masks will be barred. Further, conductors will carry sanitisers, which will be administered to passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-to-resume-services-from-today/article31619421.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ESIC Medical College sets up 300 beds for COVID patients||The ESIC Medical College, which will soon turn four, has joined forces with the Telangana government to tackle COVID-19 by readying 300 beds exclusively for treating suspect cases at Erragadda. Earlier, it had about 738 beds, including 479 general beds and 188 ICU beds, said dean M. Srinivas. “We decided to assist the government to prepare for the expected spike in patients in the coming days. We have converted our existing hostel rooms into COVID-19 isolation rooms and also mobilised manpower with quite a few recruitments. Our role will come into play only after the existing government facilities like Gandhi Hospital and others become full, but we are ready,” he explained, in an exclusive interaction. The college, which bagged the best ESIC college in the country award a few months ago, has converted the existing hostels for boys, girls and nurses into COVID-19 isolation rooms for meeting any exigency. Ventilator capacity has been increased to 110 by procuring 50 more and process has been initiated for another 40 ventilators. The dean said requisite training is being given to frontline staff such as doctors, nurses and other para-medical staff on safe hand hygiene, donning and doffing of personal protection kits, wearing and disposal of masks, disinfection policies, handling patients and also bio-medical waste as per the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines. ESIC College-Hospital has about 100 ICU beds and is in the process of adding another 50 in the next few days along with establishment of negative room pressure technique. This technique helps prevent cross-contamination from room to room by not allowing the air inside to escape outside due to the low pressure being maintained than the surroundings, explained Dr.Srinivas. The college is already a beneficiary recipient of DRDO products like most modern bio-safety lab for testing and other sanitising machines. It is also collaborating with IIT-Hyderabad to design a rapid test for detection of coronavirus, new formulations with nanotechnology to trigger immunity and developing nanocoated facemask. Other projects are immunotheraphy for COVID-19 with National Institute of Pharmaceutical Educational Research, COVID-19 diagnostics with Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, wearable real time cardio-monitoring machines with ECIL, projects on oncology and psychosocial health with BITS-Pilani, Hyderabad. Workshops on meditation with ‘Art of Living Foundation’ and few other projects with Indian Institute of Public Health and University of Hyderabad are also under way, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/esic-medical-college-sets-up-300-beds-for-covid-patients/article31619398.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Oman nationals fly home||The Rajiv Gandhi International Airport saw one repatriation flight for Omani nationals stranded here. Another one is expected from Muscat, Oman, later in the evening. About 28 passengers were transported to Mumbai at about 7.12 a.m., and from there they were airlifted by an Air India Express flight to Oman, informed an official spokesman on Monday. All departing passengers were serviced through the fully sanitised Interim International Departures Terminal (IIDT) as per all safety protocol in place. Thermal screening Special screening and safety measures were in place during the flight’s handling to protect against COVID-19 threat, including thermal screening prior to terminal entry, mandatory social distancing enforced through special queuing arrangements at all passenger processing points. So far, the airport has handled 14 departure evacuation flights facilitating over 1,000 foreign nationals stranded here to various countries. The airport has also handled nine arrivals flights under ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ first phase facilitating close to 1,500 Indian citizens from various foreign destinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oman-nationals-fly-home/article31619410.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||After staffer’s death, SBI local head office campus evacuated||An estimated 1,000 employees of various State Bank of India (SBI) facilities located in the sprawling Local Head Office campus of its Hyderabad Circle, in Koti area here, were evacuated on Monday after an employee of one of the branches there succumbed to COVID-19. A man in his fifties, the deceased was an employee of the Commercial Branch on the campus and died earlier in the day at Gandhi Hospital. According to SBI sources, the man had last reported for work on May 12 and since he was not looking well, others told him to go home and seek medical help. He had visited the dispensary on the campus a few days later and thereafter got admitted to the Chest Hospital with suspected pneumonia. From there, he was shifted to Gandhi Hospital, where he died. Confirming that the employee had died of COVID, SBI Hyderabad Circle Chief General General O.P.Mishra said on receipt of information of his demise, around 1,000 employees of the various facilities on the campus were evacuated. The campus was sanitised. A deep cleaning of the campus will be undertaken on Tuesday and as a result only a few essential staff were likely to be asked to report for work. Around 70 employees of the Commercial Branch had been asked to undergo home quarantine for 14 days. Customers of the branch will be served by the Industrial Finance Branch in Somajiguda until further notice, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-staffers-death-sbi-local-head-office-campus-evacuated/article31619427.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||First terminating train arrives||The first terminating train on South Central Railway (SCR), Train no. 02438 New Delhi – Secunderabad AC superfast special train, which departed New Delhi on May 17 at 4 p.m., arrived at Secunderabad Station at 1.45 p.m., bringing 528 passengers on Monday. It is the first weekly special train service between New Delhi and Secunderabad, which was announced by the Railway Ministry. The entire station was cleaned and disinfected to ensure healthy premises for the safety of passengers.  Thermal screening was done for passengers alighting from the special train at the station. Sanitisers were made available for the benefit of passengers and proper markings were done on the platform areas for guiding passengers to practice social distancing while at the station. Thorough check was done to ensure that all passengers are wearing face masks/face cover, informed an official spokesperson. The government medical and health teams at the station collected addresses and phone numbers of the arriving passengers with the advice for asymptomatic passengers for a 14-day mandatory quarantine. District Collectors too are being sounded about the arrival of the passengers in their respective districts. General Manager Gajanan Mallya complimented the officials and staff of Secunderabad division for making arrangements for safe handling of passengers. However, in the absence of public transport and autos, most passengers had a tough time to reach their respective destinations as taxis were scarce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/first-terminating-train-arrives/article31619426.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC bench recuses from hearing petition||The writ petition challenging hike in fees of medical post-graduate courses took a turn on Monday with a bench of Telangana High Court Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and K. Lakshman recusing itself from hearing it. The petition was placed before the Chief Justice for adjudication. Observing that people and lawyers of Telangana State were well aware of its credibility and conduct, the bench gave a point-wise rebuttal of the allegations made by Telangana Admission and Fee Regulation Committee (TAFRC) chairman Justice P. Swaroop Reddy in the order. The TAFRC chairman filed a memo before the bench on Friday seeking to list the petition before any other bench of the High Court. He cited a slew of reasons for his request. In the memo, he said that judging from a series of circumstances he was of the opinion that Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao ‘is highly prejudiced against Telangana State, Telangana people and particularly TAFRC’. He maintained the petition was posted before a single judge. He further stated that he was informed that the petition got again posted before the bench comprising Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao though the subject was related to fee hike and had nothing to do with medical admissions. In the order on Monday, the bench explained that it had sought a copy of the detailed reasons based on which TAFRC recommended the fee hike when the petition came up for hearing on Thursday. The TAFRC counsel gave undertaking to file it by next day. On Friday morning, however, he forwarded only a copy of the table of fees to the bench around 10.15 a.m. and eventually sought adjournment of the hearing. Around noon, it was brought to the notice of the bench that TAFRC chairman filed a memo. “It is obvious that the memo was prepared long before 10.30 a.m. on Friday and was pressed into service conveniently to avoid furnishing information sought by the bench and avoid hearing of the matter before this bench,” the order said.  The bench said It would be difficult for any judge to adjudicate any case, if motives are imputed to judge after verdict announcement. There are several cases in which Telangana State or its entities succeeded before Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao. Both the judges of the bench were born, brought up and educated in Telangana State and lived for more than 50 years. The judge has no reason to have any hostility or favoritism to any individual, State or any party. Harsh language used by TAFRC Chairman in memo was unbecoming, not expected and goes beyond all levels of propriety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-bench-recuses-from-hearing-petition/article31619435.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Maxivision open for emergency care, tariffs slashed for the poor||MaxiVision has announced its emergency eye care services across Hyderabad, Warangal, Karimnagar, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam to avoid irreversible blindness in patients which are critical in nature and need timely medication. Vision threatening diseases like diabetic retina, glaucoma and hard mature cataracts need timely care to avoid irreversible blindness. MaxiVision is offering 50% slashed tariff to the poor for critical care services and free consultation to police, nurses, doctors and paramedics till May 31. Till date, only the Begumpet unit was being run under strict infection control processes with masks and gloves for all patients, entry-level thermal checks, hand sanitising, self-declaration forms and anybody with temperature spikes was sent back or referred to a physician. Safety standards Doctors and staff also had to follow safety protocols. Diagnostic equipment has acrylic visors to avoid any close contact and every equipment was wiped sterile and entire hospital fumigated after the day’s operations, a press release said. With the government permitting emergency services, units at Somajiguda, Madhapur, ASR Nagar, Kukatpally, Chandanagar, Vijayawada, and Visakhapatnam are also open. Appointments Patients will have to fix an appointment to avoid crowding and waiting, come with minimal attendees, wear mask and gloves, and also cooperate in all entry processes like thermal check and self-declaration forms. Patients can contact 93901-10000 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maxivision-open-for-emergency-care-tariffs-slashed-for-the-poor/article31619400.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Provide information on COVID status in Nirmal, Suryapet: HC||Telangana High Court on Monday sought to know from the government about the availability of COVID-19 testing laboratories in each district of the State where people can get themselves checked. A division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, passing the interim direction, asked the government if it had any plans to introduce mobile testing laboratories in the State like in Kerala. Hearing a PIL petition, the bench wanted to know to what extent coronavirus diagnostic tests were conducted in different parts of the State. Testing data sought Advocate General B.S. Prasad was asked to file a report on those points. Referring to the petitioner’s contention that tests were stopped in Suryapet district, the bench asked how many persons were subjected to COVID-19 tests in Suryapet district. It also wanted to know if such tests were stopped in the district after April 22. In another PIL plea, the bench directed the government to file a report on the status of coronavirus spread in Nirmal district, which was declared as green zone.  It also sought information on the number of people on whom tests were conducted since April 22. The bench instructed the Nirmal district Collector to ensure physical distancing rule was complied with in all areas of the district. A close watch should be kept on migrant workers in the district, especially those who had come from Maharashtra. It asked the government if all migrants entering the district were being subjected to tests and also being quarantined. Both PIL petitions were posted to May 26 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/provide-information-on-covid-status-in-nirmal-suryapet-hc/article31619399.ece
19 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man stabbed to death in Asif Nagar||A 25-year-old man was stabbed to death when he tried to stop a drunken brawl between two persons at Asif Nagar on Sunday night. The victim, Shravan Kumar, an auto trolley driver, was consuming liquor on the terrace of a house in Huda colony. “When two persons, Bikshapathi and Chintu, picked up an argument after consuming alcohol. Bikshapathi was manhandled,” police said. Later Bikshapathi left the place and brought his brother Sai Ganesh to take revenge on Chintu. The duo attacked Chintu with a hockey stick and knife. “While Kumar tried to solve the issue, the brothers stabbed him,” the police said.  One killed in accident Meanwhile, a 50-year-old person was killed and another suffered injuries after a lorry hit their scooter from behind at Khairatabad junction here on Monday. Saifabad police booked a case against the lorry driver and took him into custody. The victim was identified as Balaji, while the injured pillion rider was identified as Srinivas. They work at the Police Officers’ Mess in Masab Tank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-stabbed-to-death-in-asif-nagar/article31619413.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Crop colonies to be part of regulated farming||The State government is planning to introduce the concept of crop colonies as part of the regulated farming to be implemented from the coming Vaanakalam crop season itself. In a marathon videoconference held with district collectors and district officers of Agriculture and allied departments from Pragathi Bhavan here on Monday, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed the collectors and other officers to focus on agriculture itself for the next 15 days so that plans could be prepared on crop colonies as part of the new agricultural policy. According to officials who participated in the meeting, the Chief Minister told the District Collectors to ensure that every eligible farmer gets the Rythu Bandhu benefit being given by the government at Rs. 5,000 per acre before the commencement of the next agricultural season so that they could use the amount for farming operations. On capacity building and scaling up infrastructure including farm mechanisation, the Chief Minister instructed the Collectors to identify lands for the construction of ‘Rythu Vedikas’, farmers’ platforms or Rythu Bandhu Samithi offices-cum-meeting halls. The construction of such vedikas, have to be completed in four-five months. Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy, Rythu Bandhu Samithi Chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, Agriculture Secretary B. Janardhan Reddy and others attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crop-colonies-to-be-part-of-regulated-farming/article31619431.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rythu Bandhu to be given to farmers for 70 lakh acres of cotton||The Telangana government on Monday unveiled its strategy to extend Rytu Bandhu, the investment support scheme for agriculture, only to select crops over specified acreage on the expected 1.35 crore acres of cultivable area across the State. At the prospects of good monsoon and stepped up irrigation facilities due to completion of projects, the Cabinet at its meeting decided to mandate farmers to grow cotton in 70 lakh acres to be eligible to access Rythu Bandhu. Cotton which was previously a rain-fed crop in the State and considered the best in the country alongside Vidarbha will now be promoted under projects and bore wells as the net yield due to availability of water was expected to increase to 15 to 20 quintals an acre and net income Rs. 50,000 an acre. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao told a media conference after the meeting that it was also decided to wean away farmers from maize in the rainy season but let them cultivate the crop in winter season to reap the benefit of government assistance. The farmers could cultivate paddy over 40 lakh acres like last year though it fetched them only Rs. 25,000 per acre with a yield of 25 quintals an acre. The government reserved the right to specify varieties of paddy that farmers should grow. An announcement on the acreage of permitted maize area for winter crop would be made at the beginning of the season. It was felt maize was not fetching the minimum support price of Rs. 1,760 in rainy season. However, the crop’s yield was high in winter when its demand from the poultry industry would also increase. After 70 lakh acres for cotton and 40 lakh acres from paddy, Mr. Rao said the balance 25 lakh acres would be distributed between red gram, vegetables, turmeric, soyabean and mango orchards. The government will purchase the entire quantity of red gram at MSP as its demand was high. The farmers will not be entitled to Rythu Bandhu if they deviated from these crops and acreage. A meeting will be held shortly to finalise the cropping pattern district-wise. He added that the PJTS Agriculture University was asked to develop a rice variety with the size of the grain at 6.5 mm to meet international standards and fetch good returns for farmers. The ‘sona’ variety of Telangana will be promoted in 10 lakh acres. The government was committed to finding a permanent solution to requirements of farmers so that they themselves decided their future course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rythu-bandhu-to-be-given-to-farmers-for-70-lakh-acres-of-cotton/article31619439.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More Basthi Dawakhanas to be inaugurated soon||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao has directed officials to increase fogging and spraying activities to fight seasonal diseases, and asked them to ensure intensive sanitation and anti-larval spraying in high-risk areas. Along with Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Monday, Mr. Rama Rao held a review meeting on containing seasonal diseases in Hyderabad in preparation for the oncoming monsoons. He asked them to use floating trash collector machines to clean water hyacinth in lakes, and to set up an instant repair team to fix potholes on city roads. Convergence meetings should be conducted at circle-level with departments concerned, and financial powers should be given to deputy commissioners to act swiftly on emergency works, he said. Zonal commissioners have been asked to take stock of the situation in the respective zones, by involving public representatives and corporators, and additional fogging machines should be arranged to take up anti-larval spraying once in every five days and five times in a month. It is the responsibility of the Deputy Commissioners to conduct awareness programs on seasonal diseases such as dengue, malaria, and chikungunya, in coordination with colony and apartment associations from Tuesday onwards. The minister emphasised on following physical distancing in these meetings. Special equipment should be used for de-silting the nalas where necessary. The nalas should be barricaded and also sign boards should be kept near manholes to avoid accidents. He asked them to take up cleanliness drives in the open plots, and to charge the plot owners for the same. He issued directions for shifting of the construction debris to the processing plants at Jeedimetla and Fathullaguda. A total of 44 new Basthi Dawakhanas or neighbourhood clinics will soon be inaugurated in addition to the existing 123, he said. Minister Eatala Rajender conveyed his appreciation to Mr.Rama Rao and the municipal officials for their relentless work for containing the spread of COVID-19 during the past two months. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, Deputy Mayor Baba Fasiuddin, MA&UD Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar, HMWSSB MD Dana Kishore and GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-basthi-dawakhanas-to-be-inaugurated-soon/article31619414.ece
19 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cyberabad police launch health care services app||Cyberabad police on Monday launched T-Consult, a health care services mobile app, in association with Telangana Information Technology Association. Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar said, “With the T-Consult app, Cyberabad police is first in the country to have access to telemedicine and e-doctor facilities. As part of this, various medical specialists will list out the time slots during which they will be available for tele-consultation. People can seek an appointment online.” Following the tele-consultation, the prescription will also be sent to the patients concerned online.  As part of T-Consult, various medical specialists will list out the time slots during which they will be available for tele-consultation. V.C. Sajjanar, Cyberabad Police Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cyberabad-police-launch-health-care-services-app/article31619402.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Centre should offset STU loss’||A trade union of the TSRTC has appealed to the Centre to offset losses accrued by the State Transport Undertakings (STUs), including that of the TSRTC, by announcing a package that would keep them afloat. TSRTC Employees Union general secretary K Raji Reddy, who was one of the co-conveners of the Joint Action Committee during workers’ the agitation, said that on account of the COVID – 19 outbreak and the subsequent suspension of bus service, the transport juggernaut has incurred heavy losses. He said that it is likely that upon resumption of services, physical distancing norms will come into play, thus seeing a reduction in passengers and continuation of losses. The TSRTC EU urged the Centre to earmark a support package of a total of Rs. 50,000 crore for all STUs across the country. This package should be divided among States depending on the number of buses and operational capacities. This, the TSRTC EU reasoned, would keep the STUs afloat. The Centre should exempt exercise duty on diesel and the State govt. should waive off VAT and Motor Vehicle Tax, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-should-offset-stu-loss/article31619419.ece
19 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||US citizen’s last rites performed||The last rites of the 42-year-old US national, who was found dead on the hillocks near Gandipet on Sunday, were performed at Mahaprasthanam on Monday. The victim, Paul Robert Little John, suffered fatal injuries after his neck got hit by the handle of the cycle when he accidentally slipped from the hillocks while climbing down, Narsingi police said. His headgear got crushed in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/us-citizens-last-rites-performed/article31619412.ece
19 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Six held for pilferage of diesel||With the arrest of six persons, the Rachakonda police on Monday busted a gang involved in stealing diesel. They seized over 20,400 litres of diesel and other incriminating material worth Rs. 13.87 lakh from their possession. Acting on a tip-off, the sleuths of Special Operations Team, along with Medipally police, raided the diesel pilferage unit at IDA Cherlapally. The accused were involved in stealing diesel from IOC and BPCL diesel tankers to make a fast buck. The arrested are Katanguri Suresh Reddy, Nakka Sirinu Babu, Mandadi Chinna Reddy, Peddi Venkatesh, Mohammed Salahuddin and Mandal Subhash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/six-held-for-pilferage-of-diesel/article31619411.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Reject MLC nomination papers’||Telangana State BJP party urged the Chief Election Commissioner to reject nomination papers of K. Kavitha, ex-MP and daughter of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, for suppressing facts in her affidavit filed for MLC post in Nizamabad district. City president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao said that the Nizamabad district BJP president has written a letter to Chief Election Commissioner recently detailing about under valuing of her assets in the information furnished by her in her affidavit. “We urge the EC to disqualify Kavitha for furnishing false information,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reject-mlc-nomination-papers/article31619436.ece
19 May 2020||KHAMMAM/ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Eight Mumbai-returned workers test positive||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Mancherial district jumped to 17 on Monday with seven more migrant workers from Mumbai testing positive. The total number of migrants hailing from the district who had tested positive stands at 16; the other one is a local resident. According to officials, the migrant workers who arrived from Mumbai a few days ago were sent to the Bellampally isolation centre and Mandamarri quarantine. Those who tested positive were admitted to Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad for treatment. Meanwhile, in Khammam, a 42-year-old migrant worker, who had returned from Mumbai to Mahadevapuram, his native village in Madhira mandal, on Thursday, tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday night, prompting vigorous action by the health machinery to curb the spread of virus in the village. 52 quarantined The patient was shifted to the Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad in an ambulance on Sunday night and as many as 52 of his primary contacts were moved from Mahadevapuram to the State-run quarantine facility near Khammam on Monday morning. Around 20 migrant workers reached the village from Mumbai in a private bus on May 14. All of them were home quarantined for the stipulated period upon arrival, sources said. However, seven of them fell sick subsequently. The health teams on surveillance duty sent their samples for COVID-19 tests. Of the seven samples, one returned a positive result on Sunday. All the eight COVID-19 positive cases that were reported in the district so far turned negative and all the eight patients have already returned to their homes from the dedicated COVID hospital in the State capital, fully recovered, sources added. With the detection of the fresh case, district health authorities have deployed as many as 10 medical teams to conduct a door to door survey in the village that has a population of more than 220, as per the directions of Collector R.V. Karnan. Additional Collector M. Snehalatha and District Medical and Health Officer Malathi on Monday visited Mahadevapuram and took stock of the measures to curb the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eight-mumbai-returned-workers-test-positive/article31619408.ece
19 May 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||RFCL likely to go on stream from June 15||Stage is all set for commercial production of fertilizers at the Ramagundam Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited (RFCL) from June 15, tentatively, following the completion of pre-commissioning works and trial run of the newly installed plant with technologies from Denmark and Italy for the production of Ammonia and Urea. Though the RFCL had planned to start production from March 31, it was delayed due to the lockdown from March 22. Sensing the importance of fertilizers for the farming community, the Union Home Ministry had exempted the RFCL from the lockdown in the month of April and directed the authorities to resume the pending works and commissioning of the project by strictly adhering to the social distancing norms, wearing of masks and use of sanitisers etc. Similarly, the State government had also accorded permission to the RFCL for the execution of the pending works to start the commercial production of fertilizers to meet the demand of the farmers during the ensuing kharif season under the brand name of ‘Kisan’ fertilizers. Following the government orders, RFCL Executive Director Rajan Thappar and General Manager Vijay Kumar Bangar and other officials had ensured the safety of the labour force and the employees while discharging their duties. The RFCL has around 750 regular staff and another 2,000 outsourced employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rfcl-likely-to-go-on-stream-from-june-15/article31619443.ece
19 May 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||BMS launches agitation against privatisation of coal sector||Opposing the Union government’s decision to privatise the coal mines, the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has launched a three-day agitational programme in the Singareni Collieries Company Limited from Monday. The BMS trade union leaders staged a protest at the union office in Godavarikhani on Monday condemning the Centre’s decision. They have decided to stage protests by wearing black badges on Tuesday and submit memorandum opposing privatisation of the coal sector to the general managers of respective SCCL mines on Wednesday. Singareni Coalmines Karmika Sangh (affiliated to BMS) president Kengerla Mallaiah said that it was not fair on the part of the Central government to privatise the coal sector and cause unrest among the coal miners. Demanding that the government withdraw the proposed move to privatise, he threatened to intensify the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bms-launches-agitation-against-privatisation-of-coal-sector/article31619445.ece
19 May 2020||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||Harish Rao faults Centre conditionalities||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao questioned the rationale behind imposing conditions for taking loans while increasing the limits under Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. The Minister was participating in distribution of essential commodities to the poor and in a review meeting with industries representatives here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-rao-faults-centre-conditionalities/article31619416.ece
19 May 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two killed in road accident||Two persons were killed in a road accident that took place at Kardanoor in Patancheru mandal on Monday under BDL police station limits. According to the police, two motorcyclists Bhoopalan and Ashok hit each other resulting in serious injuries. They died while being shifted to hospital. BDL police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-in-road-accident/article31619417.ece
19 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Workers of automobile firm walk to work||Around a hundred workers of Shivam Autotech Ltd., an automobile firm in Binola village, had to walk nearly 30 km to work on Monday after the company refused to provide them transport citing financial constraints. More than a week after the company resumed operations with a limited workforce on May 11, the management directed all workers, including the contractual staff, to report to work on May 18, but withdrew the transport facility. The firm’s human resources deputy general manager, Anshuman Sharma, said that in order to adhere to social distancing norms, four times the normal number of buses were required to ferry the staff, and that the company could not afford it. He said the firm had been incurring losses for the past four years. Mukesh Kumar Yadav, the former general secretary of SATL Employees’ Union in the company, said those staying in nearby areas had been going to office for over a week now, but the company directed all employees to report to work on Monday. He said the company used to run buses to ferry workers before the lockdown, but asked the employees to come on their own on Monday. Mr. Yadav said the city buses and autorickshaws were not plying due to the lockdown and therefore the workers were not left with any choice but to walk.  Compromise reached Later, Mr. Sharma told The Hindu that a “verbal” understanding was reached between the company and the union late in the evening. He said the company had agreed to run the usual number of buses to ferry the workers and pay conveyance charges to the rest. Besides, the company also agreed to pay 60% wages to regular staff for the lockdown period and full wages to the contractual workers present in the city. However, the management decided on 20% cut in salary till the time the conditions improved. Mr. Sharma said the company had lost 60% of orders post resumption of operations and suffered a loss of Rs. 30 crore over the past two months, but its priority was to “survive” this phase. He also appreciated the workers’ union for their cooperation during this difficult time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/workers-of-automobile-firm-walk-to-work/article31619362.ece
19 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Auto drivers seeking financial help face govt. silence||Jagdev, an autorickshaw driver from Rajasthan, filled forms for distress ration card, seeking financial help for daily-wagers under the Haryana government schemes during the lockdown, but no help has come his way so far. He had to borrow Rs. 20,000 over the past two months to meet his expenses and things are getting difficult for him with each passing day. Staying in Indira Colony in Sector 52, Gurugram has been home for Jagdev, who hails from Jaipur, for the past 13 years. But the past two months have been the most difficult. “I applied for both schemes of the government promising free ration and monthly assistance of Rs. 4,500, but there has been no reply. I borrowed Rs. 10,000 from my family back home a month ago. I again borrowed Rs. 10,000 from a relative recently to pay my son’s college dues and online examination fee,” said Jagdev. The 46-year-old said he went out looking for passengers after the relaxations on May 4, but there was hardly anybody on the roads with metro, trains and buses not plying. Finding it difficult to make both ends meet, Jagdev wanted to go to his hometown, but decided to stay back since his son has to take exams online. Struggling to earn enough for two square meals a day, Manjur Alam, who hails from West Bengal, said his form for monthly financial assistance by Haryana government was rejected since he did not have a local identity proof. He also applied for distress ration card, but is still waiting to hear on it. “The migrant autorickshaw drivers are worst hit since they are neither eligible for Haryana government schemes nor can claim wages like those working with companies,” said Alam.     Haryana Auto Chalak Sangh president Mahavir Singh demanded that Haryana government pay Rs. 5,000 per month to the autorickshaw drivers on the pattern of Delhi government. He said he had written to Gurugram Deputy Commissioner in this regard, but there was no reply. “A majority of the autorickshaw drivers in Gurugram, Faridabad and Panchkula are migrants. Not able to make both ends meet, a few of them even left for their hometowns in their autorickshaws. While those belonging to Haryana have received help from the government, the migrant drives have suffered the most,” said Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/auto-drivers-seeking-financial-help-face-govt-silence/article31619369.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 cases in city cross 10,000 mark||A total of 299 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours taking the tally to 10,054, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. No deaths were reported in the past 24 hours but the toll was increased by 12 to 160 based on reports by the government’s audit committee. Of the 10,054 cases, 6,539 cases — or 65.03% — have been reported in the first 18 days of May, though the first case was reported on March 2. It took 13 days for the cases to increase from 5,000 (May 5) to 10,000. Of the total 10,054 cases, 4,485 people have recovered and there are 5,409 active cases. A total of 1,39,727 tests have been carried out so far and 2,250 COVID-19 patients are currently under home isolation. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has ordered hospitals not to take samples of the deceased to test for COVID-19. “No sample for COVID-19 test will be taken of dead body. However, if doctors are satisfied from clinical examination that the cause of death may be COVID-19, the dead body may be released as suspect COVID-19 infected dead body,” read a ‘revised order’ issued on Sunday by Secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department Padmini Singla. “Standard Operating Procedures will be followed for disposal of the dead bodies of COVID-19 patient/COVID-19 suspect person,” read the revised order. The Delhi government spokesperson said that other States were also not testing the deceased for the virus. “Many families were insisting for COVID-19 testing of dead bodies before cremation even if a person died at home, as they were scared. Now, if doctors say that the dead person could be a suspect case, following clinical examination, then the body will be treated as a COVID-19 case as per protocol for disposal,” the spokesperson said. The Delhi government on Monday issued guidelines to be followed in non-COVID treatment facilities if they find a suspected or confirmed COVID-19 case. Also, the Delhi Nurses Federation wrote to L-G Anil Baijal urging him to implement cashless treatment for Delhi government employees. A Delhi Jal Board (DJB) employee working at a zonal office in west Delhi’s Tagore Garden has tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Monday. “The worker, who fixes blocked sewers and water lines, tested positive on Sunday and is under home quarantine,” a DJB official said. Ten people who worked at the office have been directed to undergo quarantine and the Tagore Garden office has been shut for 14 days, read an official order. Meanwhile, up to nine employees of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation deputed at a dry ration distribution centre were ordered to be placed under home quarantine on Monday after one of their colleagues was found COVID-19 positive. All nine staffers will be tested, the distribution centre will be sanatised, and distribution will be temporarily suspended, read an order from the Education Department. Staffers from a nearby school have been directed to send their teachers to Adarsh Nagar to carry out dry ration distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-cases-in-city-cross-10000-mark/article31619365.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Migrants being herded like cattle: Delhi Cong. chief||Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar, a day after an FIR was filed against him for not following lockdown order in east Delhi, said that his resolve to serve poor migrant workers cannot be broken by the police. Mr. Kumar on Monday visited isolation centres at West and East Vinod Nagar in Patparganj Assembly constituency and said that migrant workers were herded like cattle without adhering to the lockdown rules like social distancing, personal hygiene and sanitised living conditions. ‘Govt. hiding failures’ “The Delhi government wants to keep migrant workers out of sight to cover up its utter failures in addressing the plight of these poor people,” Mr. Kumar alleged. He said that that due to overcrowding the workers have spilled over from the isolation centres on to the streets, with pregnant women lying near overflowing muck from dirty toilets, which was a serious threat to their lives. “The road from Press Apartments to Mangalam Hospital has been blocked by the Delhi government so that the pitiable condition of the migrant workers at the isolation centres could be hidden from the people and the media,” Mr. Kumar alleged. The Delhi Congress chief was visiting the area to offer food and refreshments to migrant workers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/migrants-being-herded-like-cattle-delhi-cong-chief/article31619359.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||Former Union Minister, AAP leaders detained||Former Union Minister Yashwant Sinha and Aam Aadmi Party leaders Sanjay Singh and Dilip Pandey were detained on Monday during a protest at Rajghat demanding migrant labourers be sent back to their States “with respect”.The leaders were taken to Rajinder Nagar police station and later released, said Sanjay Bhatia, DCP (Central). “We have just been arrested by the Delhi Police,” Mr. Sinha confirmed in a tweet. Mr. Pandey also took to Twitter: “We have been arrested by@DelhiPolicefrom Rajghat, while demanding, smooth passage, with dignity for migrants to their home towns, too much to ask? BJP’s police do not arrest the MP who promotes hatred, but arrested us all when we raised our voice for the rights of the workers.” The AAP leaders as well as RJD MP Manoj Jha were among several leaders who had joined Mr. Sinha at his protest. “Authorities have completely failed to solve the problems of migrant workers. For more than 50 days they have been walking. Armed forces and paramilitary should be given charge of the situation and these workers should be sent back to their homes in 48 hours,” Mr. Sinha told The Hindu. “These workers have been compelled to walk on the roads and they should be sent home with dignity,” he added. Mr. Singh alleged that the Centre had left the poor to die on the roads. “When the Railways have the capacity to carry more than two crore people a day, why not take the migrant workers back to their States?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/former-union-minister-aap-leaders-detained/article31619367.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||BJP blames city govt. for workers’ plight||The BJP on Monday blamed the AAP-led Delhi government for the plight of labourers migrating from the Capital every day. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, in a statement, argued that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government at the Centre had given 8 kg of wheat, 2 kg of rice and 1 kg of pulses for free to 72 lakh people in the city, but the Delhi government could not ensure that this reached the poor. “Only Rs. 6.5 crore were spent by the Delhi government on this ration. Union Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan himself said that only 1% of the ration issued by the Centre for the month of April was given by the Delhi government to the poor people,” Mr. Bidhuri stated. “The Centre is providing free ration to 72 lakh people of Delhi for three months,” he said. Mr. Bidhuri also said that the Union Railway Minister has announced the running of trains to send migrant labourers to their home States for which the Centre is paying 85% of the cost for operating trains, while the rest 15% is being given by the State governments where the workers are going on these trains. The Delhi government, he said, was not spending a single penny on this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-blames-city-govt-for-workers-plight/article31619357.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||SIT set up to probe all case of violence in JNU in January this year: Police to Court||The Delhi police on Monday told a court here that a Special Investigating Team has been constituted to investigate all the incidents of violence which took place at JNU in January this year in which students and teachers were injured. The incidents of violence had taken place on January 3, 4 and 5. Metropolitan Magistrate Vipul Sandwar was hearing a plea filed by Professor Sucharita Sen, who suffered head injuries during the attack on January 5, seeking registration of an FIR.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sit-set-up-to-probe-all-case-of-violence-in-jnu-in-january-this-year-police-to-court/article31619360.ece
19 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Forest biodiversity being destroyed, allege tribals||Tribals of Pidadamaha village in Daringbadi block of Odisha’s Kandhamal district have alleged that without the consent of their gram sabha, Forest Department officials were trying to destroy the biodiversity of traditional community forest near their village. About 90 tribal families living in Pidadamaha protect the community forest near their village. The forest has been providing livelihood to these tribals as it contains fruit-bearing trees as well as several other forest produce. According to ‘Jungle Adhikar Committee’ of the village, in the recent past officials from the Brahmanigaon forest range arrived in their village to press them to support commercial plantation in the community forest. The villagers alleged that the officials had also threatened to use police force. Inhabitants of Pidadamaha alleged that the Forest Department has not taken permission of the local gram sabha for the same. They have written to the authorities concerned in Kandhamal district on the issue. According to them, the department is planning to plant trees that will destroy the biodiversity of the forest near their village, affecting their livelihood.  Green Nobel Prize winner and environmental activist Prafulla Samantara has taken up the issue. Mr. Samantara has written to the Governor seeking his intervention. Mr. Samantara said as per his information, the officials have already cut several trees in the forest affecting its biodiversity. “Forceful commercial plantation without approval of the local gram sabha is against the Forest Rights Act, 2006. It is undemocratic unconstitutional action in a scheduled area,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/forest-biodiversity-being-destroyed-allege-tribals/article31619347.ece
19 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Zero FIR filed in migrant’s death case||A zero FIR regarding death of an Odia migrant worker, Satyaban Swain, due to alleged assault by personnel of Amroli police station in Gujarat’s Surat was filed at Bhanjanagar police station in Odisha’s Ganjam district. The FIR was lodged on Sunday by Santosh Swain, the brother of the deceased. According to Bhanjanagar police station inspector in-charge Sudipta Sahu, this FIR will be sent to Amroli police station in Gujarat for investigation. As per Mr. Santosh, his brother used to stay at Anjani Industrial Estate area in Surat. On May 14, Satyaban and two others went to collect train ticket, where they were allegedly lathi-charged by police. Later, a police team reached Satyaban’s room and beat him up. Satyaban was shifted to a local hospital, where he was declared dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/zero-fir-filed-in-migrants-death-case/article31619348.ece
19 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab rules out inter-State buses till May 31||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday directed the transport department to draft standard operating procedures for resumption of local bus movement in all but the containment zones, but ruled out inter-State bus services till May 31. Terming the danger of COVID-19 spread due to mixing of people with the start of the relaxations as the real test, the Chief Minister directed all departments to ensure close monitoring and strict adherence to all advisories. He asked the police department to be tough in ensuring social distancing and other necessary COVID-19 prevention protocols and to fine those stepping out without masks. Stringent protocol At a videoconference to review the novel coronavirus and lockdown situation in the State, the Chief Minister instructed the transport department to put in place stringent protocols for handling daily passengers taking point-to-point inter-State buses that will start plying after May 31. While making it clear that inter-State movement will be allowed only on special and Shramik trains at least till May 31, Capt. Amarinder said intra-State buses will start plying in a phased manner. Referring to the continued entry of migrants, NRIs and others via special trains and flights, the Chief Minister reiterated his earlier directions for strict adherence to quarantine rules. So far, 60,000 Punjabis had registered for return to the State, he said, adding that 20,000 NRIs were also expected to return. Capt. Amarinder said while Punjab was willingly sending back people, including migrants, from other States, spending Rs. 7.5 lakh per train, other States were not responding likewise and asking his government instead to arrange for ferrying Punjabis back from there. More than 2 lakh migrants out of the 11 lakh who had registered on the special portal created by the government have left the State, the Chief Minister said, and as many as 20 trains are departing from Punjab every day, with 15 scheduled for Uttar Pradesh and 6 for Bihar on May 18. He said while more trains were needed for Bihar, the State was not willing to take in people at this stage as their quarantine facilities were full.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-rules-out-inter-state-buses-till-may-31/article31619352.ece
19 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Rapid test kit results not satisfactory: Vij||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Monday said the COVID-19 tests being conducted by rapid testing kits of a South Korea-based company were not delivering satisfactory results. “This may be on account of malfunctioning of the kit or there may be a difference in the way we conduct the test. We are trying to talk to the company to find out what could be the shortcoming so that it could be resolved,” he said. “Earlier kits from China had come that were rejected by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Later, we purchased 50,000 kits from the South Korean company and placed orders for another one lakh such kits. We have been conducting tests but they are also not delivering satisfactory results,” he said. ‘Increased testing’ “Rapid testing kits can certainly be very useful. We have increased our testing through the Rapid Test Polymerase Chain Reaction and around 3,000 per million tests are being conducted daily in the State. If Rapid Testing Kits start delivering correct results then the number of tests could be escalated further,” he said. Mr. Vij said the State has a recovery rate of over 62%, which is far higher than 15% of the all-India rate, he said at a meeting with officials of the health department and members of the medical association. Speaking on the migrant labour issue, Mr.Vij that if the States concerned issue NOCs for receiving their people, Haryana can send the migrants to their homes within four days. ‘Coming from Punjab’ “Migrants are coming to Haryana from Punjab and it is the responsibility of Punjab to stop them and facilitate them. We have increased the number police personnel on roads bordering Punjab,” he said. Mr. Vij, added that he has, however, directed the Directed General of Police to ensure that no force was used on migrants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rapid-test-kit-results-not-satisfactory-vij/article31619350.ece
19 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana eases curbs, buses to ply from today||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said restrictions under Lockdown 4.0 will be limited to containment zones across the State and inter-State and intra-State movement of buses will resume from May 19. He said in line with Union Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines, the State government has decided to ease restrictions, which will now be limited to only containment zones. “The scope of relaxations has further been widened. While restrictions will continue in the containment zones, other areas will be considered as orange zone and all non-restricted activities will resume there,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-eases-curbs-buses-to-ply-from-today/article31619349.ece
19 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Action demanded||Three organisations in Manipur have demanded immediate suspension of Senapati district’s Deputy Commissioner Somorjit Salam for flouting COVID-19 protocols. Mr. Salam had allegedly received a 36-member group of returnees in a bus and hosted dinner for them on May 13. Two of the passengers later tested COVID-19 positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/action-demanded/article31619344.ece
19 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan to reopen shops||The Rajasthan government on Monday allowed reopening of shops, including those of barbers, salons, beauty parlours and sweetmeats, besides offices, factories and commercial establishments and plying of taxis, cabs and auto rickshaws, except in the containment zones, as well as inter-city bus services on routes permitted by the Home Department. In the guidelines for lockdown 4.0 issued here, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Swarup said government and private offices would open with the strength of 50% staff in the red zone and two-third in the orange zone districts. Taxis and cabs will carry two passengers each and auto rickshaws one passenger in the orange and green zones. As many as 15 districts, including Jaipur, Bhilwara, Ajmer, Udaipur, Kota and Bikaner, are in the red zone. The Centre had also left it to the States to demarcate areas in different zones for resumption of activities. A large number of panchayat samiti areas across the State were classified as red zones with their migrant population testing COVID-19 positive after the influx of workers from other States. Parks to remain closed The guidelines stated that public and community parks in the red zones would remain closed and no passenger transport, unless specifically permitted, would be allowed there. Work from home will be encouraged in service establishments. While inter-State movement of passenger vehicles will be allowed with the mutual consent of other States, the movement of buses within the State will be permitted on routes identified by the Home Department. Mr. Swarup said city bus services would be permitted only in the green zones. No relaxation permitted in the guidelines will be applicable to the containment areas of hotspots, clusters and curfew-bound localities, including Jaipur’s Walled City area. Mr. Swarup said any subsequent relaxation would be given in these regions only if it was specifically stated in the orders. The Additional Chief Secretary said a maximum of 50 guests would be allowed in marriage-related gatherings and 20 persons at funerals. Persons above 65 years and children below 10 years, pregnant women and persons with comorbidities will stay at home, except for essential and healthcare purposes. Wearing of face cover will be compulsory at all public and work places, while spitting in public will be punishable with fine. Failure to observe the social distancing norms will also be punishable and the consumption of liquor, paan, gutka and tobacco at public places will be strictly prohibited, according to the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-to-reopen-shops/article31619356.ece
19 May 2020||JAIPUR,||New technique for lung treatment of newborns launched in Jaipur||A recent medical technique, known as less invasive surfactant administration (LISA), has been started at J.K. Lon Government Children’s Hospital here for treatment of lung disease or respiratory distress syndrome among premature babies. The procedure, started initially for newborn children with the birth weight of less than 1,500 grams, has yielded encouraging results. Most of the premature babies admitted to the hospital’s neonatal intensive care unit had the problem of less mature lungs, resulting in difficulty in breathing at the time of birth. They needed ventilatory support with surfactant administration via endotracheal tube placed in air pipe for treatment. Hospital’s Medical Superintendent Ashok Gupta told The Hindu on Monday that the ventilatory support was gradually weaned and babies were put on non-invasive ventilation like continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) after maturation of lungs. “We have been giving the directly administered medication in windpipe for treating breathing problems, but this has its own side effects,” Dr. Gupta said. LISA technique had been found to be very helpful in minimising the side effects, he added. The surfactant is administered via a thin feeding tube, instead of endotracheal tube, which is immediately removed after the procedure, while the baby is on the CPAP machine. Dr. Gupta said the new technique’s main objective was to minimise damage to the fragile premature lungs. LISA has been developed as a lung protective strategy for respiratory management and ventilation in view of the mechanical ventilation causing damage to the preterm lungs of newborns. Infants considered suitable for LISA are those being managed with primary CPAP or high flow with the evidence of increasing respiratory distress and with a rising oxygen requirement. The procedure was applied to a preemie by resident doctor Vijay Jhajharia under the supervision of Assistant Professor Vishnu Pansari at the hospital. Dr. Gupta said the regular application of LISA would turn out to be very useful and help save the lives of premature babies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/new-technique-for-lung-treatment-of-newborns-launched-in-jaipur/article31619346.ece
19 May 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata grapples with nurse exodus||At a time when the entire health apparatus of West Bengal is trying to contain COVID-19, hospitals in Kolkata and adjoining suburbs are facing a fresh challenge with the mass resignation of about 300 nurses. The nurses have reportedly given up their jobs to return to their homes, particularly in the Northeastern States. A few days ago, the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, an association of 17 private hospitals in the city wrote to State Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha, saying that the flight of nurses will not severely disrupt our services but “could lead to collapse of the private healthcare delivery machinery in Kolkata”. The letter dated May 16 states that on May 14, 2020, around 185 nurses from different private hospitals left Kolkata and 169 more nurses were planning to leave the city. “Although the exact reason behind this is not known, we have gathered from other nurses still on duty that the State government of Manipur is offering them lucrative stipend to return home. We have also come to know that more nurses from States like Tripura, Odisha and Kerala are also planning to go back home,” the letter said. On Monday, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee raised the issue and said that she had directed the Chief Secretary to look into the matter. Ms. Banerjee said the State government is open to the private hospital appointing staff with a short training who can do basic duties. “The private hospitals are helping us in this time. We are taking over a number of them and providing them money for their services,” she said. Meanwhile, the State recorded six COVID-19 deaths and 148 new cases in the past 24 hours. Five deaths were recorded in Kolkata and one in South 24 Parganas district. The total number of deaths increased to 250, of which 72 are due to comorbidities. The total number of cases increased to 2,825 and active infections stood at 1,575. The discharge rate of the State stood at 35.61% and the samples tested in the past 24 hours was 7,614.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kolkata-grapples-with-nurse-exodus/article31619353.ece
19 May 2020||Pohri (Shivpuri district),||No grains, matchmaking for Saharias in Madhya Pradesh during lockdown||Surely, Neeraj Adivasi’s family lost out on wages and grains as the lockdown gnawed away at the harvest season. But the 16-year-old is unnerved for another reason, insoluble even if enough jobs are provided locally. “Now, I will have to wait until the next year to marry,” he said. Each spell of migration in April-May to closer districts of Morena and Bhind in Madhya Pradesh and Kota in Rajasthan opens up the prospect of match-making for Saharias, a particularly vulnerable tribal group which marries outside the village. The enduring restriction on movement has denied them three-four months worth wheat they earn from the migration and frayed familial bonds, breaking in on a pivotal social function performed during the yearly sojourn. Ready for marriage At Dangarve village, around 22 boys and girls are ready for marriage. But for the lockdown, clutches of workers, with only the old, infirm and toddlers left behind, would have set out for the fields having a high labour demand — but offering low wages — and where Saharias from other districts and States would also arrive. “ Neeraj ka rang aa gaya tha shaadi ke liye (Neeraj was ready for marriage). Putting it off will only dampen his prospects,” said Surendra Adivasi, 25, whose marriage was decided on a similar trip in 2014. Usually, a common connect, most likely a relative, takes up the matchmaking. “They tell us if a boy or girl is good enough, match heights and maturity based on their appearance. And we trust them, and marry our children off upon return,” explained Mr. Surendra, idling with other men at the village square. “I want to marry off my daughter as early as possible so that she doesn’t have an affair or does anything stupid,” said Parvati Adivasi, mother of Kavita, 15, who she believes is ready for marriage. Barely anyone is sure of their date of birth, not even a factor during the matchmaking. Most within the tribe — beset by alarming malnutrition levels —are married off, only the lucky ones to a partner of their choice, before they turn adults. “We have to marry off our boys before they even develop a stubble, when they’d be considered a little older to marry,” said Ms. Parvati. At Ahera hamlet of Eswaya village, 12 boys and girls are ready for marriage. “The boy must have land and should not make his wife do labour. A marriageable girl must be able to take care of the family’s needs,” said Sukhsingh Adivasi.  During the trip, a group of workers earn a quintal of wheat for each bigha they harvest, besides a nominal wage, which sustains families back home for months. “Not being able to go this year has caused a food security crisis. So, workers are living on wheat procured from the public distribution system and taking loans from moneylenders at an interest of 3-5%. In case of non-payment, moneylenders make them work on fields locally as payback,” said Ajay Yadav, a local social worker. In addition, many stayed home and scores have returned during the lockdown which has created a labour supply beyond the demand locally. Rajesh Adivasi, of Ahera hamlet, was paid Rs. 250 a day in Morena district before he returned. “Here, we are paid Rs. 100 a day and there are no industries and alternative livelihoods. So, we have to work for any wage to feed families,” said Mr. Rajesh. According to a survey of 50 returned migrant workers in seven villages, including the two, in Pohri block, 35 said they would not step outside their village for work any time soon. “Most said they battled hunger there and are left with no money,” said Mr. Yadav, who conducted the survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-grains-matchmaking-for-saharias-in-madhya-pradesh-during-lockdown/article31619355.ece
19 May 2020||Geneva,||Xi defends China’s ‘open’ virus response||Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Monday that Beijing has been “transparent” throughout the COVID-19 crisis, and offered to share a vaccine as soon as one was available — as well as $2 billion in aid. Governments including the U.S. and Australia have called in recent weeks for an investigation into the origins of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which has become a flashpoint in deteriorating tensions between Washington and Beijing. Both U.S. President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have accused China of a lack of transparency over the issue, and repeatedly pushed the theory that the virus leaked from a Chinese maximum-security laboratory. Addressing the first-ever virtual gathering of the WHO’s annual assembly, Mr. Xi said China has “always had an open, transparent and responsible attitude”, and had shared information on the virus in a timely manner. Chinese scientists have said the virus emerged from a market that sold wild animals in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December, though officials have more recently cast doubt about its origins. Authorities in Wuhan have come under fire for reprimanding and silencing doctors who raised the alarm about the virus late last year. China is also accused of having delayed confirmation that the virus was transmissible between humans. China has strenuously denied accusations of a cover-up, insisting it has always shared information with the World Health Organization (WHO) and other countries in a timely manner. The assembly was set to discuss a resolution tabled by the EU that calls for an “impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation” of the international response to the coronavirus crisis. WHO-led probe Speaking via videolink with a painting of the Great Wall in the background, Mr. Xi said China supports a “comprehensive evaluation” of the global response to the pandemic after it “has been brought under control” and that the probe should be led by the WHO. The inquiry should “sum up experiences and improve shortcomings” and “adhere to the principles of objectivity and fairness”, Mr. Xi told the World Health Assembly. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus pledged at the assembly to launch an independent probe to review the pandemic response “at the earliest appropriate moment”. With the world racing to find a drug to stop the pandemic, Mr. Xi pledged to make any potential vaccine developed by China a “global public good” once it was put into use. This move would be China’s contribution to achieving accessibility and affordability of a vaccine in developing countries as well, Mr. Xi said. China says it has five potential vaccines in clinical trials. A top Chinese health official said last week that more vaccine candidates are in the pipeline and awaiting approval for human trials. Experts say it will take at least 12 to 18 months to develop an effective vaccine, or even longer. Mr. Xi also told the assembly that China will provide $2 billion in international aid over two years to help with COVID-19 response and economic development in affected countries, especially in the developing world. “China will work with members of the Group of 20 nations to implement the debt relief initiative for the poorest countries,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-defends-chinas-open-virus-response/article31619056.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Are the United States and China entering a new Cold War?||Relations between the U.S. and China have plunged to a nadir in recent weeks. On May 15, President Donald Trump threatened to “cut off the whole relationship” with China over the COVID-19 pandemic, which originated in Wuhan. He had earlier called the coronavirus “Chinese virus” and threatened to seek compensation from China for the damages caused by the outbreak. China, sometimes through the state-run media, has hit back, calling Mr. Trump’s recent comments “lunacy”. The rising tensions between the two superpowers have prompted many experts to warn of a new Cold War. Hawks in the Trump administration openly push for a more aggressive approach towards Beijing. Relations between the two countries had started deteriorating well before the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2017, the Trump administration’s National Security Strategy called China as “a revisionist power” seeking “to erode American security and prosperity”. In September 2019, while responding to U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Ford’s comment that the American government was formulating a strategy to address potential “security challenges” by China, the Foreign Ministry in Beijing “urged” the U.S. “to abandon the Cold-War mentality” The ‘Novikov telegram’ COVID-19 appears to have aggravated the crisis. “Record high temperatures have been recorded in Sino-U.S. relations in recent years and the pandemic is no exception to this. Competition rules the relationship, and flexibility and mature handling are in short supply on both sides. Uncertainty prevails, whether it on the question of resolving trade problems, or on the maritime front in the East and South China Seas, on technology, or on mutual mud-slinging on COVID-19-related issues,” Nirupama Menon Rao, former Foreign Secretary, told The Hindu . In early April, China’s Ministry of State Security sent an internal report to the country’s top leaders, stating that hostility in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak could tip relations with the U.S. into confrontation, according to a Reuters report. One of the officials the report has quoted said some in the Chinese intelligence community see the internal report as China’s version of the ‘Novikov Telegram’, referring to a report Nikolai Novikov, the Soviet Ambassador in Washington, sent to Moscow in September 1946, laying out his analysis of the U.S. conduct. In his report, Novikov had said the U.S. was determined on world domination, and suggested the Soviet Union create a buffer in Eastern Europe. Novikov’s telegram was a response to the “Long Telegram”, the 8,000-word report sent by George Kennan, an official at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, to Washington, in which he said the Soviet Union was heavily armed and determined to spread communism. Historians often trace the origins of the Cold War to these telegrams. Nationalist overdrive So where is the current crisis in relations between the U.S. and China headed? According to Ms. Rao, tensions will not go away. “This situation is unlikely to ease until the U.S. presidential election. Post-election, temperatures could decrease, but a deep-rooted antipathy towards China has gripped the popular and political imagination in the U.S. Therefore, tensions will not go away. In China, the leadership and public opinion are both on a nationalist overdrive and the Trump administration is seen as the prime antagonist. The prognosis is not encouraging,” she said. Does it mean both countries are already in a Cold War? “There are similarities between the current crisis and the Cold War. The political elites of both China and the U.S., like the Soviet Union and the U.S. back then, see each other as their main rivals. We can also see this antagonism moving from the political elite to the popular perception,” said Jabin T. Jacob, Associate Professor at Shiv Nadar University. “But there are key differences as well. We don’t see the kind of proxy conflicts between the U.S. and China which we did during the Cold War. The world is also not bipolar any more. There are third parties such as the EU, Russia, India and Japan. These parties increasingly have a choice whether or not to align with either power as they see fit and on a case by case basis. This leads to a very different kind of international order than during the Cold War,” Mr. Jacob told The Hindu . But Mr. Jacob warned that ties between the U.S. and China could take a worse turn if Mr. Trump is re-elected this November. “The Cold War was out and out ideological between the communist and capitalist blocs. For China, a country ruled by a communist party where the primary goal of all state apparatus is preserving the regime in power, it’s always been ideological. The U.S. has started realising this angle about China now. The Republican party has ideological worldviews, too. If Trump gets re-elected, the ideological underpinnings of the U.S.-China rivalry could get further solidified.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/are-the-united-states-and-china-entering-a-new-cold-war/article31619053.ece
19 May 2020||Athens,||Europe reopens widely, seeks to salvage summer vacations||Europe reopened more widely on Monday, allowing people into the Acropolis in Athens, shops in Italy, markets and museums in Belgium, golf courses in Ireland and beer gardens in Bavaria while its leaders discussed how to salvage Europe’s hallowed summer vacations.  Greece reopened the Acropolis in Athens and other ancient sites, along with high schools, shopping malls and mainland travel. Paving stickers were used as markers to keep visitors apart outside the Acropolis. Tourists were local, for the country still has a 14-day quarantine for arrivals, and travel to the Greek islands remains broadly restricted. In Belgium, more students returned to school, hairdressers began clipping locks again and museums and zoos opened their doors, all with strict reservation systems to avoid overcrowding. Hoping to make the most of the sunny weather, open-air markets started selling their plentiful spring fruit and vegetables. Golf in Ireland Golf courses and garden stores reopened in Ireland but Health Minister Simon Harris said he’s still nervous because the virus hasn’t gone away. He hoped that social distancing and other measures will make more normalcy possible. Churches in Italy and at the Vatican resumed public Masses. Guards in hazmat suits took the temperatures of the faithful entering St. Peter’s Basilica, where Pope Francis celebrated an early morning Mass in a side chapel to commemorate the centenary of the birth of St. John Paul II. Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Costa took his morning coffee at a Lisbon cafe and was having lunch at a restaurant with the Speaker of Parliament as officials encouraged people to support local businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/europe-reopens-widely-seeks-to-salvage-summer-vacations/article31619058.ece
19 May 2020||Colombo,||11 years on, Tamils remember loved ones amid pandemic||The COVID-19 pandemic may have deterred physical gatherings, but families of scores of Tamils who died in the final phase of Sri Lanka’s civil war on Monday paid tributes to their loved ones — lighting candles, reciting prayers in their homes and via video calls. On this day in 2009, the state armed forces triumphantly declared crushing the rebel LTTE to defeat, after killing its leader Velupillai Prabhakaran. It was also the day that several thousand civilians — the UN estimates 40,000 deaths in the final phase — died in incessant shelling, despite being assured they were in a no-fire zone. For over a decade now, Sri Lankans continue to mark the end of the civil war with strikingly different narratives. For the Tamils, the day symbolises its brutal end that brought much grief and trauma to the community, while the Sri Lankan state has celebrated it as “victory day”, hailing soldiers or “war heroes” for bringing a nearly three decade-long separatist war to an end. On Monday, relatives of many who were killed that day convened at Mullivaikkal in the northern Mullaitivu district, near the Nandikadal lagoon, wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing, as they lit lamps and offered flowers at the site that witnessed the gory final days of the battle. “The crowd was smaller this time. Some people may have preferred to stay indoors due to the risk of COVID-19. But everyone paid respects in their own way, after all it’s a way of dealing with their loss,” said Shanthi Sriskantharajah, a former MP of the Tamil National Alliance, from Mullaitivu. However, the former legislator herself didn’t go to Mullivaikkal. “I have my personal reasons. Families go their to collectively acknowledge their grief, and to remember their loved ones. But it troubles me that year after year, some politicians use this site of grief for their own propaganda. I don’t have to go there and do politics,” said Ms. Sriskantharajah, whose leg was severely injured in the last stages of shelling in 2009. “Like many other people, I too bear the scars of the war on my body every day,” she told The Hindu . ‘Day of grief’ In neighbouring Kilinochchi district too, families lit lamps and candles at their homes, and offered prayers, according to Father S.K. Daniel, who has been involved post-war reconciliation efforts. “It’s a day of immense grief for the people, no one can forget it.” Whether 11 years is enough time for healing will only be determined by what the decade offered, by way of justice, accountability and peace, according to human rights activist Ruki Fernando. “Bringing perpetrators to justice is one aspect of it. But it’s also about those who suffered the most having an environment where they can remember without fear or threat, about renewing their livelihoods as before, and their relationships with other communities,” he said. On Monday, the Tamil National People’s Front, a political alliance headquartered in Jaffna, tweeted that its members were prevented by the police from holding commemorative events, despite observing health safety measures. Others who held special prayers and meetings were also questioned by the police in some areas, sources told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/11-years-on-tamils-remember-loved-ones-amid-pandemic/article31619060.ece
19 May 2020||Shenzhen,||Survival at stake after U.S. move: Huawei||Huawei on Monday assailed the latest U.S. move to cut it off from semiconductor suppliers as a “pernicious” attack that will put the Chinese technology giant in “survival” mode and sow chaos in the global technology sector. The Commerce Department said on Friday it was tightening sanctions on Huawei —seen by Washington as a security risk — to include denying it access to semiconductor designs developed using U.S. software and technology. “The decision was arbitrary and pernicious and threatens to undermine the entire (technology) industry worldwide,” Huawei said in a statement. U.S. sanctions Huawei has largely weathered an escalating 18-month campaign by the Trump administration to isolate it internationally. But it “will inevitably be affected” by the new American salvo, rotating chairman Guo Ping said at an annual summit of technology analysts that Huawei organises at its headquarters in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen. “Survival is the key for us now,” Mr. Guo said, issuing an appeal to Huawei’s suppliers and customers worldwide to stand with it. He declined to give a detailed forecast of the impact. But the Huawei statement said the U.S. decision “will have a serious impact on a wide number of global industries” by creating uncertainty in the chip sector and supply chains. U.S. officials said Huawei had been circumventing sanctions by obtaining chips and components that are produced around the world based on American technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/survival-at-stake-after-us-move-huawei/article31619065.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Fasting, feasting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fasting-feasting/article31619102.ece
19 May 2020||Moscow,||Moscow, May 18, 2020 (AFP) -||Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said on Monday that the growth in new COVID-19 cases had been stopped in Russia. Russia on Monday reported under 9,000 infections for the first time since the beginning of May, after seeing a daily rise of around 10,000 cases for more than two weeks.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-may-18-2020-afp/article31619064.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Social distancing from the powerless||Some people who have had near-death experiences narrate how they could see everything happening around them but could not intervene in any manner. They tried shouting into the void but nobody heard and life went on around them, with people even talking about them as having recently passed over. An isolated court Thanks to the registry of the Supreme Court of India and its infamous Vidyo, the video conferencing app, I had a similar experience last week. Waiting for my item, I could see and hear the virtual court, but with my microphone and video shut down, I was like my mythical namesake, Sanjaya, who could see and hear and narrate the Mahabharata war, but not participate in any manner. I write in the fond hope that an occasional Dhritarashtra might yet benefit from my narration. My entire online wait, from 10.30 a.m. to noon, was rendered fruitless, but for what I accidentally witnessed. While waiting for my own matter to be called out, I happened to witness the Court’s proceedings on the matter of migrant workers who are walking back home in the midst of the national lockdown — an issue which has now attracted universal disapproval on social media and other platforms. I testify that what happened in the hearing was not an unfeeling Court, as has been made out. It was simply an isolated Court, dealing with the matter in a routine way, a habit learned from a time before COVID-19. It is obvious to me that the judges of the top court have not fully grasped both the threat and the opportunities posed by the new medium of virtual courts. A virtual court on a video app is as different from an open court in physical space as a movie or a television series is from an actual event. A judicial hearing on a video needs different skill sets. It calls for visual performance art on the part of lawyers as well as judges. Justice Gautam Patel of the Bombay High Court, in a recent webinar on the post-COVID-19 legal world, rightly pointed that judges would be required to have a great deal of patience. We are not going to be able to evolve an absolutely perfect system to replace or substitute the earlier system. In adapting video conferencing apps for virtual courts, we have taken something for corporate work and used it for a court’s workflow, which it was not designed to handle. As someone with some experience of visual media, it seems to me that in a virtual courtroom, judges and lawyers should not only do justice to the matters before them but also be seen to be doing justice after a measured consideration of the issues before them. They must bear in mind that their display of measured consideration is transmitted instantly to the world at large through three court reporters, who are allowed to cover the video feed from the journalists’ lounge of the Supreme Court. The reporters’ instant tweets amplify a routine dismissal or issuance of notice in a petition into an oracular pronouncement from the highest constitutional court to be debated at 9 p.m. in the cacophony on television every day. Home-bound migrant labour In the case of the walking migrants, the petition was presented by an advocate who had even earlier during the novel coronavirus pandemic filed and presented public interest litigations (PILs). These petitions, on different issues had been dismissed and he had been threatened with the imposition of costs. According to the Solicitor General’s submission, the lawyer appeared to be combating COVID-19 unemployment by creating work for himself. While presenting the case, the lawyer referred to the fact that some days earlier, a petition by Prashant Bhushan raising similar issues had been declined by the Court. The dismissal was after a statement of the Solicitor General that there were no migrant workers walking home on the roads for hundreds of kilometres. He wanted that statement of the government to be enforced in a manner that the migrants would not be required to walk endlessly on the road. It is against this backdrop that the judges asked what they could do in the matter. The petitioner advocate mentioned the case of migrants who had been run over by a train in Aurangabad, Maharashtra earlier this month while walking back home. The Bench responded that it could not prevent people from walking anywhere they wanted. That observation, when taken out of context, looks like a Marie Antoinette moment for the institution. Thereafter, the advocate (of PIL fame) sought to persist and stood his ground. The Bench gave short shrift to the matter and imposed costs of Rs. 1 lakh to deter further arguments. I later overheard the presiding judge instruct the stenographer to delete the line imposing these costs. The microphone of the petitioner lawyer was muted and he was locked out of the hearing. Before the next matter was called, the Bench did ask the Solicitor General if anything could be done concerning the issue of the migrant workers. He indicated that not much seemed possible, according to his instructions. This brief encounter may have not caused comment in normal times as a physical hearing in an open court. It may then have been seen as yet another petition with publicity in mind, where the Court had preferred either not to be drawn into political thickets or to not take over administration in an area where it lacked expertise. However, these are no ordinary times. On March 31, 2020, a different Bench had been persuaded by the Solicitor General’s submission that migrants had ceased to walk home. At that time, the judges may have been ignorant of the fact that one of their brethren (on March 30, 2020) had stepped out on the roads of Delhi to deliver food packets to migrants walking home. Over 40 days later, on May 15, when the second petition came up, the continuing exodus of an increasingly hungry, tired and desperate citizenry, walking like the living dead on an uncertain way homewards, is something that the top court ought not to have ignored. The dismissal of the issue earlier was not a binding precedent. In social action litigation, procedure is but handmaiden to justice. Irrespective of the messenger or the form of the message, the issue deserved careful consideration. A retreat that is jarring Former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao had once rationalised, “It is not that I do nothing. I think about it and decide that nothing can be done.” The appearance of even thinking about doing something was given short shrift by the top court. This attitude of judicial abnegation, of being more executive-minded than the executive, is not healthy for an institution rooted in public trust derived from a constitutional mandate of being the protector and enforcer of the rights of all citizens. Post the Emergency years, the Court had redeemed its earlier surrender to the executive by embarking on an expansion of social action litigation. In recent years, while the judiciary has retreated from expansive jurisdiction, it has still played a significant role in nudging the executive, without necessarily ordering it around. But never has it hitherto socially distanced itself from the powerless. High Courts show the way In contrast, on that very day, the same Court granted some modicum of relief to the real estate industry in respect of its loans. By another order, industries with unpaid wages during the pandemic were protected from prosecution. The contrast was only heightened when the High Court of Madras and the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, on the same day eloquently voiced their concern over migrant labour walking back. The High Court of Madras even sought responses and status reports on the issue from the central and State governments. In our constitutional scheme, High Courts are on a par with the Supreme Court in the enforcement of the fundamental rights of the citizen. The Supreme Court does exercise an appellate jurisdiction but it is final not because it is infallible. It is infallible because it is final. During the Emergency, several High Courts ruled in favour of the citizen only to be overturned by the Supreme Court in ADM Jabalpur . It remains to be seen whether on the issue of the walking migrants, the Supreme Court will be now be moved against the orders of the High Court of Madras and the High Court of Andhra Pradesh. If such a petition is indeed moved by the Solicitor General, I do hope that somewhere in the Court, there exists a person who remembers Bob Dylan singing: “Yes, ‘n’ how many ears must one man have/Before he can hear people cry?/Yes, ‘n’ how many deaths will it take ‘til he knows/That too many people have died?/The answer, my friend, is blowin’ in the wind/The answer is blowin’ in the wind”. Sanjay Hegde is a senior advocate of the Supreme Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/social-distancing-from-the-powerless/article31619042.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A jolt to national energy security||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s proposal for reform of power tariff policy — announced as part of the stimulus package following the pandemic — is of a piece with the recent comprehensive proposal to amend the Electricity Act 2003; put together, they erode the concurrent status accorded to electricity in the Constitution. If implemented, they will not only weaken the control of States over an industry supplying a basic human necessity such as electricity but also arm the Centre with a pincer-like weapon which could choke the distribution utilities/companies (DISCOM) and jeopardise the country’s energy security. DISCOM troubles These proposals have to be seen in the context of a continuing centralisation of control over the sector whose main impact in the last 25 years has been to drive up the cost of power purchase to 80% of the total costs of State DISCOMs. At the core of DISCOM woes is the two-part tariff policy, mandated by the Ministry of Power in the 1990s at the behest of the World Bank. As more private developers came forward to invest in generation, DISCOMs were required to sign long-term power purchase agreements (PPA), committing to pay a fixed cost to the power generator, irrespective of whether the State draws the power or not, and a variable charge for fuel when it does. The PPAs signed by DISCOMs were based on over-optimistic projection of power demand estimated by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), a central agency. The 18th Electric Power Survey (EPS) overestimated peak electricity demand for 2019-2020 by 70 GW. The 19th EPS published in 2017, by 25 GW, both pre-Covid 19. In the event, DISCOMs locked into long-term contracts end up servicing perpetual fixed costs for power not drawn. NTPC Limited’s Kudgi, in Karnataka, alone received Rs. 4,800 crore as idle fixed costs during 2018-19, operating at a plant load factor of only 22%. Due to the CEA’s overestimates, the all-India plant load factor of coal power plants is at an abysmal 56% even before COVID-19. Factor of renewable energy From 2010, solar and wind power plants were declared as “must-run”, requiring DISCOMs to absorb all renewable power as long as there was sun or wind, in excess of mandatory renewable purchase obligations. This means backing down thermal generation to accommodate all available green power, entailing further idle fixed costs payable on account of two-part tariff PPAs. Second, power demand peaks after sunset. In the absence of viable storage, every megawatt of renewable power requires twice as much spinning reserves to keep lights on after sunset. DISCOMs, especially in the southern region, have had to integrate large volumes of infirm power, mostly from solar and wind energy plants which enjoy must-run status irrespective of their high tariffs (Rs. 5/kwh in Karnataka and Rs. 6/kwh in Tamil Nadu for solar power) even as the demand growth envisaged in the 18th EPS failed to materialise. Third, in 2015 the Centre announced an ambitious target of 175 gigawatts of renewable power by 2022, offering a slew of concessions to renewable energy developers, and aggravating the burden of DISCOMs. Incidentally, China benefited by as much as $13 billion in the last five years from India’s solar panel imports. The fine print It is against this backdrop that we must examine the proposals in the Electricity Act 2020. First, the amendment proposes sub-franchisees, presumably private, in an attempt to usher in markets through the back door. Going by past privatisation experiments, private sub-franchisees are likely to cherry-pick the more profitable segments of the DISCOM’s jurisdiction. The Electricity Bill 2020 containing the proposed amendments is silent on whether a private sub-franchisee would be required to buy the expensive power (averaging out the idle fixed costs) from the DISCOM or procure cheaper power directly from power exchanges. If it is the first, the gains from the move are doubtful since the room for efficiency improvements is rather restricted in the already profitable regions attractive to sub-franchisees. If it is the second, DISCOMs will then be saddled with costly power purchase from locked-in PPAs and fewer profitable areas from which to recover it. Second, the amendment proposes even greater concessions to renewable power developers, with its cascading impact on idling fixed charges, impacting the viability of DISCOMs even more. Third, and the most controversial amendment proposed, seeks to eliminate in one stroke, the cross-subsidies in retail power tariff. This means each consumer category would be charged what it costs to service that category. Rural consumers requiring long lines and numerous step-down transformers and the attendant higher line losses will pay the steepest tariffs. Disingenuously, the proposed amendments envisage that State governments will directly subsidise whichever category they want to, through direct benefit transfers. Cross-subsidy is a fact of life in even private industries, soap, newspapers, or even utilities such as telecom. There is undoubtedly a case for reducing the steep cross-subsidies in electricity. But eliminating them in one stroke when State governments are already struggling with direct power subsidies is bound to be ruinous to their finances, not to mention the myriad problems with Direct Benefit Transfer. Without going into the political arguments relating to subsidies, and the impact of COVID-19 which has not been factored in, this proposal is practically infeasible; if forcibly implemented, it will lead to chaos. Fourth, State regulators will henceforth be appointed by a central selection committee, the composition of which inspires little confidence in its objectivity, jeopardising not only regulatory autonomy and independence but also the concurrent status of the electricity sector. Finally, the last claw in this multipronged pincer is the establishment of a centralised Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority whose members and chairman will again be selected by the same selection committee referred to above. The power to adjudicate upon disputes relating to contracts will be taken away from State Electricity Regulatory Commissions and vested in this new authority, ostensibly to protect and foster the sanctity of contracts. This is to ensure that States saddled with high-priced PPAs and idling fixed costs, yet forced to keep increasing the share of renewables in their basket, have no room for manoeuvre. When the country is reeling under the economic impact of the novel coronavirus crisis, the Electricity Bill 2020 is indeed a disingenuous document drafted to shift the burden imposed by the short-sighted policies of the Centre onto hapless States, with serious consequences for the nation’s energy security. Sudha Mahalingam, Tejal Kanitkar and R. Srikanth are, respectively, Raja Ramanna Chair Professor, Associate Professor and Dean in the Energy and Environment Program at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-jolt-to-national-energy-security/article31619043.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Accountability can’t be placed under lockdown||As it moves from a stringent nationwide lockdown to disaggregated and differentiated lockdowns, India has much to think about. It is coming out of a gruelling, bruising two months. This experience holds lessons for the rest of the long battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. It also reveals a lot about governance and planning, Centre-State relations, and the care and dignity that government policies accord citizens. The hardest questions will, of course, be for the Bharatiya Janata Party government in New Delhi. It declared a total lockdown giving just a four-hour notice to the citizens, without consulting State governments. How should we judge it? Language provides a clue. Any institution — a company, a cultural organisation, a political party or a government — is identifiable by its trademark vocabulary, by the words and phrases it uses most often. For the BJP government, these are “masterstroke”, “surgical strike”, “shock treatment” and “secrecy”. It thrives on sudden, dramatic moves — never mind the absence of planning. A little over a decade ago, the author-activist Naomi Klein wrote a book called The Shock Doctrine: The Rise of Disaster Capitalism . It was a warning against ill-conceived shock actions for restructuring society, and how these could lead to disaster. Those promoting the “shock doctrine” take advantage of a crisis situation and of a benumbed population desperate for answers and trusting of those in charge. Yet the trust is never really repaid. Ever since that 8 p.m. lockdown announcement on March 23, I have thought so often of Ms. Klein and her book. Delayed response And it need not have been this way. The first three weeks of March were wasted by the Central government. On March 5, the Trinamool Congress wrote and urged that parliamentary committees be convened for emergency meetings to plan for COVID-19. On the same day the West Bengal government began creating isolation wards for future COVID-19 patients. The following day, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee set up quick response teams. The Centre did nothing. It spoke perfunctorily about social distancing but ignored its own warnings. Repeated appeals to adjourn Parliament were ignored. After two weeks of trying, an exasperated Trinamool Congress finally withdrew its MPs from both Houses. In West Bengal, Ms. Banerjee had already initiated a partial lockdown when the Central announcement came. The issue of guest workers Since the BJP government acted so late in the day, it was expected that a detailed blueprint was in place. The issue of guest workers, for example, was an obvious one. In fact, on March 26 itself, Ms. Banerjee wrote to counterparts in other States requesting that they take care of stranded guest workers from West Bengal and promised reciprocal treatment for workers living in the State. In the following days, West Bengal sent Rs. 1,000 to each of the 4,00,000 stranded workers across the country, without noise. What did the Centre do? On guest workers, it remained in denial. It used the National Disaster Management Act of 2005 to override State governments but ignored key provisions of the National Disaster Management Plan. The Plan clearly emphasises the critical importance of social inclusion during a disaster, to ensure the well-being of vulnerable groups such as Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, the differently abled, the elderly, women and children, and of course migrant workers (many of whom are covered by the other categories). The Union Finance Ministry held three press conferences displaying insensitivity to human dignity. The Supreme Court has held that the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution is not merely a physical right; it includes the right to live with human dignity. The treatment extended to many underprivileged citizens, especially guest workers, was in complete violation of human dignity. The Central government told the Supreme Court that there were no guest workers on the roads and highways. This was at the very time that social media (and only one or two brave television channels) were full of visuals of workers trudging miles and miles. Guidelines for inter-State travel of guest workers were issued almost a month into the lockdown. It was all very callous. We all know of the tragic Aurangabad incident that saw a goods train mow down 16 migrant workers. They, like millions of others on highways, were walking to their villages and collapsed in exhaustion on the railway tracks — too exhausted to hear the train coming. The Prime Minister, the Home Minister and the Railways Minister have been all but absent during this monumental crisis during which millions of poor guest workers have been abandoned. All this while the Minister was presiding over the Indian Railways with its daily ferrying capacity of 23 million people. On May 1, the migrant worker trains began with much fanfare. Here too the Centre showed a cold heart. It sought to charge migrant workers, passing on the responsibility of collecting the fares to State governments. The State governments showed greater responsibility. West Bengal paid to bring home those stranded in Kota, Vellore, Chennai, and other parts of India. We welcomed back 1,50,000 of our people and did so ungrudgingly. All along the Railway Ministry was quibbling and haggling over money, blaming the State governments and sanctimoniously declaring that matters should not be politicised. It was surreal. One would have thought the Centre was short of funds and State governments were awash with money. That is far from true. The sudden lockdown didn’t give the States a chance to prepare, and their revenues collapsed. In addition, the Centre, which already owes the States money, has been unwilling to help. The Central government owes West Bengal Rs. 61,000 crore, Rs. 36,000 crore of which is backlog dues. There is no sign of any money coming; only empty press conferences. How are States expected to pay for the re-opening and repair of their devastated economies? The examples I have cited have been focused: the Centre showed delay in waking up to the COVID-19 situation and preparing for it; remained oblivious to the suffering of migrant workers; valued money over lives; did not support the States for even basic and essential welfare programmes; and ignored the dignity of ordinary, decent, hard-working and troubled people. The Centre has also not procured equipment such as test kits and not allowed States to do so. It finally sent test kits that didn’t work and needed to be withdrawn; bullied States and mangled federalism; and introduced a contact-tracing app without explaining it, without wider consultation, and without an ordinance or enabling legal provision. On all of these the Central government has to provide answers and has to be held to account. After all, in a democracy, accountability cannot be placed under a lockdown. Derek O’Brien leads Trinamool Congress in the Rajya Sabha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/accountability-cant-be-placed-under-lockdown/article31619049.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A post-pandemic world order||As the world starts recovering from the debilitating impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, nations will draw on all their reserves to ensure that their place in the global pecking order is largely maintained. Among many factors, dogma, ideology and notions of power merit serious attention as non-quantifiable national characteristics that could either impede or accelerate the recovery process. Ideological and civilisational beliefs Dogma has traditionally been linked to religious beliefs. Since World War II, however, it has incorporated several strains of ideological and enduring civilisational beliefs. Take the case of China, for example, which is attempting to upstage, or at least match, the U.S. as the principal global hegemon. Realising that mere ideology was not enough to propel it to that position, Mao Zedong’s successors have drawn on two civilisational markers from Chinese history that have troubled the Chinese people for centuries: the ‘Middle Kingdom’ syndrome and ‘the Century of Humiliation’. While the first marker builds on the glory of the Ming Dynasty (late 14th century to mid-17th century) and the centrality of the Han people in a world order that saw China as the most prosperous nation in the world, it also reminds the Chinese people of the dangers that lurk around its periphery. Chinese leaders often draw attention to the Mongol rule (late 13th century to mid-14th century) and over two centuries of misrule by the Manchus and the Qing Dynasty (mid-17th century to early 20th century) as examples of this. The second marker draws on the stripping of China of its honour and resources by multiple colonial powers during the ‘Century of Humiliation’ from the mid-19th century to the time of the emergence of the People’s Republic of China in 1949. These markers from Chinese history have gradually become dogma and seen as a blot on Chinese history that need resolution. Realising in the 1980s that Maoist ideology no longer appealed to the Chinese people, Deng reintroduced Confucianism as a much-needed intellectual and ethical prop to China’s push for ‘great power’ status. Sun Tzu re-emerged as China’s answer to Clausewitz and for a few decades it appeared that these would soften traditional Chinese dogma. It also raised hopes that China would largely play by the existing rules and bide its time. Xi Jinping, however, has been a leader in a hurry. In the process, he has perpetuated the deepened hurt of the Chinese people to an extent that it has become embedded dogma. He has abandoned Confucianism and the ethical pursuit of power, and fallen back on hard-core communist ideology. Hard power and muscular nationalism coupled with a neo-colonial and mercantilist attitude towards vulnerable nations seems to be the new strategy to compete with the U.S. While this strategy seemed to be working at a time when the U.S. appeared to be looking inwards and showing signs of strategic fatigue, President Xi’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative demonstrated an overreach that had the potential to backfire as it created a sense of fear of, rather than respect for, China. Then came the pandemic and it is worth pondering over whether holding on to historical dogma, ideology and notions of power will hold the same potential in the accumulation of power, or whether nations which are willing to live in the moment and be sensitive to the global environment will fare better. China will be worse off should it prefer the former course. Its continued aggressive posture along the Line of Actual Control only confirms this rigid position.  The U.S.’s recovery will be impeded by embedded notions of power which have resulted in a strategic oversight and fatigue of sorts. The pandemic has tested the U.S. state’s capacity, capability and competency. However, the U.S.’s economic resilience, restless people, institutional robustness and intellectual reserves will help it pull through. Demonstration of flexibility India is neither afflicted by unreasonable expectations of power, ideological dogma, or haunted by accentuated perceptions of historical hurt. Despite its own centuries of conquest and exploitation by invaders and colonial powers, it has demonstrated resilience, learnt to let go and embraced the good that emerged from the centuries of darkness. That is a demonstration of flexibility, which is good in troubled times such as these. Yes, it does have societal fissures and serious issues of compliance, but those can be mended with national resilience and improved public discipline and good leadership. If India weathers the entire pandemic cycle as it has coped with the initial storm, it should be better placed than the two leading powers to recover. It will be a fascinating global strategic landscape to observe as a post-COVID-19 world order emerges, and for sure, India could play an important role in its possible transformation. Arjun Subramaniam is a strategic analyst and military historian||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-post-pandemic-world-order/article31619046.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Preparing for a syndemic||The World Health Organization has announced that COVID-19 will likely never go away. Experts warn that there will be a second wave of infections. Meanwhile, some people have also raised the alarm about diseases like dengue and malaria emerging with the upcoming monsoon season in tropical South Asia. Therefore, going forward, could COVID-19 become even more problematic by becoming a syndemic? A syndemic is a situation when two or more epidemics interact synergistically to produce an increased burden of disease in a population, a situation first described by medical anthropologist Merrill Singer in the mid-1990s. Stephanie Shau and co-authors published a peer-reviewed journal article last month documenting this as a distinct possibility in people living with HIV. Increased burden of disease The 1957 Asian influenza pandemic, for example, showed that deaths then could be not only due to the primary viral infection, but also due to secondary bacterial infections among influenza patients; in short, they were caused by a viral/bacterial syndemic. Meanwhile, researchers have shown that in Kisumu, Kenya, 5% of HIV infections are due to higher HIV infectiousness of malaria-infected HIV patients. Some also say that we need to watch out for secondary bacterial infection in those with weakened immunity due to COVID-19. Given that antibiotics resistance across the world is already a problem, the medical community needs to be aware of co-morbidities, especially if COVID-19 deepens as a syndemic in populations with antibiotic resistance. If that happens, along with large-scale population testing, societies around the world will also have to consider innovations in population health surveillance technology and develop creative business models at a scale potentially unheard of in recent times. MIT alumnus Inder Singh’s startup, Kinsa, makes smart thermometers that are already making waves in the U.S. Many argue that Kinsa thermometers could be the key to constantly monitoring temperatures. Another solution is to monitor oxygen levels in the brain daily through a pulse oximeter. It turns out that COVID-19 is causing happy hypoxia, where lack of oxygen in the brain is going undetected till things become too late. However, some say that this should not crowd out other important strategies like aggressive population-level PCR and antibody testing. Overall, we can expect that this emerging market of technologies in population health surveillance will move towards similar discussions like global optimal pricing of Remdesivir, or faulty testing kits by Abbott or by Chinese firms. There will be the lure of speed of entry, quality concerns on the margin, and intellectual property battles. But broadly, societies with resource-constrained settings, where even an economical pooled testing strategy might be difficult to enforce due to financial reasons, should evaluate innovative population health surveillance technologies to complement testing. This is especially important as there is a rising likelihood of COVID-19 becoming endemic and also probably syndemic. New ways of thinking With India’s ongoing migrant crisis, we cannot rule out COVID-19 becoming syndemic given large-scale urban-to-rural chaotic migration. Added to this is the complexity of the upcoming dengue and malaria season. Closing State borders, discriminating against migrants returning to their home States, and quarantining them in public locations may not be a viable option going forward if India is peaking on the COVID-19 curve. India recorded the largest single day spike just a few days ago. The time has come to look at testing/tracing/isolating as well as ideas to deploy population health surveillance technologies like smart thermometers and oximeters. Are the policymakers listening? Chirantan Chatterjee is a faculty member at IIM Ahmedabad and Visiting Fellow at Hoover Institution, Stanford University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/preparing-for-a-syndemic/article31619050.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Faking danger||The frequency with which journalists have been arrested since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic is quite disturbing. The reasons given by the police across India for arresting reporters and editors of news portals indicate that special provisions enacted to prevent the spread of rumour during disasters are being used to suppress reporting on political developments and possible governmental corruption. The most egregious case involves a criminal provision that governments invariably fall back upon to suppress dissent. The arrest of Dhaval Patel, editor of a news portal in Gujarat, on the serious charge of sedition, is a shocking instance of misuse of criminal laws to intimidate journalists. The case concerned an article speculating that State Chief Minister Vijay Rupani may be replaced by the BJP for his alleged inept handling of efforts to combat the pandemic. The report had even named a possible successor. It is befuddling how such a report could amount to sedition, regardless of whether the speculation is true. Oftentimes, the source of such speculation is a disgruntled section of the ruling party itself, and it is excessive to punish reportage with inadequate verification with arrest and prosecution for sedition. Mr. Patel has also been charged under Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act for allegedly spreading panic through a false alarm concerning a disaster. The Editors Guild of India has seen a “growing pattern” in the misuse of criminal laws to intimidate journalists. The concern is not misplaced. In the Andamans, a reporter was arrested for a social media post claiming people who had contacted a COVID-19 positive patient over phone were also being quarantined. In Coimbatore, police arrested a news portal founder following a report on alleged corruption in food distribution as part of the local administration’s efforts to handle the fallout of the pandemic. In Delhi, a reporter was summoned in response to a report that claimed that an audio clip purportedly containing a speech by the head of the Tablighi Jamaat was doctored. While asking a journalist to join the investigation may not by itself be illegal, the police should not use the power of summons to intimidate reporters or extract details of the source. There ought to be greater restraint while invoking special provisions relating to handling disasters and epidemics. Section 54 only penalises the spreading of panic relating to the severity or magnitude of a disaster — claiming falsely, for instance, that a dam had breached — and does not extend to mere incorrect reporting. In normal circumstances, the authorities ought to be content with getting their version or response to be carried by the news outlets concerned, and not seek to use the pandemic as an excuse to curb inconvenient reporting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/faking-danger/article31619038.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A matter of relief||With the announcement of the final tranche of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the COVID-19 relief package, a pattern to the government’s approach is visible. And that is to give a strong supply-side push by boosting availability of capital on easy terms, keep income and wage support schemes to the minimum, empower constituencies ranging from farmers and workers to businesses, and finally, the most important, keep the damage to the fisc as low as possible. The fiscal impact of the Rs. 20-lakh crore package is estimated by economists at between 2-3% of GDP and that includes drawals from provisions already made in the Budget for this fiscal. The pillar on which the package rests is liquidity support so that businesses can crank up again and set the economic cycle back in motion. The option of a demand-side stimulus through a resort to deficit financing seems to be reserved for a future date if the infection does not subside or a second wave begins prompting another lockdown. The problem with this approach is that there is a desperate need for demand stimulus now. A strategy to drive consumption by, say, suspending GST for a couple of months or at least cutting rates temporarily, combined with a liquidity boost may have worked better under prevailing conditions. The Centre’s problem is that its revenues are a fraction of what it would have been in a normal situation but even given this handicap, a fiscal stimulus could have been fitted into the overall package. After all, there is something to be said for the strategy of cutting taxes and riding on the ensuing consumption boost that could bring in revenues to compensate for the cut. The government has done well in increasing the budget for MGNREGA by two-thirds, adding another Rs. 40,000 crore. With migrants now returning to their villages, MGNREGA can be leveraged to keep them occupied with meaningful work. The demand of States for higher borrowings limit has been granted but with clear reform milestones that they have to meet. It remains to be seen if States are enthused to fall in line. The government has also used the opportunity to unleash some much-needed reforms in agriculture marketing, open up more sectors for private participation, enhance foreign direct investment in defence, corporatise the monolith Ordnance Factory Board and so on. How much of these announcements of intent are followed through seriously will have to be watched. In sum, the package has several notable features not all of which are COVID-19 relief. While it is impossible to satisfy all sections of society, especially in a pandemic situation, it has to be said that the government has taken a huge gamble by refusing to borrow and spend more on boosting demand. If the strategy of boosting supply works, it is fine. But if it does not, the government will be faced with a bigger problem down the line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-matter-of-relief/article31619037.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Keep pace with the times, says PM||The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi has initiated discussions — on a strictly personal basis — with the leading princes who are being called to Delhi one by one to meet her on the abolition of their purses and privileges. She has already met more than 20 top ranking princes and the Maharaja of Mysore will be seeing her to-morrow [May 19]. The Nizam also is expected to be summoned after she has done the necessary spade work for coming to grips with the question of compensation. In her talks, Mrs. Gandhi has been taking the line that the princes should appreciate the compelling political circumstances that led to the decision to abolish their privy purses. She has also been trying to impress upon them that in their own interest they should fully co-operate with her in ensuring that there was a strong Government at the Centre which was capable of taking a generous attitude on the question of compensation in the face of political opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/keep-pace-with-the-times-says-pm/article31619044.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sports ministry approves opening of stadia||A day after the Home Ministry advised restricted opening of sports complexes and stadia, the sports ministry has given its go-ahead to the proposal. Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, on Monday, confirmed the resumption of sporting activities and training, subject to the central and State-specific guidelines. Follow guidelines “I’m happy to inform sportspersons and all concerned that sports activities will be conducted in sports complexes and stadia strictly in accordance with MHA guidelines and that of the States in which they are situated. However, the use of gyms & swimming pools are still prohibited,” Rijiju tweeted. The ministry’s approval would help Sports Authority of India centres to resume training of athletes, following the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) designed by the SAI and individual federations. Most NSFs, however, have preferred to adopt a cautious wait-and-watch mode, waiting for detailed instructions and clarifications before kick-starting their training and competition schedules. While Hockey India is awaiting further suitable guidelines and approvals on restarting the national camps for men and women — who have been restricted to SAI Centre, Bengaluru for the past two months — the AFI is unsure how the order impacts the premier NIS in Patiala, where the athletes and weightlifters are. “Hockey India today submitted the pitch training requests for the men and women core probables and are awaiting approval and confirmation on the same,” the federation said, having submitted its hockey-specific SOP to the ministry on April 11. Better safe than sorry AFI president Adille Sumariwalla too has been waiting for government approval for a month. “We submitted our plan way back and are waiting for a go-ahead. Also, as per my understanding, the NIS in Patiala is an educational institution and so remains closed even in the new order. “We have asked for clarification but honestly, given the situation, I think it’s better to be safe than sorry. “A couple of days delay in training is better than putting the athletes’ health to any risk,” Sumariwalla told The Hindu . The NRAI too has decided to proceed slowly, with president Raninder Singh assuring that a firm plan for training and competitions would be drawn up soon once protocols for opening up shooting ranges are finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sports-ministry-approves-opening-of-stadia/article31619190.ece
19 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Athletes await clarity on training||With the Central government allowing the opening of sports stadiums and the Tamil Nadu government also permitting athletes to train with coaches in their individual capacities, it seems as if things are slowly beginning to return to normal. However, it appears that nothing will happen in a hurry. There are also other issues that need to be addressed. It is understood that the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) is waiting for more clarity from the government before opening its facilities. Before that, the SDAT has an important matter to attend to. With the TN government planning to conduct the Class X board exams next month, SDAT, which has several students in its hostels, is hard at work, securing travel passes for them and getting them ready for the exams. The students will have to reach the hostels a few days in advance so that they can be tested and quarantined before the exams begin. Fitness the priority India’s top paddler Sharath Kamal said there is no clarity on anything at the moment. “My priority is fitness. For practice, I am training at my father’s house where there is a TT table,” he said. G. Sathiyan reiterated that he is happy working out at home with the help of online videos designed by fitness trainer Ramji Srinivasan and playing with a TT robot. “I prefer to wait for proper information from the Sports Authority of India and then get permission from SDAT before starting my training at the Raman High Performance TT Centre,” he said. India’s top fencer Bhavani Devi is looking forward to using a well-equipped gym. “I’ve requested GoSports Foundation to ask for permission from the Centre for Sports Science at Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research for my fitness and training. “On my terrace, where I am currently doing my exercises [on concrete flooring], my coach has warned me not to strain [too much] as it may lead to injury,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/athletes-await-clarity-on-training/article31619246.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Somdev Devvarman accepts Raja’s challenge||Somdev Devvarman — Asian Games and Commonwealth Games gold medallist, twice NCAA champion who reached a career-best rank of 62 in world tennis — accepted the “any challenge, from any cricketer”, on the Instagram show, Chai with Raja , hosted by Purav Raja. Even though the 35-year-old Devvarman has retired from the game, he was quite sporting and confident in accepting the proposal from Raja, who termed him the “fittest athlete”, for any fitness challenge by any cricketer. Devvarman stood out for straight-from-the-heart answers. Accepting the request for a tour of his house, Devvarman showed the paintings by his wife, and the cheerfully proud artist as well. Lack of trust When asked about the proposed National Tennis Academy becoming a non-starter, Devvarman reasoned that it was because of “lack of transparency and lack of trust”. Called to judge the show, former Davis Cup captain Mahesh Bhupathi accepted Rohan Bopanna’s plea — he was also part of the show — to choose him as the winner. Bhupathi then put the potential of Karman Thandi as No. 75 in terms of rank. “One last roar together,” said Bhupathi on his love-hate relationship with Leander Paes for more than 20 years, and qualified it further saying, “digitally”.  Asked about the future of the chat show by August, Bhupathi said “prime time TV”, as Raja has managed to host it with considerable professionalism, poise and lively tempo. Bopanna gave two out of 10 for AITA’s financial transparency. He also named Devvarman as a future Davis Cup team captain. Bopanna himself though would opt for physio if there was a toss up between captain and physio for the team. Bopanna also chose M.S. Dhoni as company for starters, the Prime Minister for lunch and Amitabh Bachchan for desert, saying that he could then discuss sport, politics and entertainment with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/somdev-devvarman-accepts-rajas-challenge/article31619201.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Hughes salutes the ‘Manjappada’||Former Kerala Blasters captain Aaron Hughes turned nostalgic and recalled the great moments he spent with the club during the 2016-17 season in an Instagram chat with Kerala Blasters assistant coach Ishfaq Ahmed. The former North Ireland international, who was boss Steve Coppell’s choice as captain and icon player, said he was overwhelmed with the love and support he received from the Kerala Blasters’ fans. Unbelievable support “The support from the fans was unbelievable. Even four years after I retired, I keep getting messages from them asking me to come back to the club. “But I reply to them that it is impossible as I have already quit the game. And I am happy to know when they tell me that 2016-17 was the best season Kerala Blasters ever had,” Hughes said. Hughes said he had heard about the ‘Manjappada’ or the Yellow Army before he landed in Kochi but was stunned seeing the sea of yellow for Kerala Blasters’ first home match. Greatest experiences “It was unbelievable. For me one of the greatest experiences playing in India was the atmosphere in Kochi. “The noise was deafening and there are not many places in the world which can rival Kochi in terms of atmosphere,” he added. Hughes said he was holed up in his home and was doing routine workouts to keep himself fit during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hughes-salutes-the-manjappada/article31619449.ece
19 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Manish adding power to his punches||World boxing championship medallist Manish Kaushik is focusing on adding power to his punches during the lockdown. Manish, who bagged a bronze in 63kg category at the Worlds last year, is giving his best to gain strength. “Right now, my focus is on gaining power. My morning sessions are devoted towards that, while I work on my technique in the evenings. Running on sand “Once a week, I run on sand and on a hillock near our village to gather strength,” Manish told The Hindu from his native village of Devsar in Bhiwani district of Haryana. “My family is vegetarian, while I eat non-vegetarian food. So, I eat a lot of gram and soyabean chunks to meet the protein requirements,” said the 24-year-old. Brother’s help “My brother Sahil, who is five years younger to me, helps me out in sparring. In our village there is a gym, which is opened only for me. I do my daily exercises there.” Manish, who avenged his defeat in the Commonwealth Games 60kg final to Australian Harrison Garside in March to book a quota place for the Tokyo Games, wants to make the best use of the time. “Time flies. Before we realise, the 2021 Olympics will be upon us. We have to utilise each day to get better. “I am very proud to be the third World championship medallist from Bhiwani district after Vijender Singh and Vikas Krishan. Now, I want to replicate Vijender’s Olympic medal-winning feat.” Manish, who has been enjoying a longer stay at home after eight years, is excited about the relaxation in the lockdown. “It’s good to spend some time at home but the camp is the best place to train, though. Coaches are there to analyse and tell where you are going wrong. I hope our camp resumes soon,” said Manish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manish-adding-power-to-his-punches/article31619182.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Mohd. Siraj primed to return||Pace bowler Mohd. Siraj is chasing two goals — make a comeback to the Indian team and see Hyderabad return to the big league of Ranji Trophy after being relegated to Group C last season. “Even though the lockdown has been frustrating at times, as I could not move out even for running, it has also been a blessing in disguise as it has given me a long break after what has been a couple of hectic seasons. More importantly, my parents are happy to see me at home for so long,” said the 26-year-old in a chat with The Hindu . “The biggest challenge when training resumes would be to find the right bowling areas and the rhythm. But, I am sure to find it in just one week as I am willing to put in that extra hours of training to recover lost time,” explained Siraj. “I have been watching my videos and trying to make some corrections. I have also been in touch with Arun sir (India bowling coach Bharat Arun, who moulded Siraj into a lead performer when coaching the Hyderabad Ranji team),” revealed Siraj. Praise for Arun “For me, he is the real hero. I can never forget his contribution to my career. A gentleman who always speaks his heart out. He has always impressed upon me the need to believe in my strengths and work hard to give my best,”added Siraj. “I miss the IPL badly. It would have been a platform to showcase my skills, take wickets and be in the reckoning for selection for the T20 World Cup which will hopefully be held in Australia this October,” said Siraj, the Royal Challengers Bangalore fast bowler.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohd-siraj-primed-to-return/article31619388.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Balbir remains critical||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr’s condition continues to be critical, with the Padma Shri awardee remaining on ventilator support. The 95-year-old has been hospitalised in Mohali for the past 10 days after complaining of high fever and breathing problems. Fresh brain clot While he remains ‘hemodynamically near stable’ and has not suffered another cardiac arrest since the last one on May 13, fresh clot has been detected in his brain. “MRI brain report shows a small fresh blood clot in the brain which is insufficient to explain continued unconsciousness. “He is currently in semi-comatose condition. “Secondary near pan-resistant klebsiella infection and fresh pneumonia patches detected in the lungs,” his maternal grandson Kabir said in the latest update on Monday. Doctors continue to assess and monitor his condition and attempt treatment for the new complications, he added. Three-time Olympic gold medallist Balbir (1948-1956) is considered one of the best centre-forwards of all times and was also the manager of the only World Cup-winning Indian side in 1975.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/balbir-remains-critical/article31619188.ece
19 May 2020||Chennai,||TNCA postpones TNPL||The Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) has been postponed. TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasaamy, however, told The Hindu on Monday that the TNCA was exploring other dates. Ramasaamy noted, “The TNPL was slated to begin on June 10. But after Lockdown-04, we can have a meeting only on June 1. Then to start the tournament in 10 days is impossible.” However, Ramasaamy was confident that the TNPL will be held this season. The challenge will be to conclude the tournament by the third week of August because there are indications that the IPL could be held in September. Two windows Ramasaamy said, “We have two other windows before September. One of the options is to start TNPL on July 15 and end it by the middle of August. “Or we could begin on August 1 and finish it in about 20 days so that there is a gap between TNPL and the IPL.” Importantly, Ramasaamy revealed that in a couple of days the TNCA would have talks with all stake-holders — franchise owners, broadcasters, local organisers and other relevant authorities. There will be no TNPL games in Chennai this season. In fact, the TNCA has added Salem and Coimbatore as the two new venues for this season’s edition of the State Twenty20 competition. Green zone Ramasaamy said, “We will be having matches at Salem, Coimbatore, Natham and Tirunelveli. The reassuring factor is that all these four centres are in the green zone. That makes our job easier.” He added, “We will need about a month to get the grounds and the floodlights ready. We are confident. Our organisational capacity is excellent.” Sadly, the crowds will be missing. The TNCA secretary said, “Almost 99 per cent, we will be having the matches in empty stadiums. It’s a pity but cannot be helped under the circumstances. “However, journalists, broadcasting crew, officials and local organisers will be allowed into the stadium.” Resonable gap Ramasaamy felt that the broadcaster, Star India, would not have any problems with the dates as long as there is a reasonable gap between the TNPL and IPL. “People are cricket starved. Lots of viewers would watch TNPL. The TRP will be high.” Despite the setback of having to postpone TNPL, the TNCA is upbeat about staging the competition before September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnca-postpones-tnpl/article31619247.ece
19 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Saliva ban recommended||The ICC’s Cricket Committee has recommended the prohibition of the use of saliva to shine the ball to mitigate the risks posed by COVID-19 when the sport resumes. However, the committee has not barred the use of sweat. It has not allowed any external polishing material. The committee, chaired by former India captain and coach Anil Kumble, has also proposed that local umpires be appointed for matches in the short term to deal with international travel restrictions during the pandemic. It has also recommended an increase in reviews per innings through DRS for this. The proposals are set to be formalised during the Chief Executives’ Committee (CEC) meeting next month. The possibility of preventing the use of saliva had been discussed during last month’s CEC, but since the matter had to be brought up and discussed by the Cricket Committee, Monday’s meeting was convened via a video-conference call. “We are living through extraordinary times and the recommendations made today are interim measures to enable us to safely resume cricket in a way that preserves the essence of our game whilst protecting everyone involved,” Kumble said in an ICC statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saliva-ban-recommended/article31619197.ece
19 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||KCA meeting on June 1||A special general body meeting of the Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) will be convened at 10.30 a.m. on June 1 through video conference. The KCA secretary Sajan K. Varghese said the special general body meeting was convened to discuss some important matters which needed immediate attention. Among items on agenda are the selection of coaches to senior and other State teams, upcoming elections to six district associations, functioning of High Performance Centre in Alappuzha, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kca-meeting-on-june-1/article31619447.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Irfan Pathan live!||Catch T20 World Cup winner and former India allrounder Irfan Pathan in a live chat on Sportstar 's Instagram handle ( @sportstarweb ) on May 19 (Tuesday) at 8 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/irfan-pathan-live/article31619183.ece
19 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Carlsen, Lagno take honours||Magnus Carlsen romped home with a round to spare, while Kateryna Lagno had to play 152 moves in her final game as they emerged the champions at the Steinitz Memorial online blitz tournament. The tournament was organised by FIDE, in association with chess24.com, as a tribute to the first official World chess champion Wilhelm Steinitz of Austria, whose 184th birth anniversary fell on May 17. The men's and women's events featured 10 players each.  Final standings: Men: 1. Magnus Carlsen (Nor) 12; 2. Daniil Dubov (Rus) 10; 3. Peter Svidler (Rus) 9.5; 4-6. Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze), Jeffery Xiong (US) & Quang Liem (Chn) 9; 7-8. Bu Xiangzhi (Chn) & Anton Korobov (Ukr) 8.5; 9. David Anton Guijarro (Esp) 7.5; 10. Alexander Grischuk (Rus) 7.   Women: 1. Kateryna Lagno (Ukr) & Lei Tingjie (Chn) 12; 3. Zhansaya Abdumalik (Kaz) 11.5; 4. Alexandra Kosteniuk (Rus) 10.5; 5. Tan Zhongyi (Chn) 10; 6-7. Sarasadat Khademalsharieh (IRI) & Antoaneta Stefanova (Bul) 9; 8. Marie Sebag (Fra) 8.5; 9. Elizabeth Paehtz (Ger) 4.5; 10. Deysi Cori (Per) 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-lagno-take-honours/article31619185.ece
19 May 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Mithrabha claims title||IM Mithrabha Guha emerged champion in the main category of the Play2Help online chess tournament, conducted by international player V. Raghav Srivathsav, on Sunday. In the fourth edition, Guha emerged victorious among a field of 35 players, including four GMs, six IMs and one WIM. The funds raised will be contributed to the PM CARES Fund. The next edition will be held on May 24. Call 8187093036 for details.  Final placings: Main category: 1. Mithrabha Guha, 2. Bharath Subramanyam, 3. R.R. Laxman, 4. G.A. Stany, 5. M.G. Gahan. Best players: Women: Ch. Sahajasri. U-15: Boys: Aditya Gupta. Girls: Vyshnavi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mithrabha-claims-title/article31619386.ece
19 May 2020||Berlin,||Bayern blanks Union Berlin||Robert Lewandowski bagged his 26th league goal this season as leader Bayern Munich resumed its Bundesliga title chase with a 2-0 win at Union Berlin behind closed doors in its first match in two months. Lewandowski netted a first-half penalty and defender Benjamin Pavard scored a late header. Lewandowski reached 40 goals for the campaign in all competitions as Bayern restored its four-point lead over Dortmund.    The result: Union Berlin 0 lost to Bayern Munich 2 (Lewandowski 40-pen, Pavard 80).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayern-blanks-union-berlin/article31619198.ece
19 May 2020||London,||EPL: clubs agree for group training||Premier League clubs will return to training in small groups from Tuesday after the latest stage of “Project Restart” was approved on Monday. Clubs unanimously voted to allow players to start socially distanced training in a bid to meet the Premier League’s mid-June date to resume the season. “Strict medical protocols of the highest standard will ensure everyone returns to training in the safest environment possible,” a Premier League statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/epl-clubs-agree-for-group-training/article31619199.ece
19 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Rugby India’s TRY Series quarterfinalists spotted||Delhi Lions, Jaipur Bulls, Chhattisgarh Bulls, Black Archers Hyderabad, Kerala Rugby Warriors, Ace Foundation, Young Rugby Club and Black Dot have entered the quartefinals of Rugby India’s TRY Series online tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rugby-indias-try-series-quarterfinalists-spotted/article31619195.ece
19 May 2020||Mumbai,||Gorkhas demand Amazon’s Paatal Lok drop sexist slur||Members of the Gorkha community in India have taken strong offence at the use of a sexist slur in the second episode of Amazon’s Paatal Lok original series that dropped on Amazon Prime Video on May 15. An online petition, initiated by the community on Monday and addressed to the Union Information and Broadcasting Ministry, the Minister Prakash Javadekar, Amazon Prime Video and series producer Anushka Sharma, asserted that the slur portrayed the community’s women in poor light and demanded that Amazon should mute the slur, blur the subtitles and upload edited video along with an unconditional apology and a disclaimer. The Bhartiya Gorkha Yuva Parisangh contended in its petition that the second episode of Paatal Lok had certain scenes, particularly the one that slips in at 3:41, where the Nepali speaking community was maligned. “The character is named Mary Lyngdoh (a very common surname of the Khasi community from Meghalaya),” the youth organisation stated, asserting that the derogatory term hurled at her by a policewoman didn’t just insult the Nepali community but was also an example of the wider racist stereotyping of people from the country’s northeastern region. Nepali was one of India’s 22 scheduled languages and there were 10.5 million people in India who spoke Nepali, the petitioners observed. “The Gorkha community is the largest Nepali speaking community and this is a direct insult to the community,” it asserted. “The word has been used in a filthy, regressive way… We shouldn’t and cannot consume anything that is stereotyping and targetting the community in the name of creative freedom and in pursuit of entertainment excellence,” said Nanda Kirati Dewan, President of the Bhartiya Gorkha Yuva Parisangh. Observing that the issue had acquired further seriousness in the light of the instances of racial discrimination during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the group said: “We have been fighting Corona racism. To add to our woes, this web series will incite not just racial but sexual slur and rape attempts at the women of our community. We strongly condemn it in toughest terms and seek immediate removal of the scene’s subtitles and mut[ing of] the slur”. Mr. Dewan said that the group planned to move court if it failed to receive a response from the OTT platform/producer in the next three days. Amazon Prime Video was yet to respond to an e-mail from The Hindu seeking comment as of the time of going to the press.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/gorkhas-demand-amazons-paatal-lok-drop-sexist-slur/article31619180.ece
19 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Rare palm from Andamans gets second home||A rare palm endemic to the South Andaman Island is finding a second home at Palode here, courtesy the Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI). An earlier JNTBGRI effort in this direction had been thwarted by mischievous wild elephants that ate up all the specimens! At first glance, Pinanga andamanensis — which at one point was written off as extinct — resembles the areca palm to which it is closely related. But its entire population of some 600 specimens naturally occurs only in a tiny, evergreen forest pocket in South Andaman’s Mount Harriet National Park. By conserving the germplasm on the Indian mainland, JNTBGRI can ensure its continued survival in the event of its minuscule original home getting wiped out by, say, a natural calamity, JNTBGRI Director R. Prakashkumar told The Hindu . ‘Such conservation efforts assume special significance in the era of climate change,’ he said. JNTBGRI scientists termed the Pinanga andamanensis “ a critically endangered species and one of the least known among the endemic palms of the Andaman Islands”. While its uses are yet to be understood fully, this elegant palm holds promise as an avenue tree for gardens, pavements and homesteads, said Sam Mathew, Senior Scientist, Plant Genetic Resource Division, JNTBGRI.. Colourful history  Pinanga andamanensis has a colourful history. It was originally described by the Italian botanist Odoardo Beccari in 1934. His description was based on an old herbarium specimen collected by E.H. Man, a late-19th century assistant superintendent in the Andaman administration. After that first identification, it was thought to be extinct till 1992. In 1992, Mr. Mathew, who was with the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) at the time, and his BSI colleague, the late K.C. Malick, encountered a few specimens at the Mount Harriet National Park. Such a small gene pool means the species is vulnerable to natural calamities such as cyclones, earthquakes, Mr. Mathew said. After he moved to the JNTBGRI, five or six specimens were introduced at the Field Gene Bank at Palode in 1994. Unfortunately, rampaging wild elephants ate them all up in 2012. “The pith of the trunks of these palms is sweet,” he said. In 2014, a few more seedlings were introduced, which has started flowering. “On fruit setting, JNTBGRI will resume seed germination experiments for mass multiplication as part of the conservation strategy. So why is this palm called Pinanga ? Well, it has something to do with areca nuts, after all. The name is derived from ‘Penang’, the modern-day Malaysian state. “Penang itself has its origins in ‘Pulau Pinang’, which means ‘Island of the Areca Nut Palm,’” says Mr. Mathew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/rare-palm-from-andamans-gets-second-home/article31619179.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 07:56 IST,||Sudoku - May 19, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-19-2020/article31619939.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shaky start to Lockdown 4.0||The fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown started with uncertainty in the Capital on Monday. Several shops that were allowed to function according to the Centre-issued guidelines waited for a go-ahead from the Delhi government to start. While many private vehicles were back on the roads, those relying on public transport were still left stranded with only a handful of autorickshaws and e-rickshaws plying on the roads. In West Delhi, while most shops in markets close to residential areas opened, main market areas like Rajouri Garden and Punjabi Bagh remained shut except for a few stores. No clarity Gaurav Bhatia who runs a toy store in Govindpuri had the shutters only half way up. “The police had come and told us to not open up fully, since there wasn’t enough clarity yet,” he said. Regardless, no business had taken place till late afternoon, Mr. Bhatia said. An autorickshaw driver, Krishan (45), a resident of East Delhi, said that he came out on the road for the first time since the lockdown. “There are only a few autos plying as we are still scared of being penalised by the police. I had to work because I have run out of money,” he said. Laxmi Mondal, an auto driver from Tughlakabad Extension, didn’t know that autorickshaws were allowed to ply and had come out since he was bored of sitting indoors. “There is little business,” he said. Ashok Randhawa of Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Association said that a meeting was held between the police and market members to discuss the functioning of the odd-even scheme from Tuesday. Markets to open “Markets shall open from tomorrow. We have to take care that all guidelines are followed,” he said. The new guidelines had thrown shopkeepers in markets in a tizzy, said Dev Raj Baweja of Sadar Bazar Market Association. “The onus has been put on traders instead of the government. As a result, associations across the city held meetings,” he said.. Since Sadar Bazar came under a containment zone, there was no chance of it opening, he said. Odd-even opening and other possibilities were being explored at Connaught Place and Chandni Chowk markets as well, he said. Traders hail move The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) welcomed the government’s decision to allow the opening of markets, stating that it would help bring Delhi’s economy back on track. Secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said that the odd-even scheme may not be the best idea as business operations would not be able to run smoothly due to this. He suggested markets be bifurcated into blocks which be allowed to open for specific period of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shaky-start-to-lockdown-40/article31619334.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Out-of-work labourers launch unique cleaning service||On a road towards Punjabi Bagh, two men — one wearing a PPE kit — stand near a two-wheeler with a poster that reads: ‘Sanitising car exterior for Rs. 50 and two-wheeler for Rs. 20’. Adapting to changing times when most people are extra cautious of their surroundings, out-of-work labourers have resorted to new businesses, including providing instant car sanitising services by the road. Curious public On Monday afternoon, Rahul (23) and Rahul (25), who both go by their first name, stood in the scorching heat waiting for customers. Many commuter and pedestrians stopped near the duo to examine the PPE suit, but did not use the services. “People are scared of availing services right now. But they are enquiring and might start using it in a day or two,” said Rahul. A group of four youth, all from economically weaker section, started the business after being out of work for over two months. “ Roti to khaani hai. Socha do paise kama lenge isse [We have to eat. We thought we would be able to earn some money through this],” said Bharat, one of the four partners who resides in a rented accommodation in Rajouri Garden. Rahul, Rahul, Bharat and Mukesh got together about a year ago and started their business of cleaning cars, sofas, toilets, and kitchen. They registered themselves on an online service-providing application and got clients through that. “But for the last two months, we have hardly received any assignment,” he said. A popular idea The four men got the idea on Saturday when they had gone to Rohini and spotted two people offering car sanitising services on the roadside. “This gave us an idea that we could also do this in west Delhi. We already had the sanitisation machine as we wanted to start a pest-control service but that did not work out,” said Bharat, adding that they started the sanitising services on Monday. Rahul (23), who is from West Bengal and lives with his wife in a rented accommodation in Raghubir Nagar, said that people are not availing services at the moment. “I am wearing the PPE kit so that people feel safe and so do I. But right now, people are not getting their cars sanitised here. However, around 10 of our old clients have called us to their residences for sanitisation,” he added.  People are scared of availing services right now. But they are enquiring and might start using it in a day or two Rahul Labourer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/out-of-work-labourers-launch-unique-cleaning-service/article31619330.ece
19 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police personnel help man carry wife’s body to cremation ground||Four Delhi Police Constables lent their shoulders and helped a 66-year-old man with his wife’s last rites in south-east Delhi’s Jaitpur on Saturday, as neighbours kept away due to COVID-19 fears. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said that Jaspal Singh, who is from Amritsar, approached Jaitpur police station around 10 a.m. and told them that his wife Sudha Kashyap had passed away and none of his neighbours were willing to help carry the body. Mr. Singh, a labourer, has a 26-year-old differently abled son. Mr. Singh told the police that his wife had been bed-ridden since November. On Friday, Sudha had her dinner and went to bed. In the morning, when Mr. Singh went to check on her, he found she had passed away. Unable to get any assistance from neighbours, Mr. Singh went to the police station where Constables Sunil, Parveen, Dharmendra, and Rahul volunteered to help. They made all the arrangements for the last rites and three of the officers, along with Mr. Singh, carried the body to the cremation ground over a km away. Constable Sunil said that the neighbours stayed away as they were not certain of the cause of death. “They did not know whether she had COVID-19 or not. People think all sorts of things these days,” he said, adding that when everyone refused to help Mr. Singh, they had to step in. “We had to do something. He came to us seeking help. We are taking all precautions ourselves too. We arranged a pier, called a priest and three of us [along with Mr. Singh] carried the body to the cremation ground,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-personnel-help-man-carry-wifes-body-to-cremation-ground/article31619336.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Expeditiously conduct probe into Bois Locker Room case’||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed the police to expeditiously conduct its investigation into the incident of ‘Bois Locker Room’, an Instagram group, in which obscene messages and morphed pictures of underaged girls were shared. A Bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Talwant Singh, which conducted the hearing through videoconferencing, took note that an FIR has already been lodged by the Delhi Police Cyber Crime Cell and the probe is going on. The court directed the police to file the final report after investigation before the trial court concerned. With the direction, the court disposed of the petition seeking SIT or CBI probe in the incident and to arrest the offenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/expeditiously-conduct-probe-into-bois-locker-room-case/article31619326.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||Pregnant women priority in repatriating Indians: Centre||The Centre on Monday assured the Delhi High Court that it will follow Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), including giving priority to pregnant women, while repatriating Indians stranded in Saudi Arabia due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Additional Solicitor General Maninder Acharya, appearing for the Centre, said the government will prioritise repatriation of pregnant women, as per the condition and stage of pregnancy. The Centre's submission came on a plea filed by the United Nurses Association seeking direction to bring back 55 pregnant nurses stranded in Saudi Arabia and one in Kuwait. The HC has now disposed of the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pregnant-women-priority-in-repatriating-indians-centre/article31619327.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||Do not use saliva to affix court fee stamp: Tis Hazari Courts||To minimise the spread of COVID-19 in local courts here, the Tis Hazari Courts in Delhi on Monday issued a circular asking lawyer, munshis, litigants, naib courts, and police officials to not use saliva while affixing court fee stamp. “Officials directed to not use saliva while doing the pagination of files etc.,” the circular issued by District and Sessions Judge Girish Kathpalia read. The circular also suggested that court staff advised the lawyers to use plastic sponge damper pad while inspecting the judicial file. The functioning of the Delhi High Court and its subordinate courts in the capital has been suspended since March 23, while restricting the hearing to urgent matters only in view of the extension of nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19. On Saturday, the High Court extended the suspension of the functioning of the subordinate courts till May 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/do-not-use-saliva-to-affix-court-fee-stamp-tis-hazari-courts/article31619338.ece
19 May 2020||May 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Restrictions relaxed based on Centre’s guidelines’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the relaxations in lockdown restrictions are according to the Centre’s guidelines. Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, he said, was mandatory for all and people must wash and sanitise their hands as frequently as possible. He said the Delhi government was “using the lockdown time to prepare to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic”. Cure rate Delhi, he said, has reported 10,054 COVID-19 cases until now, and 4,485 of them have recovered, which means 45% of the people have been cured. Though 160 people have lost their lives to the virus, but compared to other States in India and abroad, the death rate is “quite low”, he added. Elaborating on the transportation relaxations, he said, “The driver has to ensure the disinfection of the passenger seat after each drop-off for the safety of the next passenger. Car-pooling will not be allowed for cab aggregators. Screening of each passenger will be done before boarding the bus.” All private and government offices will remain open, but maximum private offices shall allow work from home for their employees. All markets will be opened, he said, but the shops there will operate on an odd-even basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/restrictions-relaxed-based-on-centres-guidelines/article31619337.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||Allow advocates to move in and out of city: plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response of the Centre, Delhi, U.P. and Haryana governments on a lawyers’ body plea to allow advocates to move in and out of the Capital for their work. The plea by the Delhi High Court Bar Association has been posted for hearing on May 20. The HC also took note of the Haryana government’s stand that it has included ‘advocates’ as a category to whom weekly movement passes would be issued online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/allow-advocates-to-move-in-and-out-of-city-plea/article31619328.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested for morphed photos||A man has been arrested for allegedly sharing “morphed and offensive” image of Delhi BJP IT cell co-convener Apurva Singh on social media, the police said on Monday. The arrest was made after Ms. Singh took to Twitter on Sunday to express her disappointment over police inaction on her complaint lodged on March 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-for-morphed-photos/article31619339.ece
19 May 2020||New Delhi,||Gurdwara body starts ‘mobile langar’ for migrant workers across NCR||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Monday said they have started a “Langar on Wheels” facility in 10 locations across the National Capital Region to provide food and water to migrant workers, who are walking back to their hometowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gurdwara-body-starts-mobile-langar-for-migrant-workers-across-ncr/article31619331.ece
