19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||India past COVID peak, says DST panel||India passed its COVID peak in September and, if current trends continue, there will be “minimal cases” by February. These are the findings of a modelling study by a seven-member expert panel on the future course of the pandemic, commissioned by the Department of Science and Technology. According to the study, India’s COVID burden is expected to be capped at 106 lakh symptomatic infections by early next year, with less than 50,000 active cases from December. There were over 75 lakh confirmed cases as of Sunday, of which about 7,74,000 are active infections. This, however, is premised on no spikes being triggered by festivals or mutations in the virus aiding its spread in winter. Scientists associated with the study said there would be no gains from lockdowns or from measures harsher than those in place now. A complete shutdown should be considered only at sub-district levels if there is a spike that threatens local healthcare capacity, they said. The modelling study, called the “COVID-19 India National Supermodel”, is the result of analysis by an expert committee of mathematicians and epidemiologists. There have been several mathematical model-based projections within India and internationally. However, experts and government officials have publicly warned that they were projections meant to guide policy and not be taken literally. “The pandemic has peaked. But this isn’t reason for complacence as this nice downward trend will continue only if we continue with protective measures,” said Prof. M. Vidyasagar of IIT-Hyderabad, chairman of the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-past-covid-peak-says-dst-panel/article32888998.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala may get Rs. 9,006 crore as GST compensation||Kerala is likely to get Rs. 9,006 crore as Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation till January 2021 as per the Centre’s decision to borrow through a special window and provide back to back loans to States in lieu of the compensation. Of the anticipated Rs. 9,006 crore, Rs. 5,767 crore will be from the Centre’s borrowing for States. The remaining Rs. 3,239 crore is from the projected GST cess this year by the Finance Department for April 2020-January 2021 period. For the State, this will be a big relief as it can avoid the deduction of salaries of government employees and teachers. The State needs Rs. 2,500 crore to pay salaries every month. Mobilising resources to fight the spread of COVID-19 is another challenge. State puts pressure The State, while welcoming the initiative of the Centre, is putting pressure to borrow Rs. 1.70 lakh crore instead of the Rs. 1.1 lakh crore. The State is of the view that the total shortfall in the collection of GST estimated at Rs. 2.35 lakh crore should be provided this year itself. However, the State has not officially announced that it has accepted the Centre’s offer. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, in a tweet, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has put off the scheduled high-level meeting of officials of the Finance and Law Departments to discuss ways to approach Supreme Court on the GST. “Having amicably settled the question of who should borrow, we hope Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will address the question of how much to borrow through dialogue with State Finance Ministers,” the tweet said. Kerala, which is looking forward to the GST compensation arrears to overcome the financial crisis, had not benefited from the compensation of Rs. 20,000 crore to States towards loss of revenue during 2020-21 and Rs. 25,000 crore towards Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) of 2017-18 announced after the 42nd GST Council meeting on October 5. An amount of Rs. 915 crore had reached the treasury on October 5 from the compensation towards loss of revenue. But the Rs. 834 crore from the IGST is yet to reach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-may-get-rs-9006-crore-as-gst-compensation/article32889100.ece
19 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Second flood warning issued again||With the inflows at the Prakasam Barrage rising gradually after a brief downward trend, a second flood warning was issued in the early hours of Sunday. The second flood warning, which had been in force since October 14, was withdrawn only on Saturday afternoon as the discharge at the barrage fell to less than 5.69 lakh cusecs. The discharge as of 7 p.m. was 6.15 lakh cusecs. It was 5.70 lakh cusecs at 6.30 a.m. As of 6 p.m., the discharge at the Srisailam project was 5.09 lakh cusecs. It was 5.23 lakh cusecs at Pulichintala. The inflows and outflows at the barrage was more than 6 lakh cusecs throughout the day. A similar situation was likely to continue for another day, officials said. Worst-hit areas Meanwhile, thousands of flood victims continue to stay either at the relief centres or other safe places as their houses located along the Krishna remain marooned. Minister for Transport Perni Venkataramaiah, along with district Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha and other officials, inspected flood-hit islands of Edurumondi, Nagayalanka, and Eelachetla Dibba near the confluence of the Krishna and the sea. The Minister said the three areas were badly hit. He said harvested paddy crop in over 1,200 acres was damaged. He asked the officials to organise medical camps in these areas as there were no medical facilities available locally. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has, in principle, agreed for the construction of a bridge to Edurumondi. Soil testing and DPR works will be taken up soon,” Mr. Venkataramaiah said. He said there was a need for construction of retaining wall to avoid erosion, and the government was looking into its possibilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-flood-warning-issued-in-andhra-pradesh/article32888957.ece
19 October 2020||Kolkata,||Seven held for ivory smuggling||Seven people were arrested in Kolkata’s Baguihati area on Sunday for allegedly smuggling ivory. The seizure and the arrests were made on the basis of a specific intelligence developed by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB). The joint operation was conducted by the WCCB, the Baguihati police station, and the Bidhannagar Police Commissionerate. A case was registered at the Baguihati police station. Several instances of seizure of ivory and other wildlife products have come to fore in Kolkata and Siliguri. Multiple agencies like the WCCB, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, wildlife wing of the Forest Department, and police have been involved in these seizures. Pangolin scales, freshwater turtles, geckos, elephant tusks, rhino horns, tiger and leopard skins, and different species of birds are seized on almost a regular basis. While illegal wildlife trade has emerged as a form of organised trans-national crime in India, there have been seizures of highly threatened species like a lion cub and three white-headed langurs near Kolkata over the past few years raising questions on what role has the State to play in these smuggling activities. Experts say it is the location of the State for which it serves a transit route for smuggling. West Bengal shares a porous 2,216 km border with Bangladesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-held-for-ivory-smuggling/article32889118.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||GST cess will stay: finance panel chief||The levy of compensation cess on Goods and Services Tax (GST) may have to be extended for quite a few years, perhaps till as late as 2025-26, to pay off the States’ GST dues, Chairperson of the Fifteenth Finance Commission N.K. Singh has said. The Commission’s report on the devolution of funds between the Centre and the States for the five-year period of 2021-22 till 2025-2026, will be submitted to the government soon. It will factor in unpaid compensation dues while working out States’ revenue flow calculations beyond 2022. Asserting that the Centre has at no point backtracked from the fact that the States will get compensation for the first five years, Mr. Singh said, “A lot of misgivings about the fiscal compact having been broken and there being a trust deficit” in negotiations over the GST compensation cess were “somewhat exaggerated”. “On the important issue of GST compensation, the last word has not been said. Both the States and the Centre are recalibrating the contours of a consensus within the GST Council. It is for the Council to take such decisions,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . “At no point has the Centre said it will not pay for those five years. It’s only a question of how it can be adjusted in the most efficient way to undertake the borrowings.” Too much was being made of who should borrow to meet shortfalls, Mr. Singh suggested, stressing that the investing community looks at the Centre and the States' combined debt, not their disaggregated debt levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-cess-will-stay-finance-panel-chief/article32889000.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Colleges may reopen in a phased manner from Nov. 2||Colleges and universities across Karnataka are likely to commence classes in a phased manner from November 2. The Department of Higher Education earlier this month met Vice-Chancellors of different universities to work out the modalities. Sources in the Higher Education Department said that they are also considering reopening colleges to conduct classes for students who wanted to clarify their doubts regarding online examinations. ‘Can’t force students’ “However, classes will be conducted on a voluntary basis. No college or university can force students to attend physical classes. We want to chalk out the modalities so that it is in the best interest of students’ health and academics,” the source said. Many colleges have already started asking students to submit consent letters if they wish to attend classes from November 2 onwards. However, not everyone is on board with the resumption of lectures. Echoing the views of some of his colleagues, a Vice-Chancellor of a State-run university said he was not in favour of this decision. “We just completed our final year examinations and will need another month to announce results and complete admissions to PG courses. Moreover, we are worried that COVID-19 cases may increase if we reopen colleges. We do not think it is a good idea to start classes till next year,” the V-C said. A senior official from another university was of the opinion that the odd semester examinations which are conducted in December should be postponed. “They can be held later next year once the number of COVID-19 cases reduces,” said the official. Students oppose Students and student organisations, too, have opposed the plan. “cases have not reduced completely and the State government should not make any decision in haste. A majority of students use public transport to commute to college, and they will be at risk,” said Amaresh Kadagada, State president, Students’ Federation of India. In Karnataka, online classes commenced on September 1. Initially, the State government was planning to resume on-site lectures from October 1, but put it off owing to a spike in COVID-19 cases. The University Grants Commission guidelines said that first semester classes can begin on November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/colleges-may-reopen-in-a-phased-manner-from-nov-2/article32889175.ece
19 October 2020||PATNA/PALI,||EC’s distancing norms go for a toss in Bihar||India’s first full-fledged Assembly election amid the COVID-19 pandemic is under way in Bihar, and the Election Commission of India’s guidelines for campaigning are clearly being observed only in the breach. In indoor public meetings where the crowd is not to exceed 200 and social distancing of at least six feet is expected in rallies, the rules are visibly being violated. Stage collapses At Chapra, during a Janata Dal (United) meeting held by candidate Chandrika Rai (ex-father-in-law of Tej Pratap Yadav), the stage collapsed as there were too many people crowding it.  In Gaya, the local administration has lodged an FIR against organisers of an event where BJP national president J.P. Nadda was present for violating social distancing norms. When Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leaders Tejaswi and Tej Pratap Yadav filed their nomination papers, they too took out a mini-road show, violating norms. Politically, social distancing norms violations have become an equal opportunity infraction. Some of it, say party leaders, is due to the fact that for long elections have been a participative event not just on polling day but during the campaigns too. Shows of strength with a large turnout are par for the course while filing nominations and at public rallies. The Election Commission’s rules allowing only a handful of people in these events is a culture shock yet to be adapted to. “The Election Commission has set proper guidelines, although yes, they are being observed more in breach as we as a society experience elections as a festival with high participation. Fortunately for Bihar, COVID-19 incidence is low with highest recovery rate and second highest level of testing in the country. Perhaps it has given people some sort of signal to move ahead with activities, but that cannot be allowed, we need to improve,” said BJP prabhari for Bihar polls Devendra Fadnavis when he spoke toThe Hinduduring a sit down interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ecs-distancing-norms-go-for-a-toss-in-bihar/article32889005.ece
19 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||7,631 new cases when 58,404 samples tested||The State on Sunday reported 7,631 new cases of COVID-19 when 58,404 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 3,41,859. A high number of recoveries were reported on the same day, with 8,410 patients being discharged from hospitals. The test positivity rate remains fluctuating, moving from 17.3% to 13% on Sunday. However, sample testing, which had barely gone above 50,000, seems to have picked up on Sunday. The total number of recoveries being 2,45,399, the number of patients currently in hospitals is 95,200. Of these active cases, 767 are critically ill and in ICUs, while 191 are on ventilator support. With 22 new deaths reported, the toll has gone up to 1,161. Six of these were reported from Palakkad, four each from Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam, three from Malappuram, two each from Kozhikode and Thrissur and one from Alappuzha. Almost 98% of the new cases – 7,471 cases – reported are locally acquired infections, which includes 723 cases with no epidemiological link. The number of health-care workers who contracted COVID-19 in this group is 63. Among districts, Malappuram shows a steady rise, reporting 1,399 cases, Kozhikode 976, Thrissur 862, Ernakulam 730, Thiruvananthapuram 685, Kollam 540, Kottayam 514, Kannur 462, Alappuzha 385, Palakkad 342, Kasaragod 251, Pathanamthitta 179, Idukki 162 and Wayanad 144.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7631-new-cases-when-58404-samples-tested/article32889101.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||UDF reconstitutes district panels||With an eye on the local body elections, the United Democratic Front (UDF) on Sunday reconstituted its district committees in the State. P.K. Venugopal will be the chairman of the Thiruvananthapuram district committee and Beemapally Rasheed will be the convener, a pressnote issued here said. Chairpersons The chairpersons and conveners respectively in the rest of the districts are Kollam K.C. Rajan and Rajendra Prasad, Alappuzha Shaji Mohan and convener to be announced later, Pathanamitta M. Shamsudeen and Victor Thomas, Kottayam Mons Joseph and Johny Sebastian, Idukki S. Ashokan and N.J. Jacob, Ernakulam Dominic Presentation and Shibu Thekkumpuram, Thrissur Joseph Chalissery and K.R. Girijan, Palakkad chairperson to be announced later and Kalathil Abdullah, Malappuram P.T. Ajaymohan and U.A. Latheef, Kozhikode K. Balanarayanan and M.M. Razaq, Wayanad P.P.A. Kareem and N.D. Appachan, Kannur P.T.Mathew and Abdul Khader Moulavi, Kasaragod C.T. Muhammed Ali and A.Govindan Nair. Strengthening Although strengthening of the apparatus ahead of the local body elections was one of the reasons for the revamping of the UDF committees, it was taken up immediately across the board following the vacancies that cropped up in central Kerala after the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani announced its exit from the front last week. The Kasaragod district committee was left without a chairman after UDF constituent Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) removed M.C. Kamaruddin after his name cropped up in a jewellery deposit scam.  P.K. Venugopal will be the chairman of the capital’s district committee and K.C. Rajan will be chairman of Kollam disrict committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udf-reconstitutes-district-panels/article32889103.ece
19 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Six more, including two children, killed in rain-related incidents||Incessant rain, which lashed the city on Saturday evening, claimed four more lives, including that of two children. Six-year-old Abida Begum, who was asleep with her mother and three sisters in a room in their RK Pet house at Mangalhat, died when a portion of a wall collapsed and fell on her. Mangalhat inspector G. Ranaveer Reddy said she was caught in the debris and breathed her last, while her mother and siblings escaped with minor injuries. At Jubilee Hills, a four-year-old boy K. Siddhu drowned in a pit filled with rainwater at an open plot near his house. The pit was dug for pillars. At Uppal, Jogu Srinivas (45) was electrocuted while he was trying to turn on the motor to drain out the water in his building cellar on Sunday morning. “When he tried to switch the motor on to clear the water, he got electrocuted,” Uppal police said. A daily-wager Somaiah (55) was electrocuted after he came in contact with an electric pole at Old Malakpet. At Chandrayangutta, a 17-year-old boy Mohd. Rehan was electrocuted when he came in contact with the inverter wire while shifting household items to the first floor as the ground floor was flooded with rainwater. L. Venkata Naidu (31) from Fathenagar got electrocuted at his engineering workshop at Balanagar on Sunday. He opened his workshop after three days and while trying to switch on the main power he suffered electric shock as rainwater entered his workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-more-including-two-children-killed-in-rain-related-incidents/article32889305.ece
19 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Main accused in Ballia shooting case nabbed by Special Task Force||The main accused in the Ballia murder case, Dhirendra Pratap Singh, who had allegedly opened fire in the presence of police and administrative officials during a village meeting earlier this week, was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police on Sunday. Dhirendra is linked to local BJP MLA Surendra Singh. He was arrested by the U.P. Special Task Force near the Polytechnic Crossing in Lucknow around 11.40 a.m. following a tip-off that he was coming to the spot to meet an associate, the police said. The family of the deceased, Jai Prakash Pal, had alleged that after firing the shots on Thursday, the accused was allowed to flee by the police. Dhirendra’s brothers, Narendra Singh and Devendra Singh, have already been arrested. The police said they arrested two associates of the accused — Santosh Yadav and Amarjeet — in Ballia on Sunday and recovered two 315 bore illegal countrymade pistols from their possession. Dhirendra will be taken to Ballia for further investigation, an STF officer said. Jai Prakash was killed at Durjanpur village in the Reoti area of Ballia on October 15 when Dhirendra opened fire in the presence of police and administrative officials, following a dispute between two local groups over the allotment of a government ration shop. The Uttar Pradesh government ordered the suspension of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate and the entire police force present at the spot for “laxity”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/main-accused-in-ballia-shooting-case-nabbed-by-special-task-force/article32889201.ece
19 October 2020||Kolkata,||Celebrating skinks, ZSI lists 62 species in India||With long bodies, relatively small or no legs, no pronounced neck and glossy scales, skinks are common reptiles around homes, garages, and open spaces such as sparks and school playgrounds, and around lakes. Although they are common reptiles and have a prominent role in maintaining ecosystems, not much is known about their breeding habits, and ecology because identification of the species can be confusing. A recent publication by the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) reveals that India is home to 62 species of skinks and says about 57% of all the skinks found in India (33 species) are endemic. The publication, Skinks of India , was released earlier this month by Union Minister of State, Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change Babul Supriyo. “It is the first monograph on this group of lizards, which are found in all kinds of habitats in the country, from the Himalayas to the coasts and from dense forests to the deserts,” Kaushik Deuti, scientist of ZSI and one of the authors of the publication, said. Director ZSI Kailash Chandra, said while a lot of work is done on other groups of reptiles like snakes or geckos, skinks are an ignored species. Skinks are highly alert, agile and fast moving and actively forage for a variety of insects and small invertebrates. The reduced limbs of certain skink species or the complete lack of them make their slithering movements resemble those of snakes, leading people to have incorrect notion that they are venomous. This results in several of these harmless creatures being killed. Wide collaboration “The publication is a result of four years of work and study of over 4,000 specimens in all 16 regional centres of ZSI and also at the Bombay Natural History Society, Indian Institute of Science, Wildlife Institute of India, and the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology & Natural History. It also makes an attempt to ‘redescribe’ all the 62 species with their taxonomic identification keys, distributional maps, habits, habitat and breeding biology,” Dr. Chandra said. The book also gives a phylogenetic and bio-geographical analysis of distribution of these species in all the 11 bio-geographic zones of India and a detailed account on the historical studies on this group of lizards from the British era to the present. The Western Ghats are home to 24 species of which 18 are endemic to the region. The Deccan Peninsular region is home to 19 species of which 13 are endemic. There are records of 14 skink species from the northeast of which two species are endemic. Dr Deuti, however, pointed out that with 1,602 species of skinks across the world, making it the largest family of lizards, their occurrence in India is less than 4 % of the global diversity. Of the 16 genera of skinks found in India, four genera are endemic. Sepsophis (with one species)and Barkudia (with two species) are limbless skinks found in the hills and coastal plains of the eastern coast. Barkudia insularisis believed to be found only in the Barkud Island in Chilka lake in Odisha. Barkudia melanosticta is endemic to Visakhapatnam. Sepsophis punctatus is endemic to the northern part of Eastern Ghats. Five species of Kaestlea (blue-tailed ground skinks) are endemic to the Western Ghats and four species of Ristella (Cat skinks) also endemic to its southern part. Other authors of the publication, Achyuthan Srikanthan from the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, and three other ZSI researchers — Sujoy Raha, Probhat Bag and Sudipta Debnath — said that alongside its taxonomic significance, the book will generate interest among nature enthusiasts and lay people about skinks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/celebrating-skinks-zsi-lists-62-species-in-india/article32888999.ece
19 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Chiefs for 56 BC corpns. announced||The State government on Sunday announced the list of chairpersons for 56 BC corporations which have been set up for the uplift of the Backward Classes (BCs). Of them, 29 corporations are going to be led by women and 12 directors have been appointed for each corporation representing all the 13 districts. Addressing the media, Minister for BC Welfare Ch. Venugopala Krishna said that the government was committed to the development of BCs and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy took the initiative of setting up 56 BC corporations to focus on their empowerment. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy stood by his promise of setting up one corporation for every BC community . After a careful study, out of 138 castes, 56 castes with more than 30,000 population were finalised to have separate corporations. Funds will be provided to them in the due course,” said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chiefs-for-56-bc-corpns-announced/article32889004.ece
19 October 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra rain: Centre must step in to help farmers, says Pawar||As heavy showers induced by the retreating monsoon continue to batter Maharashtra, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said that while the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government would do everything in power to help farmers, the Centre must step in to help as well. Mr. Pawar, who commenced his two-day tour of the rain-hit districts in the Marathwada region on Sunday, further said that he, along with other MPs from Maharashtra, would be going to Delhi in the next 8-10 days to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and seek financial assistance for the afflicted farmers. “Croplands have suffered tremendous damage as a result of the excess rain…While sugarcane, paddy, tur , and soybean crops have been destroyed, in some cases, the agricultural soil has been washed away. It is not possible for farmers to recoup losses of such magnitude in a short time. So, while the State is firmly behind the farmers in this grave hour, there are some limitations to the assistance it can give,” the NCP chief said in Osmanabad district. The solution to this crisis must be jointly sought by the State and the Centre, said Mr. Pawar, former Union Agriculture Minister. Earlier, Mr. Pawar met farmers in some of the worst-hit villages of Osmanabad’s Lohara tehsil, while surveying the damage to their crops by incessant rain that have been pelting Marathwada for the last one week. Consoling the farmers, the NCP chief, reminded villagers of the destruction and loss of life suffered during the 1993 earthquake in Marathwada. “We got through that terrible crisis [1993 earthquake] and we will come through this present calamity as well,” Mr. Pawar said. In the political race to lend succour to Maharashtra’s farmers, the 79-year-old Mr. Pawar has yet again stolen a march over both Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray — his coalition partner in the MVA — as well as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis by beginning his tour ahead of them. Mr. Thackeray and Mr. Fadnavis will begin their respective tours in Solapur and Baramati (Mr. Pawar’s bastion) on Monday. Mr. Pawar’s visit to Osmanabad on Sunday is also noteworthy for the fact that it marks exactly a year when he delivered a much-publicised, eye-catching pre-election speech in Satara amid rain. Meanwhile, the BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP, Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje, too visited Osmanabad on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-rain-centre-must-step-in-to-help-farmers-says-pawar/article32889361.ece
19 October 2020||Kolkata,||Work in accordance with law, Constitution, Governor tells Mamata||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday urged Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to work in accordance with the law and the Constitution, and the State police cannot behave like “political workers”. After meeting family members of BJP worker Madan Ghorai, who died allegedly in police custody, Mr. Dhankhar said the State police was “playing with fire”. “Work in accordance with the law and the Constitution. You will find your Governor working with your government shoulder to shoulder in the service of people,” Mr. Dhankhar said. The Governor, who has been at odds with the government since assuming charge in the State, said, “Police cannot be political workers. Those who are sleeping like Kumbhakarna are not aware that there is something like destiny.” Earlier in the day, Mr. Dhankhar wrote a letter to the Chief Minister and said the demise of Ghorai is yet another instance of “dehumanising torture, assault and death” in custody. Ghorai was arrested in Patashpur in East Medinipur district on September 26 in connection with a kidnapping case. He was the BJP booth vice-president in the area. The police had said he was in judicial custody and not in its custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/work-in-accordance-with-law-constitution-governor-tells-mamata/article32889122.ece
19 October 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 deaths exceed 6,000 in Bengal as puja preparations gather pace||West Bengal on Sunday reported its highest single-day spike with 3,983 new COVID-19 cases taking the total case tally to 3,21,036. With 64 deaths, the State’s fatality count crossed the 6,000 mark to reach 6,056. The State has added 1,000 deaths in just 18 days. The number of active cases has now increased to 33,927 while the discharge rate has dropped to 87.55%. The percentage of positive cases out of the samples tested has climbed to 8.04%. Next week when the Durga Puja festivities will be at peak, experts have suggested that the number of COVID-19 infections might go up. There are about 37,000 community Durga Puja pandals in the State and nearly 3,000 of them are in Kolkata. Only a few pandals had heeded to the advice of doctors and said that they would not allow visitors. During the day, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also inaugurated a few puja pandals in the city. Meanwhile, an open letter, posted in a public domain by the Joint Platform of Doctors West Bengal, had warned that if the celebrations during the Durga Puja were not controlled then post-festivities, there might be a tremendous rise in new cases. “We had at first written to the CM and the Chief Secretary, and then to all political parties in this regard. But we have not got any reaction from them,” the letter said. It pointed out that the rush for shopping and preparations is continuing undeterred, which can spell disaster for the people. “If the situation continues in this fashion then we can gauge how swiftly the number of cases will increase in the State… So many beds will not be available at the same time in the hospitals, nor will there be enough ventilators, doctors and health workers,” the letter said. After State BJP president Dilip Ghosh tested positive for COVID-19 a couple of days ago, State Minister Nirmal Majhi tested positive on Sunday. So far, three sitting MLAs of the ruling Trinamool Congress have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-deaths-exceed-6000-in-bengal-as-puja-preparations-gather-pace/article32889120.ece
19 October 2020||Belagavi,||Minister Shashikala Jolle faces people’s wrath||Flood-affected farmers questioned the delay in the arrival of district in-charge Minister Shashikala Jolle to rain-ravaged villages in Vijayapura district on Sunday. When the Minister visited Chadachan-Umarani Cross, women farmers asked her why she did not come earlier to direct officers to take up relief measures. She said that she was suffering from COVID-19 and that she was forced to stay home. “I was also suffering from some other disease and was unable to move. Doctors had asked me to not to travel till the second test. I have also been asked not to speak much,’’ she said. “I am deeply concerned about farmers. I may not have been here physically, but I was always with you in spirit,’’ she said. Rathnavva, a woman who had lost her crops and suffered damage to her house, said that she had nothing left in her house. “I don’t have anything to eat,” she said. The Minister said that she would instruct officers to ensure that such persons were given food and placed in relief centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-shashikala-jolle-faces-peoples-wrath/article32889078.ece
19 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Conditions in Kalaburagi flood relief centres poor||Many of the 140 relief centres established in different places for flood victims were found to be in bad shape with lack of basic facilities such as food and drinking water. People in a relief centre set up at a BCM Hostel where the flood victims of Udachana village in Afzalpur taluk were kept complained that they were not provided with proper food. “We got food at 11 p.m. yesterday. Today, we did not get breakfast till afternoon. We, the elders, can manage. What is the fate of the children and the sick? Nobody is taking care of the flood victims here,” a woman lamented on Sunday. Some villagers even blamed local Panchayat Development Officer (PDO) Siddaram for the chaos in the relief centre. When Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna visited a relief centre in Deval Ganagapur, the people complained of mismanagement in the centre.  They said that the food was of poor quality and there was no drinking water, among others. Taking the complaint seriously, Ms. Jyothsna ordered on the spot suspension of local PDO Gurunath Haridas and Village Accountant Bhagyashree Talwar. Afzalpur flooded After decades, Afzalpur has also been badly hit by floods. The low-lying areas in the town, including Jai Bheem Colony and Ghattaraga Road were flooded. People were found shifting their belongings from their flooded houses to safer places. A transport bus with passengers on board was caught in the floodwaters near Shirval village in Afzalpur taluk. The bus was on its way from Afzalpur to Karjagi when it was stuck in water. Local people moved the bus to safety using ropes and a tractor. Since the floodwaters of the Amarja have destroyed water pipelines at Hittalashirur village in Aland taluk, drinking water supply to the village has been disrupted. Gheraoed Lok Sabha member from Kalaburagi Umesh Jadhav paid visits to Deval Ganagapur, Kerakanahalli, Afzalpur, Desai Kallur, Hinchagera, Ghattaraga, Kollur and Havalaga villages and interacted with the flood victims in the different relief centres. He also distributed biscuit packets and water bottles to people and directed the officials to ensure quality food and other amenities at the relief centres. When he visited Muttaga village in Shahabad taluk, people welcomed him with “Go back Jadhav” slogans. The angry mob even gheraoed him and sent him back. “Caught in thw floods, we suffered for two days without food and drinking water. The roads were in bad shape for years. If they were repaired, we would have used them to reach a safer place in the time of floods. You have come now after everything is over,” the people angrily told him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/conditions-in-kalaburagi-flood-relief-centres-poor/article32889079.ece
19 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Joseph loses UDF post||Amidst attempts by the Kerala Congress (M) led by P.J. Joseph to retain its quota of seats in the United Democratic Front (UDF) despite the Mani group's exit, the party on Sunday received a major setback with the Congress taking over the coalition's reins in Pathanamthitta. During a reconstitution of the UDF leadership, A. Shamsuddin took over as chairman of the UDF district leadership, while Victor Thomas of the KC(M) was appointed as the convener. With this, the Joseph-faction loses its upper hand in the UDF in Pathanamthitta, one of the Central Travancore districts where the regional party claims a huge voter base. At the same time, Mons Joseph, MLA, a close aide of Mr. Joseph, was appointed as the UDF chairman in Kottayam. Replaced  He replaced Sunny Thekkedam, the Kottayam district president of the Kerala Congress led by K.M. Mani. The latest move comes even as the Joseph faction seeks to retain all the seats contested by the Kerala Congress (M) during the previous local body and Assembly elections. Expansion The Congress, on the other hand, appears too keen to expand its presence across the region using the space vacated by the Mani group and looks to take over a few of the 15 Assembly seats that traditionally belonged to the regional party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/joseph-loses-udf-post/article32889099.ece
19 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Low pressure brewing over the bay again||A low pressure area is likely to develop over the Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours under the cyclonic circulations, the weathermen have said. A cyclonic circulation over the west-central Bay of Bengal off south A.P. coast persists now and extends up to1.5 km above the mean sea level. Another cyclonic circulation lies over the east-central Bay of Bengal between 2.1 km and 5.8 km above the mean sea level. The weather system is likely to become more marked during the subsequent 24 hours. Thunderstorm, along with lightning and heavy rainfall, is likely at isolated places in coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam from October 18 to 22, according to the India Meteorological Department. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea from October 19 to 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/low-pressure-brewing-over-the-bay-again/article32889003.ece
19 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Two get stuck in current in sea at Kaup, die||Two youths were drowned in the sea at Kaup in Udupi district on Sunday. Kaup Police gave the names of the deceased as Rupesh (23) and Karthik (24) from Hesarghatta in Bengaluru. The police said the two along with three of their friends had come on a vacation to Kaup. They came to the beach in the afternoon and entered the sea for swimming. While three persons managed to come out, Rupesh and Karthik got stuck in the current and were drawn in. Local fishermen rushed to their rescue, but in vain. They were drowned in the sea. The bodies were retrieved later, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-from-city-drown-at-kaup/article32889265.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,||After 99 days, daily case count dips below 4,000||The number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu in a day fell below the 4,000-mark after 99 days on Sunday, with only 3,914 fresh cases being reported. The State also recorded 56 deaths, taking the toll to 10,642. The number of persons discharged after treatment stood at 4,929 on Sunday, taking the tally of those who have been discharged so far to 6,37,637. The total number of active cases is 39,121. As many as 6,87,400 persons have tested positive for the infection so far. As on date, 25,067 children and 86,000 persons aged above 60 have tested positive for COVID-19. There was some relief for Chennai district, with the number of persons discharged exceeding the number of those testing positive. While 1,359 persons were discharged, 1,036 persons tested positive. As on date, 12,583 patients are under treatment, including in home quarantine, the daily bulletin issued by the Department of Public Health said. The city also recorded 17 deaths. Health officials said the total number of positive cases in the district is 1,89,995. Among the districts, Coimbatore and Salem led the tally, with 319 and 188 cases recorded respectively in the last 24 hours. In both districts, the number of those discharged was higher, at 365 in Coimbatore and 268 in Salem. Both recorded five deaths each. In Tiruppur, 166 fresh cases were reported and 133 persons were discharged. Chennai’s neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur continued to record cases in three digits. In Kancheepuram, 130 more persons were found to be infected and two persons died. Chengalpattu reported 174 fresh cases and seven deaths. Tiruvallur reported 195 fresh cases. Health officials said 55 deaths were due to the pre-existing co-morbid conditions. A 55-year-old man from the Nilgiris was admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on October 14 and he tested positive the next day. The hospital recorded his death on October 16 as “due to bilateral bronchopneumonia/acute respiratory distress syndrome.” A 92-year-old man from the city, who was admitted to a private hospital on October 15 with complaints of difficulty in breathing for a day, tested positive and died on Saturday evening owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, according to the bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-99-days-daily-case-count-dips-below-4000/article32889026.ece
19 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Lifeguards save two on Panambur Beach||Two persons were saved by lifeguards on Panambur Beach here on Sunday. According to Yatish Baikampady, former Chief Executive Officer of Panambur Beach Tourism Development Project, lifeguards of the project, whose service came to an end on Saturday, were posted on the beach in view of the safety of the weekend crowd. Sharanappa (35) from Itagi of Vijayapura district and Nagaraja H.S. (18) of Jokatte came to the beach in the afternoon along with eight of their friends. They all entered the sea. Sharanappa and Nagaraj were caught in the current and were drawn in. The lifeguards saw them and rescued them, Mr. Baikampady said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lifeguards-save-two-on-panambur-beach/article32889349.ece
19 October 2020||Pune,||Recoveries in Maharashtra continue to outweigh cases||Maharashtra reported 11,204 recoveries as opposed to a relatively low surge of 9,060 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, as the State’s total case tally reached 15,95,381, while its active cases dipped further to 1,82,973. With 150 deaths, the fatality toll crossed the 42,000 mark to touch 42,115. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 13,69,810 with the State’s recovery rate standing at a robust 85.86%. “Of a total of 81,39,466 laboratory samples tested thus far, 15,95,381 (19.6%) have returned positive with around 70,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate currently stood at 2.64%. Pune district reported only 824 cases to take its total tally to 3,23,642, while nine deaths saw its death toll climb to 6,502. As per the Pune district administration, the recovery rate has exceeded 90% with the number of active cases going below 21,500. Mumbai reported a big surge of 1,600 cases to take its total case tally to 2,38,544 of whom 22,555 are active cases. As many as 46 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 9,785. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 1,300 cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 96,336 of whom 7,588 are active. As many as 14 deaths saw the death toll climb to 2,622. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported nine deaths to take its death toll to 1,354. As many as 345 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 44,655 of whom 6,682 are active. Sangli reported more than 200 cases to take the district’s total tally to 44,646 of whom 4,354 are active. With five deaths, the fatality count has risen to 1,437. Kolhapur recorded just 69 new cases as its total case tally reached 46,386 of whom 2,403 are active. With six deaths, the death toll climbed to 1,552. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported its lowest surge in days, recording less than 200 cases as its tally reached 88,886 of which 12,354 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recoveries-in-maharashtra-continue-to-outweigh-cases/article32889360.ece
19 October 2020||Mumbai,||Uddhav warns against let-up in COVID-19 fight||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said the fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak was at a decisive stage and people must adhere to all social distancing norms strictly, including wearing masks. Mr. Thackeray was speaking while inaugurating a plasma treatment centre in Ratnagiri at an e-function on Sunday. He asked officials to ensure that the State government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign creates awareness of following COVID-19 norms. “We have to ensure that there is no second COVID-19 wave,” he said at the gathering. With Mr. Thackeray scheduled to visit rain-affected areas in Solapur district on Monday, State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Sunday took a dig at the Chief Minister, saying that he is now venturing out of his house as he is continuously being criticised by the Opposition party for not going out due to the pandemic. “A government can be run only by being on the field as it helps in quick decision-making. Not all decisions can be taken through video-conferencing,” Mr. Patil said. He said the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, will undertake a 800-km tour of the flood-hit parts of the State starting Monday. “We expect financial assistance to be provided expeditiously. Panchnamas are not possible as everything has been destroyed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uddhav-warns-against-let-up-in-covid-19-fight/article32889362.ece
19 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||‘Oppn. should join hands with govt. in tackling flood situation’||Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav on Sunday accused the Congress leaders of politicising the flood situation in the North Karnataka region and other parts of the State. Mr. Jadhav addressing a press conference reiterated that the BJP-led government in the State as well as at the Centre stood with the people during tough times like COVID-19. And now, the State government has been extending all assistance to the flood-affected people of North Karnataka. Mr. Jadhav said that it is not time to get into a blame game. “Instead of criticising, the Congress leaders should join hands with the government and participate in a constructive manner to tackle the flood situation,” Mr. Jadhav added. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has decided to conduct an aerial survey of flood-hit areas of North Karnataka districts to assess the damage caused by rain and floods. The State government has written to the Centre to declare floods in the State as a national disaster, Mr. Jadhav said.  State has urged Centre to declare floods as a national disaster, says MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oppn-should-join-hands-with-govt-in-tackling-flood-situation/article32889080.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Back on track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/back-on-track/article32889200.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Searching for prospects||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/searching-for-prospects/article32889176.ece
19 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State reports fewer than 4,000 cases for fifth time||The State reported less than 4,000 new coronavirus infections in a day for the fifth time in the past week, and only 23 new deaths. With 3,986 new infections and 23 new deaths in the last 24 hours ending on Sunday, the cumulative tally increased to 7,83,132 and the toll rose to 6,429. As many as 4,591 patients were recovered from the infection in the past day, taking the total count to 7,40,229. The recovery rate also increased to 94.52%. At present, 36,474 patients are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-fewer-than-4000-cases-for-fifth-time/article32889002.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Back on track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/back-on-track/article32889121.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||In a state of colours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-a-state-of-colours/article32889350.ece
19 October 2020||Aizawl/ Silchar/ Guwahati,||Assam-Mizoram border tense after clash||Tension prevailed on the Assam-Mizoram border after a violent clash took place between the people of the two States, officials said on Sunday. The situation is now under control in the area, which is on the border between the Kolasib district of Mizoram and Cachar district of Assam, they said. A meeting chaired by Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla between the two States will be held on Monday to take stock of the situation, Mizoram Home Minister Lalchamliana said. The Chief Secretaries of the two States will be present in the meeting, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-mizoram-border-tense-after-clash/article32889301.ece
19 October 2020||Bhubaneswar,||NHRC warns Odisha officials||The National Human Rights Commission has issued a warning to the Odisha Health Secretary for personal appearance as the State government failed to submit its response in the case of transfusion of HIV-infected blood in a government-run hospital. Human rights activist Radhakanta Tripathy had moved the NHRC highlighting that two elderly patients were transfused with HIV and hepatitis inflected blood in Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Science and Research (VIMSAR), Burla, in 2016. As the alleged negligence of doctors had put the life of two patients in danger, Mr. Tripathy sought an independent probe into the cases and punitive action. He had also requested the NHRC to award a hefty compensation to both the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nhrc-warns-odisha-officials/article32889117.ece
19 October 2020||Kolkata,||47.5 kg of ganja seized in Bengal in separate raids by BSF||Border Security Force (BSF) personnel have seized 47.5 kg ganja in three separate raids conducted in West Bengal, an official said on Sunday. Acting on a tip-off, a BSF team raided a house in Gopalpur village in Murshidabad district on Saturday and seized 33 kg ganja from there. In another search operation in an area near Narsaripara border outpost in Nadia district on the same day, the border guards seized 12.5 kg ganja.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/475-kg-of-ganja-seized-in-bengal-in-separate-raids-by-bsf/article32889119.ece
19 October 2020||YADGIR,||Minister to ask officials to shift flood-hit village||Minister for Animal Husbandry and Yadgir district in-charge Prabhu Chavan has said that he will direct officials to take immediate action to shift flood-hit Shivanur village in Wadagera taluk of the district to a safe place. He visited Shivanur village, which has been affected by floodwaters, on Sunday. The entire village has now been shifted to a gruel centre in neighbouring Bendebembali village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-to-ask-officials-to-shift-flood-hit-village/article32889081.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,||DRI seizes narcotics worth Rs. 13 crore||In the biggest seizure this year, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence officers busted an international drug racket and recovered 13.2 kg of pseudoephedrine worth around Rs. 13 crore at Kempegowda International Airport on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dri-seizes-narcotics-worth-rs-13-crore/article32889266.ece
19 October 2020||MYSURU,||A tale of two convocations||A peek into the archival materials brings to fore certain similarities in the circumstances surrounding the 1st and the 100th convocation of the University of Mysore, to be held on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-tale-of-two-convocations/article32889177.ece
19 October 2020||Mumbai,||Monorail services resume in Mumbai||Monorail services in Mumbai resumed on Sunday after nearly seven months of closure following the outbreak of COVID-19.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monorail-services-resume-in-mumbai/article32889363.ece
19 October 2020||Aizawl/ Silchar/ Guwahati,||Tension at Assam-Mizoram border||Tension prevailed on the Assam-Mizoram border after a violent clash took place between the people of the two States, injuring several, officials said on Sunday. The situation is now under control in the area, which is on the border between the Kolasib district of Mizoram and Cachar district of Assam, they said. A meeting, chaired by Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, between the two States will be held on Monday to take stock of the situation, Mizoram Home Minister Lalchamliana said. The Chief Secretaries of the two States will be present in the meeting, he said. PMO informed Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said he has apprised the Prime Minister’s Office and Union Home Ministry of the prevailing situation in the area. Mr. Sonowal also telephoned Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga and spoke to him on the border incident, stressing on the need to take productive measures and joint efforts to address the border issues. Mr. Zoramthanga assured Mr. Sonowal of efforts to maintain peace at the inter-State border and cooperation, the Assam government said in a statement. The two States have deployed security personnel, including those of the Indian Reserve Battalion, in the violence-hit areas near the Vairengte village in Mizoram and Assam’s Lailapur, officials said. Vairengte in Kolasib district is on the northern fringe of Mizoram through which the National Highway-306 (formerly 54) passes, linking the State to Assam. The nearest village in Assam is Lailapur, which is in Cachar district. Kolasib Deputy Commissioner H. Lalthlangliana said a large number of Vairengte residents assembled when some people from Assam, armed with sticks and dao , pelted stones at a group near the auto-rickshaw stand on the outskirts of the border village on Saturday evening. The mob from Vairengte retaliated and set on fire about 20 temporary bamboo huts and stalls built along the National Highway by residents of Lailapur despite a prohibitory order being in place, he said. One of the injured persons, who suffered a cut in his neck, was admitted to the Kolasib district hospital and his condition was critical. Three people were being treated at a Public Health Centre in Vairengte, he said. The incident could be the fallout of the demolition of a makeshift hut used by local volunteers who guard the inter-State border near the Saihaipui ‘V’ village, about 3 km from Vairengte, he said. The volunteers are guarding the border to check the movement of the people in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Defusing tension Mr. Lalthlangliana said no one died in the clash and one person from Assam was admitted at Silchar Medical College and Hospital. He said that he has spoken to Cachar Deputy Commissioner Keerthi Jalli and asked her to take measures to ensure that the National Highway, which has been blocked by the local people, is cleared at the earliest. The Assam government also said that the situation is under control and senior officials along with police are in the area to defuse the tension. State Forest Minister Parimal Shuklabaidya, on the direction of Mr. Sonowal, visited Lailapur during the day and interacted with the people. The incident was the handiwork of miscreants to create disturbance in the community, a statement issued by the Assam government quoted him as saying. Mr. Zoramthanga also held a Cabinet meeting during the day. “I sincerely request everyone to maintain peace and to kindly not bypass any administrative proceedings,” he tweeted. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Home Minister Lalchamliana said the Mizoram government has urged Assam to make efforts to defuse the tension and restore peace and tranquillity in the area. Recent troubles He alleged that recently troubles were created by Assam at three border points — Thinghlun in Mamit district, and Saihapui ‘V’ and Vairengte, both in Kolasib. “We have approached the Centre over the border dispute. Accordingly, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla will hold a virtual meeting with Chief Secretaries of the two States on Monday,” he said. At least seven people from Mizoram were injured in the clash on Saturday night, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tension-at-assam-mizoram-border/article32889202.ece
19 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad inundated again||Another bout of very heavy rain after three days’ gap left the city gasping, breaching its lakes and nalas, drowning several colonies, stranding people, cutting off road links and creating virtual mayhem. The rain fury began on Saturday evening, and continued unabated for six to seven hours during the night, clocking close to 20 cm of rainfall at a few locations. Residents of colonies in Hafiz Baba Nagar and surrounding localities had to be evacuated at 3 a.m. on Sunday, as a breach in Gurram Cheruvu lake inundated the locality. Eyewitnesses informed that water came up to five feet, and there was a possibility of casualties. The entire district administration, GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar, Water Board MD M. Dana Kishore, Police and Irrigation officials descended on the location to monitor relief measures. A statement from GHMC informed that 2,100 families were evacuated from the Gurram Cheruvu flooding area on Saturday evening. The affected families were being given ration kits and blankets. With Himayatsagar exceeding full tank level, HMWS&SB officials opened the flood gates and released water into river Musi, which was in spate, drowning the causeways at Chaderghat and Musarambagh yet again. Waist-deep water beneath Malakpet road underbridge hampered traffic, and areas on the eastern side were cut off from the rest of the city. Traffic came to a standstill on the Vijayawada highway for 5-km stretch, starting from Abdullahpurmet. The main road from Karmanghat up to Saroornagar was flooded with storm water arriving from Meerpet and Jillelaguda, posing grave danger to commuters. Several colonies in areas such as Nacharam, Mansurabad, Nagole, Karmanghat and other locations were inundated owing the flooding of nearby lakes. Water in Hussainsagar too exceeded full tank level, and is flowing through surplus nala towards Musi. Singapore Township area near Ghatkesar received the maximum rainfall at 19.7 cm, followed by Peerzadiguda at 18 cm. Rocktown Colony in Nagole, Bhavaninagar, L.B.Nagar received over 17 cm, while localities such as Alkapuri, Habsiguda, IS Sadan, Ramantapur, Thattiannaram, Bandlaguda, Asmangadh, Shantinagar, Uppal, Rein Bazar, Lingojiguda, Shaikpet and other areas too received heavy rainfall upwards of 15 centimetres. Disaster Response Force teams slogged in Hafiz Baba Nagar, Ramantapur, Meerpet, Nagole and several other locations, evacuating people using boats. GHMC has intensified sanitation and disinfection activities in the affected areas. Voluntary organisations were involved in relief work on Sunday and provided food, candles, cooked food, blankets and mosquito coils to those marooned in Baba Nagar and parts of Nadeem Colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hyderabad-inundated-again/article32888961.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. readies protest road map||Congress president Sonia Gandhi targeted the Narendra Modi-led BJP government for alleged atrocities against Dalits and women, passing anti-farmer ‘black’ laws, ‘demolishing’ the economy and accused Prime Minister Modi of ‘abdicating’ his responsibility in the fight against COVID-19. At a virtual meeting of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretaries and State in-charges, Ms. Gandhi said India was passing through a “tumultuous phase” in which the rights of the citizens are being ‘systematically’ handed over to a handful of crony capitalists. This was the first meeting of the general secretaries and in-charges after the Congress had carried out a major organisational reshuffle last month. The party prepared a road map of various agitation programmes against the farm laws and the growing incidents of violence against Dalits and women. It includes a plan to petition President Ram Nath Kovind by submitting two crore signatures of farmers against the new farm laws on November 19, the birth anniversary of Indira Gandhi. “Atrocities on Dalits have reached a new zenith. Instead of honouring the law and granting adequate protection to India’s daughters, the BJP governments are siding with the criminals. The voice of oppressed families is being suppressed by the agencies of the State. Is this the new ‘Raj Dharma’?” Ms. Gandhi asked. The Congress chief’s comment comes in the backdrop of the party’s aggressive stance over the Hathras incident in which a 19-year Dalit girl was allegedly raped and murdered. Attacking the Modi government over the farm laws, she accused the government of hatching a ‘conspiracy’ to undo the gains of the Green Revolution. “Lives and livelihoods of crores of farm labourers, lease hold farmers, small and marginal farmers, toiling labourers and small shopkeepers are under attack. It is our solemn duty to join hands to defeat this sinister conspiracy.”  Economic impact She accused the Modi government of pushing the country into “an abyss with its ineptitude” in dealing with COVID-19 and its impact on the economy. “The stark truth is that a Prime Minster, who promised to defeat corona within 21 days, has abdicated his and his govt.’s responsibility towards the citizens. There is neither a plan nor strategic thinking, solution or way ahead in the fight against corona.” The Congress chief accused the Modi government of ‘demolishing’ the economy. “Never has the country witnessed such a free-fall in GDP as also all other economic indices. Today, the young have no jobs. Nearly 14 crore jobs have been lost. Small and medium businesses, small shopkeepers and other small enterprises are shutting at an unprecedented pace, yet an uncaring government remains a mute spectator,” Ms. Gandhi said. On October 31, Kisan Adhikar Diwas (Farmers’ Rights Day) will be observed through a day-long fast. There will be nationwide protests over the alleged atrocities on women, Dalits and farmers on November 5. Between November 1 and 10, there will be daily tractor rallies against the farm laws. An online campaign for public sector undertakings and symposiums on Nehruvian ideology will be organised on November 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-readies-protest-road-map/article32888974.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Onam led to Kerala spike, says Vardhan||Kerala is seeing a spurt in cases due to “gross negligence” during Onam celebrations, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan during his weekly online interaction, Sunday Samvad. In response to a question on how had Kerala, once portrayed as a “model State” for keeping the virus in check, has now posted over 8,000 cases and what could other States learn, Mr. Vardhan replied, “Movement of people due to trade and tourism led to cases increasing beyond the two districts of Kasargod and Kannur. The epidemic curve of Kerala changed completely due to Onam festivities across the State during August and September. During August 22-Sept 2 (Onam week) there were huge congregations where people convened in large numbers and didn't take precautions. Kerala paid the price for its gross negligence after good control in the initial part of the pandemic. Other States must learn a lesson due to Kerala's negligence during Onam and States need to be careful during the coming festival season.” Though there was a surge in cases since September, data shows that the State’s “second wave”, one which hasn’t yet seen a peak, had begun in early May. The second wave was attributable to the return of migrant workers from other States and returnees from abroad. Nearly 10.61 lakh people had entered the State through various routes, since the pandemic began of which half entered via flights alone. Until June, 90% of cases were imported and by July this had reversed to 90% of cases being locally transmitted. 3.3 lakh cases The share of cases from Kerala in India’s overall load jumped from 2.9% until September 15 to 6.4% in the second half of the month to about 10% as of this month. Kerala also didn’t increase testing to keep up with the population surge and also slackened on its contact tracing efforts that had helped it to contain significant spread until May. There were as of Sunday nearly 3.3 lakh cases in Kerala of which 96,000 are active infections, the Minister said. Responding to another question on the market being flooded with oximeters made in China, Mr. Vardhan observed that “consumers should look for FDA/CE approved products with ISO/ IEC specifications.” However, he pointed out that a dip in oxygen saturation level was not always a COVID-19 symptom, and it could happen due to other underlying medical conditions as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/onam-led-to-kerala-spike-says-vardhan/article32888981.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Cannot wish that Chirag is a victor’||Former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis , currently the BJP’s Bihar poll in-charge, is confident of the NDA’s prospects and stresses that Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is the leader of the alliance in the State.  You must be getting a feeling of deja vu , since through the Maharashtra polls and after, you have dealt with alliance issues with the Janata Dal(U) and Lok Janshakti Party. It is not exactly deja vu as there is a huge difference between our alliance here and the one we had in Maharashtra. In Maharashtra, there was always a hostility; for five years they [Shiv Sena] were with us but since the municipal corporation elections, they had already declared they would not want to continue the alliance. But we came together in the Lok Sabha polls. Even when with us, they [Sena] behaved like an Opposition party within the government. That is not the case in Bihar. We may have separated in 2013, but when we came back together in 2017, there was absolutely coherent synergy. I have been involved in seat negotiations in the last few weeks, and the way the conversations took place here were very different from that with the Sena, in tone and tenor. The coordination here was much better, far more convivial. There have been many strongly worded statements from the BJP on Nitish Kumar being the leader of the NDA in Bihar in the last few days. Have you been able to convince your voters and also your ally? As of now, they (JD-U) are convinced that this alliance is coherent. I do not see any doubt in their minds. We are holding joint sabhas and meetings with leaders from both our parties on the dais. Ultimately, the narrative is set at the ground level, and when people see that the foot soldiers of the JD(U) and the BJP are working together, it sets the mind at rest.  What is your opinion of Chirag Paswan?  We have a lot of respect for Ram Vilasji[late leader Ram Vilas Paswan] and I wish young Chirag well. I cannot wish that he is a victor in these elections as ultimately he is not fighting as part of our coalition. I think that his position, which he took, was incorrect. When you say you are part of the NDA at the Centre, you cannot say that you will disregard (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi ji . In the same way in Bihar, if you are part of the NDA you cannot disregard Nitish Kumar. Undoubtedly, the leader of the NDA in Bihar is Nitish ji .  If all of you have this opinion, then it raises a question mark on Mr. Paswan’s continuance in the NDA even at the Centre.  We have not thought of it yet. In politics, you cannot predict what will happen in the future.  A very painful thread of events has been the situation with regard to inter-State workers during the lockdown. There was a lot of hurt feeling among these workers at what they felt was abandonment by their home State. How do you view the issue?  Initially, there were problems of transportation, but once that was sorted out, the government here, with its experience of running relief camps due to seasonal flooding, very soon created camps for these workers, and arranged money in their accounts. Once it started, people seemed okay with it. I do not see any anti-incumbency due to that. What will be the main thrust of your campaign? It can be summed up in one word, bharosa (faith). People have faith in Modi ji ; we are going forward on that. Also, Nitish ji has been at the helm of affairs for 15 years and his image is clean, which is not a very common occurrence, and it matters to the voter.  When you say you are part of the NDA at the Centre, you cannot say that you will disregard Modi ji||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cannot-wish-that-chirag-is-a-victor/article32888971.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We will see a BJP-LJP govt. in Bihar’||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan speaks about the political turmoil after his father Ram Vilas Paswan’s death and BJP leaders’ comments against himself.  This is the first election where your father Ram Vilas Paswan is not with you and a critical election for the LJP, at that. Your thoughts. The past couple of weeks have been a very difficult time for me. Apart from shuttling between the hospital and party meetings, what made me restless was the fact that I could not talk to my father. For me, it was a matter of routine to share in the evening whatever happened through the day. He was my best friend... In fact, I would say, the worst day was when we took the decision to go it alone in the election. My father was already on the ventilator. I wanted to tell him, seek his advice. But he was not in a position to speak to me. My mother told me to go, hold his hand and say whatever I had to say. I spent some 3-4 hours in that ICU cubicle holding his hand, speaking to him, and that gave me a lot of comfort. In the past, whenever the LJP and the JD(U) have come face to face, your party has had a dismal performance. Haven’t you bitten more than you can chew? Not really, my confidence comes from my father, he used to push me ... He would say that if he could go it alone in 2005, then why should I at a young age be averse to taking bold decisions? And you must remember, we have always fought against the JD(U), be it the 2005, 2010 or the 2015 Assembly election. In fact, in 2017, overnight, he [Nitish Kumar] became part of the NDA and we were thrown together. He has always worked against us. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, despite being on the same side of the alliance, the JD(U) made every attempt to sabotage my election from Jamui. My confidence also comes from the hard work I have done over the past few years and brought about organisational changes in the party along with my father. It also comes from the vision document ‘Bihar First and Bihari First’ that we came up with after my yatra across the State. We spoke to over four lakh persons ... My confidence comes from the anger that people have for Nitish Kumar. You have been claiming that your campaign is for installing a BJP-LJP government, but BJP Ministers and leaders in repeated statements have disowned you. Your comments? I have no issues with their comments. I know my Chief Minister, I know his working style. He does not speak on his own but makes others talk on his behalf. All these comments are because of Nitish ji ’s pressure on the BJP. If the reports are correct, he did not even come to the NDA press conference till he got a written assurance that the LJP will not be allowed to use Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photographs during the campaigning ... And I will give the BJP leaders their due, since, technically, they are in alliance with the JD(U) and not us in the State. I would, in fact, go a step ahead and say I am sure Nitish ji will apply pressure on Modi ji too. I will not have issues if political compulsions force Modi ji to make adverse remarks about me ... He has taken care of me like a father in this difficult time. I would not want to put him in dharam sankat . I have a far deeper and personal relationship with Modi ji .   So, out of the 143 seats, how many are the LJP projected to win? I am not an astrologer and I would not like to challenge the intelligence of the Bihari voters by making such predictions. All I can say is that the current Chief Minister will not return to power and we will see a BJP-LJP government in Bihar.  I won’t have issues if political compulsions force Modi ji to make adverse remarks about me||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-will-see-a-bjp-ljp-govt-in-bihar/article32888977.ece
19 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala, with over 7,600 cases, expands testing||Kerala reported 7,631 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday after testing 58,404 samples. The test positivity rate swung from 17.3% to 13% on Sunday. However, sample testing, which had barely crossed 50,000, picked up. The State’s death toll rose to 1,161 with the addition of 22 deaths. Six of these were in Palakkad, four each in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam, three in Malappuram, two each in Kozhikode and Thrissur and one in Alapuzha. Malappuram district’s case graph was rising, with 1,399 new cases, Kozhikode had 976, Thrissur 862, Ernakulam 730, Thiruvananthapuram 685, Kollam 540, Kottayam 514, Kannur 462, Alapuzha 385, Palakkad 342, Kasaragod 251, Pathanamthitta 179, Idukki 162 and Wayanad 144 cases. Telangana recorded 1,436 more cases on Saturday and six more deaths. Out of the 41,403 people tested on Saturday for coronavirus infection, 38,241 underwent tests at government facilities and 2,802 at private labs. The fresh cases included 249 from Greater Hyderabad. In Andhra Pradesh, there were 3,986 fresh cases, and 23 more deaths. The total for samples tested stood at 70,66,203, with a positivity rate of 11.08%. The daily positivity rate for 74,945 samples was 5.32%; over the past five days, it was below 5.6%. The number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 in a day fell below the 4,000 mark after 99 days on Sunday in Tamil Nadu, at 3,914 new cases. The number of those who had recovered and returned home following treatment in a single day stood at 4,929, taking the tally of those discharged so far to 6,37,637.  (With inputs from   Vijayawada, Chennai,   and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-with-over-7600-cases-expands-testing/article32888969.ece
19 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Jagan’s letter an affront to judiciary’||Former Supreme Court (SC) judge V. Gopala Gowda has described the letter sent by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) regarding the alleged misconduct conduct of Justice N.V. Ramana and some judges of Andhra Pradesh (A.P.) High Court as an “affront to a vibrant judiciary”. “The Chief Justice of India has to apply his mind to the matter and then take appropriate action,” he observed in an email interview to The Hindu . Mr. Gowda said the letter was unprecedented, particularly in view of the manner of its release in the public domain and the allegations levelled against Justice Ramana as well as the Chief Justice and other judges of A.P. High Court. An independent judiciary was not only an important wing of constitutional democracy but also the very sentinel of the rule of law and good governance, he said. The letter and its public disclosure not only compromised the dignity, independence and majesty of the top court and the A.P. High Court, but has also, consequently, interfered with administration of justice and scandalised the court in the eyes of the people by sensationalising the issue, Mr. Gowda said. Stating that the manner of the letter’s release at a press conference was coloured by severe impropriety, he said it appears that sensationalising the issue was the priority and not a genuine quest for truth of the matter. As far as accusing Justice Ramana and some judges of the High Court of nepotism is concerned, Mr. Gowda said the judges named in the CM's letter are critical functionaries discharging sacrosanct functions under the Constitution. Aspersions and allegations against them ought not to be made lightly for sensationalism without substantive and positive evidence. Nothing short of the faith of the people in the judiciary and the rule of law is at stake. The majesty of the judiciary has never been more fragile ever since the unprecedented press conference addressed by four former judges of the apex court, he added. Mr. Gowda said: “Article 121 and Article 211 of the Constitution expressly bar Parliament and the State legislatures to discuss the conduct of any judge. The Constitution confers such immunity having regard to the onerous responsibility of judges in discharging constitutional functions. The matter at hand must be seen in this context.” Asked if the Chief Minister's letter amounted to contempt of court as is being argued by a section of the legal fraternity, Mr. Gowda said it is subject to a decision by the CJI on the touchstone of the applicable contempt law(s) in the country. Regarding suspicions about the timing of the letter, the intentions behind it and the fears that the judiciary has been deliberately dragged into the political muddle, Mr. Gowda said: “I understand that as a matter of fact, a number of cases, including criminal cases, are pending against the CM as on date before courts of law. Timing of the letter and sensationalising the issue ostensibly casts a doubt on the motive.” “Such being the immunity and privileges conferred on judges by the Constitution, it is highly unfortunate that politics took the discussion on constitutional functionaries to social media making a circus out of it all,” he said. Mr. Gowda said the Chief Minister should have taken up the matter confidentially with the CJI, and not in the way the issue was raked up publicly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jagans-letter-an-affront-to-judiciary/article32888975.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||In rush for immunity, Ayurveda supplements have an untested run||For a chemist shop that is usually lined with pharmaceutical drugs, Noida-based proprietor Mahesh Agrawal prominently displays his containers of Chyawanprash. “There is a lot of demand for it and honey, and sales have increased ever since the unlock phases began.” Multiple grocers and stores that sell organic-labelled products say they have been seeing a sharp demand for products that are even tangentially linked to “boosting immunity”. A July report by market research company Nielsen says chyawanprash sales have increased by 283% in June, while the sales of branded honey increased by 39%. “There is a rising sentiment towards ‘local’ with increasing support for Atma Nirbhar Bharat and Ayurveda,” the report said. Shoppers told The Hindu that while they did not believe immunity products would protect them from COVID-19, they saw it as a way to bolster their immune defences. “I regularly take chyawanprash but will never go to an Ayurveda doctor,” said Swapan Banerjee, a teacher. “These products do no harm and play a role in general good health, from my experience, but aren’t substitutes for masks, social distancing, avoiding crowds and getting tested.” Companies that have been marketing these products have capitalised on the association between COVID-19 and immunity and the government’s encouragement of Ayurveda and yoga for mild and moderate infections as well for aiding recovery post COVID-19. Panel prescription An 11-member committee led by former ICMR chief recommended that in the “short term... “Guduchi ( Tinospora cordifolia ) aqueous extract, guduchi+pippali ( Piper longum) , aqueous extracts and AYUSH 64 (a drug with multiple herbs developed by the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences) be recommended for inclusion in the standard care for mild to moderate cases of COVID-19”. However, a perusal of the research studies listed show that none of them have been fully tested for their effectiveness in COVID management and all the evidence relies on the herbs’ effects in controlling fever in malaria and in recovery from “influenza like illnesses”. Ashwagandha has been recommended by the committee because laboratory studies show that it “inhibited the entry” of SARS-CoV-2 into healthy cells and guduchi showed “high binding efficacy” against SARS-CoV-2 targets involved in attachment and replication of the virus, compared to Favipiravir, Lopinavir/Ritonavir.” Anti-viral properties However unlike the latter, these have not been tested in controlled, comparative trials. In fact, the most recent human trials show that all of the drugs showed promising anti-viral activity in lab studies but were not significantly effective in improving disease outcomes. The viral cells, as it is now understood, infiltrate the lung cells and multiply. The SARS-CoV-2, scientists say, is particularly sneaky and the body’s immune system is frequently unable to detect these viral particles early on to neutralise them and keep them from proliferating. As has been seen in instances of those suffering a severe infection, the immune system goes into an overdrive. The body is deluged by chemical messengers called cytokines that, while alerting the body’s defence cells to destroy the virus, also trigger inflammation in multiple organs. It’s to stem such over-reaction, that many a time ends up being fatal, that steroids such as dexamethason are administered. Thus the holy grail of COVID treatment is to ensure that immune system fights the virus without going berserk. Complex mix of herbs In the Ayurveda system, chyawanprash is a “complex mix of herbs” and several common herbs — like turmeric, black pepper and ginger infusions contribute in varying measures to keeping the immune system in a state of preparedness against fighting pathogens, said an expert. “Turmeric, Ashwagandha, giloy all confer varying degree of immunity and may confer varying degrees of benefit to different people, depending on their individual constitution,” said Bhavna Prasher, an Ayurveda doctor and scientist at the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. In the modern-science view, there are two kinds of immunity: one is ‘innate’ immunity which is the first line of defence against an infection. A class of cells called “natural killer cells” and produced in the bone marrow directly attack infectious microbes. The other, a so-called adaptive immunity, where specialised cells produced in the thymus gland actively monitor — and produce antibodies that are specific to viruses and bacteria. Both systems work in tandem. Ayurvedic literature, said Ms. Prasher, suggests that several of the herbs have been tested in immune disorders and there is evidence to show that many of them have ‘immunomodulatory’ properties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-rush-for-immunity-ayurveda-supplements-have-an-untested-run/article32888980.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Post-lockdown, rights of domestic workers in focus||The denial of salaries and loss of employment faced by domestic workers as well as harassment by employers and Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) meted out to them following the nationwide lockdown has brought into focus the need for safeguarding their rights. They have now brought out a manifesto demanding universal registration of employers and domestic workers and national legislation. A survey conducted in Bengaluru among 2,400 domestic workers during the first two weeks of May showed that 87% of the workers were told not to come to work after the lockdown and were not sure when they would be called to work. A staggering 91% of workers lost their salaries for April. It also found that nearly 50% of those above the age of 50 also lost their jobs during the lockdown. The study was conducted by the Domestic Workers Rights Union, the Bruhat Bangalore Gruhakarmika Sangha, and the Manegelasa Kaarmikara Union. Another telephonic survey conducted in New Delhi by the Institute of Social Studies Trust with 35 women workers between April 23 and 28 recorded that nearly 83% of women reported severe to moderate economic crises as well as anxiety over job security. As many as 51% workers surveyed had unemployed spouses and 36% were divorced, separated or widowed women. About 17 organisations and unions who work in Delhi-NCR joined hands to form the Network of Rights and Voices of Domestic Workers and to ensure the well-being of these women. They held discussions with domestic workers to prepare a manifesto of demands which calls for a minimum cash transfer, universal registration of employers and workers, an urban employment guarantee scheme and strengthening of local committees where workers can complain about sexual harassment at workplace. “We have also shared a list of suggestions with parliamentarians and sought inclusion of domestic workers under the social security code and and a comprehensive legislation for them,” says Shruti Batra, Project Manager, Jagori.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/post-lockdown-rights-of-domestic-workers-in-focus/article32888982.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong., BJP get into spat over Tharoor’s tweet||The Congress on Sunday accused the BJP of resorting to jumlebaazi (empty rhetoric) after BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra charged party’s Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor with “discrediting and demeaning” India at the Lahore Think Fest event and asked if Congress leaders now plan to contest elections in Pakistan. At a virtual press conference, Congress MP and spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi hit back by accusing the BJP of “ridiculing the debate and diminishing India as a democracy”. “The BJP has always responded to substance and pointed facts with jumlebaazi . The BJP has always believed in rhetoric, not substance. Yes, it does sometimes catch you by the eyeballs or the earbuds when you hear it, but, within seconds, logic takes over and tells you how empty a rhetoric the BJP is indulging in,” Mr. Singhvi told reporters. The BJP spokesperson attacked the Congress after Mr. Tharoor had shared the link to the event, one that reportedly took place last month, on his official twitter handle on Saturday. In the online interaction, Mr. Tharoor spoke about the Modi government’s ‘failure’ in effectively handling the COVID-19 situation and the prejudice against a community during the pandemic. “It is unbelievable that an MP spoke like this... After all, what does the Congress party want. Do they want to contest elections from Pakistan?” asked Mr. Patra and said Mr. Tharoor also questioned the nation’s democratic credentials. “What was the need to discuss such matters at a Pakistani forum? There is no country in this world as democratic and just as India,” he said. The BJP spokesperson also claimed that former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi is already hailed as a ‘hero’ in China and Pakistan because of his statements against the Modi government. Hitting back, Mr. Singhvi said, “If somebody is praising a particular achievement or pointing to a particular area of activity in which you are laggard in India, to call that person to stand for elections from Pakistan is to ridicule the debate and diminish us as a democracy.” Mr. Tharoor, however, has not reacted to the BJP’s charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-bjp-get-into-spat-over-tharoors-tweet/article32888983.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Man goes on stabbing spree in Bengaluru||Panic and chaos erupted in Cottonpet on Sunday morning when a man with a knife attacked pedestrians, killing one person and injuring five others. According to the police, the accused, later identified as Ganesh, walked for 2 km around Anjanappa Garden, Bakshi Garden, and Balekai Mandi at 7.35 a.m. attacking people. As word spread, residents fled indoors and locked themselves in. They alerted the police who came, pinned down Ganesh, and recovered the weapon. According to the police, Ganesh, who works as a loader in Balekia mandi, allegedly stole the knife from a butcher’s shop. “Usually there is a lot of pedestrian activity on Sunday mornings, but when people heard about what was happening no one stepped out, There was an eerie silence for some time, until the police announced that Ganesh had been arrested,” said a resident. The police are yet to ascertain whether Ganesh was under the influence of drugs or alcohol. “His family members claimed that he is mentally challenged, which will have to be verified. We are waiting for medical reports,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Sanjeev Patil. “Ganesh has been living in Cottonpet with his mother for the last two years after his wife separated from him.” The victims were taken to hospitals, but one of them [identified as Mari, 30] succumbed to knife wounds. Two others, Velayudhan and Muniswamy, are said to be critically wounded and have been shifted to the ICU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-goes-on-stabbing-spree-in-bengaluru/article32888968.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Congress seeks transfer of R.R. Nagar police inspector||A delegation of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) leaders on Sunday submitted a petition to the Election Commission (EC) seeking the transfer and suspension of police inspector Naveen of Rajarajeshwarinagar police station in the city for his alleged “prejudiced, biased, illegal and high-handed action” against the party’s candidate Kusuma H. and party workers. He had registered an FIR against them over alleged violations of the model code of conduct during the filing of nomination papers. KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed and former MP V.S. Ugrappa submitted the petition to the Chief Electoral Officer here. They called for the posting of a “law-abiding officer” for ensuring free and fair bypolls Gon November 3. In the interest of conducting free and fair elections, the Congress also urged the EC to direct the authorities concerned to register a criminal case against BJP candidate Munirathna and other leaders who had violated the provision of law while filing nomination papers on October 14. The Congress claimed that the inspector, acting at the behest of the BJP candidate, had obtained a complaint from assistant sub-inspector Nagaraju of the same police station and registered the FIR against Ms. Kusuma and two others as accused for offences punishable under Sections 34, 188, and 353 of the Indian Penal Code. The Congress said Ms. Kusuma has been booked after Siddaramaiah’s escorts allegedly broke through security barricades set up 100 metres around the BBMP office and pushed the policemen on duty in a bid to make way for the leader to accompany the candidate while she filed her nomination papers. “Naveen has also been threatening INC workers of fixing them in criminal cases,” petition claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-seeks-transfer-of-rr-nagar-police-inspector/article32889083.ece
19 October 2020||Hyderabad,||3 IS operatives from Hyderabad convicted by NIA special court||Three Islamic State operatives from Hyderabad were among 15 people who were sentenced to rigorous imprisonment by a Special Court for National Investigation Agency (NIA) cases in New Delhi. They were sentenced in a conspiracy case in Delhi, registered by the agency in 2015. Nafees Khan alias Fatima Khan alias Abu Zarrar of Madhapur, Mohammed Shariff Moinudeen from Tolichowki and Mohammed Obedullah of Saidabad were among the accused who were awarded prison terms along with a fine. The orders were passed by Parveen Singh, Special Judge for NIA at Patiala House Court Complex on October 16. While Nafees Khan was sentenced to 10 years RI with a fine of Rs. 1.03 lakh, Moinudeen and Obedullah got five years RI each and a fine of Rs. 38,000. The other 12 who were sentenced by the NIA Special Court are Mudabbir Mushtaq Sheikh, Abu Anas, Mufti Abdus Sami, Azhar Khan, Amzad Khan, Asif Ali, Mohd. Hussain, Syed Mujahid, Najmul Huda, Mohd. Obedullah, Md. Aleem, Md. Afzal, and Sohail Ahmad. The case was registered by the NIA, New Delhi, on September 12, 2015, under Section 125 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 18, 18B, 38 & 39 of UA(P) Act, 1967, and pertains to criminal conspiracy hatched by the ISIS to establish its base in India by recruiting Muslim youth for the organisation a proscribed terrorist outfit by using different social media platforms. During the investigation, searches were conducted in various cities across the country and 19 accused were arrested. It was revealed that the accused formed an organisation by name Junood-ul-Khilafa-Fil-Hind (a group seeking to establish Caliphate in India and pledging allegiance to ISIS/ISIL) to recruit Muslim youth to work for ISIS and commit acts of terrorism in India at the behest of one Yusuf-Al-Hindi alias Shafi Armar alias Anjan Bhai, who was based in Syria and was purportedly the media chief of the ISIS. The case had a huge impact on the like-minded people who were likely to join ISIS, officials said. “After the arrest the ISIS terrorists in this case, their activities were minimised and their other associates were identified and questioned to unravel their further plans,” they said. Several ISIS sympathisers, who had gone to join ISIS, were intercepted at various locations in West Asia and were deported back to India, they said. After completion of the investigation, the NIA filed charge-sheets against 16 accused persons in 2016-2017. The investigators said that this case was first-of-its-kind in which an extensive terrorist conspiracy involving online radicalisation was hatched on cyberspace in the aftermath of the declaration of Islamic Caliphate by Abu-Baqar-Al-Bagdadi in 2014; and Yusuf Al Hindi alias Shafi Armar, based in Syria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-is-operatives-from-hyderabad-convicted-by-nia-special-court/article32888959.ece
19 October 2020||Buxar/Jagdishpur,||Nitish, Sushil Modi launch joint campaign||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi held a joint election campaign on Sunday and launched a blistering attack on rival Lalu Prasad highlighting the crime situation and lack of development during his RJD rule in the past. Reeling out comparative data during 15 years under the RJD and an equal period under the NDA now, the two leaders sought another chance from voters to speed up development work in the State in the next five years. The two started the day with a public meeting at Buxar, where the BJP has fielded Parshuram Chaturvedi as its candidate. He is pitted against sitting MLA Sanjay Kumar Tiwari of the Congress. After launching separate campaigns since the beginning of this week, Mr. Kumar and Mr. Sushil Modi moved together on Sunday and sought support for the BJP as well as the JD(U) nominees in four seats of Buxar, Dumraon, Tarari and Jagdishpur.  Both Mr. Kumar and Mr. Sushil Modi kept their focus on the RJD supremo, Mr. Prasad, and highlighted the condition in the State during 1990 to 2005, which both described as “jungle raj”. Mr. Kumar said, “Those involved in self service are behind bars today and many more will follow them soon.” Mr. Sushil Modi also praised the Nitish Kumar government for effectively dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic in Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nitish-sushil-modi-launch-joint-campaign/article32888976.ece
19 October 2020||SRINAGAR,||Women soldiers check drug smuggling through LoC||Nine riflewomen of the paramilitary force Assam Rifles were deployed at the Sadhna Pass, earlier called the Nastachun Pass, on the Kupwara-Tangdhar highway in July, the first women soldiers in combat functioning under the Army, as part of a series of steps taken recently to contain smuggling of narcotics from across the Line of Control (LoC). With a series of measures, close to 80 kg narcotics, mostly brown sugar, was seized in the Tangdhar sector alone this year, a senior officer deployed in the sector near the LoC said. Last year too, a little less than 80 kg of narcotics were seized. Officials also raised concern on several villages ahead of the border fence which are used as safe grounds to abet smuggling. “The anti-narcotics grid has been strengthened with women soldiers, narco dogs and X-ray machines. If someone can bring narcotics, tomorrow they can also bring fake currency and Improvised Explosive Devices (IED),” the officer said. Narcotics smuggling has been going for some time, but the recoveries increased significantly in the last two years, he said. In addition, checking is carried at various points and intelligence-based operations are being carried out to search and siege narcotics. ‘Major deterrent’ The nine women soldiers were deployed at the pass at over 10,000 feet and three of them are on duty at any point of time, another officer said. There were two major narcotic recoveries since they were inducted and they underwent a special 21-day orientation capsule at the 15 Corps Battle school before deployment. The riflewomen handle all women-related tasks and have separate accommodation and wash rooms within the camp, the second officer said. “They are acting as a major deterrent. Earlier we used to get specific intelligence that a certain woman was carrying narcotics. But we couldn’t do anything,” he said. Riflewoman Nitu Kumari from Bihar said the local population was happy to see women soldiers. “They share their issues with us. Their children are inspired by us,” she said talking to a small group of journalists at the Sadhna Pass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-soldiers-check-drug-smuggling-through-loc/article32888979.ece
19 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP legislator freed offender: Congress||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday targeted the BJP over a news report that its MLA in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri allegedly barged into a police station to free a person booked on charges of harassing a woman. Mr. Gandhi used an ongoing Twitter trend to attack the BJP. “How it started: Save Girl child. How it’s going: Save criminals,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted, tagging a news report about MLA Lokendra Bahadur. Ms. Vadra said, “Will the UP Chief Minister tell under which mission it is taking place? Save the girl child or save the criminals?” She also referred to a recent shooting incident in Ballia in which a local BJP MLA defended the accused who had shot dead a person in the presence of police and local government officials after a fight over the allotment of a ration shop in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-legislator-freed-offender-congress/article32888985.ece
19 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Now, order food for delivery at Hyd airport||Desire to get the taste of a city as soon as one de-boards a plane might be a bit too unreasonable. But a food delivery startup from the city promises to cater to this irreverence too, and at reasonable prices. Foody’s, the business venture by Naeem Khan, aims to bridge the gap between Hyderabad’s patent delicacies and the palates of its visitors, without the latter having to alter their packed itinerary. Claimed to be India’s first B2B2C (Business to Business to Customer) food delivery vertical, Foody’s has recently launched its delivery kiosks at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport here, to deliver the city’s signature cuisines, including its famed biryani. By booking in advance through Foody’s, the customers may pick up their orders from the airport, upon arrival or at departure, from either of the two kiosks set up at the airport. While an app is in the offing, the startup has already tied up with online travel booking agencies such as MakeMyTrip and GoIbibo, so that the customers may choose the delicacies while booking the tickets. Once the app is launched, they may book standalone orders too, six hours in advance, to receive the delivery at airport, Mr. Khan says. In addition, customers may choose from Foody’s over-the-counter sales, too, at the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-order-food-for-delivery-at-hyd-airport/article32889366.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||India past COVID peak: DST expert panel||The ICMR in its latest sero-survey in August, had estimated that 7% of the adult population had been exposed to the virus. The modelling committee, however, said this was an under-estimate. Citing the smaller sero-survey conducted in several cities that showed antibody prevalence between 22% to 30%, the panel said that as of August, about 14% of the population was likely infected. Extrapolating from here, nearly 30% of the country had been exposed to the virus as of Sunday, they reckon. A possible reason for India already reaching its peak could be the varying susceptibility of different people to the virus, said Lt. Gen. Madhuri Kanitkar, physician and a member of the committee. “Some people infected by the virus develop the disease and some only develop antibodies. Normally you’d expect that 60%-70% of the population would need to be infected for herd immunity. However, the “attack rate” (rate of new cases) of the virus seems to have slowed down,” Lt. Gen. Kanitkar said at a public webinar to publicise the results of the study.    Had there been no lockdown India would have seen symptomatic active infections peak from 40-147 lakh by June and a lockdown beginning on April 1 or May would have seen a peak of 30-40 lakh by July, Prof Vidyasagar said. “We would have had a peak 15 times greater (no lockdown) and completely overwhelmed our health systems and anywhere between 6-25+ lakh deaths, instead of the 1 lakh that we saw till September. The lockdown was necessary and came at the right time,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-past-covid-peak-dst-expert-panel/article32888955.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||GST cess to stay: Finance Commission chief||GST compensation cess is levied on goods such as cars, aerated drinks and tobacco products, over and above the highest GST rate of 28%, and was to be levied for the first five years of the GST regime to compensate States. The GST Council has decided to extend the levy beyond that period to meet shortfalls in accruals this year. ‘Sequence of borrowing’ “Cess shortfalls cannot be met from the Consolidated Fund of India. So it has to be raised through some borrowing arrangement like the present one. The only issue is the sequence of the borrowing. To some extent, it doesn’t make much of a difference. What investors see is the general government debt, not the differentiated debt between the Centre and the States. So this entire thing would be a shuffling of accounts,” he said, referring to the Centre’s decision to borrow Rs. 1.1 lakh crore on behalf of States and lend it onward. “I see there is now some forward movement. I have no doubt in my mind that the Union government would make sure that the period for which the cess is extended, would be adequate enough to extinguish the liabilities which arise upto July 2022. This means that the cess may have to be continued up to a much later period, I think maybe 2025-26,” Mr. Singh, a former Revenue Secretary, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-cess-to-stay-finance-commission-chief/article32888956.ece
19 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||BJP calls for CBI probe into irrigation projects||BJP national vice-president D.K. Aruna on Sunday wrote a letter to the Centre to order a CBI probe into irrigation projects’ irregularities in Telangana and charged the TRS government of “swindling funds in the name of design changes”. Addressing a press conference, she hit out at the KCR government for ignoring the Palamuru-Ranga Reddy project and attributed the submergence of Vellur pump house under Kalwakurty project followed by a blast to “official negligence”. That the government did not allow the Opposition leaders to visit the site and used the police to thwart their visit showed it had something to hide, she claimed. The government had disregarded the engineers’ advice and that has led to the submergence of the pump house, she alleged, and expressed the confidence the Central government would allow the CBI to probe into the irrigation projects “to unravel facts behind the omissions and commissions”. Ms. Aruna alleged that both the Palamuru-Ranga Reddy and Chevella Pranahitha names and designs were changed to “mint money” and accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of “confining himself to the farm house when people were facing difficulties due to floods and crops damage”. The former Minister also ridiculed the Chief Minister and his son KTR of claiming to have spent hundreds of crores of rupees for the twin cities’ development and wondered where the funds went.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-must-order-cbi-probe-into-irrigation-projects-bjp/article32889325.ece
19 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Standing crops ruined by the Bhima in Kalaburagi||“Why did you come to our village? For giving poses to TV cameras or for listening to the sufferings of flood-hit farmers? You should listen to the affected farmers to get to know about the situation on the ground instead of simply relying on official data.” This is how a farmer, who had taken shelter in a relief camp at Firozabad in Kalaburagi, took on Revenue Minister R. Ashok when the latter visited the flood-hit village last Friday. He was also equallyagitated towards mediapersons, who encircled the Minister for taking his bytes, not allowing him to interact with the people in trouble. In the chaos, the farmer could not narrate his ordeal to the Minister as the leader rushed towards his car. The Minister made flying visits to a few villages in the district to complete the formality and left for the next district to repeat the process. In another incident on the same day, villagers at Honagunta attempted to attack a government official who visited the flood-hit village. The Kagina floodwaters had inundated over 500 houses in the village and destroyed essential commodities such as foodgrains. The villagers did not have even drinking water to quench their thirst. The officer who visited the village the next morning somehow managed to escape the angry mob and sent a drinking water tanker within an hour. Muttaga village, on the banks of the Kagina, went incommunicado for two days after all physical and telecommunication connectivity was cut off. The villagers had to spend nights on rooftops as their houses were inundated and power supply was disrupted. “We survived eating biscuits and drinking floodwater. Nobody came to our help,” a woman said. When a team of Indian Army rushed to Udachana village in Afzalpur taluk in the earlyhours of Sunday to rescue the stranded people, the residents refused to be evicted as a token of protest against the government. Their complaint was that the government had not made any alternative arrangementspermanently even after their village was flooded and houses damaged repeatedly. When Lok Sabha member from Kalaburagi Umesh Jadhav visited Muttaga village, people welcomed him with slogans such as “go back, Jadhav”. The angry mob even gheraoed him and sent him back. Mounting frustration These are just a few of examples of how the public anger is accumulating against the political class and the administrative machinery that, many think, have failed to discharge their duties. Right from the start of the floods, the political class, especially the ruling party, appeared to be more interested in the Legislative Council polls to four seats and the byelections to two Assembly constituencies rather than in addressing the people’s woes. The main effort appeared to be in reaching out to the voters in trouble along with Bhima and Kagina. RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa did come to Kalaburagi, not for visiting flood-hit areas, but for accompanying Council poll candidate Shashil Namoshi as he filed his nomination papers. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who is also in charge of Kalaburagi, has not paid a single visit to the flood-hit district. It was only after Congress leaders B.R. Patil and Sharan Prakash Patil criticised him that he clarified that he was home-quarantined after testing positive for COVID-19. He, however, did make a trip to Sira to accompany his party candidate when he filed his bypoll nomination papers. The district administration appears to have woken up to the call a little too late. For the first time after decades, the district has been witnessing incessant downpour this year. The floods were more gradual than a flash in nature and provided enough time for the administration to be prepared for facing any challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhima-waters-continue-to-devastate-kalaburagi/article32888958.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||EC’s COVID-19 norms go for a toss in Bihar||“The Election Commission has set proper guidelines, although yes, they are being observed more in breach as we as a society experience elections as a festival with high participation. Fortunately for Bihar, COVID-19 incidence is low with highest recovery rate and second highest level of testing in the country. Perhaps it has given people some sort of signal to move ahead with activities, but that cannot be allowed, we need to improve,” said BJP prabhari for Bihar polls Devendra Fadnavis when he spoke to The Hindu during a sit down interview. A senior Union Minister from Bihar remarked that there is widespread belief in the countryside that COVID-19 pandemic was over or at any rate was not an issue in rural areas. “I was told that wearing a mask was akin to putting a ‘ jaaby ’ (nose bag with hay) around the neck of cattle,” he said. Indeed, mask wearing is rarer in the countryside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ecs-covid-19-norms-go-for-a-toss-in-bihar/article32888967.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Strength of the judiciary is people’s faith in it’||Justice N.V. Ramana, the senior-most judge in the Supreme Court, on Saturday said the greatest strength of the judiciary is the faith of the people in it. “Faith, confidence and acceptability cannot be commanded, they have to be earned,” Justice Ramana said in a virtual condolence meeting held in the memory of former Supreme Court judge, Justice A.R. Lakshmanan, by the Madras Bar Association. Justice Ramana’s words are significant in the background of protests launched by Bar Associations and former judges against Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for levelling allegations against the top court judge and some judges of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in an “irresponsible manner”. The lawyers’ bodies have condemned Mr. Reddy's actions of calling a press conference recently and sharing the letter he wrote to Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde with mediapersons. “It is an important quality for a judge to withstand all pressures and odds and to stand up bravely against all obstacles ... Most importantly, particularly for a judge, one must be steadfast in holding on to their principles and fearless in their decisions,” Justice Ramana said at the event. Justice Ramana, who is next in line of seniority to be the Chief Justice of India, said, “There are innumerable qualities that a person needs to live what can be called a good life: humility, patience, kindness, a strong work ethic and the enthusiasm to constantly learn and improve oneself.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/strength-of-the-judiciary-is-peoples-faith-in-it/article32888978.ece
19 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab BJP leader quits over farm laws||Punjab BJP general secretary and core committee member Malvinder Kang has resigned from the party over the Centre’s agriculture sector legislations, as he felt that neither the party’s State nor the central leadership was paying heed to the demands to address the concerns of farmers surrounding the laws. Mr. Kang, in his resignation letter to BJP State president Ashwani Sharma, wrote: “The farmers, ‘arhtiyas’ [commission agents], small traders and labour organisations have been democratically and rightly protesting the new Acts passed by the Central government. As a general secretary of the State BJP and being a member of the core group of the party, I raised my voice in support of the protesting farmers and others ... I requested the party’s State and central leadership many times to address their grievances but no positive step was taken ... therefore, supporting the farmers agitation, I resign from the party post, core group and primary membership.” A day after Mr. Kang’s resignation, Mr. Sharma on Sunday told The Hindu that he had not received the resignation. “I have come to know about it through newspapers. Unless I receive the resignation, I can’t say anything on it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-bjp-leader-quits-over-farm-laws/article32888986.ece
19 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Sabarimala pilgrim tests positive||A 57-year-old pilgrim bound for the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Pathanamthitta tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. The person, a native of Chittur district in Andhra Pradesh tested positive during an antigen test held at the COVID-19 testing centre in Nilackal. As the person was asymptomatic, he has been admitted to a COVID first-line treatment centre (FLTC) in Perinad. Meanwhile, a 24-year-old pilgrim who had accompanied him tested negative. He, however, was shifted to a COVID care centre for observation. Antigen test “The duo had come from Andhra Pradesh via Chennai by train. After alighting at Chengannur, they took a taxi to reach Nilackal. They were subjected to antigen test as the certificate that proved them negative for the disease had been issued four days earlier,” said R. Santosh, Deputy District Medical Officer, Pathanamthitta. Since Saturday, officials have tested 211 people including 168 pilgrims across the three testing centres at Pampa and Nilackal. Of this, only one person has tested positive so far. Besides the testing centres, three casualty units, one each at Nilackal, Pampa and Sannidhanam too have been set up to address medical emergencies . Strict restrictions In view of the COVID-19 situation, the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has laid down strict directives for the pilgrims to follow during the temple’s opening for five days, starting from October 17. The number of pilgrims has been restricted to 250 a day. All are required to produce a certificate testing negative for COVID-19, 48 hours before reaching Pampa. They are also required to follow designated paths to reach Sannidhanam and return to Pampa while a blanket ban has been imposed on the overnight stay of pilgrims at Sannidhanam. Considering the ban on bathing at Pampa, 20 sprinklers have been arranged at Pampa-Triveni, the base camp of the hill shrine.  The number of pilgrims has been restricted to 250 per day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sabarimala-pilgrim-tests-positive/article32888963.ece
19 October 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Two Maoists killed in Telangana||Two unidentified Maoists were killed in an ‘exchange of fire’ with the police in Mulugu district on Sunday afternoon, police said. The face-off took place at Musalammagutta forest area under Mangapeta police station limits in the tribal-dominated district. This is the fifth such encounter in recent months. The incident escalated tension in the restive forest region straddling the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border. It comes more than a week after ultras stabbed to death TRS party activist 48-year-old M. Bheemeshwara Rao in Bodhapuram village in the Agency mandal of Venkatapuram in the same district on October 10. Acting on specific information about the movement of Maoist action teams, a special party police team along with the Greyhounds forces launched a combing operation in Musalammagutta forest area on Sunday, police sources said. The joint patrolling party came under fire from a squad of armed Maoists that led to an exchange of fire, police added. During a search after the exchange of fire, the police found two bodies of unidentified Maoist male cadres at the scene of ‘exchange of fire’. The CPI (Maoists) suffered a series of setbacks while attempting to gain foothold in Agency areas of Telangana in the recent past. As many as eight of its cadres were killed in four separate “encounters” — six in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district and two in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district — since September first week. The rebels observed a bandh in Bhadrachalam Agency on September 28 in protest against what they termed as “fake encounter killings” of its cadres. The spurt in Maoist activities in Agency areas prompted the top brass of the State police to hold a high-level coordination meeting on joint anti-Maoist strategy with their counterparts of Chhattisgarh and senior officials of the CRPF in Venkatapuram in the border district of Mulugu on October 4. The Venkatapuram police on Saturday arrested a Maoist militia member, who was allegedly involved in the recent murder of TRS cadre Bheemeshwara Rao, at Kondapuram village and seized some explosive materials from his possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-maoists-killed-in-telangana/article32888964.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chidambaram sends message to Bihar voters||Citing U.S. Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden’s remark, former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said on Sunday that people in poll-bound Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and elsewhere should take a similar vow. In a series of tweets, the Congress leader also mentioned the election victory of Jacinda Ardern in New Zealand to assert that “progressive” values can win elections in a democracy. “Mr. Joe Biden, Democratic candidate in the U.S. elections, said yesterday: ‘We choose hope over fear, unity over division, science over fiction and yes, truth over lies’. That’s a good vow that the people of Bihar, MP and elsewhere should take when they go to the polling booths this month,” Mr. Chidambaram tweeted. Commenting on the landslide victory of Ms. Ardern, Mr. Chidambaram said it gave him ‘hope’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chidambaram-sends-message-to-bihar-voters/article32888972.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. calls for inquiry against defectors||The Congress on Sunday accused the BJP of reducing politics to dukaandari (commercial transaction) and claimed that the party’s former MLAS, who had defected to the BJP earlier this year, have now openly admitted to “receiving diverse offers in the past”. Addressing a virtual press conference, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi demanded a judicial inquiry by a sitting Supreme Court or a High Court judge and the filing of charges against defectors under the Prevention of Corruption Act and criminal charges under the Indian Penal Code. “They have eliminated the distinction between d ukandari and political fighting of battles,” he said. The allegations come ahead of the crucial November 3 bypolls in Gujarat, in which eight constituencies will go to vote after their MLAs had resigned in February-March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-calls-for-inquiry-against-defectors/article32888973.ece
19 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||1 more held for Barabanki rape, murder||The police have arrested a second person in connection with the rape and murder of a minor Dalit girl in Barabanki district of Uttar Pradesh on October 14, and upgraded the charges to gang rape. On the basis of information gathered from arrested accused Dinesh Gautam, 19, a second accused Rishikesh Singh, 21, was arrested, said Additional SP Barabanki Ram Sewak Gautam. The two planned and executed the crime, claimed the officer. Singh runs a kirana store in the village, said police. On October 14, Singh informed Dinesh Gautam that the minor girl had gone to a paddy field alone, said the Additional SP. More sections added The police lodged a case under murder and also invoked Section 376 D (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code, POCSO Act and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Prevention of Atrocities Act. The body of the girl was found in a paddy field at Satrikh area in Barabanki late on Wednesday by her father who went in search of her. Police initially registered a murder case but after the post-mortem confirmed rape, charges under Section 376 of the IPC were included in the FIR. The POCSO Act was added after it came to light from the victim’s documents that she was under 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1-more-held-for-barabanki-rape-murder/article32888984.ece
19 October 2020||Kozhikode,||Kerala Minister clarifies on job quota||Minister for Health and Social Welfare K.K. Shylaja issued a clarification on Saturday regarding a recent government order on reservation for the differently abled in government jobs. The Minister said that the government had not taken any decision to exclude ‘completely deaf persons’ from government jobs as implied in the order. Instead, the order pertained to only 49 posts in the government sector, while the reservation for around 150 designations was yet to be determined. The order dated August 25, 2020, offering 4% reservation for people from various categories of the differently abled segment in common category posts in government offices, was questioned by the All Kerala Association of the Deaf (AKAD).State Chairman of Deaf Employees Forum and State secretary of AKAD V.A. Yusuf pointed out that people who are 70% to 100% aurally challenged were not qualified for any of the jobs listed under the order. Ms. Shylaja said the reservation would be decided based on the recommendations of an expert committee and the order could be revised if necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-minister-clarifies-on-job-quota/article32889146.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Premature to pass a resolution: SCBA chief||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) seems to be divided over a resolution passed by its executive committee which “strongly condemned” Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy for releasing into the public domain his letter to the Chief Justice of India against apex court judge, Justice N.V. Ramana. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, SCBA president, has conveyed to advocate Rohit Pandey, honorary secretary of the association, that he is strongly opposed to the resolution “on principle.” Mr. Pandey told The Hindu that the resolution was passed “unanimously” and Mr. Dave had “recused.” In his communication to the SCBA secretary, Mr. Dave said it was “premature” to pass such a resolution. “The letter of the Chief Minister is addressed to Honbl’e the CJI and seeks an inquiry into allegations against a sitting Supreme Court judge. We have no idea about the truthfulness or otherwise of those allegations. Truth will emerge once the inquiry, if any, is done. At this stage we would be pre-empting the inquiry,” he wrote. He said, “I am sure at the end of inquiry, truth will emerge and if allegations are found false, SC must initiate proceedings against the CM. Today it is premature to pass the resolution much less of the kind you all propose.” In its resolution passed on October 16, the SCBA Executive Committee had referred to Mr. Reddy’s decision to make the letter public and said “such actions by constitutional functionaries are opposed to conventions”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/premature-to-pass-a-resolution-scba-chief/article32888970.ece
19 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Nine Bangladeshis chargesheeted in international human trafficking case||The National Investigation Agency on Saturday filed a charge sheet against 12 people, including nine Bangladesh nationals, in an international human trafficking racket operating from Hyderabad, in a special court here. The case was initially registered on September 21, 2019 at Pahadi Shareef police station of Rachakonda Commissionerate, following the arrest of 10 human traffickers from two brothels at Jalpally village and Mahimood Colony in Balapur on the outskirts of the city. Four young Bangladeshi girls were rescued from the brothels and several digital devices, fake Indian identity documents and other incriminating material were seized. Following the cross-border links in the case, the agency registered a fresh case on December 12, 2019 and launched a probe. The investigators found that the arrested accused were associates of Ruhul Amin Dhali and Abdul Barik Sheikh, who illegally trafficked young girls from Bangladesh to India and vice versa. Ruhul Amin Dhali was already arrested by NIA on December last in another case. Further, the investigation revealed that there were money transfers between Ruhul Amin Dhali and Abdul Barik Shaik as commission paid to the former for trafficking across the borders. “Ruhul Amin Dhali and other 10 arrested accused had illegally entered India in 1980s and established a prostitution racket along with Yusuf Khan and Bithi Begum (husband and wife) in various parts of India,” NIA officials said. They said that the 12 accused hatched a conspiracy along with their associates in Bangladesh to look for young Bangladeshi girls in the age-group of 19 to 25 years and traffic them to India by crossing Sonai river to Kolkata and then shift them to various destinations in the country, including Mumbai and Hyderabad. “These girls are lured with the promise of lucrative jobs and better quality of life in India. They are also provided fake Indian identity documents and are eventually forced into prostitution,” the officials said. The rescued young girls are presently in shelter homes in Hyderabad and the arrested accused are in judicial custody. Those chargesheeted are Abdul Barik Shaik from Bangladesh, who is currently absconding, Ruhul Amin Dhali from West Bengal, Asad Hasan from Maharashtra, Mohd Yousuf Khan, Bithi Begum, Mohd Rana Hussain, Mohammed Al Mamun, Sojib Shaik, Suresh Kumar Das, Mohd Abdulla Munshi, Mohd Ayub Shaik from Bangladesh and from Bangladesh, and Shareeful Shaik of Maharashtra. Further investigation in the case is on, NIA added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nine-bangladeshis-chargesheeted-in-international-human-trafficking-case/article32888960.ece
19 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Metropolitan of Mar Thoma Church no more||Joseph Mar Thoma, 21st Mar Thoma Metropolitan and current primate of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, died here on Sunday. He was 89. The Metropolitan had been undergoing treatment for pancreatic cancer at a private hospital in Thiruvalla and his condition deteriorated sharply over the last one week. He breathed his last at 2.38 a.m. on Sunday. Suffragan Metropolitan Geevarghese Mar Theodosius and Sabha secretary Father K.G. Joseph were present at the hospital. He was installed as Mar Thoma Metropolitan on October 2, 2007 after the 20th Metropolitan, Philipose Mar Chrysostom, expressed his desire to transfer responsibilities of the Church to his successor due to old age. Born on June 27, 1931 as P.T. Joseph to Alakunnathu T. Lukose and Mariamma in Maramon, Pathanamthitta, he was ordained as deacon of the Mar Thoma Church in June 1957, and as priest later in the same year. Having pursued his Master of Divinity and Master of Sacred Theology from England, the Metropolitan was later awarded an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree by the Protestant Episcopal Seminary in Virginia, United States. He was ordained as Ramban in January 1975 and given the episcopal title of Joseph Mar Irenaeus a month later. He was designated as Suffragan Metropolitan on March 15, 1999. As the news of his death spread, condolences poured in from many quarters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to convey condolences and shared a video clip of his remarks at the 90th birthday celebrations of the Metropolitan. ‘Empathy, humility’ “His Grace the Most Rev. Dr. Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan was a remarkable personality who served humanity and worked hard to improve the lives of the poor and downtrodden. He was blessed with abundance of empathy and humility. His noble ideals will always be remembered. RIP,” wrote the Prime Minister. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said, “His service to humanity, especially to the marginalised, will ever be remembered.” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayanstated that Joseph Mar Thoma fought against social evils and worked for the upliftment of the backward segments of society. “His work in rehabilitating the children of Mumbai’s red-light area and the steps he took to bring the transgender community to the mainstream are great examples,” the CM said. Funeral today The mortal remains of the Metropolitan were kept for public viewing at the Dr. Alexander Mar Thoma Smaraka Auditorium at the church headquarters in Thiruvalla from 8 a.m. on Sunday. The funeral is slated to be held after 2 p.m. on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/metropolitan-of-mar-thoma-church-no-more/article32888962.ece
19 October 2020||KOCHI,||37.4% fall in State’s GST collection||As COVID-19 continues its seemingly unstoppable march across the globe, Kerala economy has taken a massive knock on the face with GST collection sliding 37.4% overall with the goods segment accounting for a fall of 37.5% and the services segment accounting for a fall of 36.8% between March and August 2020, compared to the same period last year. The overall GST collection fell from Rs. 10,079 crore during March-August 2019 to Rs. 6,307 crore 2020, said a study by Anand Singh, State GST Commissioner, and N. Ramalingam, associate professor, at the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT), taken up under the auspices of the institute. Since 2016 Kerala was already reeling under two years of devastating floods, in 2018 and 2019 and, and the 2016 November demonetisation when a lockdown was imposed on all spheres of activity to contain COVID-19. GST growth in the State was a nominal 0.17% between 2018-19 and 2019-20. The pandemic-induced lockdown hit all the 66 sectors classified under goods and 27 sectors under services segments. Goods account for 82% of the GST and services 18%, the study said. Fifty percent of the GST under the goods head comes from building materials, automobiles and electrical and electronics goods while tax from the services sector is dominated by finance, construction, and telecom. The GST fall in the goods segment is from Rs. 8,157.7 crore to Rs. 5,094.2 crore while under the services segment the fall is from Rs. 1,922 crore to Rs. 1,213 crore. All segments saw the slide with building materials seeing a GST revenue fall of nearly 37%; automobiles more than 51%; electrical and electronic goods nearly 31%; medicines and medical products nearly 18%; lottery, which is classified under the goods head, more that 41%; provisions and grocery items 17%; jewellery more than 40% and textiles nearly 70%. GST from petroleum products fell 35% and FMCGs fell more than 18% and footwear more than 66%. Under the services segment, GST from construction fell sharply at more than 44% while support services segment accounted for a fall of nearly 59%. The lockdown which forced people indoors was more prominently reflected on the entertainment and sports industry, where GST fell nearly 84%. Goods and passenger transport, accommodation and food, telecom and data services also showed varying levels of GST fall. The study also found that the overall expected GST collection for the period under consideration was Rs. 7,456 crore, a fall of 26%, considering the completion of all GST filings for the months. Under the goods segment, the deficit could then fall to 26.1% (actual collection Rs. 6,021.4 crore) and in the services segment it would fall to 25.3% (actual collection Rs. 1,434 crore).  COVID-induced lockdown hits all the 66 sectors classified under goods and 27 sectors under services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/374-fall-in-states-gst-collection/article32888966.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Micro management plan proves a game changer in COVID fight||The micro management plan, rolled out by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) in June, to combat COVID-19 has proved to be a game changer. The civic agency has since been able to effectively coordinate and supervise the prevention work in the 200 wards. According to GCC Commissioner G. Prakash, the plan has helped in door-to-door surveillance, conduct of fever clinics, supervision through the home quarantine and monitoring system (HQIMS) application, intensification of testing and creation of computerised reports for effective pandemic management. The spatial and temporal analysis of the fever camps has been obtained on a daily basis in over 39,000 streets. Haphazard response Before the strategy was formulated, there was little coordination between civic and health officials. GCC zonal officers said sanitary officers/inspectors took much of the prevention work, including shifting of COVID-19 patients, contact-tracing, supervision of survey workers (sector health) and barricading of streets. The Assistant Executive Engineers (AEEs) and the Assistant Engineers (AEs) were not much involved in the containment work. A senior GCC official of the Kodambakkam zone said that once the pandemic control work was unified and division-level response teams were formed, the containment operation became more professional, with daily gate meetings organised with sector health workers and plans for strategies finalised. The feedback on unfinished tasks from the previous evening was also obtained. The response teams, headed by the respective AEs/JEs, consisted of the divisional health officer, the medical officer of the Urban Primary Health Centre, the sanitary inspector, the tax collector, the licence inspector and the conservancy inspector. They switched from a top-down management approach — senior officials giving orders and local officials taking steps — to the one that gives more freedom to local officials to manage workers and update containment works on a dedicated WhatsApp group. Aggressive testing The testing rate also gathered pace from June through the thousands of fever camps conducted in residential areas. As on Sunday, the GCC conducted nearly 61,000 fever camps that covered 30 lakh persons, with more than 1.75 lakh swabs taken, a senior official said. Mr. Prakash said more than 20% of the population of the city had been covered through the fever camps. While Chennai is still reporting more than 1,000 cases daily, civic officials, citing the peak of over 13,500 cases in the first week of September, say they have been able to prevent cluster formations. A GCC official of the Adyar zone said the coordinated work system helped in strict surveillance of vegetable markets, which had been one of the biggest pandemic spreaders, with the testing of those working there every fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-management-plan-proves-a-game-changer-in-covid-fight/article32889290.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to bring back Chola royal charter||A royal charter or sasana of the Chola kings, lost 300 years ago from Tamil Nadu, is now being preserved in the Leiden University in the Netherlands. Commonly referred to as the “Leiden plates”, it was issued by the kings to a Buddhist vihara . With the Netherlands relooking at its colonial collections, and planning to return over 10,000 artefacts to the source nations or former colonies, art enthusiasts say it is time for India to make efforts to get the crowning glory of the Cholas back. The charter has two sections — one in Sanskrit and another in Tamil — and the 21 copper plates are held together by a massive bronze ring bearing the regal seal of Rajendra Chola. They also deal with the geneology of the Chola dynasty and the reign of king Rajaraja I (985-1012 AD), the father of Rajendra Chola (1012-1042 AD). It proclaims that 26 villages bordering Anaimangalam were donated for a Buddhist shrine ( vihara ), known as Chulamanivarmavihara , built by the Malay king of Sriwijaya in Nagapattinam, said S. Vijay Kumar, art enthusiast and co-founder of the India Pride Project. The provenance states that the copper plates were donated in 1862, by successors, to the estate of professor Hendrik Arent Hamaker. This charter and another one were brought from India by Florentius Camper, minister of faith in Batavia, in 1703-1712. Recently, a colonial repatriation committee in the Netherlands asked Dutch museums to return artefacts stolen by colonists to countries such as Sri Lanka and Indonesia. Some museums have decided to return more than 1,00,000 exhibits, taken by force, during the colonial times. “The legal case for the restitution of the two Leiden grants are unclear, as the circumstances around how Mr. Camper obtained them from India and brought them to Leiden in 1700 are not available,” said Mr. Kumar. “The copper plates are an important evidence on the history of the Chola period,” retired archaeological officer C. Santhalingam said. Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture Minister ‘Ma Foi’ K. Pandiarajan told The Hindu , “We are seized of the matter and have taken steps to retrieve the precious copper plates from the Netherlands. We have requested the Union Ministry of Culture to expedite the process,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-bring-back-chola-royal-charter/article32889040.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rainfall in coastal region to continue till Tuesday||Residents of the city woke up to an overcast sky and rain on Sunday. The same weather pattern may continue till Tuesday over north Tamil Nadu, according to the Meteorological Department. Rainfall in several areas brought down the day temperature by several notches in the city. On Sunday, the weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenamabakkam recorded a maximum temperature of 26.6 degree Celsius and 26.5 degree Celsius, which is nearly 6 degree Celsius lower than the average for the day. Some localities in the city will experience thunderstorms till Tuesday. The maximum temperature will be around 30 degree Celsius. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said a low pressure area was expected to form over the east-central Bay of Bengal on Monday and aid in rainfall over parts of the State, particularly the coastal region, till Tuesday. Some interior areas will also have chances of thunderstorms. Weather systems brewing in the Bay of Bengal would keep the southwest monsoon active over Tamil Nadu. During the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, many places recorded moderate to heavy rainfall. Perungalur in Pudukottai district and Vallam in Thanjavur district registered the highest amount of rainfall for the day at 13 cm. Officials of the Meteorological Department said convective activity and upper air circulation over the west-central Bay of Bengal off the south Andhra Pradesh coast had triggered rainfall over the region. Scattered downpour The Meteorological Department said one or two places in 15 districts, including Karur, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Cuddalore, Ranipet and Theni, would receive heavy to very heavy rain on Monday. Downpours would be fairly widespread and of light to moderate intensity in other districts, it added. The Department also warned fishermen not to venture out into the sea as squally wind, with speeds reaching up to 55 kmph, were likely to prevail over the west-central Bay of Bengal and along the Andhra Pradesh coast on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rainfall-in-coastal-region-to-continue-till-tuesday/article32889037.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) to urge Governor to give nod to Bill||The CPI(M) State unit will hold a protest near the Raj Bhavan and the district headquarters, on Tuesday, urging Governor Banwarilal Purohit to immediately give his nod to the government’s decision to provide 7.5% horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified government school students in medical courses. The party is also demanding the dismissal of Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa, for functioning unilaterally. In a statement on Sunday, CPI (M) politburo member G. Ramakrishnan strongly condemned the delay in the Governor making a decision on the Bill passed by the Assembly and backed by all political parties in the State. “Even the BJP has not opposed the Bill. The delay in [making a] decision is against the interests of the people of the State as well as the principles of democracy,” he added. NEET suicides PMK founder Dr. Ramadoss urged students who could not score well in NEET not to take any drastic decision. His statement follows an attempt by a student to take her own life. She was admitted to a hospital. “We have to ensure that NEET is scrapped and suicide is not an option. Almost 13 students have died by suicide due to NEET in the last few years and we don’t know how many more lives NEET is going to take. They should not take any drastic steps,” he said. 7.5% Reservations Mr. Ramadoss also said that 7.5% reservations for government school students in medical courses, which had already been passed in the State Assembly, should be immediately implemented. “Around 400 government school students will be able to study medicine. The Governor must sign without any delay,” he said. He condemned the intimidation of Indian Tamil fishermen from Rameshwaram near Kachatheevu in Bay of Bengal.  The delay in [making a] decision is against the interests of the people in the State as well as the principles of democracy G. Ramakrishnan CPI (M) politburo member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-to-urge-governor-to-give-nod-to-bill/article32889287.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents of Uthandi join protest against stormwater drain network||Residents of various areas along the East Coast Road are continuing their protest against the construction of stormwater drains in their localities. They said the project would obstruct rainwater percolation and affect groundwater recharge. On Sunday, residents living in V.G.P. Nagar Layout Phase I, Uthandi, registered their protest against the project during a residents’ association meeting. Following this, the executive committee of the association agreed to withdraw support extended to the implementation of the project in the area. The Greater Chennai Corporation had proposed an integrated stormwater drain network along the ECR, covering areas such as Palavakkam, Injambakkam, Kanathur and Uthandi. However, residents have been opposing the move, noting that it would drain rainwater into the sea, and have staged protests in various areas. On Friday, residents of Uthandi organised a protest meeting. Abirami Balaji, a resident of Uthandi, said, “This will affect the groundwater quality in the area as rainwater percolation may reduce in the sandy area. We did not face waterlogging issues even during the 2015 floods as the soil is permeable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-of-uthandi-join-protest-against-stormwater-drain-network/article32889281.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Super speciality centre for women inaugurated||MGM Healthcare has launched a super speciality facility ‘Varam’,  exclusively for women. It will offer services for women of all ages, including in the area of adolescent health, gynaecological health, obstetric services and menopausal and gynaec oncology. Urjitha Rajagopalan, director of MGM Healthcare, said Varam aimed to eliminate the ever increasing complexities in providing healthcare to women. “Our endeavour is that Varam will be a one-stop centre that will deliver quality care with empathy, expertise and excellence,” she said. The facility, housed in the sixth floor of the hospital in Aminjikarai, was inaugurated by actors Jyothika and Suriya. The team of senior consultants includes obstetricians/gynaecologists A. Jaishree Gajaraj and R. Dakshayani, and breast oncology and oncoplasty consultant S. Veda Padma Priya. Some of the proposals include starting a cancer screening camp for women. Hospital authorities said experts in the field of foetal medicine and neonatology, besides gynaec oncology, obstetrics and gynaecology, will be assisted by world class medical equipment, dedicated operating suites, high dependency units and a level 3 neonatal intensive care unit.  Our endeavour is that Varam will be a one-stop centre that will deliver quality care with empathy, expertise and excellence Urjitha RajagopalanDirector of MGM Healthcare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/super-speciality-centre-for-women-inaugurated/article32889284.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Main accused in the rape of a woman from Kilpauk arrested||The city police have arrested the main accused in the rape of a 21-year-old woman from Kilpauk in August. The victim was living with her mother. At 3 a.m. on August 13, Lingam, of T.P. Chatram, and his associates, S. Rajkumar and R. Anand, entered the hut and attacked the victim’s mother. The victim was allegedly raped by the trio. However, they fled the scene when the women raised an alarm. The All-Women police, Kilpauk, launched a manhunt. In the last week of August, Rajkumar, 32, and Anand, 26, were arrested. According to a senior officer, the main accused Ganesh alias Lingam, 29, who was on the run since the incident has been arrested. He was remanded in judicial custody until October 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/main-accused-in-the-rape-of-a-woman-from-kilpauk-arrested/article32889288.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic prevention work holds up issuance of sanitary certificates||A number of institutions, including government-aided private schools, are facing difficulties in getting sanitary certificate from the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) during the COVID-19 pandemic. Hostels, schools, colleges and child-care institutions in the aided and private sectors are waiting for weeks to get their sanitary certificates renewed. They have alleged that officials have not acknowledged receipt of the applications submitted online. An administrator of a government-aided school in the Tondiarpet zone, who had applied for the sanitary certificate online, complained that health officials were yet to issue it, though all norms for renewal had been complied with. A similar issue was faced by a person who runs a child welfare home at Kilpauk. He rued that he was having to wait for more than two months after applying on the GCC portal. In the absence of the sanitary, fire safety and building certificates, the child welfare home faced the risk of being shut by the Social Defence Directorate. A senior official of the GCC, however, said more than nine services, including renewal of sanitary certificates, trade licences and building plan approvals, had been computerised. The aim of the system, launched in February, was to bring about more transparency and avoid human interface, he said. The official said the delay could be because of health officials being involved in COVID-19 prevention work, and the problems would be sorted out in a month. Those operating hostels, child-care centres and government-aided private schools urged the government to issue all mandatory certificates with validity for three years rather than one year. While sanitary certificates are issued by the civic body, fire licences are issued by the Fire and Rescue Services and building licences by the Chennai Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-prevention-work-holds-up-issuance-of-sanitary-certificates/article32889289.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold worth Rs. 24 lakh seized at airport||Officers of the Chennai Air Customs seized gold worth Rs. 24 lakh from two passengers at the airport. On Saturday, Rawther Naina Mohamed, 38, of S.P. Pattinam, who arrived from Dubai, was questioned. A total of 219 g of gold was seized from him, in the form of gold paste and two bits. In another instance, Abdul Kadar Jailani, 34, of Madurai, who also arrived from Dubai, was caught with two bundles of gold paste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-worth-rs-24-lakh-seized-at-airport/article32889282.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin seeks creation of employment scheme||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday said that even though former RBI Governor C. Rangarajan, appointed to assess the economy of the State in the wake of the pandemic, had submitted his report, the government had not taken any efforts to implement it. In a statement in Chennai, he said the government had not made public the committee’s recommendations, and nor had it bothered to act on them. Recalling reports that the recommendations include an MGNREGA-type employment scheme for the urban areas, he said the government had not announced any such policy for the urban areas, so far. “Mr. Rangarajan had recommended the lifting of the lockdown to revive the economy. But the AIADMK government has not created any favourable condition for its [complete] lifting. This has resulted in the stagnation and loss of employment,” he said. Accusing Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami of diverting people’s attention from the problems, by citing MOUs signed with industrial houses, Mr. Stalin said the Chief Minister should realise there is no magic wand to revive the economy. Arumughaswamy panel In a separate statement, Mr. Stalin said the AIADMK government had constituted the Justice (retd.) Arumughaswamy Commission, to probe former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s hospitalisation and death, only as an “eyewash”. He accused the government of having subsequently made the existence of the panel “meaningless”, and said that when the DMK is elected to power, it would unmask those responsible for her death and bring them to justice. He said Justice (retd.) A. Arumughaswamy had made a strong charge that the Advocate General and the Additional Advocate General were merely watching the litigation, that stalled the panel’s proceedings. The retired judge, Mr. Stalin said, had openly levelled the allegation that the litigation was being delayed. “His allegations have exposed that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam have deliberately delayed the case to protect their seats,” the DMK leader said. He said that Justice (retd.) Arumughaswamy had registered his complaint in a letter written to the State government. “Even though the Commission was asked to submit its report in three months, it was not able to do it even after 37 months,” Mr. Stalin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-seeks-creation-of-employment-scheme/article32889043.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thirumavalavan urges govt. to stand firm on Anna varsity issue||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Sunday urged the Tamil Nadu Government to stick to its stance that it would not allow Anna University to be recognised as ‘Institute of Eminence’ status if it meant loss of reservation and denying admission to poor students. Comments hailed In a social media post, Mr. Thirumavalavan said, “We welcome Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan’s comments that Anna University doesn’t need a higher status and it wouldn’t just watch the Vice-Chancellor’s actions.” Mr. Thirumavalavan said that the State government should continue to reiterate its position till the end. Mr. Thirumavalavan also said that NEET has created a situation where only those with money can dream of medical education. “I congratulate government school student Jeevithkumar for standing first among all government schools in India in NEET this year. “However, his success also shows that one has to wait for one more year and spend lakhs [for NEET coaching] to succeed. Last year, he had only scored 193 out of 720 and had taken NEET coaching for a year by spending lakhs. It is only after that he has been able to score 664,” the VCK founder said. ‘CM should explain’ He added, “Jeevithkumar’s success proves that only those who can spend money can get a medical seat. Though the Tamil Nadu government has opposed NEET, it has not taken any effort to get the assent for the laws passed regarding the exam in the Assembly. The Chief Minister should explain to the people the government stance on NEET."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thirumavalavan-urges-govt-to-stand-firm-on-anna-varsity-issue/article32889050.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Medical shops, manufacturers booked for violations||In the last six months, the Drugs Control Department has filed around 210 cases against medical shops and manufacturers for various violations across the State. Some of the manufacturers are facing action for substandard sanitisers and adulterated sanitisers containing methanol. These violations came to the notice of the authorities during their regular inspections from April 1 to October 15, 2020. K. Sivabalan, Director of Drugs Control, said the departmental inspections and regulatory works continued during the COVID-19 pandemic. “We have filed approximately 210 prosecution cases before the trial court till now. This included violations of sale of drugs without prescriptions, non-maintenance of prescription registers and sale of drugs without the supervision of pharmacists,” he said. In the wake of COVID-19, the use of sanitisers for maintaining hand hygiene had increased. Keeping in line with the increased necessity for sanitisers, the department has started to lift samples of sanitisers to check for quality. “These samples were tested in the department’s laboratory. We found that a number of sanitisers were of substandard quality. In fact, a few were adulterated. It contained methanol. Though such sanitisers were manufactured in T.N. and other States, a majority were from other State manufacturers. We have filed cases against makers of substandard sanitisers,” he said. “All of them will have to face legal proceedings,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-shops-manufacturers-booked-for-violations/article32889293.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man opens fire on relative, shoots himself||A restaurant owner opened fire on his relative using a licensed revolver after which he shot himself. Both have been admitted to two different hospitals and are critical. The police said Sayed Ibrahim, 57, and his wife Bharkath Nisha, 45, lived on the fourth floor of an apartment in Royapuram. He runs a restaurant in Parry’s Corner. They had not been on speaking terms for years. Ibrahim quarrelled with Ms. Nisha’s nephew Ansaraddhin, who frequently visited their house. On Saturday, Ibrahim abused the family of his sister-in-law over the phone. Mr. Ansaraddhin and two others met him in person and tried to pacify him. The police said that while they were talking, Ibrahim pulled out a revolver. When Mr. Ansaraddhin tried to overpower him, Ibrahim shot him in the hand. In panic, Ibrahim hid himself in the bathroom and opened fire on his left wrist. On hearing the gunshots, neighbours informed the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-opens-fire-on-relative-shoots-himself/article32889283.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic policeman’s bike stolen||Two suspects stole a two-wheeler and breathalyser from a traffic sub-inspector in Perambur while he and other personnel were busy checking vehicles near the Perambur flyover late on Saturday. The victim, Balamurali, is a sub-inspector with the Traffic Enforcement Wing in Perambur. During vehicle checks, the personnel stopped two men on a bike. While the policemen were busy checking other motorists, the duo drove off with Mr. Balamurali’s bike, which was parked nearby, and the breathalyser which was kept on it. The Sembium police are searching for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policemans-bike-stolen/article32889280.ece
19 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Abandoned baby rescued||A baby girl found abandoned near Singanallur bus stand here on Sunday was rescued by the police and the staff of an Amma Unavagam. The baby, aged less than five days, was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. D. Ilaiyaraja, head constable of the Singanallur police station, said that the newborn was found abandoned near a two-wheeler garage close to the bus stand around 1 p.m. Mr. Iaiyaraja and head constable Senthil Kumar from the Peelamedu police station had come to the bus stand for duty as members of the COVID-19 monitoring squad of the City Police. “The baby was found abandoned near the gate of the garage, which remained closed. People, who spotted the baby had informed the women who work at the nearby Amma Unavagam who in turn informed us,” he said. The baby was soon shifted to CMCH in an ambulance. The newborn was admitted to the Special Neonatal Care Unit (SNCU) at CMCH and her condition was fine, said V. Booma, Head of the Department of Paediatrics and nodal officer for SNCU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/abandoned-baby-rescued/article32889077.ece
19 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Animal birth control centre at Ondipudur to be opened soon||Sometime next week, the Coimbatore Corporation is likely to throw open the animal birth control centre it had built at Rs. 36 lakh at Ondipudur. The impact of the civic body opening the centre would be that there would a gradual reduction in street dog population in the city, as the non-government organisation to whom the Corporation would hand over the centre – People For Animals Unit II – would resume performing birth control operation. The Corporation had to build the Ondipudur centre because of opposition from people in Ukkadam, who had alleged that dogs caught for operation jumped over the Ukkadam centre’s compound and troubled road user. After closing the Ukkadam centre in March 2017, the Coimbatore Corporation began scouting for land for almost year. It then chose the land near the Ondipudur sewage treatment plant. There, it had built the centre with nine sheds, an operation theatre and other required facilities that were spread over 4,700 sq.ft. Once the Ondipudur centre started functioning, the People For Animals would perform 10 – 15 operations a day and also had plans for increasing the number of operations, if the facility was good enough, said People For Animal Unit II Managing Trustee Kalpana Vasudevan. The Corporation had allotted three zones to the organisation – East, Central and South and give the remaining two – West and North zones to Humane Animal Society, which had an animal birth control centre in Seeranaickenpalayam, said Corporation sources. Aside from resuming the animal birth control operation, the People For Animals Unit II would also have to assess the number of dogs to be operated upon as in the three years that it had to suspend operation, the dog population had increased, the sources added. Therefore, to assess the number of dogs, the organisation had worked with volunteers in each ward and the count was close to 30,000 dogs in the three zones, Ms. Vasudevan said. And, after resuming the operation, the organisation would reach out to residents in the three zones to alert or call it for problems regarding street dogs, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/animal-birth-control-centre-at-ondipudur-to-be-opened-soon/article32889294.ece
19 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Lorry driver held for illegal transportation of red earth||The Thadagam police on Saturday arrested the driver of a lorry belonging to a brick kiln operating in Thadagam valley for transporting red earth without carrying the permit issued by the Department of Geology and Mining. The police said it was the first time they took action for illegal transportation of red earth based on a complaint given by the Department of Geology and Mining. A team of officials led by M. Prasath, assistant geologist with the Department of Geology and Mining, and Ramesh Bose, Revenue Inspector (Mines), stopped the lorry bearing registration number TN 38 C 8209 at the Nanjundapuram junction at Thadagam on Saturday. The driver did not carry a permit issued by the Department for the transportation of the red earth. The complaint lodged by Mr. Prasath said that transporting minor minerals such as red earth without carrying a permit issued by the Department was equal to smuggling of the raw mineral. The police arrested driver M. Paranthaman (27) of Madathur for offences under Sections of the Indian Penal Code and Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act 1957. The lorry was seized. Thudiyalur circle inspector S. Balamuralisundaram said the driver was remanded in judicial custody and the police were trying to identify the lorry owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-driver-held-for-illegal-transportation-of-red-earth/article32889298.ece
19 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner inspects Siruvani treatment plant||Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian recently inspected the Siruvani raw water treatment plant in Siruvani foothills. A release said TWAD Board operated the plant to treat and supply treated Siruvani water to the city, particularly West, South and Central zones. The Commissioner learnt about the treatment methodology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-inspects-siruvani-treatment-plant/article32889295.ece
19 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Congress takes out rally||Members of the urban unit of the Coimbatore District Congress Committee took out a rally under Tamil Nadu Congress Committee working president Mayura S. Jayakumar’s leadership to promote Gandhian ideals. Around 100 members participated in the rally that began in Ammankulam in Ward 70 of the Coimbatore Corporation, said Mr. Jayakumar. The members would take out the rally for the next 18 days. During the rally, the cadre would meet the public to highlight the need to maintain unity, not give into communally divisive forces, work towards women’s freedom, prohibition and other Gandhian ideals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-takes-out-rally/article32889296.ece
19 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Sapling planting drive launched||Siruthuli has launched a drive to plant 30,000 saplings on the Southern Railway land at Ondipudur. According to a press release, the first sapling was planted on Sunday by U. Subba Rao, Divisional Regional Manager, Salem Division and A. Annadurai, Additional Divisional Railway Manager, Salem. Spark Round Table 323, Rotary Smart City and Hope of Home are part of the drive. The saplings will be planted in Miyawaki method and most of these will be native varieties endemic to the Western Ghats, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sapling-planting-drive-launched/article32889299.ece
19 October 2020||COIMBATORE / CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inconsistencies in NEET answer sheets alleged||A medical aspirant from Coimbatore has alleged inconsistencies in the NEET Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) sheet downloaded by him. The candidate, K.S. Manoj from Karumathampatty, said the OMR sheet he downloaded before and after the announcement of NEET results were different. “I have escalated this to the National Testing Agency through their helpdesk,” he said. A few other students from other parts also said that they encountered similar inconsistencies. “I downloaded my OMR sheet first on October 11 and matched it with the answer key, based on advice from the coaching centre where I had taken up a NEET crash-course. I found that I had scored 594 and the same score was shown when I downloaded the OMR sheet again on October 15. The score was the same when I matched the OMR sheet with the final answer key around 5 p.m. on October 16. However, my score was 248 when the results were announced,” he said. Mr. Manoj said that the OMR sheet he downloaded around 8.30 p.m. on October 16, after the announcement of the results, was different from the ones he had downloaded earlier. He shared the two OMR sheets with mediapersons. According to G.B. Ramprakash, founder of Tech4All, who had taken up the case of poor translation of English scientific terms in NEET question papers in 2018, said such errors were reported in other States too. He said errors could creep in the reading of bar codes due to glitches. “At present, it is only an allegation. If the candidate has downloaded the OMR sheets, he can send it as hard copies to the NTA and lodge a complaint. The NTA should take the complaint seriously and provide hard copies of the OMR sheets. This will ensure total transparency,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inconsistencies-in-neet-answer-sheets-alleged/article32889041.ece
19 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Workers in unorganised sector asked to register||The district administration has asked all the workers in the unorganised sector, including housemaids, to register themselves with the Tamil Nadu Unorganised Workers Welfare Board so that they continue to receive benefits. In a press release, Collector C. Kathiravan said there were 17 labour welfare boards for workers in construction sector and other unorganised sectors in the State. Assistance was given during marriage, maternity period, educational assistance for their children, pension, compensation for natural death and death due to accidents. He said workers, who were yet to register themselves, could do so on the websitewww.tnuwwb.tn.gov.in The Supreme Court had, in its order, said housemaids were also unorganised workers and asked them to register. Hence, housemaids in the districts should register themselves with the board without fail. After registering, eligible workers would receive a registration number as sms on their mobile phone after which they could download their identity card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workers-in-unorganised-sector-asked-to-register/article32889068.ece
19 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Signature campaign against new farm laws||Terming the new farm legislations “anti-people”, the members of Erode Urban District Congress Committee launched a signature campaign urging the Central government to repeal the three laws here on Friday. Led by Committee president E.P. Ravi, signatures were obtained from farmers in the city here. Organisers said that three laws were brought in to crush the farmers and favour corporate companies. The committee members said that the signatures would be submitted to the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/signature-campaign-against-new-farm-laws/article32889070.ece
19 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||SHG members undergo training in tailoring||Under the Livelihood and Enterprise Development Programme of NABARD, a total of 90 women self-help group members underwent a training programme in basic tailoring here recently. Pasumai Ulagam, an NGO, conducted the 15-day programme in which participants were trained in basic tailoring and were taken on a tour to garment units in the city. The Erode District Central Cooperative Bank sanctioned a loan of Rs. 20,000 each to 30 members. C.R. Abuvarajan, Assistant General Manager, NABARD, Erode, distributed tailoring machines and certificates to the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shg-members-undergo-training-in-tailoring/article32889071.ece
19 October 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami to lay foundation stone for Kallakurichi Collectorate||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will lay the foundation stone for the construction of a new Collectorate complex for Kallakurichi district on October 23. Official sources said that Mr. Palaniswami would lay the foundation stone for the Collectorate building, through video conferencing, from Chennai. Following the bifurcation of Villupuram district, the new district, with Kallakurichi as headquarters, was created on January 9, 2019. The Collectorate is presently located at the Market Committee in Kallakurichi. According to an official, “The new Collector’s office, to be built at a cost of Rs. 104 crore, will have seven floors and house over 40 departments.” The district administration has identified 35 acres of land at Veeracholapuram for the Master Plan complex. SP office The Collectorate building will be spread over 2.7 lakh sq ft. The office of the Superintendent of Police would be coming up on five acres of land. The Master Plan complex would also include the Integrated Court Complex, spread over four acres. The Collectorate building will have a bank branch, a post office, a grievance redressal hall and a gym for men and women. It will be completed in 18 months, the official added.  A new district with Kallakurichi as the headquarters was created on January 9, 2019, after bifurcating the Villupuram district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-to-lay-stone-for-collectorate/article32889046.ece
19 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. yet to install MRI facilities at all hospitals, reveals RTI reply||In January 2017, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, on a writ petition filed by activist C Anand Raj, had directed the State government to establish MRI facilities at all government headquarters hospitals. However, the activist, recently, through the Right To Information (RTI) Act, found out from the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) Limited, that the government was yet to implement the court directive completely. Only 11 of the 46 government headquarters hospitals in the State have been provided with MRI facilities in the last three years, for which the government spent Rs. 56 crore. The activist said the information furnished by TNMSC showed that patients, who had taken scans at the MRI and CT facilities, paid Rs. 264 crore over the last nine years. All GHs collected charges ranging from Rs. 500 to Rs. 1,000 for CT scans and Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 3,500 each for MRIs. Only those whose annual income was less than Rs. 72,000 were covered under the Chief Minister’s Health Insurance Scheme. Call for attention Mr. Raj has, since, urged the government to provide MRI facilities at least in Usilampatti (Madurai district), Kovilpatti (Thoothukudi), Karaikudi (Sivaganga), Tenkasi (Tenkasi), Srivilliputtur (Virudhunagar), Periakulam (Theni) and Padmanabhapuram (Kanniyakumari district) hospitals before this fiscal year. The doctors/radiologists in these hospitals said that patients had to travel at least 50 km to 100 km, every time, for a scan, due to the absence of MRI facilities. With the government repeatedly telling people not to venture out during the pandemic, critical patients have had to travel long distances due to poor infrastructure, Mr. Raj said. According to him, though CT scan facilities are available at all hospitals, they do not function 24x7, at many locations, forcing patients to travel to other cities or look for private scan centres. He said the government was deliberately aiding private scan centres by not providing the facilities at government headquarters hospitals, as directed by the court. When The Hindu contacted a senior official at the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services, he acknowledged that there was a delay in installation of equipment. However, he said the government could not simply install the facilities and leave them there. “We have to recruit people for the facility, fix their pay scale, train them to handle the devices, and so on. It will take time. Today, the government’s priority is to fight COVID-19. All the left-out GHs will get MRI facilities in the next 18 months,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-yet-to-install-mri-facilities-at-all-hospitals-reveals-rti-reply/article32889036.ece
19 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tenkasi reports just two new cases||Madurai recorded 79 new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 18,018. As many as 88 persons were discharged and the number of active stands at 773. There was one death on Sunday, taking the district’s death toll till date to 405. Tirunelveli had 41 new cases and the tally has moved to 13,880. There were 67 discharges from hospitals. The number of active cases is 558 and till date 205 people had succumbed to the virus. Thoothukudi had 61 fresh cases taking the tally to 14,491. The hospitals had discharged 39 patients on a single day and 549 active cases were reported. The district had lost 126 people to the virus. Kanniyakumari had 70 new cases and the tally stands at 14,293. There were 77 discharges from hospitals. There were 706 active cases and so far the district has reported 237 deaths so far. Only two in Tenkasi Tenkasi had two fresh cases and the tally stands at 7,718. The hospitals had discharged five patients. The district has 153 active cases and so far 151 have died. Theni reported 35 new cases taking the tally to 15,952. There were 69 discharges from hospitals. The number of active cases stands at 319 and 189 have succumbed to the virus. Dindigul had 25 fresh cases with which the tally has moved to 9,574. There were 39 discharges and there are 349 active cases. Till date 181 deaths have been reported so far, according to the State Medical Bulletin. Ramanathapuram has 14 new cases of COVID-19 taking the tally to 5,863. There were 12 discharges from the hospitals and the number of active cases stands at 166. There were 125 deaths in the district so far. Sivaganga had 26 fresh cases and 26 discharges from hospitals on a single day. The active cases stands at 149 and there were 124 deaths till date. Virudhunagar had 32 new cases and 35 discharges from hospitals. The number of active cases stands at 227 and there were 217 deaths in the district so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-14-fresh-cases-in-ramanathapuram/article32889060.ece
19 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||World Food Day fete in college||The Community Science College and Research Institute, Madurai, functioning under Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, celebrated World Food Day at Periya Ilanthaikulam on October 16. A press release from the institution said the event was conducted as part of All India Coordinated Research Project on Home Science activities. V.K. Paulpandi, Dean, Agriculture College and Research Institute, the chief guest, spoke on the importance of achieving ‘zero hunger’ by 2030 and the strategies to be adopted for improving agricultural productivity. Community Science College and Research Institute Dean S. Amutha stressed the importance of following good hygiene practices for better health, particularly during the present COVID-19 pandemic. P. Parimalam, Professor and Head, Family Resource Management and Consumer Science, and A. Janaki Rani, professor and Head, EECM, spoke. Food products made from millets were on display at the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-food-day-celebrated/article32889033.ece
19 October 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Officials told to expedite works under PMGSY scheme||District Collector K. Megraj inspected the works taken up under the Pradhan Manthri Gram Sadak Yojna (PMSGY) at Paramathi Vellur and Kabilarmalai Panchayat Unions here on Saturday. Works in progress He inspected the construction of a 3.42-km stretch from Paramathi Velur panchayat union to Nallur at Rs. 2.28 crore; 2.08-km stretch from Nallur Kabilarmalai Road to Paramathi at Rs. 90.1 lakh; 2.1-km stretch from K.P.J.V. Road to Selapampalayam at Rs. 1.14 crore, and 2.38-km stretch between Kapilarmalai and Supayampalayam at Rs. 83.40 lakh. The Collector advised the officials to expedite the works and finish it before deadline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-told-to-expedite-works-under-pmgsy-scheme/article32889072.ece
19 October 2020||P.A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Students in dire need of more NEET study material in Tamil||There is only one private publishing company’s quality study material available in Tamil language for those preparing to take National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) in the district, apart from the school textbooks. Teachers say this has put Tamil medium students of government and government-aided schools at a disadvantaged position, when compared to English medium students who can access several quality study materials. A School Education department official says that out of the 77 government and government-aided Tamil medium students in the district, who attended the online NEET crash course during the COVID-19 pandemic, 24 have qualified in the examination. “We distributed Tamil study material consisting of two volumes each for Biology, Physics and Chemistry to government school heads during the COVID-19 pandemic. They were asked to lend the books to the students who were enrolled in the online NEET crash course,” he says. Access issue However, some students were unable to have access to these books owing to restrictions in place during the COVID-19 pandemic, says S. Vennila Devi, district coordinator for government-sponsored NEET programme. T. Prathap, a Tamil medium student of Kallar Reclamation School in Chekkanoorani, says he was able to have access to books only one month before the examination. “I could have prepared better had they been available from the beginning of the academic year,” he says. However, it is a pity that Tamil study material is available from only one private publisher, says Vijintha, a Chemistry teacher of Government Higher Secondary School at Vellaiyampatti. "Before these books were available, the teachers had a hard time translating the questions from English books,” she says The State board textbooks do not have sufficient multiple choice questions that are similar to the questions asked in NEET, says Ms. Vennila Devi. Hence, the government must take steps to bring in more number of superior NEET study materials in Tamil, so that Tamil medium students can perform better, says S. Murugan, district secretary of Tamil Nadu Graduate and Postgraduate Teachers Association. “The government has set up a proper training institute for civil services examination aspirants in Chennai. Similarly, it must set up full-fledged NEET training centres with a dedicated team of teachers in all the districts. This will help government and government-aided school students to prepare in a better way for the examination,” he says.  What they need  Out of 77 Tamil medium students who attended crash course, 24 have qualified  Tamil study material is available from only one private publisher  State board textbooks do not have sufficient multiple choice questions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-need-more-neet-study-material-in-tamil/article32889051.ece
19 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Decline in mortalities, new cases in U.T.||The Union Territory has recorded a dramatic decline in COVID-19 deaths over the last month with high testing volume, early detection and hospitalisation of symptomatic patients being the key reasons for the turnaround. The ramping up of testing volumes to about 5,000 a day that helped early spotting of coronavirus infections has been one of the main reasons for the success on the morbidity and mortality counts as it has helped quicker referrals to a COVID facility while immediate isolation of the symptomatic patients cut off further transmission to others, officials said. The Union Territory, which had carried out 2,63,481 tests to date, has covered over 17 per cent of the population so far. For the first time in months, the Union Territory did not record any COVID-19 death on Sunday, while 177 new cases emerged from 4,072 tests. The test positivity rate was 4.34%, case fatality rate 1.73% and recovery rate 85.36%. The infection rate of under 5% is the lowest recorded yet, said J. Ramesh, Nodal Officer for COVID-19, Health Department. So far, July 8 was the only day that the Union Territory went without a single COVID-19 death. That the toll at that time was 14, illustrates the sharp spike in mortalities that characterised the spread of pandemic in the Union Territory since. A random time series comparison shows that deaths crossed 100 (aggregating 102) on August 14, aggregated 211 by August 30, 365 by September 12, 405 by September 15 and stood at 521 by September 30. As of Sunday, the toll in the Union Territory stood at 574 while the cumulative total was 33,141 cases and 28,290 patients got recovered. Over 550 deaths were reported in July, August and September with the highest single-day toll of 20 deaths registered on September 5. “The lowering of deaths and new infections is due to a combination of factors, ranging from implementation of recommendations of ICMR experts, ramping up of oxygen beds in IGMCRI and private hospitals, launching of fever clinics and the door-to-door testing by health teams to spot symptomatic patients,” said S. Mohan Kumar, Health Director. The launch of 21 COVID-19 focus centres that screened fever patients, household outreach and clinical audit of each death to plug shortcomings within hospital setting or externally such as ambulance support for timely transportation of patients are among other reasons attributed for the success in bringing down deaths and new cases. Through August, the case fatality rate was as high as 1.98% while the test positivity rate was about 38%. “An important aspect of bringing the pandemic under some measure of control is that even in August when there was a natural peak following abolition of e-pass, the administration did not resort to a harsh lockdown and ensured that vital sectors of the economy were up and running,” said T. Arun, Health Secretary and District Collector. Meanwhile, an assessment of the COVID status in the Union Territory as on October 13 by the Health Department showed that almost 40% of the deaths occurred when the patient admission was between 24 hours and 48 hours. However, what should concern the health authorities is that almost 33% of deaths were occurring in the hospitalisation range of two to seven days and 25.57% of deaths happened even when the period of hospitalisation exceeded a week. An interesting phenomenon of COVID-19 mortality has been that substantially more women than men were falling victim to the infection. The status check showed that 68.77% of the victims were women against 31.22% men. Age-wise stratification of deaths showed that 57.19% of the victims were above 60 years of age, 24.56% in the 51-60 years age range and 17.19% in the age bracket of 31-50 years. In terms of co-morbidities, diabetes mellitus emerged the most dangerous co-existing condition for COVID-19 patients accounting for over half of all deaths in the Union Territory. Diabetes was an underlying condition in 52.28% of victims followed by hypertension (37.36%). Curiously, COVID-19 was fatal for only 5.61% of patients with respiratory illness, the data showed. “The challenge now is to sustain the good work of the past weeks,” Mr. Arun added.  Ramping up of oxygen beds in IGMCRI and private hospitals, launching of fever clinics and door-to-door testing by health teams to spot symptomatic patients helped in reducing deaths||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decline-in-deaths-cases-in-ut/article32889292.ece
19 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||21.5% of Puducherry region’s population exposed to COVID-19||A sero-survey by the Health Department has found that around 21.5% of people residing in Puducherry region have been exposed to the novel coronavirus till September end. The survey shows the number of people infected has increased by only around 1.5% last month as sero-surveys by Jawaharlal Institute of Postgradudate Medical Education and Research showed a rise in percentage of those infected from 5% in July to 20.7% by end of August. “Our latest survey showed that around 21.5% of the people residing in the Union Territory got infected by COVID-19 by the end of September. In other words, one in five persons in Puducherry district showed evidence of COVID-19 infection by the end of September. It means the spread of the virus has been contained for the time,” a senior Health Department official told The Hindu . The Department collected blood samples of 2,232 persons from across the district for SARS-CoV-2 virus antibodies. Of the total surveyed, 910 were men and 1,322 were women. A total of 482 persons were positive for the antibodies, of which 311 were women and 171 men, said an internal note prepared by the Department. Sharing the findings of the survey, the official said unlike the study by Jipmer, the sero-survey by the Department included persons below the age group of 18 years. The positivity rate for antibodies among people up to 18 years was 24%, the official said. The positivity in persons from 18 to 30 years was 17%, 31 to 45 years was 18%, 46 to 60 years was 24% and above 60 years was 30%. More women seemed to be infected than men. Extremes of ages were infected more and there was not much difference in the spread of the virus in urban and rural areas, the note said. The Department was conducting a sero-survey in Karaikal, Yanam and Mahe regions. “It is an interim report and the findings will be released once the survey was completed in other regions,” said a senior official.  In other words, one in five persons in Puducherry district showed evidence of COVID-19 infection by the end of SeptemberHealth Dept. official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/215-of-puducherry-regions-population-exposed-to-covid-19/article32889048.ece
19 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM lauds efforts of healthcare personnel||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Sunday hailed the team effort of healthcare and other personnel, which helped reduce the incidence of COVID-19 in the Union Territory. Addressing a virtual press conference, he also cautioned that the achievement could be undone if people dropped the guard. He urged the people to continue observing safety norms. “No death has been reported in the Union Territory today and the number of positive cases has also come down projecting the picture of the pandemic on a declining trend,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. However, people should continue to observe safety norms, especially given some reports of reinfection of recovered patients, he said. The Chief Minister said 17 per cent of the 15 lakh population in Puducherry had been tested so far. He said for over six months, teams of medical personnel, in association with staff of other departments, including police, had been putting in dedicated service to help restore normalcy in a phased manner here. “We have taken care of manpower requirements, ramped up infrastructure and other facilities in government hospitals entrusted with the task of treating COVID-19 patients,” he added. EWS quota Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy condemned the Centre's move to earmark 10% quota for Economically Weaker Sections from the existing reservation for scheduled castes and backward communities. Describing the move as a gross injustice, Mr. Narayanasamy said he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi explaining the Union Territory's objections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-lauds-efforts-of-healthcare-personnel/article32889379.ece
19 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pondicherry varsity rolls out MBA in financial tech||Pondicherry University has rolled out an MBA programme in Financial Technology from the academic year 2020-21. Gurmeet Singh, Vice Chancellor of the University launched the new course of the Department of Banking Technology during the 36th Foundation Day celebrations recently. He also opened a State-of-the-art conference hall in the Department in the presence of K. Chandrasekhara Rao, Dean, School of Management, S. Sudalaimuthu, Professor & Head, Department of Banking Technology and senior faculty. The event was followed by a special online session on the ‘Need for industrial/ international academic collaboration under New Education Policy 2020’. Joining the session live were Soodamani Ramalingam, School of Engineering and Computer Science, University of Hertfordshire, London and Ganapathi Subramaniam of UPS Ltd, London, UK. Students, scholars and faculty interacted with the resource persons through the new video conferencing facility, which was set up as per the general guidelines issued by the UGC to develop virtual classroom and video conferencing facility. According to the University, teaching staff would be trained to use the technology. The video conferencing facility will dramatically improve the quality of students’ learning experience and enable them to interact with guest lecturers across the world. The University also held a special lecture on “Innovation: The Driver for Transforming Higher Educational Institutions” as part of the celebrations. In a virtual key-note address, Ramanan Ramanathan, Director, Atal Innovation Mission and Additional Secretary, NITI Aayog, said innovation had a key role in empowering India’s demographic dividend to pursue entrepreneurship, which can solve the challenges India faces and contribute to nation building. He pointed out that India was improving its position in the global innovation ranking and elaborated the impact of the activities that Atal Innovation Mission has launched to promote the culture of innovation among students. He also stressed on the importance of adopting technology in education and creating edutech platforms to make quality education accessible to a larger population. He also outlined the five pillars of Atmanirbhar Bharat such as economy, infrastructure, system, demography and demand to create self-reliant India and how higher educational institutions can promote innovation culture to become self-reliant and sustainable in the light of National Educational Policy 2020. The event was coordinated by K. V. Devi Prasad, coordinator, Distinguished Lecture Series, Pondicherry University and B. Charumathi, Professor and Head, Department of Management Studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pondicherry-varsity-rolls-out-mba-in-financial-technology/article32889049.ece
19 October 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||CM will inaugurate river-link project soon||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would inaugurate the Cauvery-Gundar river-link project in the Tamil month of Thai . The implementation of the project would not just help improve the water table, but also the standard of living of the farming community, Mr. Vijayabaskar said, while laying foundation stone for additional classrooms at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Keeranur in the district. Terming the river link a dream project of the farmers of Pudukottai district, Mr. Vijayabaskar said the State government had allocated a sum of Rs. 700 crore for the first phase of the works. Collector P. Uma Maheswari and officials of school education and public works departments were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-will-inaugurate-river-link-project-soon/article32889038.ece
19 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Good response to ‘police at the doorstep’ exercise||The “police at the doorstep” concept launched by district police is gradually gaining popularity in Ramanathapuram. Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy had recently suggested that all district police officers focus on attending petitions without delay. The station house officers should not delay in registering FIR if the complaint was found to be genuine. In order to understand the issue (the complaint) better, the investigating officers have been told to visit the petitioner’s dwelling or the address mentioned in the complaint. “This will enable police officers to prevent crimes and also solve it speedily,” according to Mr. Tripathy. Police are getting good response from different parts of the State to the initiative, Mr. Tripathy told The Hindu on Sunday. Besides submitting petitions, the public can also contact through ‘Hello Police’ at 8300031100 in the district, Superintendent of Police E. Karthik has said. The SP, who assumed office recently, says the public, especially women and senior citizens, can utilise ‘Hello Police’. The objective of the facility is to provide a safe and secure platform for the caller to share any information, which they can pass on to the police for swift and tangible action. For instance, sand smuggling activity in a locality can be informed and the identity of the caller will be strictly confidential. Similarly, if there is any gambling activity going on in a specific area, the caller can give information and the police team will act swiftly. Public, who visited police stations with a complaint, should be given FIR at the earliest. Any delay or failure to issue the FIR copy by the officer concerned will be viewed seriously and the public can inform such delays with ‘Hello Police.’ The objective is to enable the people approaching the police to understand the machinery in a better way. The public can also reach out to him directly at 8778247265, the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-response-to-police-at-the-doorstep-exercise/article32889045.ece
19 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen to open gruel centre||At least 700 fishermen and women from five villages, including Olaikuda and Sangumal, in Rameswaram have planned to set up gruel centre ( kanji thotti ) near the Collectorate on Wednesday to draw the government’s attention to their long-pending demands. Speaking to reporters, CITU (fishermen wing) district secretary M. Karunamoorthy and president E. Justin on Sunday said the fishing sector, particularly country boat fishermen, faced a bleak future and survival had become a big question for a majority of the community. Although there were various factors, including the pandemic, responsible for the dire situation, the prime issue was official apathy and nonchalant attitude of the governments in redressing their grievances. Also, mechanised boats were using banned fish nets despite the tall claims of officials of the Fisheries Department. When the governments had categorically stated that country boat fishermen alone should venture into fishing within two to three nautical miles of the shore, mechanised boat fishermen violated the arrangement. Hence, in order to draw the attention of the authorities to their grievances and seek redress, the fishermen collected contributions from people in front of churches on Sunday to set up the gruel centre. “We have no other alternative but to seek government support for our survival,” Mr. Karunamoorthy said. Even if police arrested the fishermen, they would remain in prison along with their families. At least 700 to 1,000 members would assemble near the office of the Fisheries Department on Wednesday, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-to-open-gruel-centre/article32889056.ece
19 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH registers decline in COVID-19 deaths||Deaths due to COVID-19 have declined from 5% three weeks ago to 1.4% at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, doctors here claimed. According to hospital authorities, deaths have declined to 1.4% over the last week at the hospital. Earlier more than three deaths were reported a day. Intensive care facilities Dean R. Balajinathan said that intensive care facilities have been improved. The hospital recently started plasma therapy and administration of remdesivir to COVID-19 patients. To ensure oxygen supply to all patients, a 35,000-litre oxygen tank was set up at the hospital.  The hospital also has facilities for haemodialysis for patients with kidney ailments, he said. According to Medical Superintendent P.V. Dhanapal, as on Sunday, 293 patients were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 and of those 147 had co-morbid conditions. Dr. Balajinathan said that the positivity rate has also reduced to 4% at the hospital and among the RT-PCR samples tested within 24 hours on Saturday, only 70 tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-gh-registers-decline-in-covid-19-deaths/article32889074.ece
19 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||PM Kisan scheme: ineligible beneficiaries told to refund money||District Collector S.A. Raman has warned of stern action against ineligible beneficiaries under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme if they do not return the money that was deposited into their bank accounts, by October 20. Mr. Raman said in a release that 16,926 ineligible beneficiaries were identified under the PM-Kisan scheme in the district and Rs. 5.75 crore has been transferred in their accounts. Specials teams including officials from the horticulture, agriculture, police and revenue departments have been deployed to trace the ineligible beneficiaries and recover the money. According to officials, till Saturday, 13,972 people have returned Rs. 5.01 crore. Mr. Raman has advised the remaining 2,954 people to return the money by October 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-kisan-scheme-ineligible-beneficiaries-told-to-refund-money/article32889076.ece
19 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Yoga, self-defence programmes to de-stress police personnel||The Salem City police have introduced various measures to help the police personnel manage work-related stress. As per the instructions of Rajesh Das, ADGP (Law and Order), Salem City Police Commissioner T.Senthil Kumar has ordered yoga and self-defence training and games during weekends. The roll call time has been shifted from 7 a.m to 8.30 a.m. Feedback system According to sources, through the new programme of handling complaints at complainant’s place, action has been taken on over 150 complaints till date. As part of the police station feedback system, city police addressed the grievances of 71 complainants, who were earlier unsatisfied with police action, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yoga-self-defence-programmes-to-de-stress-police-personnel/article32889075.ece
19 October 2020||Salem/ Erode,TAMIL NADU||Three deaths, 188 cases in Salem||Salem district on Sunday recorded three deaths and 188 new COVID-19 cases. According to health officials, all cases, including 105 in Salem Corporation limits, were indigenous. The deceased were aged 82, 71 and 72. Namakkal district reported 117 cases. Twenty-five patients had returned from Tiruchi, Coimbatore, Karur, Salem, Erode, Tiruppur, Villupuram, Pudukottai, Madurai and Tiruvannamalai. Krishnagiri reported 62 cases and Dharmapuri 69. Erode district reported 111 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 9,131. A total of 122 persons were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-deaths-188-cases-in-salem/article32889073.ece
19 October 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products seized; 3 held||The Kadayam and Alangulam police here jointly seized banned tobacco goods worth Rs. 25 lakh hidden in three different locations and arrested three persons in this connection on Sunday. Following a vehicle check, the Alangulam police intercepted one Faizal Ali (30) of Tenkasi. When police checked the gunny bag on his two-wheeler, they found tobacco goods worth Rs. 25,500. Based on his confession, the police went to the dwelling of one Thirumalai Murugan (40) of Veikkalipatti near Pavoor Chatram with special teams on instructions from Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh. The teams seized 10 bags of the banned tobacco products hidden in his house. Further, on his confession, the police teams raided his farm house and seized 125 bags of tobacco goods worth Rs. 25 lakh. In yet another separate check at Shencottah, the police seized banned tobacco goods worth Rs. 16,600 from one Annamalai (60) and detained him for interrogation. A senior officer said that the tobacco products were intended for a few locations in Kerala and the ‘agents’ brought them here in trucks from Krishnagiri and Coimbatore. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-with-banned-tobacco-products/article32889055.ece
19 October 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi to have dedicated cycle lanes||Thoothukudi Corporation has planned to create dedicated lanes for cycles on arterial roads to encourage people to use cycles as a mode of transport, with stress on its environmental-friendly and healthy lifestyle benefits. Corporation and revenue officials took out a cycle rally here on Saturday. Around 50 persons participated in the rally which traversed important roads and landmarks such as Palayamkottai Road, old corporation building and Sivan Temple Road and returned to the Corporation office. The public were urged to use cycles to stay fit and protect the environment from pollution. To create a pollution-free Thoothukudi, dedicated lanes for cycles would be created under the Smart Cities Mission programme, Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoothukudi-to-have-dedicated-cycle-lanes/article32889346.ece
19 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sharp drop in COVID-19 cases in central region||The central districts on Sunday continued to witness a sharp drop in fresh cases for COVID-19 recording 396 cases compared to 418 on Saturday. Five deaths, two from Nagapattinam and one each from Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur were recorded. In Nagapattinam, a 67-year-old man with coronary artery disease and a 30-year-old man with decompensated chronic liver disease succumbed to the infection. In Pudukottai, an 80-year-old man suffering from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, a 61-year-old woman with a history of diabetes from Thanjavur, and a 30-year-old man from Tiruvarur with a history of diabetes died of COVID-19. Meanwhile, Thanjavur continued to record the highest number of cases in the central region with 98 fresh cases. Among the patients c tested positive were primary contacts of those who tested positive and patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI). In Tiruvarur, 83 cases were reported while in Tiruchi, there were 63 fresh cases, many of who hailed from existing containment zones, some frontline workers and primary contacts. The district, on Sunday crossed the 9000-mark with a total of 9007 cases of COVID-19 reported so far. Nagapattinam reported 58 fresh cases while Pudukottai recorded 47 new cases for the viral infection. Patients in both districts were local contacts with no contact or travel history and patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Meanwhile, Karur recorded a significant drop in cases with 22 patients testing positive for the viral infection on Sunday. Of the 22 were residents from Thanthonrimalai, Vengamedu, Kadavur among other localities. In Ariyalur, 16 patients- four from Ariyalur town, three from Thirumanur, two from Sendurai, one from T. Palur, one from Andimadam and five from Jayankondam tested positive for the viral infection on Sunday. Perambalur recorded nine new COVID-19 cases for the viral infection of which four hailed from Perambalur town. Meanwhile, two hailed from Veppanthattai, one from Veppur and two from Alathur blocks. Meanwhile, a total of 333 fresh throat swabs were lifted and sent to the testing facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sharp-drop-in-covid-19-cases-in-central-region/article32889054.ece
19 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Narrow, shaky bridge causes inconvenience to residents||A bridge across the Uyyakondan Canal near Pichai Nagar is a risky drive for two-wheelers. The bridge linking Duraisamypuram and Pichai Nagar is the path for reaching the Chennai Byepass Road. The small bridge was constructed nearly 30 years ago after an effort was made by the local residents and members of a church nearby. “For 30 years, it has not been strengthened and the retaining wall has fallen on one side. It is a big risk for pedestrians and two-wheeler riders,” said John Britto, who lives nearby. The bridge has also begun developing cracks and accidents occur especially at night when there is low visibility. “There have been instances of riders falling into the water. It is like a mishap waiting to happen,” he said. Many factories and a shopping complex have also come up. Customers to these places take this route. Functioning of TASMAC outlets on either side of the bridge adds to their woes. “Almost daily at least one drunk man slips and falls into the canal and has to be rescued. If they fall in the night, it could be dangerous,” another resident said. When residents approached the Tiruchi City Corporation, they directed them to the Public Works Department. “They said that the reconstruction of the bridge is not under their purview. We are working on sending a representation to the PWD,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narrow-shaky-bridge-causes-inconvenience-to-residents/article32889027.ece
19 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||135 statues fenced to prevent defacement in Ariyalur district||To prevent law and order problems arising out of the defacement of leaders’ statues, the Ariyalur district police and local body officials have fenced 135 statues in their jurisdiction. Stray incidents of defacement of statues in certain parts of the State, including Tiruchi and neighbouring Thanjavur district, have triggered widespread protests in recent weeks. The Ariyalur district, encompassing Ariyalur and Jayamkondam sub-divisions, has 140 statues in total. Of them, 135 are in public places. Among them are statues of Tamil savant Tiruvalluvar, former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, Mahatma Gandhi, B.R. Ambedkar, Periyar, Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, former Chief Ministers C.N. Annadurai, M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa and former Congress-cum-TMC leader G.K. Moopanar. Besides, there are five statues on private premises. The district police, in association with local body authorities and with the cooperation of political parties, have installed fences around 135 statues, said V.R. Srinivasan, Superintendent of Police, Ariyalur. In some places, those who had installed the statues erected fences themselves, he added. Work done in a month The Ariyalur police began the exercise in early September and completed it in a month, Mr. Srinivasan said. In November last, a statue of Thiruvalluvar at Pillaiyarpatti near Thanjavur was defaced by miscreants. A statue of Periyar was defaced in Coimbatore in July this year. A Periyar statue was defaced at Samathuvapuram in Inamkulathur village near Tiruchi last month, sparking protests. ‘Sentiments attached’ “The statues have a lot of sentiment attached to them and their defacement triggers instant protests, leading to law and order problems. The fencing put up around the statues is a major preventive measure that would thwart miscreants’ attempts to deface them. Further, the fencing acts as a first layer of defence,” Mr. Srinivasan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/135-statues-fenced-to-prevent-defacement-in-ariyalur-district/article32889034.ece
19 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pandhakkal’ ceremony for Vaikunta Ekadasi festival||The 'Pandhakkal Nadum Vaibhavam' (the ceremony of installation of a holy wooden pole) in connection with the Vaikunta Ekadasi festival at Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple starting mid-December was held on the temple premises here on Sunday. The ceremony held near the Thousand Pillar mandapam inside the sprawling temple complex in the morning was attended by the temple’s Joint Commissioner P. Jayaraman and a few staff of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department and trustees. Devotees were not present on the occasion. Rituals were performed and holy water sprinkled on the 'Pandhakkal' tied with flowers and mango leaves before being installed. The annual Vaikunta Ekadasi festival this year commences on December 14 with 'Thirunedunthandakam' and concludes on January 4 with 'Nammazhwar Moksham'. The highlight of the festival is the opening of the 'Paramapadha Vaasal' on December 25 in the early hours, said temple authorities. The Thirumangai Mannan 'Vedupari' event as part of the festival falls on January 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandhakkal-ceremony-for-vaikunta-ekadasi-festival/article32889028.ece
19 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered by elder brother||A 42-year-old man was murdered allegedly by his elder brother and the latter's son at Pachanampatti village under Musiri police station limits in the district on Saturday. Police gave the name of the deceased as P. Dhanapal. His elder brother P. Ramasamy (50) and his son R. Ramachandran who are alleged to have committed the murder are absconding. A dispute between the brothers over cutting a tree is suspected to be the cause behind the murder. Police sources said Dhanapal was attacked on his head with a sharp weapon. The Musiri police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered-by-elder-brother/article32889029.ece
19 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||Water level at Mettur dam stood at 98.26 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 10,245 cusecs and the discharge 18,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article32889030.ece
19 October 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Desecration of cemetery leads to road blockade||Large number of people from a church here resorted to a road blockade stir on Sunday. The complaint was that some miscreants had damaged the cemetery situated on the Thatchanallur-Manumurtheeswaram Road, which belonged to the CSI Church. Preliminary inquiries revealed that some miscreants had gained entry into the cemetery on Saturday night and damaged the cemetery and the compound wall. Out of the two entries, one was closed. People suspect that the handiwork could be of some mischief mongers wanting to create unrest between two communities, a police officer said. As the news spread about the damage to the cemetery in the early morning, people assembled near the CSI Church and shouted slogans and demanded arrest of the culprits. The agitators said that at least 40 graves had been damaged and the miscreants had used crowbars to dismantle the structures there. Though the police assured to get the case solved, the people resorted to a road blockade on the Tirunelveli-Madurai stretch. As a sequel, the police had to divert vehicles on the bypass for about an hour. Large posse of personnel were also deployed to ensure that there were no untoward incidents. The Thatchanallur police have registered a case and ACP Satish Kumar said that special teams have been formed to nab the suspects. Following an assurance, the agitators dispersed from the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desecration-of-cemetery-leads-to-road-blockade/article32889052.ece
19 October 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Domesticated elephant dies in Mukkoodal||A 54-year-old female elephant, Lakshmi, died at Mukkoodal in the district on Sunday. Forest department officials said that the elephant was owned by one Dawood Meeran (50) of Ravanasamudram, near Ambasamudram, for the last five years. He used to take the elephant to local temples during festivals organised by the villagers. On Saturday night, he reached Muthumalai Amman Temple in Mukkoodal, where a festival was scheduled on Sunday. However, in the early hours of Sunday, Meeran found the pachyderm unconscious, he alerted the Mukkoodal police, who informed the forest officials in Tirunelveli. A team of veterinary doctors led by Manoharan, Alangulam Veterinary Assistant Director John Subash among others reached the spot and found the elephant dead. After conducting a post mortem, it was decided to bury the pachyderm in a space belonging to the Forest Department in the same locality, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/domesticated-elephant-dies-in-mukkoodal/article32889031.ece
19 October 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali special buses soon||Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar said on Sunday that special buses for Deepavali would be announced soon. A consultation meeting on the operation of special buses during the festival season was held and decisions were taken, said the Minister at Palladam in Tiruppur district, where he attended a private function on Sunday. According to Mr. Vijayabhaskar, the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) started reservations in view of Deepavali. He said that 60%-70% of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses were currently operational. The buses are fully operational in the morning and evening, when there is a considerable number of passengers who use public transport. According to him, many people were using their own vehicle, in view of COVID-19, instead of public transport. As the State’s case load was seeing a slow decline, bus services would be resumed in a phased manner, he said.  Around 60%-70% of TNSTC buses are currently operational M.R. Vijayabhaskar Transport Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deepavali-special-buses-soon/article32889042.ece
19 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Critically endangered Asian king vultures sighted in Sigur plateau||The sighting of a pair of critically endangered Asian king vultures and a juvenile in the Sigur plateau is a cause for optimism that the species may be re-establishing itself in the region, experts say. The population of the Asian king vulture, like most vulture species in India, has crashed over the last five decades. The Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), encompassing both the Sigur plateau and the Moyar valley, is believed to be home to 12-14 individuals. Since research began around a decade ago, not a single nesting site of the species has been found in the MTR. A. Samson, a research biologist from the Bombay Natural History Society who has been studying vultures inhabiting the Sigur plateau and the Moyar valley for the last decade, said the Asian king vulture, also known as the red-headed vulture, used to be seen across Tamil Nadu, right up to Kanniyakumari, till 50 years ago. “Despite extensive searches over the last decade in the MTR, not a single nesting site of the species has been discovered,” he said. The images of the three vultures — two adults and a juvenile — were captured on two separate days by lawyer M. Santhanaraman on a visit to the area recently. He told The Hindu that the record hinted at the possibility of a nesting site nearby. “If nesting sites are identified, any step to ensure the conservation of the area can be taken,” he said. “One way we can help bolster the population of vultures is by ensuring that the Kedarhalla stream, which, during the drought years, goes bone dry, is maintained as a perennial stream. During the drought that hit the district in 2016, many trees that the vultures depend on for nesting, like the Terminalia arjuna , died. If the streams are made perennial by ensuring a mean flow throughout the year, the vulture nesting sites using the landscape can be protected,” Mr. Santhanaraman said. B. Ramakrishnan, Assistant Professor at the Department of Zoology and Wildlife Biology at the Government Arts College, Udhagamandalam, said the sighting of a juvenile Asian king vulture was a sign that the population might be increasing. “This particular species of vulture only feeds on fresh carcasses, and is known for tracking tigers so that it can feed off its kills,” he said. He added that the increase in the number of tigers in the buffer zone of the reserve could lead to availability of more food for the vultures, thus helping the species re-establish itself in the region. Bharathidasan, secretary of Arulagam, an NGO working on vulture conservation, feels it is too premature to make any conclusion from this one-off sighting. Boosting the numbers “As the population of these vultures is so low, a single poisoning event could wipe out the entire species. Hence, we need to think of establishing captive breeding centres and other means to boost the number of red-headed vultures in the region,” he said. “Other means to help the species — establishing feeding stations and captive breeding of the vultures and eventual release — could also help,” said T. Murugavel, project coordinator for the Environment Monitoring and Action Initiating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/critically-endangered-asian-king-vultures-sighted-in-sigur-plateau/article32889044.ece
19 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Statue of founder of GSIS unveiled||The statue of P.C. Thomas, founder of the Good Shepherd International School in Udhagamandalam, was unveiled during the 44th Founder’s Day at the school. In a statement, the school said A. Amalraj, Bishop of Udhagamandalam, unveiled the statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/statue-of-founder-of-gsis-unveiled/article32889300.ece
19 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Registration of Plus Two qualification till October 28||Registration of certificates for succesful Plus Two students with the District Employment Exchange will be taken up at their schools till October 28. The students must carry the employment card given at the time of registering SSLC qualification, Aadhaar card number, family card photocopy, phone number and email address for registering Plus Two qualification while coming to school to collect their marksheets, Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said in a statement. Those who do not know their SSLC employment registration number should approach the District Employment Office to get it. Although the registration is done between October 14 and October 28, all students will get the same seniority of October 14, the statement from the Collector said. Registration of 12th mark statement can also be done through the website of Tamil Nadu Department of Employment and Traininghttps://velaivaaippu.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/registration-of-plus-two-qualification-till-october-28/article32889061.ece
19 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for assistance||Applications are invited from jobless youth to receive unemployment assistance through the Department of Employment and Training. Unemployed persons, who are not enrolled in school/college and are not self-employed, are eligible for the assistance for three years, Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said in a statement. The maximum age of beneficiaries should be 45 years for SC/ST category and 40 years for others. The beneficiaries should have a savings bank account with a nationalised bank. Applicants under general category should have completed five years of registration at the employment exchange and their annual family income should not exceed Rs. 72,000. The monthly assistance is Rs. 200 for those who failed class 10 and Rs. 300 for those who passed. The assistance for those who passed class 12 and diploma-holders is Rs. 400 and for graduates it is Rs. 600 a month. The application can be obtained from the District Employment Office, or can be downloaded from the websitewww.tnvelaivaaippu.gov.in After getting endorsement from the Revenue Inspector, they should submit their applications in person at the District Employment Office along with original certificates, Aadhar card, family card and passbook of savings bank account. Differently abled All types of differently abled persons should have completed one year of registration. They should have registered along with their national identity card. The assistance for qualification up to class 10 is Rs. 600, Rs. 750 up to class 12. For graduates, it is Rs. 1,000 a month. There is no income ceiling and they can get the benefits for 10 years or till the age of 57. They should produce all original certificates along with their national identity card and smart card. The assistance will be deposited directly in their bank accounts every quarterly. Those who have already benefitted under the scheme need not apply. The last date for submission of annual self-affidavit for unemployment for the differently abled has been further extended from August 31, 2020 to February 28, 2021, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-unemployment-dole/article32889059.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports lowest daily caseload with 319 cases||Coimbatore district on Sunday reported 319 positive cases of COVID-19, the lowest daily caseload in the recent past. According to the Health Department, the district had 3,814 active cases on Sunday while 365 persons were discharged from various hospitals and COVID Care Centres. Five deaths were reported in the district, taking the toll to 523. Tiruppur district crossed the 11,000 mark in terms of the total number of cases reported so far. The 166 cases reported on Sunday took the district’s tally to 11,165. The district had 1,203 active cases. One patient died in the early hours of Sunday. In the Nilgiris, 86 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 6,089, with 629 persons undergoing treatment. The toll increased from 34 to 35 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-lowest-daily-caseload-with-319-cases/article32889297.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Subsidy for establishing farm ponds||Applications are invited from farmers interested to set up farm ponds and rear genetically improved farmed tilapia (GIFT) fish with 40% subsidy given by Department of Fisheries. Farmers owning farm lands can apply under the National Agriculture Development Scheme, a press release said. A farm pond of 30 metres by 30 metres would be dug up under the scheme. Interested farmers can approach the office of Assistant Director (Fisheries), 114 B27/1, Velchamy Nagar, Virudhunagar, 626-001. For more details people can contact 04562- 244707.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/subsidy-for-setting-up-farm-ponds/article32889062.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||After 99 days, daily case count dips below 4,000||While 1,359 persons were discharged, 1,036 persons tested positive. As on date, 12,583 patients are under treatment, including in home quarantine, the daily bulletin issued by the Department of Public Health said. The city also recorded 17 deaths. Health officials said the total number of positive cases in the district is 1,89,995. Among the districts, Coimbatore and Salem led the tally, with 319 and 188 cases recorded respectively in the last 24 hours. In both districts, the number of those discharged was higher, at 365 in Coimbatore and 268 in Salem. Both recorded five deaths each. In Tiruppur, 166 fresh cases were reported and 133 persons were discharged. Chennai’s neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur continued to record cases in triple digits. In Kancheepuram, 130 more persons were found to be infected and two persons died. Chengalpattu reported 174 fresh cases and seven deaths. Tiruvallur reported 195 fresh cases. Health officials said 55 deaths were due to the pre-existing co-morbid conditions. A 55-year-old man from the Nilgiris was admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on October 14 and he tested positive the next day. The hospital recorded his death on October 16 as “due to bilateral bronchopneumonia/acute respiratory distress syndrome.” A 92-year-old man from the city, who was admitted to a private hospital on October 15 with complaints of difficulty in breathing for a day, tested positive and died on Saturday evening owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, according to the bulletin. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said that even as the number of cases were showing a dip, it was essential that adherence to proper distancing norms and other hygiene practices and use of masks and sanitisers continued.  Even as cases dip, it is essential to continue adhering to distancing and hygiene normsJ. RadhakrishnanHealth Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-99-days-daily-case-count-dips-below-4000/article32889039.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Life goes on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/life-goes-on/article32889057.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sign of the times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sign-of-the-times/article32889066.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Blue splendour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/blue-splendour/article32889345.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Perched for the kill||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perched-for-the-kill/article32889403.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The condition of the road at the entrance of the Thathaiyangarpet bus stand has turned bad in recent months and there has been no remedial action. Motorists, particularly two-wheeler riders, lose balance while passing through the damaged part the road. The town panchayat has a responsibility to ensure safety of motorists. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti.    Dysfunctional street lamps are causing difficulties for residents of Karattampatti. Darkness along the cemetery road causes a nightmarish experience for the public. M. Periyamalaiyan, Karattampatti.    The public must not be complacent in adhering to safety protocol and must give a serious consideration to warnings by experts about a second wave of infection. The festive activities in the months ahead are a potential threat for emergence of more cases during the winter season. Wearing of masks and other aspects of safety protocol need to be strictly adhered to. R. Pichumani, Thippirajapuram.    Despite the projections of increase in COVID-19 infection rate, it is normal to find people be it in urban or rural parts moving about without wearing facemasks or maintaining social distancing. Lockdown relaxations are made only for economic reasons. The preventive steps must be sustained on a war-footing. S. Raghavan, Cantonment.   Now that the ASI southern circle office has started functioning in Tiruchi, there is hope that the Main Guard Gate will be restored its glory by way of eviction of encroachments. The structure should be repainted and guarded well. Both the central and State governments have the responsibility for restoring the glory of such historic treasures. T.M. Ranganathan, Srirangam.    The residents of Crawford Colony are thankful to the civic authorities for having started the underground drainage pipe laying work under Phase III in right earnest. It is hoped that the work will gather momentum in SBI Staff Colony, Arunachalanagar, T.S.A. Nagar, and Sundarnagar Colony also. The Corporation could even contemplate collecting connection charges to make sure there is no obstruction to the works due to financial problems. M. Nagarajan, Crawford.   Allowing large presence of hawkers at the city bus terminus at the Tiruchi central bus stand and permitting auto stands in congested places do not seem proper. It is very difficult to get into and alight from the buses. To make matters worse, many hawkers do not wear facemasks exposing waiting passengers to the risk of contracting COVID-19.  M. Raja, Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article32889053.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Due to change in pin code for areas under Ellis Nagar post office from 625010 to 625016, people who have the old pin code in their documents are finding it difficult to get new documents for the same address. It will be helpful if the Postal Department informs the other government departments to issue new documents by changing the pin code automatically so that people are not put to hardship.  N. Mohamed Ismail,      The Passenger Reservation System (PRS) facility of the railways in Tallakulam has been closed abruptly without proper notice. Since it was situated on the first floor of a place with a narrow pathway near Tallakulam Head Post office, railway authorities had planned to shift it, But now it has been closed. The railway authorities should reopen this facility for the benefit of the public.  G. Chitti Babu,      It was heartening to read that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has signed 14 memorandums of understanding involving investments to the tune of Rs. 10,055 crore. For the overall growth of the State, the new ventures and expansion programmes should be spread evenly across the State and not confined to the Chennai region alone. If more number of industries are established in the southern districts and in all other Tier II and III cities and towns, educated youth need not move to the Chennai region for jobs. Also, there is no doubt that the economy in these lesser-developed districts will improve to a great extent.  S. Nallasivan,      Chemmankulam, a tank which is at the centre of the town and spread over many acres, remains dry despite heavy rains. It is becoming a garbage dump and sewage water is also let into it. The authorities should take steps to rejuvenate Chemmankulam so as to recharge groundwater. A walking track can be built along the bund so that it will not only promote water storage but also people’s health.  G. Stanley Jeyasingh  Nagercoil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article32889063.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AI to resume flight service||Air India is resuming its Madurai-Chennai-Mumbai flight service from October 25. The flight will depart from Mumbai T2 at 0915 hrs; arrive in Chennai at 1115 hrs; depart from Chennai at 1215 hrs; and reach Madurai at 1310 hrs. The return flight will depart from Madurai at 1355 hrs; arrive in Chennai at 1500 hrs; depart from Chennai at 1605 hrs and reach Mumbai at 1815 hrs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ai-to-resume-flight-service/article32889032.ece
19 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rainfall subsides in Belagavi, Bagalkot, Vijayapura districts||Rainfall has subsided in Belagavi, Bagalkot and Vijayapura districts. Due to reduced rainfall, water release from Maharashtra into Belagavi stood at around 40,000 cusecs on Sunday, far below the danger mark of 2.3 lakh cusecs. Some low-lying bridges remained under water and they are expected to be opened for traffic by Monday evening, officers said. In Belagavi, the district administration has assessed the damage due to heavy rain at around Rs. 315 crore. This includes crop loss and damage to houses. According to a report sent by Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath to the State government, one person died in Hukkeri when his house collapsed due to heavy rain and six head of cattle were washed away. As many as 270 houses were partially damaged, while 60 were completely damaged. Houses suffered damage in Kittur, Bailhongal, Chikkodi, Gokak, Khanapur, Ramdurg and Raibag taluks due to heavy rainfall for four days this month. Sugarcane, soyabean and cotton grown in around 35,000 hectares suffered damage. The State government has allowed release of input subsidy amount to farmers. “We will be releasing the complete relief amount in a week,” the Deputy Commissioner has said.  One person died in Hukkeri when his house collapsed due to heavy rain and six head of cattle were washed away||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rainfall-subsides-in-belagavi-bagalkot-vijayapura-districts/article32889085.ece
19 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Webinar||Belagavi NCC Group organised a webinar on “Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Saptah IV” at GSS College here from October 12-17. Colonel JJ Abraham, Group Commander, NCC Group, Belagavi, inaugurated it. He asked cadets to make use of this opportunity to learn about the rich and diverse heritage of other States. Principal N.D. Hegde spoke. Cadets from Karnataka, Goa, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana participated in the webinar. They exchanged their knowledge of history, geography, economy, culture, food, language, cuisine, festivals and tourism with each other. They also interacted with the cadets of other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar/article32889086.ece
19 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Impersonators arrested||The police detected two cases of impersonation and examination malpractice during the common entrance test for the recruitment of police constables in Belagavi on Sunday. The impersonators were arrested in Jain College and VP Potdar Polytechnic College. Two cases have been registered. There is a suspicion that some police personnel are involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/impersonators-arrested/article32889095.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tunnel Boring Machine Urja crosses 140 metres||Nearly three months after tunnel work was commissioned, the Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) christened Urja has drilled a distance of 144 metres from Cantonment station towards Shivajinagar. It was the first Tunnel Boring Machine to commence drilling work on July 30 under Phase II of the Namma Metro project. Sinkhole However, tunnelling work was temporarily stopped by the appearance of a sinkhole last week. “The sinkhole has been grouted. Once it settles down, the TBM will resume work,” said a Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) official. BMRCL has estimated that to tunnel a distance of 850 metres, the machine would take nine months. Another 706 metres of excavation work is required to achieve a ‘breakthrough’ at Shivajinagar. At the time of commissioning work, the BMRCL had maintained that the machine would drill through 250 metres of hard rock, 350 metres of mixed ground condition and about 225 metres of soil. As per the plan, after Urja crossed over 100 metres of excavation, one more TBM named ‘Vindhya’ started the journey from Cantonment side. As on October 17, the machine has tunnelled a distance of around 18 metres. Vindhya will dig a parallel tunnel towards Shivajinagar. B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan, Chief PRO of BMRCL, said that a third machine, ‘Avni’, which started tunnelling from Shivajinagar to Rashtriya Military School has resumed work after facing hurdles due to a sinkhole in Shivajinagar metro station construction area. The official said, “The sinkhole problem has been fixed. The machine resumed work and proceeded to dig 11 metres. Once Avni crosses 100 metres, another machine, Lavi, will commence tunnel work from Shivajinagar.” Phase II Under Phase II of Namma Metro, the BMRCL is building a 13.9-km underground line from Jayanagar Fire Station to Nagawara. An interchange station at Nagawara will be linked with the ORR-airport line that connects Silk Board with Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). The alignment has 12 underground stations and 10.37-km of twin tunnels. For the rest of the reaches (Dairy Circle to Rashtriya Military School and Tannery Road to Nagawara), the BMRCL is expecting arrival of news TBMs in four months. BMRCL has acquired 95% of the land needed for the project, but is facing hurdles at some places, including Langford Town, Lakkasandra and Rashtriya Military School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tunnel-boring-machine-urja-crosses-140-metres/article32889274.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cyber fraudsters won’t spare even policemen||Even the police can fall prey to cyber fraud. In the latest case, Prakash Rathod, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Financial Investigation Unit of the Criminal Investigation Department, has filed a complaint that online fraudsters created a fake Facebook account in his name and used it to cheat his friends. After creating a duplicate fake profile with a photograph of the DSP in his uniform, the accused sent a request via Facebook Messenger to his friends seeking monetary help citing financial and emotional stress, with details of where the money could be transferred. The incident came to light when one of Mr. Rathod’s friends transferred Rs. 2,000 online and then called up to confirm receipt of the money. The CID cyber crime police are trying to track the accused based on the account details provided by Mr. Rathod. At least three other police officials have filed similar complaints in the past. Inspector General of Police (training) P. Harishekaran, Deputy SP (CID) M. Humayun Naagthe and Special Deputy Commissioner (Bengaluru north sub-division) Jagadisha M.K. have filed complaints that fake Facebook accounts with their profiles were made by unknown persons who then sought financial help from their friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cyber-fraudsters-wont-spare-even-policemen/article32889275.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 infection rate high in Bengaluru Rural||Over a seven-day period ending on October 15, although Bidar conducted the highest number of tests on asymptomatic cases and Bagalkot conducted the highest number of tests on symptomatic cases, the positivity rate among both asymptomatic and symptomatic persons was highest in Bengaluru Rural. According to the State COVID-19 war room data till October 15, Bagalkot had tested 30.3% symptomatic patients and Bidar had tested 99.9% asymptomatic patients. Overall, 97.3% of the State’s 7,35,371 patients till October 14 were asymptomatic. However, the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) among asymptomatic patients tested over the seven-day period was highestin Bengaluru Rural (17.2%).  While Kopal had the least at 2.9%, the TPR among asymptomatic patients tested in Bengaluru Urban was 10.2%. Vijayapura, Mysuru, Hassan, Chitradurga, Udupi, Tumakuru, and Dakshina Kannada all had a TPR above 10.7%. Bidar, with the highest number of asymptomatic persons tested, had the lowest TPR among asymptomatic patients at 1.6%. At 48.6%, Bengaluru Rural had the highest TPR among symptomatic cases. Munish Moudgil, who heads the State COVID-19 war room, said this was simply because the rate of infection was higher in Bengaluru Rural. “A high positivity rate indicates a higher infection in that district,” he said. K.V. Rama Mohan, member of Project: Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of Proxima, said the low TPR (11.7%) in Bagalkot, which has done the highest number of tests of symptomatic cases, points to the possibility of a prevalence of high false negatives in the region. “Bagalkot has the highest percentage of symptomatic cases. Under normal circumstances, the TPR of symptomatic cases could be high. But the war room data indicates a lower TPR here. This scenario is possible if the prevalence of false negatives is higher in the region,” he said. “The local administration should immediately examine whether the Indian Council of Medical Research protocol for negative testing of symptomatic cases is strictly followed in the district. In case it is not followed strictly, the chances are of positive patients wrongly testing negative and continuing to spread the virus,” he said. Most contacts According to the war room data, while Bidar, at 24.6, had the highest number of contacts — both primary and secondary put together — per patient in the seven-day period, Ballari (5.5) had the lowest. Bengaluru had the highest percentage of nil contacts per positive patient. Of the 28,208 patients who tested positive during the period, 13,486 had no contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-infection-rate-high-in-bengaluru-rural/article32889092.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Floods: BSY to undertake aerial survey on Oct. 21||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will undertake an aerial survey of the four flood-hit northern districts on October 21. In a release, Mr. Yediyurappa said that many villages in Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Yadgir, and Raichur districts were either totally or partially submerged owing to the floods caused by the heavy rains last week, and he would undertake the survey of the affected areas on October 21. The flood situation remained grim in the four districts of the State with the Krishna and the Bhima in spate, and the national and the State disaster response forces undertook rescue work and evacuated villagers. Relief work The personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), the local police, and the district authorities are undertaking relief work in the four districts. Mr. Yediyurappa said the floods had damaged crops and in the given circumstances, it had become necessary to carry out an aerial survey to understand the actual situation. Meanwhile, Eshwar Khandre, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working (KPCC) president and MLA, has urged the Chief Minister to also conduct an aerial survey of Bidar on Wednesday. Mr. Khandre, representing Bhalki constituency in the district, criticised the Chief Minister’s decision not to conduct survey of Bidar district. Nearly 80% of agricultural crops in the district have been damaged owing to floods in this month, the Congress MLA tweeted and urged the government to release compensation for crop loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/floods-bsy-to-undertake-aerial-survey-on-oct-21/article32889096.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Huge dip in passport applications between April and mid-October||As most parts of the world came to a halt amidst a raging pandemic, the little blue book which is the passport to travelling abroad for work, studying and leisure has not been in much demand. The usual volume of applications for passport and related services that the Regional Passport Office (RPO), Bengaluru receives in a year is in lakhs. But in a pandemic-hit year, despite functioning through the months where most other sectors were closed, the number of applications and final services given has seen a sharp dip compared to the previous year. According to data shared by the RPO, this year, from April to mid-October, 76,695 applications were received for various services, including issue of passport. Of these, 76,523 were granted. The final number of passports issued during this period was 88,139. Another, 3,135 Police Clearance Certificates (PCC) and 17 Surrender Certificates (SC) were also issued. During the corresponding six-and-a-half months last year, 4,24,804 applications were received by the RPO, of which 4,30,087 were granted. As many as 4,34,700 passports, 12,899 PCCs and 55 SCs were issued. With international air travel shut due to COVID-19, and with stringent lockdown in place, there was no need for passports. In fact, the RPO had to reduce the number of appointments by half after a directive from the Ministry of External Affairs in March just before the first lockdown was announced as a precautionary measure. The RPO recently restored the number of appointments to normal after adopting the necessary precautionary measures, but only half or less than half the appointments are being taken. In the last few years, the RPO has received over seven lakh applications for issue of passport and related services. Months of low demand this year is expected to have a telling impact on the final numbers this calendar year. Regional Passport Officer Bengaluru Bharath Kumar Kuthati told The Hindu , “We can’t say with certainty, but the fact is, there is a steady increase in the number of applications.” The RPO had mentioned that though the number of appointments taken has come down to around 50% from pre-COVID-19 times, it is still an increase in recent months from the 20% post the first lockdown to around 40% now. An overall fear of crowded places has also been cited as one of the reasons for applicants to stay away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/huge-dip-in-passport-applications-between-april-and-mid-october/article32889267.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Councillors of ruling party oppose proposal to prune BBMP budget||The civic administration’s move to prune the budget, presented in April, has raised the hackles of councillors and former councillors from the ruling BJP who are lobbying hard with the State government against the move. The civic administration has argued for a revision citing its necessity as the COVID-19 pandemic had severely affected the BBMP’s finances, a claim contested by former councillors. Any revision of the budget will only result in the dropping of civic works, a prospect councillors, cutting across party lines, are not comfortable with given that civic polls may be held any day, depending on directions from the Karnataka High Court. “On the eve of an election, which councillor or party would want civic works to be axed? Instead, we demand that the BBMP start the civic works announced in the budget,” a senior BJP councillor and party strategist said. Gaurav Gupta, Administrator, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), told The Hindu that while efforts to present a realistic budget were on, it was premature to comment on the issue as a proposal to the effect is yet to be made. L. Srinivas from the BJP had presented a budget of Rs. 11,969.5 crore for the current financial year, which the State government pruned by Rs. 254 crore. A budget of Rs. 11,715.2 crore was finally approved. The BBMP has set a target of Rs. 3,538 crore from property tax, Rs. 4,339 crore from the State government and Rs. 2,316 crore from non tax-revenue, among other sources. “The budget was approved by the State government just a few months ago. What are the grounds to prune it? We have taken up this issue with senior ministers, who have promised that there will be no revision of the budget,” Mr. Srinivas said. However, senior civic officials said the budget was “unrealistic” in its revenue projections, which has only become more stark due to the pandemic and the resultant financial crisis. For instance, the State government’s grants are unlikely to come as promised, sources said. When asked about the financial constraints, Mr. Srinivas said BBMP should award tenders and start civic works. “The civic body doesn’t pay the bills immediately. The pandemic must not be used as an excuse to deny development,” he said. In the past, the civic budgets had come under severe criticism over variance between the estimates and actuals. Data from Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy shows it varies in the range of 25% to 40%. The only exception was in the year 2015-16 when the civic administration led by an administrator – now Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar – pruned the budget presented by the council to a realistic level. That year, the variance was only 3%. “Councillors often inflate revenue projections, grant civic works themselves and start works, even as the BBMP falls short of revenue to pay contractors. This leads to a problem of pending bills, which undermines the financial health of the civic body,” pointed out a senior civic official. A section of BBMP contractors had recently threatened to stop all ongoing civic works as pending bills had mounted to Rs. 2,500 crore for works that are as old as two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/councillors-of-ruling-party-oppose-proposal-to-prune-bbmp-budget/article32889273.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||7,012 fresh COVID-19 cases in Karnataka||As many as many as 7,012 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Karnataka on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases to 7.65 lakh. Meanwhile, 8,344 patients were deemed as discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of persons discharged to 6.45 lakh. The media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that there were 51 COVID-19 deaths, taking the toll to 10,478. Besides this, there were 19 deaths of COVID-19 patients on account of other causes. Out of the total number of 7.65 lakh positive cases, only 1.09 lakh cases were active as on Sunday, and 945 patients were admitted in ICUs in hospitals across the State. The positivity rate for the day was 6.67% and the case fatality rate was 0.72%. As many as 1.05 lakh tests were conducted on Sunday. Of these, 21,876 were Rapid Antigen Tests. In Bengaluru Urban, a total of 3,535 new COVID-19 cases were reported, taking total number of cases to 3.07 lakh, including 64,435 active ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7012-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka/article32889094.ece
19 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Declare NK floods as national disaster’||Karnataka Sugarcane Growers’ Association president Kurubur Shantha Kumar has demanded that the Centre declare the floods that ravaged northern Karnataka as a “national disaster”. In a release here, Mr. Shantha Kumar said the floods had affected cotton, sugarcane, banana, and maize grown on 10 lakh hectares of land. He alleged that none of the prominent officials had met the flood-hit victims, though a week had passed since the ordeal began. Accusing the ruling BJP MPs from the State of being in deep slumber, he demanded that a delegation of Union Ministers from Karnataka visit the flood-affected areas and take up the issue with the Centre to declare the floods as a national disaster. He also demanded that the Centre should adopt a scientific method of providing compensation under the NDRF. Presently, the flood-hit people were getting compensation under NDRF as “alms”, as it was too meagre, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/declare-nk-floods-as-national-disaster/article32889098.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will accept census report’||Senior Minister and Other Backward Classes (OBC) leader K.S. Eshwarappa has said that the State government will accept the socio-economic survey, popularly known as caste census, conducted by the Karnataka Permanent Backward Classes Commission. He was speaking at a consultation meet over the survey. The meeting was attended by several OBC leaders across party lines, including Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah and seers from OBC communities. “Mr. Siddaramaiah has said he will take to the streets if the report is not accepted. Our government will not give room for such protests, as we will accept the report,” he said.    Meanwhile, Mr. Siddaramaiah clarified that the report was not ready during his tenure and, if it was, he would have implemented it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-accept-census-report/article32889097.ece
19 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Homebuyers stage protest at under-construction site in Hennur||A group of over 50 homebuyers running from pillar to post to get delivery of their flats, which is allegedly overdue by five years, held a protest at the under-construction site on Hennur Road on Sunday. The homebuyers, who said that they had made payments for the apartments as far back as 2011, have approached several agencies, including Real Estate Regulatory Authority-Karnataka (RERA-K) and the city police. One of the homebuyers, K.S. Franklin, said that 52 homebuyers had paid anywhere between Rs. 25 lakh and Rs. 90 lakh for a flat in 2011. Delivery date “We were promised that the apartments in Elegant Altis would be delivered by mid-2015. To date, not one apartment has been handed over to buyers. Most of us have availed loans, for which we are paying EMIs,” he said. RERA-K had ruled in favour of two flat-owners. In September 2019, the Authority has ordered the developer to not only pay the principal amount, but also penalty and interest. A similar order was passed a few months ago this year too. ‘Order ignored’ “But it is shocking that there has been no implementation of the RERA-K order. Fed up with the state of affairs, we registered an FIR at Pulikeshi Nagar Police Station in July this year against the developer for cheating homebuyers,” Mr. Franklin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/homebuyers-stage-protest-at-under-construction-site-in-hennur/article32889276.ece
19 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Good response to school adoption||The school adoption initiative has got a good response with several peoples’ representatives, universities, institutions and eminent personalities coming forward to adopt government schools, said M.R. Doreswamy, Adviser, Education Reforms adding that 25 universities, both State-run and private, have responded positively to his appeal, and have adopted 10 government schools each for development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-response-to-school-adoption/article32889268.ece
19 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power cut||There will be no power supply on October 20 and 21 from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the areas coming under 66/1 KV Jigani, F-01 feeder and 220/66/11 KV Jigani MUSS, F-36A feeder. The areas are Jigani CMC limits, Madhumithra Layout Phase 1-2, Jigani lake, Balaji Layout, Jigani Link Road and surrounding areas on October 20; and Harappanahally, Koppa Road, Koppa village, Kempapura village and surrounding areas on October 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-cut/article32889277.ece
19 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bhima waters inundate 10,000 houses; 20,024 people shifted||River Bhima, which had been wreaking havoc along its course downstream at Afzalpur, Jewargi, Chittapur, Shahabad, and Kalaburagi taluks in Kalaburagi district for the past five days, continued to devastate on Sunday. According to information provided by the district administration, the average discharge of water from Sonna Barrage remained at 8 lakh cusecs. Reports reaching the district headquarters late in the evening indicated a continuation of the destruction of standing crops and inundation of thousands of houses in over 157 villages. As per the district administration’s estimation, around 10,000 houses were flooded till Sunday evening. According to a media bulletin released by the district administration, 20,024 people from 57 drought-prone villages have been shifted to safer places. As many as 140 relief centres were operating as on Sunday evening. No loss of human life has been reported. As per the Central Water Commission (CWC), the water level in Bhima measured at Deongaon bridge, situated close to the Sonna Barrage, for the first time since 2006 breached the danger level (404.5 metres) and highest flood level (407.34 metres) late on Friday. It hit 409 metres at 9 a.m. on Sunday. The water level is expected to cross 410 metres in the immediate future. A company of Indian Army that arrived from Secunderabad late on Saturday joined teams of the National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Force, fire personnel and local police in their rescue and relief operations. The 98-personnel company was divided into three teams and deployed in the flood-hit Afzalpur, Jewargi, and Shahabad taluks. Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna, zilla panchayat CEO P. Raja, and Additional Commissioner of Public Instruction Nalin Atul visited the Sonna Barrage and other flood-hit areas and took stock of the situation.  Dangerous levels The water level in Bhima measured at Deongaon bridge, for the first time since 2006, breached the danger level (404.5 metres) and highest flood level (407.34 metres) late on Friday.It hit 409 metresat 9 a.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bhima-waters-inundate-10000-houses-20024-people-shifted/article32889091.ece
19 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||University to set up biology laboratory||A new molecular biology laboratory set up at Khaja Bandanawaz Teaching and General Hospital run by the Kwaja Bandanawaz University, an autonomous institution in Kalaburagi, will be inaugurated on Monday. The laboratory is accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). Kalaburagi Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer P. Raja will be the chief guest and Vice-Chancellor of the Kwaja Bandanawaz University A.M. Pathan will preside over it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/university-to-set-up-biology-laboratory/article32889088.ece
19 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Removing trash from beach turns into a fitness workout for these volunteers||Following Unlock 4.0, model Damodar Hegde moved from Bengaluru to the house of his cousin Ganesh Mulky Nayak, a motivational speaker, in the city, and the two decided to have fitness workout on the Tannirbhavi Beach from September 22 . “As I was running on the beach, a piece of glass pierced my foot. As I removed it, I saw glass bottles, used syringes and other trash in the vicinity,” Mr. Hegde told The Hindu . And, this, he added, prompted the two to take up clearing debris on the beach. “We took up ‘removing trash’ as a fitness workout. With word of mouth and work featuring on social media, 50 volunteers have joined us,” Mr. Nayak said. A video by vloggers Mohammed Eshaaan and Shafaq, about this work on YouTube made more than 200 people turn up for cleaning activity on the beach on Sunday. Within two hours, trash on about a kilometre-long beach was cleared. Every day, volunteers, who call themselves as “Beach Rejuvenation Army”, gather at 6.30 a.m. and start the activity by wearing face masks and gloves. They do it till 8 a.m. On the weekend, it goes on till 9 a.m. “Waste clearance is a continuous exercise. The deposit is more on days when it rains heavily,” Mr. Ganesh said. The volunteers segregate trash at source. The discarded plastic bottles, slippers and other plastic items are filled in plastic bags and kept at the parking area for the waste collecting agencies to take them away. The wooden logs and coconuts are moved to a side of the beach. They have managed to move several heavy waste deposits created after waste material is entwined on discarded long ropes. “This cleaning work on the beach gives enough physical exercise,” said Suraj Prabhu, who recently finished engineering. “The exhaustion is so that I get a sound sleep when I hit the bed,” said Vishbhav, a sales marketing executive.It is a short video of the work posted by Mr. Hegde on his Instagram account that caught the attention of these volunteers who then joined Mr. Hegde and Mr. Nayak for cleaning. Among the early ones to join were teacher Lavanya Gautam and her 13-year-old daughter Geetanjali G.K. A II year MBBS student Avani cycles 10 km every day to join the activity. Nidhi R. and Manasi Sheth, who recently graduated from National Institute of Technology Karnataka, Surathkal, are coming to participate in the activity since one week. “This activity is really refreshing. It has made us sensitive to the haphazard way of disposing of waste,” Ms. Sheth said. Engineering graduate Ramanath has joined along with his school mates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/removing-trash-from-beach-turns-into-a-fitness-workout-for-these-volunteers/article32889356.ece
19 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Drugs worth Rs. 73.39 lakh seized in three cases||In a joint operation, the Udupi Police, in association with Internal Security Division of the State Police, Drugs Controller and Revenue officials, have seized drugs worth Rs. 73.39 lakh in three cases. Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhana said that four persons have been arrested in this connection. While one accused was from outside the State, the others were local residents. He did not reveal the names of the arrested persons as further investigation is on. He told reporters here on Saturday that three specialised teams headed by Additional Superintendent of Police Kumar Chandra carried out the three operations. The technical, execution and investigation teams operated as per the operational brief and this has yielded the desired result. The police seized 1,019 MDMA tablets weighing 540 grams worth Rs. 30.57 lakh, 1,000 LSD stamps worth Rs. 30 lakh, 30 grams of brown sugar worth Rs. 3 lakh and 131 grams of superior quality hydro weed valued at Rs. 9.82 lakh The Superintendent of Police said that the police were acting not just against drug peddlers but also against those consuming and transporting it. The police have so far registered 209 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act this year, which is highest in the last five years. It is the first time they have seized such huge quantity of synthetic drugs, he said.  Four persons have been arrested in this connection; while one accused is from outside the State, the others are local residents||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drugs-worth-rs-7339-lakh-seized-in-three-cases/article32889355.ece
19 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Video of Arebhashe talamaddale to go online soon||A talamaddale, a variant of Yakshagana theatre, recorded for the first time in Arebhashe, a Kannada dialect spoken in parts of Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu and Kasaragod (Kerala), will be available on a social media platform shortly. Arebhashe is spoken by a section of the Gowda community. Recorded under the auspices of Karnataka Arebhashe Samskriti and Sahitya Academy, the Banada Pala Prasanga video recorded in Arebhashe will be uploaded on YouTube within the next 10 days, according to chairman of the academy Lakshminarayana Kajegadde. The performance lasts about two hours. Banada Pala is the translated version of Yakshagana script “Sharasetubandhana” written by late Hattiyangady Rama Bhatta. Yakshagana bhagavatha (singer-cum-director) Bhavyashree Kulkunda has translated it into Arebhashe in the prosody suitable to it. Mr. Kajegadde told The Hindu that Ms. Kulkunda has translated another script “Panchavati” written by Parthi Subba, considered as the father of Yakshagana, to Arebhashe on behalf of the academy. It is also for the talamaddale performance. Ms. Kulkunda said that she is now fine tuning its script in Arebhashe in consultation with Ganesh Kolekkadi, an expert on prosody and Yakshagana script writer, and Subraya Sampaje, a Yakshagana bhagavatha. The two had guided her in translating the first script. Mr. Kajegadde said that Ms. Kulkunda is now translating one more Yakshagana script Kamsa Vadhe written by Matti Vasudeva Prabhu to Arebhase suitable for Yakshagana performance. It is also for the academy. In addition, the academy will get two more Yakshagana scripts translated into Arebhashe. Of them, one will be for talamaddale and the other for a Yakshagana performance. Tentatively, it has identified Krishnarjuna Kalaga or Karnavasana scripts suitable for talamaddale and Indrajitu Kalaga as suitable for the Yakshagana performance. The scripts are yet to be finalised. Thus, Mr. Kajegdde said that the academy will ensure that it had three scripts translated for talamaddale performance and two scripts suitable for performing Yakshagana. It will preserve those scripts and make them available to performers. Ms. Kulkunda said that finding an appropriate word while translating Kannada Yakshagana songs into Arebhashe is a challenging task. The translation should also match with the Yakshagana prosody. She translated the first script during the lockdown. The first video production has Kolthige Narayana Gowda, Jabbar Samo Sampaje and Jayananda Sampaje as “arthadaris”. Ms. Kulkunda, Murari Kadambalithaya and Akshay Rao Vitla are the background artistes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/video-of-arebhashe-talamaddale-to-go-online-soon/article32889352.ece
19 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Hosa adike’ prices shoot up in a fortnight||With the market for “hosa adike” (fresh arrivals of chali variety of white arecanut) of the 2020-21 crop season opening this month, prices of the produce have shot up considerably during the last fortnight. According to president, Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative (CAMPCO) Ltd., Mangaluru, S.R. Satishchandra, if the minimum price jumped up by Rs. 75 a kg, the maximum rate shot up by Rs. 55 a kg during the period. For example, in the Badiyadka market, prices, which hovered between Rs. 225 a kg and Rs. 275 a kg on October 3, touched Rs. 300 a kg-330 a kg on Saturday. Prices in the other procurement centres of the cooperative were almost in the same range with a difference of Rs. 5 a kf or Rs. 10 a kg during the same period, he told The Hindu . He attributed the jump in prices to various factors, mainly to supply and demand factor. He said that there is shortage in arrivals due to reduced production. As imports of arecanut are negligible since the lockdown due to COVID-19 issues, consuming market is entirely depending on domestic production. Except large growers, small and marginal growers do not have stocks with them. Mr. Satishchandra said that “kole roga” (fruit rot disease) which hit arecanut plantations on a vast scale in the 2018 and 2019 rainy season resulted in crop loss thus creating scarcity in the supply of old stocks. He said that an upward trend in prices might continue for some more days. Ramesh Kaintaje, an arecanut grower and a member of G.V. Joshi Committee, which revised the production cost for arecanut, said that the prevalent prices for fresh arrivals are at an all-time high. Never in the past, prices of fresh arrivals jumped by more than Rs. 50 a kg in a fortnight just after the market for the new stocks opened, he said. He said that even low grade “hosa adike” such as fator, ulli and karigot are commanding good prices now as never before. Their prices too have gone up. It indicated that the market demanded arecanut whatever may be the quality. Quoting the Badiyadka market as saying, Mr. Kaintaje said that the maximum price for fator (nuts with cracks) jumped by Rs. 30 a kg to Rs. 255 a kg in a fortnight. If prices of ulli jumped by Rs. 25 a kg, rate for karigot went up by Rs. 20 a kg during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hosa-adike-prices-shoot-up-in-a-fortnight/article32889353.ece
19 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Electrocuted||A 16-year-old boy was electrocuted after he came in contact with the live wire connected with decoration lighting for the Navaratri festival at the Lalita Durgaparameshwari temple in Uppinakudru village of Kundapur taluk of Udupi on Saturday night. The Kundapur Police gave the name of the victim as Dhanush (16). While coming out of the temple after having darshan at 9.30 p.m., Dhanush accidentally touched the live wire placed on the compound wall on the southern side of the temple. Dhanush was rushed to a private hospital where he died of burns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/electrocuted/article32889351.ece
19 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Convocation tomorrow||The second annual convocation of Srinivas University, a private university, will be held on its campus in Pandeshwar here at 4 p.m. on Tuesday. In a press release, the private university said that Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan will deliver the convocation address virtually. The private university will confer the Doctor of Letters (Honoris Causa) on Vidyadheesha Tirtha Swamiji of Palimar Mutt, Udupi. As many as 38 ranks, including 11 gold medals, will be given away. Degrees will be conferred on 232 undergraduates, 87 post-graduates and one doctorate at the event||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/convocation-tomorrow/article32889357.ece
19 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three tonnes of meat seized, two arrested||The Kankanady Police arrested two persons on the charge of illegal transportation of three tonnes of meat in a fish-laden lorry here on Sunday morning. The lorry was on its way to the fish harbour from Hubballi. On a tip-off, it was stopped near Pumpwell Junction. The meat was found behind crates filled with fish. The police have sldo sought expert opinion on the type. The accused Mainuddin, 28, and Rafiq Jaffer, 25, have been booked for theft and under Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-tonnes-of-meat-seized-two-arrested/article32889189.ece
19 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||A tale of two convocations amidst the pandemics||A peek into the archival materials brings to fore certain similarities in the circumstances surrounding the 1st and the 100th convocation of the University of Mysore, to be held on Monday. When the first convocation was held on October 19, 1918, the region was grappling with another pandemic (Influenza) and fighting severe drought. The 100th convocation is being held under the cloud of the COVID-19 pandemic and floods in parts of the State. The then Maharaja and the Chancellor Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar was present in person at the first convocation of the university in which educationist Sir Ashuthosh Mukherjee delivered the convocation address. But Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make a virtual address to mark the 100th convocation of the varsity and will not be present in person partly due to the situation arising out of the pandemic. Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, in his speech during the convocation, referred to influenza which was then declared as an epidemic and had claimed thousands of lives. Expressing his sorrow over the outbreak of the disease, he had remarked that influenza had raised the mortality to alarming levels and appealed to the public to fight the scourge with courage. According to Mysore Gazetteer edited by Hayavadhana Rao and published many years later, influenza hit Mysore State in 1918 and left 1.95 lakh people dead. The Prime Minister’s address on Monday is also expected to touch upon the impact of the COVID-19 and the way forward and the challenges facing the economy and the country due to the pandemic. Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar referred to the failure of monsoon in many parts of the kingdom and the prolonged drought and remarked that it had raised the cost of the necessities of life along with war conditions. But he held out assurance to the gathering that no effort or expenditure would be spared and his thoughts were constantly with the people. The situation is similar in the present times and apart from the pandemic, the State is grappling with flood. His speech was not unduly lengthy and there were references to the growth of the university and the increase in the cost of higher education. As a testimony to his understanding of the education system, he noted that the schools are the feeders to the university and efforts were being made to improve their standards. In the present times, there are concerted efforts to reduce drop out rates in schools and increase the gross enrolment ratio in higher educational institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-tale-of-two-convocations-amidst-the-pandemics/article32889184.ece
19 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Jawaharlal Nehru’s address in 1948 remains untraceable||The virtual address scheduled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the occasion of University of Mysore’s 100th convocation on Monday brings under focus the address delivered by India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru at special convocation of the university held on December 28, 1948. According to records available with the university, Nehru addressed the special convocation at the Crawford Hall, where an honorary degree of Doctor of Science was conferred on him by the then Maharaja of Mysore Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, the Chancellor. “It was Nehru’s first doctorate,” according to a coffee table book “One Hundred Years University of Mysore 1916-2016” brought out on the occasion of the university’s centenary celebrations. But, Nehru’s address on the occasion is untraceable in records of the university. Visiting Professor, Kuvempu Institute of Kannada Studies, University of Mysore, C. Naganna, who retired as Director of Prasaranga, the publication directorate of the University, told The Hindu that the Prasaranga has brought out two volumes of the university’s convocation addresses. But, Mr. Nehru’s address has remained conspicuous by its absence. The university, founded in 1916, had its first convocation on October 19, 1918, which was addressed by Ashuthosh Mukherjee. The first volume contains addresses delivered during various convocations starting from the first one in 1918 to 1995, though a few addresses are missing due to non-availability of information. “The convocations addresses delivered after the one by Rajadharmapravina Diwan Bahadur K.S. Chandrasekara Iyer in 1944 till the one delivered by Syama Prasad Mukherjee in 1949 are missing,” Prof. Naganna said. The second volume of convocation addresses has been updated till the 2014 convocation address. N. Niranjan Nikam, who was one of the editorial advisers for the coffee table book, said the university could not hold its annual convocation during 1947, the year in which India attained Independence, and the degrees were conferred to the students in absentia. But during 1948, two convocations were held. While one was the regular convocation held on October 25, 1948, addressed by the then Dewan of Mysore Sir M. Visveswaraya, and the second one was the special convocation held on December 28, 1948, to confer the honorary doctorate to the then Prime Minister. Prof. Naganna said the doctorate given to Mr. Nehru was the first-ever doctorate given to the late former Prime Minister from any university. No serious attempts had been made so far to secure Mr. Nehru’s address on the occasion. “It is very unfortunate,” he said before adding that efforts will be made to trace the address in other archives of Mr. Nehru. “We will try to trace the address and update it in the next volume of the convocation addresses,” Prof. Naganna added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jawaharlal-nehrus-address-in-1948-remains-untraceable/article32889182.ece
19 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||When medieval travellers watched the ‘great feast’||The 2020 Dasara festival that got under way in the city in a subdued manner under the cloud of COVID-19 on Saturday marks the continuation of a tradition whose origins are traced to the practices followed by the rulers of Vijayanagar empire. There are references to the “great feast” in the writings of the medieval travellers such as Domingo Paes from Portugal who visited Vijayanagar around 1520-22 CE, and Fernao Nuniz who was in Vijayanagar sometime in the 1530s. Both left behind eyewitness accounts of the festival among other things they observed in Vijayanagar. Their observations are also reinforced by the archaeological ruins described as Mahanavami Dibba at Hampi and from where it is reckoned that the kings would watch the procession go by. Referring to the “great feast of nine days”, Domingo Paes refers to a structure as the House of Victory which historians equate with the Mahanavami Dibba. There, according to the medieval writer, used to be dais on which the king would rest and watch the feast preceded by worshipping an idol in a shrine. Paes mentions that alongside the Vijayanagar king, prominent rulers owing allegiance to the former also used to take their seats. Interestingly, it is mentioned by Paes that among those who used to sit with the Vijayanagar ruler was the ‘king of Syrimgapatao’ (for Srirangapatana) and described him as “most prominent”. After the fall of the Vijayanagar the Wadiyars – who ruled from Srirangapatana – carried forward the Dasara tradition and it was Raja Wadiyar who on ascending the throne in 1610 CE, proclaimed that Dasara be celebrated on a grand scale. It reached its climax during the later Wadiyars and one of the largest murals depicting the grandeur of Dasara was completed in the late 19th century and adorns the walls of the Jaganmohan Palace. This painting itself is a throwback to an earlier period where the king has been depicted seated on a chariot drawn by elephants. The concept of the king being seated in a howdah mounted on an elephant was a later introduction. Captured in paintings The grandeur of Mysuru Dasara attained its zenith during the regime of Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar (1902-1940 CE) and is best captured in the paintings rendered by palace artists including Y. Subramanya Raju, S.N. Swamy, K.K eshaviah, S.R. Iyengar, Shankararaju and Y. Nagaraju. The abolition of the privy purse in 1970 and its Parliament approval in 1971 saw a disruption in the proceedings and the last Maharaja, Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, conducted it privately. A few years later, his son Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar revived the practice of continuing the age-old tradition inherited from the Vijayanagar period while the State government decided to revive public Dasara and began sponsoring it from 1975. A festival that is the fulcrum of tourism in modern times and unfolds over 10 days to a sea of humanity, is ironically being held under severe restrictions this year to prevent large gatherings and minimise the possibility of the spread of the pandemic. Though the celebrations have been scaled down, the tradition has not been given the go by.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/when-medieval-travellers-watched-the-great-feast/article32889178.ece
19 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Flight from Mysuru to Mangaluru soon||Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, will introduce regular flights from Mysuru to Mangaluru in a move that will enhance the region’s connectivity to coastal Karnataka. The flight was tentatively scheduled to commence from October 25 but Mysuru Airport Director R. Manjunath said that the date of commencement will be confirmed in a day or two as there were certain issues to be ironed out. “But the timings have been fixed and the flight will arrive at Mysuru at 8.50 a.m. and depart for Mangaluru at 9.30 a.m. The scheduled timing is ideal as people flying into Mysuru or Mangaluru will have the entire day for them on reaching their respective destinations,” he added. There was tremendous demand for direct flight connectivity from Mysuru to Mangaluru since many years as Mysuru has a sizeable population of people from the coastal region. The road travel was not only cumbersome but would take an entire night making it tedious. Travelling during monsoon used to be fraught with uncertainty due to heavy rains that lash along the route, especially when passing through Kodagu district. Mr. Manjunath said he expects the flights to operate at full capacity as the number of people and stakeholders from both tourism and industrial sector who evinced interest in the route was high. The flight will be operated under the Centre’s UDAN scheme, and once launched Mangaluru would be the seventh destination to have air connectivity from Mysuru. The other cities already linked to Mysuru by air include Kochi, Goa, Chennai, Bengaluru, Belagavi and Hyderabad. Welcoming the development, Suresh Kumar Jain of Mysore Industries Association said the passenger load from Mysuru to Mangaluru was assured as there were a large number of hoteliers, industrialists and people in the service sector belonging to coastal region who had settled in Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flight-from-mysuru-to-mangaluru-soon/article32889185.ece
19 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Dip in daily COVID-19 tally is owing to decline in testing rate’||Is the decline in number of daily COVID-19 positive cases in the country due to a dip in the growth rate of testing? Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of management consulting firm Proxima, in association with Public Health Foundation of India, has claimed that the number of positive cases appear to be going down on account of a decline in the rate of testing. While the daily COVID-19 tally in the country had come down from more than 92,000 to 72,000 over the last one month, starting mid-September, Jeevan Raksha’s Mysore Sanjeev pointed out that the period also saw a decline in the moving growth rate of testing. Growth rate In August, the seven-day moving growth rate of testing was consistent in the range of 18 to 20%, which led to an increase in daily cases from 64,021 to 92,602, he said. However, between September 1 and October 10, the seven-moving growth rate of testing halved from 18 to 9%, leading to a decrease in the daily cases from 92,602 to 72,014, he said. “In a pandemic when Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of a region is above 5 per cent, the number of positive cases will be directly proportional to the number of testing in normal conditions. Higher the qualitative testing, higher will be the positive cases and vice versa,” he said adding that the TPR rate has remained high. Global cases A fifth of the total COVID-19 cases across the world are in India. While the global COVID-19 cases are increasing, the trend is moving in the opposite direction in India, he said adding that there is a strong correlation between testing and positivity trend. Due to deceleration of testing efforts, Mr. Sanjeev feared that there is high probability of non-tested infected people moving around freely, spreading the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dip-in-daily-covid-19-tally-is-owing-to-decline-in-testing-rate/article32889179.ece
19 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||404 test positive in Mysuru||A total of 404 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 45,042. One death due to COVID-19 on Sunday has taken the death toll here to 923. With 36,823 persons having been discharged, the total number of active cases in Mysuru is 7,296 out of which 5,756 had been isolated at home and the remaining in different government and private facilities. The authorities have decided to keep different places of tourist interest like palace and zoo open after the district administration had initially decided to close them during Dasara to deter tourists from flocking to the city as a precautionary measure against COVID-19. A.H. Vishwanath, BJP MLC, on Sunday expressed concern over the large number of people flocking to the city to watch the illumination of the streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/404-test-positive-in-mysuru/article32889183.ece
19 October 2020||Sigandur (Shivamogga),KARNATAKA||Differences between trustees, head priest lead to assault at Sigandur temple||The Navaratri celebrations at Sigandur Chowdeshwari Temple have begun with untoward incidents, following differences between the trustees and the principal priest of the temple. Video clips showing Subrahmanya Bhat, the younger brother of principal priest Sheshagiri Bhat, assaulting a person from the opposite camp led by S. Ramappa, the head of the trust, have gone viral across the State. Chowdeshwari Temple situated at Sigandur, on the backwaters of Sharavati, in Sagar taluk, is being managed by the family headed by Ramappa. Sheshagiri Bhat and his team look after daily pooja and special homas on the temple premises. In recent years, the temple has attracted devotees from different areas leading to increase in the revenue. The differences between the two factions came to the fore after the government relaxed the lockdown to allow opening of religious places. A dispute over sharing the revenue is said to be the reason for the controversy. Ramappa and his followers allegedly took over the premises belonging to the priest so that he couldn’t conduct special poojas. There were instances of heated arguments between two camps. Residents of area were also divided on the issue. There have been protests supporting each camp. Many organizations have urged the State government to take over the temple. Former Minister Kagodu Thimmappa also issued a statement supporting the demand for bringing the temple under Muzrai Department. Following the incident of assault on Friday, Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar and other senior officers visited the temple on Saturday. The DC spoke to both Ramappa and Sheshagiri Bhat. The DC told reporters he has instructed the Assistant Commissioner of Sagar subdivision to file a report on the financial transactions of the temple within a week. The status report would be sent to the State government. When The Hindu reached Sheshagiri Bhat’s place to seek his reaction, his family members said he had gone to a hospital as he had a fever. A person close to the principal priest, on the condition of anonymity, said Ramappa was not allowing the priest to perform Chandi Homa as part of Navarathri. “The trust is not allowing us to perform homas that we have been doing for years. Only family members are in the trust. We want there to be a trust involving local people, not one family,” he said. However, members of the trust do not support this demand. Ravi Sigandur, one of the trustees and son of Ramappa, told The Hindu that the trust could not include others. “It is a deity of our family. With many people in the trust, we cannot take quick decisions and address urgent needs. However, there can be a coordination committee, which can advice us,” he said.   CM’s reaction Meanwhile, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has expressed disappointment over the incidents at the temple. “Such incidents shouldn’t have happened in the name of deity,” he told presspersons at Shikaripur on Sunday. On the demand for Muzrai Temple taking over the temple, the CM said he would discuss the issue with Deputy Commissioner of Shivamogga and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/differences-between-trustees-head-priest-lead-to-assault-at-sigandur-temple/article32889188.ece
19 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Minister Chavan says he will ask officials to shift flood-affected Shivanur village||Minister for Animal Husbandry and Yadgir district in-charge Prabhu Chavan has said that he will direct officials to take immediate action to shift flood-hit Shivanur village in Wadagera taluk of the district to a safe place. He visited Shivanur village, which has been affected by floodwaters, on Sunday. The entire village has now been shifted to a gruel centre in neighbouring Bendebembali village. While interacting with the villagers in the village, Mr. Chavan said that “since the code of conduct is in place, I cannot talk more on this (shifting the village) but I will surely hold a meeting of officials to take a final decision to shift the village.” A young man who submitted a memorandum to the Minister said that the village is submerged during every floods. There was a proposal at the government level in 2009 to shift the village but till date there has been no action and people have been forced to face difficulties caused by floods. Immediately, the Minister asked Assistant Commissioner Shankargowda Somanal how many houses haveen damaged and whether government land is available for rehabilitation of the affected people. Responding to the Minister’s query, Mr. Somanal said that floodwaters that entered village had damaged 77 houses. “And, government land is not available. However, some villagers have expressed that they were willing to provide the required land for rehabilitation,” he added. Mr. Chavan further assured the villagers of the matter being discussed in detail with various departments concerned after the elections. He also directed to Mr. Somanal to distribute Rs. 10,000 each to families affected by floods as immediate compensation. He directed Joint Director of Agriculture Department R. Devika to conduct a joint survey with the Revenue and the Horticulture departments and submit a report immediately when she explained that floods have destroyed around 50 hectares of cotton and 25 hectares of paddy in Shivanur village. He also visited villages on the banks of the Bhima, including Madnal, Bendebembali and Joladadagi. MLA Venkatareddy Mudnal, Guru Patil, former MLA, Sharanabhupal Reddy, BJP district president, Chandrashekhargouda Magnoor and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-chavan-says-he-will-ask-officials-to-shift-flood-affected-shivanur-village/article32889089.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Conditions in Kalaburagi flood relief centres poor||They said that the food was of poor quality and there was no drinking water, among others. Taking the complaint seriously, Ms. Jyothsna ordered on the spot suspension of local PDO Gurunath Haridas and Village Accountant Bhagyashree Talwar. Afzalpur flooded After decades, Afzalpur has also been badly hit by floods. The low-lying areas in the town, including Jai Bheem Colony and Ghattaraga Road were flooded. People were found shifting their belongings from their flooded houses to safer places. A transport bus with passengers on board was caught in the floodwaters near Shirval village in Afzalpur taluk. The bus was on its way from Afzalpur to Karjagi when it was stuck in water. Local people moved the bus to safety using ropes and a tractor. Since the floodwaters of the Amarja have destroyed water pipelines at Hittalashirur village in Aland taluk, drinking water supply to the village has been disrupted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conditions-in-kalaburagi-flood-relief-centres-poor/article32889087.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police fly to Kolkata to catch cook who stole safe||The J.P. Nagar police caught a flight to Kolkata to catch a 35-year-old cook, who had allegedly stolen a safe containing valuables worth Rs. 1.3 crore from his employer. The accused, Kailash Das, is a native of Burdwan. Das had been working as a cook in the J.P. Nagar house of Rajesh Babu for six years, and resided with them. Earlier this month, a family member contracted COVID-19 and was hospitalised. “While his relatives were busy taking care of him, Das stole the digital locker from their house and escaped on October 9,” the official added. Das fled to Mysuru where he stayed in a lodge for two days and tried to break open the locker using a screwdriver. “But the screwdriver broke and got stuck in the keyhole. He then decided to go back to his native town. He returned to Bengaluru and caught a train to Howrah,” the official added. Police saw CCTV footage of him boarding a train at Yeshwantpur railway station. A police team took a flight to Kolkata and reached the station ahead of him. The accused tried to escape on seeing the police, but was caught and brought to Bengaluru with the locker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-fly-to-kolkata-to-catch-cook-who-stole-safe/article32889271.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man goes on stabbing spree in Bengaluru||“Usually there is a lot of pedestrian activity on Sunday mornings, but when people heard about what was happening no one stepped out, there was an eerie silence for some time, until the police announced that Ganesh had been arrested,” said a resident. The police are yet to ascertain whether Ganesh was under the influence of drugs or alcohol. “His family members claimed that he is mentally challenged, which will have to be verified. We are waiting for medical reports,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Sanjeev Patil. “Ganesh has been living in Cottonpet with his mother for the last two years after his wife separated from him.” The victims were taken to hospitals, but one of them [identified as Mari, 30] succumbed to knife wounds. Critical Two others, Velayudhan and Muniswamy, are said to be critically wounded and have been shifted to the ICU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-goes-on-stabbing-spree-in-bengaluru/article32889187.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Festival sights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festival-sights/article32889269.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Festive spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festive-spirit/article32889181.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||All lit up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-lit-up/article32889358.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Narcotics seized||In the biggest seizure this year, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) officers busted an international drug racket and recovered 13.2 kg of pseudoephedrine worth around Rs. 13 crore at Kempegowda International Airport on Saturday. Pseudoephedrine, which is used in the production of various narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, is notified as a controlled substance under the NDPS Act. The consignment was in Singapore en-route to Australia when officials, acting on a tip-off, recalled it back to Bengaluru. The order originated in Chennai and was being shipped via a private courier company, said officials. Second case in 3 weeks This latest seizure comes barely three weeks after the DRI in Chennai had seized 25 kg of pseudoephedrine. According to officials, the latest consignment was concealed in photo albums, photo frames, bangles and other personal items. It was hidden in a shipment that was meant to look like personal items for a family member in Australia, said officials. A closer examination of the items revealed that the substance had been hidden within the thick covers of the albums and photo frames. The market price of pseudoephedrine is over Rs. 1 crore per kilogram. “This is one of the largest such consignments seized in recent times at the international airport and would have been sold in the international market for more than Rs. 13 crore,” said the DRI in a press release. Australia connection According to DRI officials, pseudoephedrine is becoming the main precursor chemical preferred in the manufacture of methamphetamine in Australia. Only 1.5 kg of pseudoephedrine is needed to obtain a kg of methamphetamine, said the release. Australia has reportedly seen the introduction of imported crystalline methamphetamine over the past five years. “Despite the pandemic, the total amount [of ephedrine and pseudoephedrine] seized by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence across India this year has already crossed 500 kg, clearly pointing to a mass diversion of the precursor drug to Australian markets,” said the DRI in the release. “Crystalline methamphetamine, sold as crystal meth or ice, is manufactured in clandestine drug laboratories in Australia, and is a highly purified form of the drug that is recognisable by its translucent crystalline appearance. In recent times, there has been an ever-increasing number of novel cases that have been detected by enforcement agencies of attempted smuggling from India to Australia of both ephedrine and pseudoephedrine,” said DRI officials. Officials cited two similar attempts to smuggle ephedrine out of India concealed within wedding invitation cards, bobbins and spools of thread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dri-seizes-narcotics-worth-rs-13-crore-bound-for-australia/article32889272.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||The electoral fight in R.R. Nagar constituency in Bengaluru is expected to be a star-studded affair again, with ‘Challenging Star’ Darshan and ‘Rocking Star’ Yash(in picture)expected to campaign for film producer-turned-politician Munirathna of the BJP. Both stars campaigned for the BJP-backed independent candidate Sumalatha in Mandya in the 2019 general elections. In fact, Mr. Darshan has acted in films produced by Mr. Munirathna. Meanwhile, with KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar meeting actor Prem Kumar at the latter’s residence, the Congress appears likely to rope in the actor for its campaign.      Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son and State BJP vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra(in picture)seems to have taken a pledge to repeat the K.R. Pete bypoll result in Sira constituency in Tumakuru. The BJP, which opened its quota in Mandya district in the 2019 byelections by winning in K.R. Pet, is now eyeing the Sira byelection by putting its campaign machinery under Mr. Vijayendra’s leadership. To aid Mr. Vijayendra, the party has deployed Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol (who has incidentally come under sharp attack for being “insensitive” to the needs of the flood-affected people in Kalaburagi) for the management of the constituency, which has a sizeable number voters belonging to SC and ST communities. Mr. Karjol participated in a rally on the day of the party’s candidate, C.M. Rajesh Gowda, filed his nomination papers. The BJP has never won the Sira seat. It had received about 10,000 votes in the 2018 elections. The Lingayat community, which Mr. Vijayendra belongs to, has only around 4,000 voters here. “We will seek votes on the promise of development, not on the basis of caste. The BJP will open its account in the constituency this election,” he has said.   After his defeat in the 2019 general elections in Kolar constituency, Congress veteran K.H. Muniyappa(in picture), seven-time MP and former Union Minister, is now planning to contest the Assembly election in 2023 from Mulbagal (reserved) constituency. In the past, too, many leaders have shifted from national politics to State politics after serving as MPs and Union Ministers. This apparently is at the behest of KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar. According to the former MP, the changed political scenario is forcing him to focus on State politics to help the party return to power. Mulbagal has been a stronghold of the Congress and currently, the party has no winnable candidate here. Excise Minister H. Nagesh, who won with the support of the Congress in the 2018 elections, switched sides after the collapse of the Congress-JD(S) coalition government. Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article32889093.ece
19 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||385 test positive in Alappuzha||The district registered 385 COVID-19 cases and 368 recoveries on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 373 people contracted the disease locally, while the source of infections of another six patients remains undetected. Five persons who came from abroad and one person from another State were also diagnosed with the disease. The district recorded one COVID-19-related death, taking the tally to 71. The deceased was identified as an 84-year-old man from Thalavady. The 385 cases include 76 reported from Alappuzha municipality, 44 from Ramankary, 34 from Pulinkunnu, 28 from Cherthala South and 23 from Punnapra South grama panchayat. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 6,699. The police have registered 67 cases and arrested 34 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 332 people for not wearing face masks and 1,295 for not maintaining physical distance. Another 16 cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/385-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article32889155.ece
19 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||District Court bridge to be reconstructed||The process to acquire land for the reconstruction of the District Court Bridge in Alappuzha has been set in motion, with the government publishing a preliminary notification in the Gazette. Officials said that the copy of the notification issued by District Collector A. Alexander had been made available at district collectorate, RDO office among others. The public could raise objections regarding the updation of land records or the title in respect of the land proposed for acquisition before the Special Tahsildar (LA unit II), KIIFB, Alappuzha. According to the notification, 0.4556 hectares of land in Mullakkal village under Ambalappuzha taluk will be acquired for the project. The existing court bridge across the Vada canal has six roads merge at two approaches to it. As a result, heavy traffic congestion affects the smooth flow of traffic on the Alappuzha-Madurai State Highway. The proposal is to build a new elevated bridge, a set of underpasses, ramp roads and flyovers on either side of the canal, which is expected to help ease traffic congestion in Alappuzha town. Roundabout As per the detailed project report prepared by the Public Work Department’s (PWD) bridges design unit, the flyover is designed as a roundabout with no signals. The project will be implemented by the Kerala Road Fund Board at a cost of Rs. 98.9 crore. It will be funded by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-court-bridge-to-be-reconstructed/article32889149.ece
19 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Bank heist accused in judicial custody||Albin Raj, alias Shyju, 39, of Kattakkada, Thiruvananthapuram, the prime accused in the Karuvatta bank heist case was remanded in judicial custody by a local court on Saturday. The police took him into custody from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu the other day and recorded his arrest on Saturday morning. The police also recovered 1.8 kg of gold from the premises of his house at Kattakkada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-heist-accused-in-judicial-custody/article32889147.ece
19 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Popular Finance assets frozen in Alappuzha||District Collector A. Alexander has issued an order directing to close all the branches of Popular Finance and its allied institutions in the district. The order issued recently prohibits transfer of any asset and freezes all accounts maintained by Popular Finance or its partners in banking or non-financial institutions. The Collector directed the District Police Chief to lock and seal all buildings owned by the firm. by the financial institution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/popular-finance-assets-frozen-in-alappuzha/article32889157.ece
19 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Houseboats resume service in Alappuzha||Houseboats officially resumed services in the district on Sunday. According to M. Malin, secretary, District Tourism Promotion Council, a total of 25 boats were operated from two houseboat terminals at Punnamada Finishing Point and Pallathuruthy. “More than 100 tourists turned up for cruising in houseboats. It is a positive sign. We are expecting more visitors in the coming days,” he said. Mr. Malin said that houseboat operations were conducted following COVID-19 protocols and guidelines issued. Although houseboats officially only set sail on Sunday, a few vessels have been operating since October 12 when the government opened the tourism sector in the State. Owners of the licensed houseboats have urged authorities to initiate stringent action against illegal boats and those operating flouting the COVID-19 protocols. Officials said that a squad was formed to check COVID-19 protocol violations in the sector. As part of the restrictions in place, check-ins and check-outs are allowed only at Finishing Point and Pallathuruthy houseboat terminals. Tourists should register on COVID-19 Jagratha portal before checking into the houseboat. A maximum of 10 passengers are permitted in a boat, while only two persons are allowed in a room. Village walks will not be allowed. Houseboat owners have been directed to disinfect the vessels after each trip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/houseboats-resume-service-in-alappuzha/article32889150.ece
19 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki dam water level on the rise||Despite a lull in rainfall and increased power generation at the Moolamattom power house, the water level at Idukki reservoir continued to rise, though slowly, on Sunday. The water level at 10 a.m. was 2,393.86 ft., nearly 3 ft short of the orange alert level, as per the new rule curve fixed by the Central Water Commission. The orange alert level is 2,396.85 ft. Even if the shutters of the Idukki dam were opened, there would be no flooding, said the officials of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). “The water level of the Periyar and Pampa rivers are at a low this year. The allowed level in the Periyar river is 9 m and the present water-flowing level is below 1 m. The allowed level in the Pampa is 6 m and the present water-flowing level is 1.6 m,” said an official. Power generation The power generation has been raised to 9.504 mu at the Moolamattom power plant. . Water storage in the hydel reservoirs in the State is nearly 90% of the total storage level. The storage level in main hydel dams is Idukki (89%), Pampa (89%), Sholayar (94%), Idamalayar (88%), Kundala (91%), Mattupetty (86%), Kuttiady (66%), Thariyode (92%), Anayirangal (78%), Ponmudi (91%), Neriyamangalam (94%), Peringalkuthu (77%), Lower Periyar (60%) and Kakkad (86%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-dam-water-level-on-the-rise/article32889168.ece
19 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Move to give encroached resort to govt. agency||The district administration may hand over the acquired land and resort at Anayirangal near Munnnar to a government agency for running the business. District Collector H.Dinesan on Sunday said that the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) and the Forest Department have submitted a proposal for running the resort and a decision on it will be taken in a week's time. The Revenue Department took over nearly five acres of land including resort and camp tents under the ownership of evangelist Jimmy Sakaria who had encroached on the land and constructed the buildings. A team led by Devikulam Sub Collector S.Prem Krishnan acquired the property on October 11 after issuing an order in this regard on October 7. In a report submitted by the Devikulam Revenue Divisional Officer, Jimmy Sakaria was listed as one of the main encroachers in Munnar. The land was encroached at Anayirangal and fake documents were created.. The inquiry by the Revenue Department found that two more plots of land under his ownership were on encroached land. A decision on attaching these properties are on the anvil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-give-encroached-resort-to-govt-agency/article32889158.ece
19 October 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Koothuparamba victim Pushpan’s brother joins BJP||The brother of Pushpan, who had suffered serious injuries in the police firing at Koothuparamba in 1994, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday. Pushpan’s elder brother P. Sasi was given BJP membership by party State secretary Adv. Prakash Babu at the Thalassery constituency committee office. Mr. Babu said despite threats from the CPI(M) leadership, disgruntled workers would still join the BJP. Mr. Sasi said he had left the party to join the BJP in protest against the CPI(M)’s policies. However, the CPI(M) leadership said he was not a party member, and he had joined the BJP following a property dispute. Soon after a video of Mr. Pushpan appeared in social media, in which he clarified that though Mr. Sasi was his brother, he was not in touch with his family following a property dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/koothuparamba-victim-pushpans-brother-joins-bjp/article32889113.ece
19 October 2020||Kasaragod,KERALA||C.T. Ahammed Ali named UDF Kasaragod district chairman||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) State treasurer and former Minister C.T. Ahammed Ali has been appointed the new district chairman of the United Democratic Front (UDF). He replaces M.C. Kamaruddin, MLA, who stands accused in the gold jewellery investment scam. Meanwhile, A. Govindan Nair will continue as UDF convener. Mr. Ali had served as Local Self-Governments and Public Works Minister in the A.K. Antony and Oommen Chandy governments and represented Kasaragod in the Assembly for three-and-a-half decades. He was also chairman of CIDCO, IUML district treasurer, and manager of Chemmanad Jamaat Higher Secondary School. Mr. Kamaruddin had expressed willingness to resign from the post. Mr. Ali’s appointment is part of the UDF’s reorganisation plan ahead of the local body polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ct-ahammed-ali-named-udf-kasaragod-district-chairman/article32889112.ece
19 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Now, intelligent traffic system to pull up erring motorists in city||The commissioning of the Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) to streamline traffic movement and to aid in rule enforcement in the Greater Kochi area on Monday will see motorists indulging in rule violations being held accountable like never before. The automated enforcement system would also help detect vehicles that failed to appear for fitness test and to pay vehicle tax and insurance premium, said sources in the Motor Vehicles Department and the traffic police, the two key stakeholders engaged in traffic rule enforcement. Vahan portal “Already, the Vahan portal has all relevant and updated data of vehicles, except whether the vehicle has a valid pollution under control certificate. Offences, be it rash driving, not adhering to lane discipline (or zigzagging on the road), riding without helmet or seat belt, driving a car with tinted glasses or one with unauthorised alterations or improper registration number plates, will be tracked from the confines of the control room,” said a senior MVD official. An initiative of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), the Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation (Keltron) installed the high resolution CCTVs and other equipment needed for the project. The automated system relies on artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled cameras to keep track of rule violators and traffic pattern. This will considerably lessen the need for physical presence of enforcement personnel on roads. Details of vehicles registered in other States too can be kept tab of, by verifying with the Vahan portal. Challans will be generated for different offences and sent to the vehicle owner, who has to remit the fine and do remedial measures on the vehicle if it so warrants. Any non-payment of fine would result in the owner having to pursue the matter before the court, said official sources. MVD interceptors Meanwhile, the MVD is gearing up to intensify checking using four interceptor vehicles that it has in the district. The vehicles have modern equipment to scientifically verify offences. They include alcometer to ascertain whether a person is driving under the influence of alcohol, equipment to measure the transparency of windows or windshield, one to measure the intensity of headlights and decibel meter to measure the intensity of horns. The vehicles also have speed radar to nab motorists who exceed the speed limit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-intelligent-traffic-system-to-pull-up-erring-motorists-in-city/article32889330.ece
19 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||730 more test positive in district||As many as 730 people were confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 in the district on Sunday. According to a press release from the district administration, 14 of the new patients came from outside the State, while 486 contracted the disease through local contacts. There are 226 cases in which the source of infection is not known. Four health workers are among the infected. The district also saw 1,307 people being cured of COVID-19 on Sunday even as 2,042 people came under home observation. A total of 1,727 people completed their period of observation. The total number of people under observation stands at 30,416. As many as 262 people were discharged from hospitals and COVID care centres in the district, while 300 were admitted to hospitals and care centres. There are 11,120 active cases in the district, including 195 people under treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital and 54 at the PVS Hospital. A total of 3,056 samples were sent for tests from private and government centres on Sunday. Meanwhile, a team of health experts from the Centre arrived in the district on Sunday to evaluate the COVID-19 prevention activities. After a review of the work being done at the district-level, the team visited various COVID care centres in the district. District Collector S. Suhas made a presentation on the work being done to contain the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/730-more-test-positive-in-district/article32889340.ece
19 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Chiri’ exposes mobile phone addiction among children||Chiri, a helpline-driven initiative of the police for the emotional and psychological well-being of children hit hard by the pandemic, has thrown up mobile phone addiction as one of the major issues among children in the district. Though predominantly meant for assisting children, anxious parents are increasingly ringing up to share their distress over their wards’ obsession with mobile phones. “Many parents seek ways to address the problem, while many of them request us to ring back and talk to their children without revealing the fact that they had alerted us. We do that feigning to have received their numbers through some survey being done to make up for the absence of school-level counselling, though some still decline to talk,” said Viju Rajesh, a psychologist engaged as part of the district-level core team of Chiri. Hyper-aggressive children and girls trapped in affairs through social media are some of the major concerns of parents aired through the facility. Since its inception nearly three months ago, Chiri has received 5,800 calls from across the State, with Ernakulam accounting for 430 calls. Children’s calls Children do call with diverse demands. One youngster from Vallarpadam rues over his house’s tin roof and absence of power, which were addressed by the local police. Another youngster from Muvattupuzha complained about not having enough books to read, as the school library remained closed, and the police arranged books from a local library. “Left with their own frustrations, parents these days take it out on children on the slightest of provocations, making their lives difficult. The issue is further exacerbated by the absence of schools, where their problems used to be identified and solved,” said P.S. Shabu, assistant nodal officer for Student Police Cadet (SPC) programme in Ernakulam rural. Calls to the helpline (94979-00200) are directed to the State facility, which forwards them to the districts concerned, where there are core teams comprising a psychiatrist, psychologist, 15 SPCs, and three teachers associated with SPC. SPCs fill the role of peers with whom children in distress may open up freely. “Sixty-odd children, seven from Ernakulam rural alone, have died by suicide for the flimsiest of reasons since the lockdown. We want to inspire confidence in children that we are here to help them,” said Mr. Shabu.  Calls to the helpline (94979-00200) are directed to the State facility, which forwards them to the districts concerned||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chiri-exposes-mobile-phone-addiction-among-children/article32889337.ece
19 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||City gas to be made available in all taluks||The city gas supply will be made available in all taluks of Ernakulam district. A gas pipeline has been laid from Karingachira via Kundannur and Edappally to Aluva. It has been decided to extend the pipeline to Angamaly, Perumbavoor, and Kolenchery. The groundwork has started in all the six municipalities, said a press release here. At present, gas is supplied to 2,500 houses in Thrikkakara Municipality. Plumbing work has been completed in 1,500 houses. In addition to nine CNG stations, work is in progress at Willingdon Island, Kalady, Perumbavoor, and Poothotta. Municipalities that have not granted permission for the project have been directed to take a decision within 21 days, the release added. With the implementation of the scheme, natural gas will be available round-the-clock at every household. It will be 30% cheaper than conventional fuel. In addition to domestic consumers, CNG vehicles as well as commercial and industrial consumers will benefit from the scheme. The use of gas in CNG vehicles reduces air pollution. It is also safer to use natural gas, as its density is much lower than that of other cooking gases. Monthly bill Bills will have to be paid according to the meter reading. For domestic consumers, the rate is Rs. 752.92 per MMBTU (Metric Million British Thermal Unit). The average monthly consumption of natural gas for a family of four is estimated at 0.4 units, which translate to a monthly expenditure of Rs. 300. Natural gas reaches the GAIL gas pipeline from the Petronet LNG terminal at Puthuvype. GAIL supplies natural gas to the Indian Oil Adani Gas Pvt. Ltd. (IOAGPL) pipeline from the valve station at Kalamassery. IOAGPL then delivers gas to customers through steel pipelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-gas-to-be-made-available-in-all-taluks/article32889333.ece
19 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||SC stays HC order on new engg. courses||The Supreme Court has stayed the High Court verdict directing the A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) to consider the applications submitted by various self-financing engineering colleges seeking affiliation for starting additional undergraduate courses in Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Blockchain. The stay order came on a special leave petition filed by the KTU challenging the High Court judgment. Varsity stance The university in its petition said the action of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) in sanctioning new courses to institutions without a study on the subjects and without consultations with the State government/university/board was in violation of the provisions of the AICTE Act. The petition said the university decision was in line with the State government’s decision in this regard. The State government had decided to grant new courses in the existing engineering colleges only if they satisfied certain conditions. The conditions are that the new courses should have NBA accreditation, admission in the previous years should be more than 50% of the sanctioned intake, and new courses proposed should be innovative. These conditions are imposed since the demand for engineering undergraduate courses in private self-financing colleges has drastically come down in the past decade. Study by experts A study by academic experts said the low rate of admission would make the institutions financially unviable and lead to compromise on faculty and infrastructure. The study opined that indiscriminate sanctioning of courses in below par institutions was against the interests of society. Colleges could aspire for new courses only after getting NBA accreditation for the existing courses, the petition added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sc-stays-hc-order-on-new-engg-courses/article32889161.ece
19 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Bus driver gets jail for rash driving||A private bus driver in Kochi was convicted for one year simple imprisonment and fined for rash and negligent driving and causing death. The court also disqualified the accused from holding driving licence for one year from the date of expiry of the sentence. Archana K. Babu, Judicial First Class Magistrate 1, Ernakulam, convicted Lobu of Pallipuram in the case. The prosecution case was that the bus, which was driven in a rash and negligent manner by the accused, along the Goshree-Ernakulam road on June 1, 2012, had crashed into a car, seriously injuring the couple travelling in the vehicle. The eight-and-a-half-month-old child of the couple, who was also in the car, later succumbed to injuries. Roy P. Kuriakose, Senior Assistant Public Prosecutor, conducted the case. The court found the accused guilty of Section 279 of the Indian Penal Code (rash driving,) Section 337 (causing hurt by endangering life or personal safety of others), Section 338 (Causing grievous hurt), and Section 304-A (causing death by negligence). However, the punishment for all the offences shall run concurrently, the court ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-driver-gets-jail-for-rash-driving/article32889341.ece
19 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Mayor writes to Minister seeking repair of roads||The Kochi Corporation has approached Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran seeking repair of PWD roads in the city. The move comes in the wake of the Kerala High Court pulling up the civic body for the poor upkeep of roads. In her letter to the Minister, Mayor Soumini Jain sought his intervention to repair the roads owned by the PWD, including Park Avenue Road and the one that runs next to Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital. These important roads, pointed out Ms. Jain, were in a very poor condition. Incidentally, the High Court had on Friday criticised the civic body for what it termed as its casual attitude towards repairing city roads. It had also highlighted the condition of the road in front of its main office at Park Avenue. The court had directed the Corporation Secretary to appear before it on October 21 to explain the condition of the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayor-writes-to-minister-seeking-repair-of-roads/article32889332.ece
19 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bus, auto operators look to CNG for succour||At a time when e-mobility is gaining traction across the globe, operators of private buses and autorickshaws, already hit hard by the steep fall in commuter patronage due to the pandemic, are looking up to CNG and LNG to cut fuel bills. Approximately, 5,000 of the total 27,000 autorickshaws that operate in the Greater Kochi area rely on CNG as fuel, a shift from diesel and petrol autos that occurred over a three-year period, said Simon Edappally, board member of Ernakulam Jilla Autorickshaw Drivers Cooperative Society. “The advantage is that it costs Rs. 55 per kg, cheaper than diesel. CNG-run autos also cause much less air and noise pollution. That the number of CNG refilling stations has increased to seven in Kochi city has resulted in more takers for these autos,” he added. The roll-out of e-autos in Kochi has been hit by the COVID-induced slowdown and inadequate number of recharging stations. The cooperative society had inked agreements with three manufacturers to procure 1,000 e-autos. Efforts are under way to ink pacts with State-owned Kerala Automobiles Ltd (KAL), Mr. Simon said. CNG buses Private bus operators have temporarily withheld plans to go for e-buses, considering the huge capital investment — of around Rs. 1.50 crore per bus. “Most operators are willing to retrofit CNG kits in buses, if the government gives a subsidy or considerably lessens road tax. But each kit costs Rs. 4 lakh, which operators are unwilling to invest, considering the uncertainty clouding the public transport sector,” said K.M. Navas, secretary, Kerala Bus Transport Association (KBTA). The prohibitive cost of diesel and low passenger patronage due to the pandemic have resulted in only 200 of the total 1,000 buses that operated in the Greater Kochi area conducting services now. In the long run, bus operators prefer LNG to CNG as a fuel source, considering that it is cheaper than CNG. The main advantage LNG has over CNG is that fuel efficiency increases by more than double. The operators of the LNG terminal at Puthuvype must open retail outlets in the city,Mr. Navas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-auto-operators-look-to-cng-for-succour/article32889331.ece
19 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Trial in actor rape case may resume this week||The trial in the actor rape case, which was put on hold after the prosecution sought time to move the High Court for a change of court, may resume on Tuesday. On Monday, the Special Court trying the case is scheduled to take up two petitions, one moved by actor Dileep, the 8th accused in the case, seeking action against media houses who allegedly published the proceedings of the in-camera trial and another one on the social media statements of some members of Women Collective in Cinema (WCC). A few members of the WCC had made social media statements against some actors, whom the WCC members claimed to have turned hostile during the trial. Worry over ‘fair trial’ A. Sureshan, the Special Public Prosecutor, had moved the petition apprehending that the survivor would not get “fair trial and justice” from the court. The prosecution case is that the accused kidnapped the actor and raped her in a moving car. Actor Dileep has been accused of conspiring with the other accused in the case. The Registry of the High Court has not interfered in the issue as it has not officially received the petition. The State government had not issued any directive to its prosecution wing in the High Court to move the petition for change of court, legal sources said. Judicial sources indicated that the prosecution may have to move the judicial side of the High Court if it was keen on a change of court. The trial court would have to be restart the proceedings unless the prosecution formally informed it that it had moved the High Court for changing court. The trial court cannot afford to waste time as the Supreme Court had set a deadline for completing the trial, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trial-in-actor-rape-case-to-resume-this-week/article32889162.ece
19 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Pineapple farmers look forward to better times||With about 40% of the estimated 25,000 migrant workers in the sector back in pineapple fields, farmers are looking ahead to better times after what many described as the worst slump in business triggered by the COVID-19 lockdown, a price crash and the flight of thousands of migrant workers from the State. About 20% of the workers who manned pineapple fields had returned, strengthening the already available 20% who had not gone home in the wake of the pandemic, said Baby John, a veteran farmer and president of the Pineapple Growers’ Association. He said that about 20% of the remaining labour requirement was met by local hands,. The best quality fruit fetched Rs. 25 to Rs. 26 a kg at present, said Mr. John, and pointed out that the demand in north Indian cities in the festive week of Navaratri had resulted in the price moving up. Vazhakkulam market However, the Vazhakkulam pineapple market is seeing depleted arrival. Fruit arrival has dwindled to about 50%, but the normalisation of the road transport network is helping move the fruit to places such as Mumbai and Delhi. At the same time, heavy rain in north India has dampened demand to some extent even as continuing rains triggered by the retreating monsoon and frequent development of depression in the Bay of Bengal have impacted the seasonal activities in Kerala’s pineapple fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pineapple-farmers-hoping-for-better-times/article32889336.ece
19 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||One held for threatening, robbing businessman||The Ernakulam Central police on Sunday arrested a man who allegedly extorted Rs. 3 lakh and valuables from a Kochi-based businessman, after taking him to Mysore under the garb of showing him a prospective bride. Anvar Ibrahim, 43, of Vadakara was part of the gang that took him to Mysore in February 2019. They locked him in a room and clicked his pictures in a compromising position with a woman. The other gang members, posing as police personnel, threatened and robbed him. He was later forced to part with Rs. 2 lakh. The police are on the lookout for the other members of the gang. Cylinder theft Three persons were arrested in connection with the alleged theft of LPG cylinders from Azad Road, Kaloor, on Sunday. The Ernakulam North police arrested Shiron Bachu, Bennet and Abdul Wahid. Two arrested The Ernakulam Rural police on Sunday arrested two persons on the charge of stealing goods worth over Rs. 5 lakh from a locked house in Aluva. They are Anand of Palakkad, and Senthil Kumar of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-threatening-robbing-businessman/article32889338.ece
19 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Hibi Eden demands probe||The government must launch a probe into medical care being given to patients, in the wake of an audio message from a senior staffer at the Government Medical College Hospital doing the rounds, Hibi Eden, MP, has said in a letter sent to the Chief Minister. It points to the alleged negligence in treating seriously ill patients and the death of a patient due to this. The government must probe whether the audio message is true, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hibi-eden-demands-probe/article32889334.ece
19 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Award for musician||Former principal of Sri Swathi Thirunal Music College and mridangam maestro Parassala Raveendran Nair has been selected for the Sangeetha Prabhakara Award instituted in memory of Mavelikkara Prabhakara Varma, Carnatic vocalist and former principal, RLV Music College, Thripunithura. The award, instituted by the disciples of the vocalist, will be presented on November 1, the 93rd birthday of the vocalist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-musician/article32889339.ece
19 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Fingerlings seized||Fisheries Department officials seized a batch of illegally imported fish fingerlings from the Cochin International Airport on Sunday. The officials acted on a tip-off and seized the tilapia fingerlings imported from Kolkata. The seized tilapia fingerlings are worth around Rs. 27,300 and weighed 140 kg. The packet contained 26,000 tilapia fingerlings as well as a batch of banned fingerlings worth Rs. 1.12 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fingerlings-seized/article32889342.ece
19 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bank rapped for taking recovery steps after loan repayment||The Ernakulam District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has directed the Kalamassery branch of the State Bank of India to pay a customer Rs. 10,000 as compensation. The directive came on a complaint filed by M.A. Janardanan and his daughter. According to them, they had availed an education loan of Rs. 73,500 from the branch of the erstwhile State Bank of Travancore in 2006. The entire loan was repaid after settling the outstanding amount at an adalat in April 2016. However, one month after fully paying the outstanding amount, they got a legal notice from the bank, asking them to pay the outstanding amount within 10 days, failing which recovery steps would be initiated. The then branch manger had refused to acknowledge the loan repayment receipt and abused them, alleged the complainants. Besides, the bank withdrew a sum of Rs. 1,500 that remained in the account of the daughter. The forum led by its President Cherian K. Kuriakose said it was unable to justify the act of the bank. The bank manger contended that even as the loan was settled, the loan account had been “procedurally escalated to the recovery cell” of the bank. The allegation that he had abused and threatened the complainants was incorrect. The forum also directed the bank manger to pay the complainants Rs. 5,000 towards litigation cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-rapped-for-initiating-recovery-after-loan-repayment/article32889106.ece
19 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||540 cases in Kollam||The district reported 540 new COVID-19 cases and 640 recoveries on Sunday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 537 contact cases, one health worker and 2 persons who had travelled from other States. The district currently has 20,181 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 2,89,340. While 1,315 people completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 64,827 primary contacts of the positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/540-cases-in-kollam/article32889151.ece
19 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Top UDF leaders tried to ensnare Mani: report||As the controversy set off by Jose K. Mani over the alleged back-stabbing of his father and Kerala Congress (M) founder leader K.M. Mani by the Congress continued to rage, a report accusing some United Democratic Front (UDF) leaders of hatching a conspiracy to ensnare the KC(M) founder in the bar bribery scam has emerged in the public domain. The report, purportedly based on an investigation carried out by a private agency, named Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, Adoor Prakash and Joseph Vazhakkan as the key conspirators. Kerala Congress (B) leader R. Balakrishna Pillai and Kerala Janapaksham leader P.C. George, MLA, too were accused of being part of the conspiracy, reportedly hatched at a Government Guest House at Mundakkayam, Kottayam. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy too has been accused of being aware of the conspiracy. Reason cited According to it, a conspiracy was hatched to frame the late KC(M) leader as he had stood in the way of Mr. Chennithala's attempt to replace Mr. Chandy as the Chief Minister. About six years ago, the KC(M) had appointed an intra-party commission led by the late C.F. Thomas to probe the issue. The findings of the panel, submitted in March 2016, are yet to be made public. Mani group’s reasponse The Mani group, meanwhile, responded that the report that came out on Sunday was not the official investigation report in possession of the party leadership. “We have not yet decided on releasing the report officially. In fact, this is not the first time that the media are reporting about such a report, which does not have anything to do with the official report,” Mr. Mani said. Official sources held that some findings of the ‘leaked report’ were close to the ones reported by the intra-party commission. New members Meanwhile, the Mani group, which has been shaken by attrition of workers at the grassroots received a major boost with the former Poonjar MLA V.J. Joseph, former Meenachil panchayat president C.V. John and others joining its ranks here on Sunday. They were handed party membership at a function organised by the Mani group in Pala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/top-udf-leaders-tried-to-ensnare-mani-report/article32889163.ece
19 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||514 cases in Kottayam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kottayam continued to surge rapidly with 514 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 489 people including two health workers contracted the virus through local contact. The patients also included 84 people aged above 60 and 73 children, besides 202 women. With 65 cases, Kottayam led the tally, followed by Changanassery with 45 cases. With 254 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,627 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/514-cases-in-kottayam/article32889152.ece
19 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Local recipes to fetch money for homemakers||The Save Green Agricultural Cooperative Society in Kozhikode has come up with an offer for homemakers in the city. “Homemakers often have unique recipes for their dear ones. Save Green enables them to cook a little extra and sell within a close circle to earn money. Moreover, buyers get home-cooked and unadulterated food at reasonable prices,” said M.P. Rejul Kumar, president of the society. Food is sold only on Sundays, while orders are accepted throughout the week through a dedicated WhatsApp group named ‘Hello Green’. The suppliers have food safety licence, and standards will be maintained even in packing,” Mr. Rejul Kumar said. Food is delivered free of cost by Save Green’s collection agents. The items sold come under the brand ‘Sahakarana Ruchi’, a special initiative of the Department of Cooperatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-recipes-to-fetch-money-for-homemakers/article32889105.ece
19 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Poor quality food being served, say COVID patients||A section of COVID-19 patients admitted to the Government General Hospital, Kozhikode, has accused the authorities of delaying their food and limiting its quantity. They reportedly went on a strike on Sunday raising these issues and threatened to venture out of the hospital on Monday morning if the person in charge of COVID treatment failed to address their concerns. One of those patients told The Hindu that they were yet to meet the doctor in charge of COVID treatment. “We are being fed things that are given to animals. That too in such a limited quantity. The plates are being cleaned in unhygienic surroundings. None of the senior doctors have bothered to come here and address these issues,” he alleged. He claimed that the patients there included senior citizens who are diabetic patients. They were being given breakfast after 9 a.m. and lunch after 2 p.m. “We demand permission to have the food prepared at home. If the issue is not sorted out by Monday morning, some of us will go out of the hospital and have food from places of our choice,” he added. The hospital authorities, however, claimed that food being supplied is prepared by Kudumbashree units outside the hospital. There could be some delay in its transportation. Also, serving around 200-300 patients spread across different wards from one end to another end of the building was taking some time, they claimed. Asked about the complaints over quantity and quality, they pointed out that the menu was chosen by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poor-quality-food-being-served-covid-patients/article32889109.ece
19 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||District panchayat building gets a facelift||The renovated office building of the Kozhikode District Panchayat will be opened on Monday. Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan will inaugurate the facility. A spacious auditorium on the top floor of the renovated building is one of the key features, besides better power backup, lift service and comfort station facilities. According to the district panchayat authorities, the 4,000-sq.ft. auditorium can accommodate 300 persons at a time. For additional revenue, it will be given on rent for various government functions, they add. A 10-kv solar power plant has also been installed as part of the district panchayat’s policy to promote renewable energy sources and reduce electricity expenses. The project will be supported by the energy saving scheme of the Kerala State Electricity Board. The work was completed at a cost of Rs. 1.15 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-panchayat-building-gets-a-facelift/article32889115.ece
19 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Reopening of beaches likely to be delayed||Reopening of the district’s prominent beach tourism destinations is likely to be delayed further with the increased number of micro containment zones and vulnerable locations along the coastal belt. Tourism Department officials say they are finding it hard to propose effective screening measures in such locations to prevent the entry of persons with suspected COVID-19 symptoms. Though the reopening of smaller destinations like Butt Road and South beach in the first phase with stringent crowd control measures is being considered, the district administration is yet to take a decision on it. Tourism Department officials say they cannot permit the opening of the Kozhikode beach from next month. “Reopening of the Kozhikode beach can be recommended only if the existing situation improves. There is also practical difficulty in introducing effective screening measures for visitors by covering such a larger area,” says District Tourism Promotion Council Secretary Beena Madusoodanan. Token system Meanwhile, token system have been mooted in prime destinations like Kappad for permitting international and domestic tourists. Koyilandy MLA K. Dasan says it is crucial for supporting the ongoing tourism promotion activities. “Kappad is now a blue-flag certified beach and we have to take advantage of it by adopting the best crowd control strategy,” he adds. Beach destinations in the district have been remaining closed for over six months, leaving hundreds of pushcart traders and street food vendors in crisis. Many are now surviving by doing other odd jobs as their entry to the spot has been discouraged as part of COVID-19 control measures. Though a few are active in the field of parcel supply along roads, women entrepreneurs have been going through a tough time as their means of income through small-sale ventures have come to a halt. “Buyers are very minimal now even if we go to other locations with this business. Also, a number of local entrepreneurs are now out of their homes to experiment with such brisk business in their own regions, which make the competition tough,” says Rasheed, a fisherman from Puthiyappa who used to sell home-made delicacies on the beach. He says the authorities should support such small traders who used to brighten up the beach life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reopening-of-beaches-unlikely-soon/article32889107.ece
19 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||976 more test positive in Kozhikode, 1,193 recoveries||Test positivity rate jumped to 13.11% in Kozhikode district on Sunday when 976 of the 7,331 people tested were declared infected with SARS-CoV-2. It was around 11% the previous day. The district administration claimed quoting health experts that a section of the society was found to violate COVID protocol even in areas declared as containment zones. According to the District Medical Officer, 944 of the fresh cases are locally acquired infections and the source was unknown in 29 cases. There were 339 cases of local transmission from within the Kozhikode Corporation, 61 from Koyilandy, 55 from Kunnamangalam, 36 from Vadakara, 30 each from Koduvally and Chorod, and 29 from Kodenchery. As many as 1,193 people recovered from the infection and the number of active cases reached 10,962. A total of 6,676 people are under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/976-more-test-positive-in-kozhikode-1193-recoveries/article32889110.ece
19 October 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram reports 1,367 local transmission cases||As many as 1,399 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Sunday. While 1,367 of them were found to have been infected through local contacts, only three cases were there without an identifiable source of infection. District officials said that the decrease in the number of cases without an identifiable source of infection was a matter of solace. There were eight health workers among those tested positive for the virus on Sunday. While 17 cases came from other States, four came from abroad. The number of infected persons currently under treatment crossed the 10,000-mark in Malappuram. According to officials, 10,205 infected persons were being treated at different places across the district. There were 805 recoveries in Malappuram on Sunday. More than 49,000 people were quarantined across the district. In Kannur Kannur district recorded 462 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Of these, 432 are local transmission cases. Thirteen health workers were among the infected. Of the total active cases in the district, 4,750 are being treated at home and the remaining 682 are being treated at various hospitals and FLTCs. The district has so far reported 19,915 COVID-19 cases. In Kasaragod A total of 251 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Sunday. As many as 243 people contracted the virus through local transmission. The district also reported 228 recoveries. The total number of people under observation in the district is 4,869, which include 3,967 in homes and 902 under institutional observation.  (With inputs from Kannur and Kasaragod bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malappuram-reports-1367-local-transmission-cases/article32889111.ece
19 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Jose K. Mani’s exit will not harm UDF, says Hassan||United Democratic Front (UDF) convener M.M. Hassan visited Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) national chairman Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal at his house at Panakkad near here on Sunday. They discussed the impending local body and Assembly elections and the political situation in the State. Mr. Hassan said they evaluated the UDF’s prospects in the coming elections. IUML national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed, district president Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal, and UDF district chairman P.T. Ajaya Mohan too joined the meeting. Mr. Hassan said the exit of the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani would not cause any harm to the UDF. He said Mr. Mani would not stay long with the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Mr. Kunhalikutty said the UDF would storm the State elections. “Please wait and watch,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jose-k-manis-exit-will-not-harm-udf-says-hassan/article32889116.ece
19 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Sparse crowds at tourist spots in Palakkad||Inflow of local tourists is yet to pick up at major destinations such as Malampuzha, Kanhirapuzha, and Nelliampathy in the district. Malampuzha garden, one of the busiest tourist spots in the State, saw a sparse crowd on Sunday. The crowds at Kanhirapuzha and Pothundi parks too were thin. Malampuzha used to witness the heaviest turnout of people on Sundays before it was closed down as part of the COVID-19 lockdown. A number of people from Tamil Nadu used to visit Malampuzha, which was rated as one of the hottest destinations for school picnics in Kerala and Tamil Nadu.  Several curbs Although the tourist spots reopened on Friday, there were several restrictions. At Malampuzha, the children’s park remained closed and people were allowed entry into the main park. Other areas, including the dam, remained closed for the public. Officials said the public would be given entry to other areas in a phased manner. Boating will be restarted after a few days, they said. Handwash and hand sanitising were made compulsory, and tourists were allowed inside after scanning them for temperature. There was a one-hour time limit for tourists inside the garden at Malampuzha. People were advised against grouping inside the park. Although Tipu’s Fort or Palakkad Fort was opened for the public a few weeks ago, it too has been witnessing a sparse turnout. Fort authorities have stopped issuing on-the-spot entry tickets. Visitors have largely been deterred by the online ticketing system launched by the Archaeological Survey of India that manages the fort. District authorities said they expected an increase in the number of visitors to the tourist spots in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sparse-crowds-at-tourist-spots-in-palakkad/article32889108.ece
19 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||179 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 179 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Sunday.Of the fresh cases, 159 people got the disease through local contact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/179-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32889153.ece
19 October 2020||S.R. PraveenTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Revamp at State textile corpn. unit in Kannur||For many traditional handloom weaving cooperatives in the State, the woven fabric has to be transported to Tamil Nadu to get it dyed or printed. This has also been the case with the State government’s free handloom uniforms for students till class 7, which had to be transported to and back from the neighbouring State for dyeing purposes. Now, a major revamp is about to begin at the State Textile Corporation’s facility at the Textile Park run by the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (KINFRA) in Nadukani in Kannur, after which all of this work can be done within the State, with consequent savings in costs and time. “Not all of the processes required on the fabric could be done as the current facilities are inadequate. So they used to transport it to Tamil Nadu. The facility has thus remained underutilised. The new processing unit will address all these issues, and bleaching, colouring and printing of yarns as well as clothes can be done here. In addition to uniforms, printing of bedsheets, sarees and curtains can be done. Already, all the supporting infrastructure, including an effluent treatment plant, RO plant and access to clean water, is available,” says N. Sasidharan Nair, Chairman, Public Sector Restructuring and Internal Audit Board (RIAB). Modernisation The revamping work on the entire facility is set to begin soon and is expected to be completed within 6 to 8 months. He says that the textile sector in the State is set for a major change with the modernisation of many mills. The cooperative spinning mill in Kollam which was upgraded will be opened soon. The Alappuzha Cooperative Spinning Mill has also had a major revamp, while similar work is ongoing at the Thrissur mill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revamp-at-state-textile-corpn-unit-in-kannur/article32889174.ece
19 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Machine man to help in COVID-19 control||Visitors to the Orthopaedics wing at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here are likely to come across a small robot that would be gliding across the reception area, giving out instructions on the protocols to be followed to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Developed by a group of students from the College of Engineering Thiruvananthapuram, the CET-Covbot V1.0 can perform tasks such as automatic sanitizer dispensing, remote patient assistance, delivering food and medicines, collecting samples and specimens, in addition to announcement of COVID-19-related messages and warnings. The mobile robot can be alternatively controlled using a joystick or it can be put on autonomous navigation mode. The robot has a user interface for remote user operation. Dynamic obstacle avoidance has also been integrated into the robot so that it would stop when it comes across obstacles, especially visitors in a hospital setting. It was developed by students of MTech Robotics & Automation (2018-20 Batch) under CET-Centre for Interdisciplinary Research (CCIR), “We had made a prototype of a robot as part of our project earlier. A few months ago, doctors from the Medical College reached out to our institution, asking whether a robot to perform these tasks can be developed. When we showed our prototype, they wanted us to develop a practical model of it. Five of us worked together for two months to develop the robot in its current form,” says CET student Sanjuna Mariam Mathews, who led the team. Ajmal M, Rojin Reji Philip, Harikrishnan. K, Arun Shankar. M are the other members of the team. The project was fully funded by Lighthouse, the alumni group of the CET 1987-91 batch. Capacity The robot is capable of carrying loads up to 40 kg and can efficiently perform transport and delivery of food and other necessary items. It is also equipped with a hand sanitiser dispenser as well as an interface for the patients to access telemedicine services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/robot-at-mch-to-help-in-covid-control/article32889154.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||685 new cases reported in capital||The district once again registered a dip in the COVID-19 daily caseload with 685 new cases reported on Sunday. Four more recent deaths in the district were confirmed as due to the infection. As many as 523 persons who have newly tested positive contracted the virus through local transmission. In 143 cases, the source was not known, according to health officials. While 13 persons were in home quarantine, two had arrived from abroad. The deceased included a 62-year-old man from Nalanchira; an 82-year-old woman from Pallithura; a 63-year-old woman from Anayara; and a woman hailing from Thiruvananthapuram city. Meanwhile, there appears to be no abatement in the spread of infection among people in the vulnerable age groups and health workers. Seventy-seven more children below the age of 15 and 135 persons above the age of 60 have tested positive, according to Health officials. Of the 63 health workers who were diagnosed with the disease Statewide on Sunday, 15 belonged to Thiruvananthapuram district. The number of daily cases in the district has remained under the 1000-mark for over a week now, but Health officials warn that the lower numbers do not offer an excuse to lower the guard. After reporting relatively low figures throughout the week, the daily caseload had risen to 848 on Saturday. Sunday’s caseload included 351 women and 334 men. With four more deaths attributed to the infection, the death toll has touched 345. On the bright side, 1,210 persons have recovered from the disease. As on Sunday, 10,364 persons are under treatment in Thiruvananthapuram district. In all, 2,905 persons were newly quarantined on Sunday, taking the total number under surveillance to 30,758. The control room at the District Collectorate received 344 calls on Sunday. The mental health helpline handled 31 calls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/685-new-cases-reported-in-capital/article32889399.ece
19 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||High mortality in young heart-attack patients||A study of the clinical profile and angiographic treatment patterns of patients less than 30 years of age who had presented with acute myocardial infarction or heart attack at Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) between 1978 and 2017 has reported 30% mortality within 10 years and a whopping 48% in 20 years. The high mortality rate in this small group of young coronary artery disease (CAD) patients, which is much higher than the mortality rate among older patients, is a matter of grave concern. The study appears in the latest issue of the Indian Journal of Medical Research. Modifiable risk factors “This is a very important group of patients whose disease is eminently preventable through the modification of risk factors. One important factor which contributed to the high mortality in this age group was late presentation at the hospital, with 38% patients arriving at the hospital after the window period for primary interventions such as thrombolysis or angioplasty. This delay in seeking medical care led to their poor outcome. More awareness should be created in the community of the possibility of cardiac events occurring in the young age group also and that medical attention should not be delayed,” S. Harikrishnan, Professor of Cardiology, SCTIMST, said. 271 patients During the 40-year period between 1978-2017, 271 patients less than 30 years of age reached the department of Cardiology at the SCTIMST with a diagnosis of CAD. Of these, 159 patients underwent coronary angiography and constituted the study group. Data from the young patients with CAD remain scarce, particularly regarding their long-term outcomes. Potentially modifiable major cardiovascular risk factors (smoking, systemic hypertension, diabetes mellitus, high blood cholesterol, alcohol use or obesity) were associated with 95% of patients with symptomatic CAD. Only seven patients (4.4%) did not have any of the risk factors. Habits continued A total of 82% of these patients presented at the hospital with acute myocardial infarction. On follow up, it was found that 34% of patients continued to smoke even after their first cardiac event while 17% continued their alcohol habits at long term follow up. More than half of the patients remained physically inactive, and 79% had inadequate intake of fruits and vegetables at long-term follow up. Importantly, 41% of patients discontinued their prescribed medications for the reason that they did not experience any symptoms. The implications of non-adherence in the young population could be catastrophic, researchers said. Latest follow-up data were available in 92% patients. Forty-one patients died during follow up. Among those who were alive on follow up, 16 recurrent acute coronary events were documented in 14 patients, 18 patients (12%) developed heart failure on follow up, 16 of whom expired. ‘Don’t ignore symptoms’ “The study results point to the need for heightened efforts for preventive strategies in the community. There needs to be more awareness in the community of the possibility of CAD in this very young age group. The important message is that chest pain or atypical symptoms of CAD in youngsters should not be ignored as early medical intervention can give much better outcomes,” Arun Gopalakrishnan, Assistant Professor of Cardiology, SCTIMST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-mortality-in-young-heart-attack-patients/article32889172.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Plan for micro-forests in 12 districts||Kerala Tourism will embrace the Miyawaki method of afforestation to create 22 micro-forests in tourist destinations in 12 districts. By December 2020, around 30,000 saplings will be planted in 1.84 acres using the highly successful technique, pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, being used by the government and nature lovers to increase green cover in urban and semi-urban areas. The micro-forests are expected to enhance the environment and nature-friendly surroundings of the destinations and turn an added attraction to visitors. Two each in 10 districts Two micro-forests each are being planned in 10 districts and one each in Thiruvananthapuram and Pathanamthitta, covering 10 cents. The saplings are expected to achieve an average height of 10 ft within 12 months. Wayanad and Idukki have been left out in the initial phase as these two districts have the maximum forest coverage and rural ambience. The land will be identified by the Department of Tourism. The nature of the forest — whether pure evergreen, medicinal, flower and fruit — will be decided after finalising the location. Indigenous wild species Different species of plants varying from 30 to 100 depending on the locality and nature of the forest will be planted. Only indigenous wild species will be planted and medicinal plants will get priority. A consortium led by Culture Shoppe has bagged the work through e-bidding. The Nature’s Green Guardians Foundation (NGGF), an NGO, and Invis Multimedia are the partners. The working group on tourism has cleared the project and the consortium will take care of maintenance, official sources told The Hindu .  The foreseen benefits include reduction in carbon dioxide levels, groundwater recharge, biodiversity conservation, tourist attraction, employment generation, and awareness creation. Last year, the NGGF developed a Miyawaki forest on five cents on the Kanakakunnu palace premises for Kerala Tourism with 426 saplings from 120 species. Around 100 micro-forests are coming up across the State in government and private land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plan-for-micro-forests-in-12-districts/article32889170.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB opposes power privatisation||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has raised strong objections to the draft standard bidding documents (SBD) for the privatisation of State-owned power distribution companies published by the Union Power Ministry. The State power utility has informed the Ministry that Kerala has no intention, whatsoever, of privatising its power sector. In an October 8 letter to the Secretary, Power, the KSEB has drawn attention to the Ministry’s own observation that “Under the Indian Constitution, power is a Concurrent subject and the responsibility for distribution and supply of power to rural and urban consumers rests with the States.” The draft SBD encroaches upon the domain of the States and attempts to dictate the ways and means for privatisation of the utilities owned by them, KSEB chairman and managing director N.S. Pillai says in the letter. The Union Ministry had released the draft in September to guide the States in the privatisation of State-owned distribution companies (discoms). The Centre is already going ahead with its plans to privatise discoms in the Union Territories by January 2021. Unfair proposals It was for long been the declared stand of Kerala that its power sector would be retained in the public sector. Several of the draft proposals are unfair and, if implemented, would entail additional burden on the State and the public, the KSEB notes. The KSEB objects to such draft proposals which would require transfer of assets and employees to the “successor entity,” the share-holding pattern, and the transfer of only profitable power purchase agreements (PPA) of existing discoms to the successor entities. The draft SBD went on to suggest that the “successor entity will be provided with a clean balance sheet free of accumulated losses/unserviceable liabilities. Further, wherever required, the State/UT government concerned may provide suitable transition support to the successor entity for a specified period of say 5 or 7 years.” KSEB on firm ground Further, the KSEB points out that it is doing well on all fronts, including customer service, affordable tariff, and loss reduction. But for the 2018 and 2019 floods and the COVID-19 pandemic, the utility would have recorded a profit. It also claims to have avoided load restrictions since 2015. “During 2017 itself, at a stage when the rest of the nation was struggling to electrify most of its villages, Kerala achieved 100% household electrification. Today, there are no hamlets in the State where electricity has not reached,” it noted. The KSEB suggests to the Ministry that the draft be revised limiting the applicability of the SBD to discoms in the Union Territories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-opposes-power-privatisation/article32889082.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Muraleedharan violated oath of office, says CPI(M)||Lashing out at Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan for his recent press meet in New Delhi, the CPI(M) State secretariat on Sunday said his comments implying that the investigating agencies were acting at the behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was a violation of his oath of office. In a press release, the CPI(M) said that the Minister’s claims proved the allegation that the Centre had been misusing the agencies for its political agenda. ‘A challenge to HC’ The High Court had last week observed that it was illegal to leak confession statements during the course of the investigation. In this context, Mr. Muraleedharan quoting at a press conference the confession statements of an accused and legitimising it was illegal and a challenge to the High Court, said the statement. Through such conduct, the Minister was destroying the credibility of probe agencies. Training its guns on Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, the CPI(M) said it seemed that Mr. Muraleedharan was officially announcing statements made earlier in the day by Mr. Chennithala and BJP State president K. Surendran, as if they had a discussion on it. ‘Congress link’ The Congress had been an ally of the BJP in all such anti-democratic moves. The statement said there several instances had conveyed the impression that the External Affairs Ministry had been impeding independent probe. Mr. Muraleedharan had repeatedly claimed that the gold was not smuggled in a diplomatic baggage and had not taken any steps to bring Faisal Fareed, one of the main accused, to India. He did not allow the questioning of the UAE consulate officials either.  Party says Union Minister’s claims prove that Centre is misusing probe agencies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/muraleedharan-violated-oath-of-office-says-cpim/article32889166.ece
19 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Startup mission’s virtual expo from today||A three-day virtual exhibition will begin on Monday as part of the third edition of the ‘Big Demo Day’ series of the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) to provide a platform for industry and investors to leverage products and services from the start-up ecosystem at affordable costs to tap post-COVID-19 opportunities. Thirty-four start-ups from the health care, consumer technology, Internet of Things (IoT) and robotics areas will exhibit their products and services. The virtual expo is aimed at presenting a slew of ideas and technologies developed by start-ups to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and big businesses. Organised in association with industry bodies, the expo seeks to make technologies available to industrialists at reasonable costs, besides expanding the market for start-ups. Various sectors The health sector start-ups will showcase their products on Monday, while those from the consumer-technology domain will take part on Tuesday. Start-ups from the Internet of Things (IoT) and robotics sectors will display their products on Wednesday. The expo, scheduled from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., has the backing of the IT entrepreneurs’ organisation G-Tech and other corporate firms. Visit https://business.startupmission.in/ at 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/startup-missions-virtual-expo-from-today/article32889173.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||e-TAPP for fast-tracking JJM connections||Faced with a steep target for 2020-21 for providing rural water connections under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has introduced a mobile-friendly web application for fast-tracking the procedures. Developed by the IT wing of the KWA, the web app has been christened e-TAPP and is intended for the use of KWA officials. The procedures for all JJM-related water connections issued by the KWA will be carried out through e-TAPP. It will not be applicable for the connections given through Jalanidhi, which has also been entrusted with JJM projects in the State. As the connection target for 2020-21 in the State was fixed at 21.42 lakh, it was decided to avoid circuitous procedures to ensure speedy disposal of applications.  Simplified procedure Under the simplified procedure, the KWA requires only the Aadhaar number, mobile phone number, and the address of the applicant for providing the connection. User-ID The KWA has issued a user-ID and password for e-TAPP to all its assistant engineers and overseers. For providing the connection, KWA officials will visit the applicant’s home and note down the relevant details. The GPS location will be found using the app. Other details such as area code, meter number, and the first reading too are fed in and sent for the Assistant Engineer’s approval via the app. Once the approval is given, the new connection comes into being. via SMS A new consumer ID and number are created and are added to revenue collection software of the KWA. Once all the details are sent via SMS to the consumer concerned, the procedure is completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-tapp-for-fast-tracking-jjm-connections/article32889393.ece
19 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Aurally challenged kids to get assistive devices||The Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, is conducting medical camps for aurally challenged children and those with intellectual disability and locomotor disability across the State. The camps began in the last week of September. The camps are being held in the 168 block resource centres to assess the needs of nearly 35,000 children across the three categories and on its basis, provide them assistive devices. The difficulties faced by children with locomotor disability without assistive equipment made it imperative that the camps be held for them and for the other children despite the COVID-19 situation. The camps are being held in compliance with safety norms. Only 20 children will attend a camp on a day. The Samagra Shiksha had conducted a survey to identify children in need of the equipment and it was updated to include fresh admissions to class 1 and 11 this year. However, the camps being held at present prioritise students who urgently require equipment. As the number of children with visual impairment is large, camps will not be held for them during the pandemic. Instead, the aids will be provided to them on furnishing doctor’s prescription. Camps Camps in Kasaragod district have been completed, but in districts such as Palakkad and Malappuram which have the maximum number of such children, the camps will take up to a month to conclude. In the other districts, the camps are under way. The data obtained at the end of the camps will be consolidated, and tenders floated to procure the equipment before they are delivered to the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aurally-challenged-kids-to-get-aid-devices/article32889148.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three more shops shut for COVID-19 violations||Three more shops in the district have been temporarily shut for repeated violation of COVID-19 protocol. Inspections by sector magistrates will be strengthened in places such as markets and shops. Action was also taken against 641 persons on Sunday for non-compliance with the protocol requirements, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. Cases were registered against 20 persons. Legal action was initiated against one person under Section 144 of the CrPC. Fines were imposed on 133 others, according to Ms. Khosa. Given the surge in cases in the State, the government had directed District Disaster Management Authorities (DDMA) to appoint sector magistrates and COVID sentinels to strengthen the monitoring and enforcement of COVID-19 containment measures. The Collector, who chairs the DDMA, has appointed 92 sector magistrates in Thiruvananthapuram district. They began their inspections on October 4. So far, action has been taken against 2,483 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-shops-shut-for-covid-19-violations/article32889400.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two special trains from Korba, Jamnagar||The Railway Board has cleared two pairs of long-distance fully reserved festival special train services in the Thiruvananthapuram Central-Korba-Thiruvananthapuram Central and Jamnagar-Tirunelveli-Jamnagar sectors. Thiruvananthapuram-Korba bi-weekly superfast festival special (02648) will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 6.05 a.m. on Thursdays and Mondays — October 22, 26, 29, November 2, 5, 9, 12, 16, 19, 23, 26 — to reach Gorakhpur at 3.10 a.m. on Saturdays and Wednesdays. In the return direction, Korba-Thiruvananthapuram Central bi-weekly superfast festival special (02647) will leave Gorakhpur at 7.40 p.m. on Saturdays and Wednesdays to reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 5.20 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays. Jamnagar-Tirunelveli-Jamnagar bi-weekly festival special trains (09578/09577) will run via Ernakulam Junction and Thiruvananthapuram. From November 6 From November 6, Jamnagar-Tirunelveli bi-weekly special train (09578) will leave Jamnagar on Fridays and Saturdays at 9 p.m. and reach Tirunelveli on Sundays and Mondays at 10.10 p.m. In the return direction, Tirunelveli-Jamnagar bi-weekly festival special train (09577) will leave Tirunelveli on Mondays and Tuesdays from November 9 at 7.45 a.m. to reach Jamnagar at 5.15 a.m. on Wednesdays and Thursdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-special-trains-from-korba-jamnagar/article32889171.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PPRI webinar on COVID-19 and farming||The Public Policy Research Institute (PPRI), Thiruvananthapuram, organised a webinar on the ‘Impact of Covid-19 on Agriculture sector in Kerala’. The pandemic had aggravated the agrarian crisis in Kerala, Prof. S. Mohanakumar, Director, Institute of Development Studies, Jaipur, said. He also noted that there had been a sharp decline in area under cultivation during the last five years in the State. The area fall manifested more in the production of food crops, according to him. PPRI director Jose Jacob chaired the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-agriculture/article32889398.ece
19 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Admission to VHSE course||Supplementary allotment for admission to vocational higher secondary first-year under-the-single-window system has been published on the websitewww.vhscap.kerala.gov.in Allotment details and allotment slip download can be had by clicking on the link First Supplementary Allotment Results and entering application number and date of birth. Admission can be taken in schools on the basis of the allotment till 4 p.m. on October 21. Students who get allotment will get permanent admission, and not temporary admission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/admission-to-vhse-course/article32889396.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Temple to allow devotees||After a gap of 10 days, devotees will be allowed to visit the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple from Monday to offer prayers. The worshippers were barred entry from October 9 in the wake of the chief priest, joint chief priest, and supporting staff of the temple, testing positive for COVID-19. Devotees will be allowed to enter the temple for worship from 8.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m, according to the Chief Executive Officer of the temple, V. Ratheesan. The devotees will have to register at the official website of the templespst.inor at the counter set up in the eastern entrance for seeking entry. The devotees stepping into the temple will have to adhere to the COVID-19 protocols, follow social distancing norms and other guidelines of the temple authorities. Arrangements had been made for the devotees to visit Navaratri mandapam also, the Executive officer said. Tantri Tharanallur Satheesan Namboodiripad was performing the pujas in the temple from October 9. The 10-day Alpashi festival from October 15 was also deferred on the advice of the Tantri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/temple-to-reopen-tomorrow/article32889159.ece
19 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Harsh Vardhan didn’t pull up State: Shylaja||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has refuted reports that the Union Health Minister has come down hard on Kerala for the manner in which it allowed COVID-19 containment activities to lose steam, resulting in over 8,000 cases a day now. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, in his Sunday live talk show on Facebook, had said despite the admirable way in which Kerala handled the initial phases of COVID-19 containment, it had been “grossly negligent” during the Onam festivities. Ms. Shylaja came on her FB page live to say that she had spoken to Dr. Harsh Vardhan, who was always appreciative of how Kerala was handling the crisis. She said the Union Minister had not said anything that was not said by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan about how Kerala was paying the price for the laxity shown by some people during Onam festivities. She said it was not in Dr. Harsh Vardhan’s nature to make wild accusations about the State. Ms. Shylaja said Kerala’s low case fatality rate, despite the spike in cases was pointed out to Dr. Harsh Vardhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/harsh-vardhan-didnt-pull-up-state-shylaja/article32889394.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Don’t surrender Medisep to corporates: joint council||The Joint Council of State Service Organisations has urged the State not to surrender Medisep, the medical insurance scheme for State employees and pensioners, to corporates. The State Insurance Department should be tasked with the implementation of the scheme, joint council chairman K. Shanavas Khan and general secretary Jayachandran Kallingal said. The joint council had been demanding that the should be entrusted to the Insurance Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dont-surrender-medisep-to-corporates-joint-council/article32889397.ece
19 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rank list published||The rank list for admission to the Master of Computer Applications (MCA) course in AICTE-recognised educational institutions for this academic year can be checked onwww.lbscentre.kerala.gov.inCollege options have to be submitted by 5 p.m. on October 20. For details, call 0471-2560363, 364.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rank-list-published/article32889164.ece
19 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Certificate course in fashion designing||Applications are invited to the two-year certificate course in fashion designing at the Government Institute of Fashion Designing, Aruvikkara. Application forms and prospectus can be had fromthe website www.sitttrkerala.ac.inFor details, call 9746407089, 9074141036.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/certificate-course-in-fashion-designing/article32889165.ece
19 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two-day protest by health staff forum||The Kerala Public Health Staff Action Council will observe protests on Tuesday and Wednesday demanding that the government address issues raised by the health inspectors and public health nurses. The action council has asked the government to drop the move to appoint BSc Nursing graduates as mid-level supervisors at health and wellness centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-day-protest-by-health-staff-forum/article32889167.ece
19 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||862 test positive in Thrissur||Thrissur reported 862 COVID-19 cases on Sunday while 1,006 people recovered from the disease. There are 9,167 active cases in the district and 168 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 28,013 positive cases have been confirmed in the district and 18,570 people recovered.  859 contact cases According to official statistics, 859 people contracted COVID-19 on Sunday through local contact. Among the active cases, 110 people are above the age of 60 and 64 are below the age of 10. In all, 6,158 patients are under home observation. Antigen tests were conducted for 2,833 people. Meanwhile, all the markets in the city have been closed in the wake of a spurt in cases. While the vegetable, fish, and meat markets were closed a week ago, Jai Hind market in the city was also included in the containment zone on Saturday night.  Palakkad sees 342 cases  As many as 342 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Sunday. District officials said that there were 275 recoveries in the district. Of the new cases, 179 had contracted the disease through local contact. However, there were 162 cases, the source of infection of which could not be identified. Officials said there were 7,192 active cases under treatment in Palakkad. More than 17,000 people were quarantined in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/862-test-positive-in-thrissur/article32889378.ece
19 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Prof. V. Aravindakshan Award for Gagandeep Kang||Gagandeep Kang, Professor, Department of Gastrointestinal Sciences, Christian Medical College, Vellore , has been selected for Prof. V. Aravindakshan Award. Dr. Kang has been selected for the award considering her contribution towards COVID-19 prevention activities in the country. Dr. Kang, who is known for her interdisciplinary research on viral infections in children in India, is popularly known as ‘Vaccine Godmother’. She is instrumental in developing Rotavac, a vaccine against rotavirus infections, which lead to severe diarrhoea in young children. She was executive director of the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, Faridabad, an autonomous institute of the Department of Biotechnology, Union Ministry of Science and Technology. She was the vice chairperson, Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness, a global consortium involved with facilitating promising vaccine candidates for COVID-19. A committee led by former Education Minister M.A. Baby selected Dr. Kang for the award instituted by Prof. V. Aravindakshan Foundation. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 50,000 and citation. She is the first Indian woman to be awarded the Fellowship of the Royal Society (FRS). She was awarded with the prestigious Infosys Prize in Life Sciences in 2016 for her contribution to understanding the natural history of rotavirus and other infectious diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prof-v-aravindakshan-award-for-gagandeep-kang/article32889401.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a good catch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-a-good-catch/article32889335.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rituals as usual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rituals-as-usual/article32889169.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||A tough, dirty ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-tough-dirty-ride/article32889395.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Improving infrastructure||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/improving-infrastructure/article32889156.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||One twig at a time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-twig-at-a-time/article32889402.ece
19 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur rocked by 3 murders in a day||Three murders at different mandals on Sunday led to a flutter in the district. The deceased include two men and a woman. According to information, an unidentified man was found dead with severe head injuries on the tank bund at Bukkaraya Samudram mandal headquarters. In the second case, a woman was reportedly murdered by her rivals over a land dispute at Nayanapalle Cross at Singanamala mandal on Sunday morning. The perpetrators allegedly set her body on fire after dousing it in petrol. The deceased was identified as Narasamma. In the third incident, a man, identified as Bukka Kase Naik, was found dead with severe head injuries at a stream at Reddikunta thanda of Nallamada mandal. Police registered cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-rocked-by-3-murders-in-a-day/article32889375.ece
19 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Theatres to reopen after six months||Theatres and multiplexes will finally reopen in the district after a gap of six months. Only those outside containment zones can open, on the condition that they abide by 50% seating capacity and physical distancing, as per the guidelines laid down under Unlock 5.0. Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that all movie hall managements should strictly abide by the guidelines, and any violation would attract action under Sections 51 and 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and provisions of A.P. Cinemas Regulation 1955 and Rules 1970. The other relaxations include permission to shops and commercial establishments to remain open till 9 p.m. Other COVID-19 protocols shall continue to be followed. The other activities permitted outside containment zones include opening of schools and colleges after October 15 in a graded manner. Written consent of parents for students However, the school/college managements can decide whether to open or prefer to continue with online classes. Students may attend classes only with the written consent of parents. In case of universities, research scholars and post-graduate students in science streams who require laboratory work may attend classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/theatres-to-reopen-after-six-months/article32889407.ece
19 October 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police help child reunite with parents in an hour||The Kadapa district police acted fast to reunite a child with his parents within an hour of his getting lost, here on Sunday. The young boy was found crying near the Sub-Jail at Jammalamadugu on Sunday, when a Blue Colt constable named Mastan Vali saw him and asked him about his parents. When the boy was unable to give details, Mr. Vali clicked a picture of the boy and uploaded it to local WhatsApp groups. The boy’s parents then got to know of his location and rushed to the spot. The boy’s father Dara Joshua and mother Vimala, hailing from Garisaluru in Peddamudiyam mandal, said they had come to Jammalamadugu for a family function when they lost their son. Sub-Inspector Ravi Kumar provided counselling to the parents and handed over the boy to them within an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-help-child-reunite-with-parents-in-an-hour/article32889376.ece
19 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools gearing up to reopen on Nov. 2||Over 90% of the 18,000 teachers serving the government schools in East Godavari district have undergone the COVID-19 test preparing themselves to take classes once the academic year resumes on November 2. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has made it mandatory that every teacher should undergo the COVID-19 test to be allowed to duties, apart from implementation of the SOP (Standing Operating Procedure) like sanitisation, use of mask and physical distancing. District Education Officer S. Abraham said that 90% of the 18,000 teachers of the government schools in the district have already undergone the COVID-19 test and the rest of them will take the same by November 2. Private schools In the case of private schools, guidelines are being prepared to ensure that every teacher should undergo the COVID-19 test. Nearly 10,000 teachers are in service in the private schools in the district. “By November 2, we will ensure that all the teachers are screened for the COVID-19 both in government and private schools. The district administration cannot afford to reopen the schools without teachers being tested for the COVID-19 to prevent further spread of the disease from teachers to students,” said Mr. Abraham. The district authorities are yet to decide whether the schools would be reopened with half of the student strength or with limited classes per day. "Formally, we have geared up to reopen the schools from November 2 and the a detailed plan on how to run the school is yet to be received from the higher authorities,” said Mr. Abraham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-gearing-up-to-reopen-on-nov-2/article32889382.ece
19 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone laid for aircraft museum||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu and Kakinada MP Vanga Geetha on Sunday laid the foundation stone for the aircraft museum being developed by the Godavari Urban Development Authority (GUDA), exhibiting the decommissioned Indian Navy’s aircraft, TU-142 M, at the Kakinada beach park in East Godavari district. The Andhra Pradesh State Tourism Department was interested in developing the aircraft museum and obtained permission from the Indian Navy to shift the TU-142 M craft from INS Rajali Naval Air Station in Tamil Nadu State to Kakinada city by 2020. However, the museum project has been delayed owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. The turboprop aircraft eqipped with four engines was decommissioned at INS Rajali Naval Air Station in March 2017 following 29 years of service in the Indian Navy. The aircraft’s key features were its top speed of 925 kmph and a combat range of 6,500 km, according to an official release issued by GUDA. “The aircraft museum project will add beauty to the Kakinada beach and becomes a symbol of inspiration for the youth to know more about the defence services. Inculcating an interest in the youth for the armed forces is the prime motto behind developing the museum,” Mr. Kannababu told reporters. The museum is expected to be inaugurated early next year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stone-laid-for-aircraft-museum/article32889383.ece
19 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||9 held for illegal sale of liquor||The Amalapuram police arrested nine persons for illegally selling liquor that was procured from Yanam, and for attacking a police party that went to nab them on Friday. “The gang of nine persons attacked the police during a raid while they were illegally selling the liquor at Pallam village, and later escaped from the police on a boat,” DSP Masoon Basha said. “They have been procuring liquor from Yanam in the Puducherry Union Territory and illegally selling it in the district,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9-held-for-selling-liquor-bought-from-yanam/article32889380.ece
19 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘sexually assaulting’ girl||A 30-year-old man allegedly sexually assaulted an eight-year-old minor under the Rampachodavaram police division in East Godavari district on Sunday. Police said they got a call from locals who complained of the incident in their area. The accused, T. Ramu, a neighbour of the girl, was arrested by the Disha police who rushed to the spot within minutes of getting the call. The accused reportedly perpetrated the crime in the absence of the girl’s mother at home. He was allegedly beaten up by locals. A case under POCSO Act has been registered, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-girl/article32889381.ece
19 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI employee arrested on fraud charge||A cash in-charge of the State Bank of India’s branch at Samanasa under the Amalapuram rural police station limits in East Godavari district was arrested on Sunday on the charge of stealing gold from the bank to raise a loan of Rs. 1.05 crore against it. The accused, identified as Bulusu Veera Venkata Satya Subramanya Sarma, allegedly resorted to the fraud between February 2019 and September 2020, the police said. Modus operandi Addressing the media here, Amalapuram DSP Masoon Basha said. “The accused allegedly created some 25 gold loan accounts in the name of his family members, relatives and a few employees of the bank branch. The modus operandi is to steal gold from the lockers at the time of settlement of gold loans to the genuine customers, and raise the loan against the stolen gold.” “The accused resorted to the fraud to clear his personal debt of Rs. 55 lakh, which he had reportedly lost in agriculture in the recent years,” the DSP said. The accused was arrested at one of his aquaculture ponds under the IPC Sections 420, 409, 465, 471 and 477 (A), Mr. Basha said. The police swung into action based on a written complaint lodged against the accused by the SBI Regional Manager (Amalapuram region) on September 29. Internal inquiry The fraud had come to light during the bank’s internal inquiry in August, and the accused was suspended on September 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sbi-employee-arrested-on-fraud-charge/article32889369.ece
19 October 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||152 liquor bottles seized||The Penuganchiprolu police arrested a woman who was allegedly smuggling Non-Duty Paid Liquor from Telangana into the district and seized 152 liquor bottles from her possession during a raid on Sunday. She was reportedly involved in the business for last few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/152-liquor-bottles-seized/article32889412.ece
19 October 2020||NARSAPURAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Cricket betting racket busted, 14 held||Police busted a cricket betting racket and arrested 14 persons for gambling on ongoing IPL cricket matches. Around Rs. 2.20 lakh in cash and 14 mobile phones were seized, DSP K. Nageswara Rao said. Speaking to reporters on Sunday, the DSP said that of the 21-member gang, 14 have been arrested and a hunt is on to nab the rest. Following the directions of SP K. Narayan Naik, a strict vigil has been mounted to prevent betting, he said. Narsapuram in-charge CI Ch. Anjaneyulu said a bookie named Murali Krishna of Mogaltur has been arrested and another bookie Pandu is absconding. Mogaltur SI Priya Kumar said the gang was accepting bets through online sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cricket-betting-racket-busted-14-held/article32889371.ece
19 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID intensity subsides in south coastal Andhra||The intensity of coronavirus subsided further in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as recovery rate improved, while new cases and fatalities came down in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning. Three patients -- two in SPSR Nellore district and one in Prakasam district -- succumbed to the virus during the period, taking the toll in the region to 1,033, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. With this, the number of deaths went up to 555 in Prakasam district, including 305 in Ongole so far, and 478 in SPSR Nellore district. The number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases by over 100 in the two districts which recorded 530 new cases in a span of 24 hours. With 196 new cases, the cumulative confirmed cases rose to 59,691 in SPSR Nellore district. However, the active cases dropped to 2,632 as 264 patients were cured of the disease during the period. So far, 57,059 patients were discharged from hospitals in the district. The total number of positive cases rose to 56,582 in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-intensity-subsides-in-south-coastal-andhra/article32889006.ece
19 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veligonda project work reaches fag end||The works of the long-pending Pula Subbaiah Veligonda project has reached the fag end of its completion and going by the pace of works, farmers can expect the project to fructify in a few months. The project, planned during the tenure of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy under the Jalayagnam scheme in undivided Andhra Pradesh, envisages to draw 43.50 tmcft of flood water of the Krishna river from the foreshore of Srisailam Project Reservoir through Kollam Vagu, upstream of Srisailam Reservoir, by gravity through two tunnels and thereafter, to impound in Nallamala Sagar Reservoir through a feeder canal. The Rs. 6,500-crore project has missed several deadlines, suffering cost and time overruns for many reasons including technical snag faced while drilling the two gigantic tunnels without blasting so as not to disturb the natural environment of the Nagarjunasagar Srisailam tiger reserve. “Only 280 metres of drilling work is still left. The first tunnel with seven metre diameter covering a distance of 18.8 km is all set for completion by the November end. Dismantling of the tunnel boring machine(TBM) from inside, a laborious process, may take another month,” Superintending Engineer (constructions) N. Nagesh told The Hindu, after taking stock of the progress of works. The head regulator work at Kollam Vagu which is designed to draw water from the foreshore of Srisailam reservoir has been hit owing to recurring flood situation in the Krishna river this year. The heavy inflows into the Srisailam reservoir made it difficult to move men and material and complete the works swiftly, he explains. Trial run The Nallamala Sagar reservoir has already been completed by closing the Sunkesula, Gottipadia and Kakarla gaps. Construction of the first tunnel has also been completed up to a distance of 18.54 km so far. The first stage of the project envisages to draw 10.7 tmcft water from Srisailam reservoir during floods and ensure irrigation water to 1.19 lakh acres of farm lands and drinking water to around 4 lakh people. The government is keen on commencing the trial run of the release of the Krishna water to Nallamala Sagar in January and step it up after overcoming the teething problems during the kharif season, says official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veligonda-project-work-reaches-fag-end/article32889084.ece
19 October 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord rides ‘simha vahanam’||On the third day of the Navaratri Brahmotsavams currently under way at the temple of Lord Venkateswara, rituals relating to ‘simha vahanam’ were observed inside the hill temple on Sunday. Special rituals were conducted to the processional deity of Lord Malayappa who was dressed in the attires of Abhaya Ahwana Narasimha Swamy and mounted atop the golden ‘simha vahanam’ the embodiment of courage and valour. The festivities were held at the Kalyanotsava mandapam inside the temple. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy inspected the Matrusri Tarigonda Vengamamba Annaprasadam edifice and exhorted the staff to improve the quality of the food served to pilgrims and at the same time maintain the hygiene of surroundings at the monolithic structure. Accompanied by Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, he also inspected the cold storage, dining hall, kitchen and had his luncheon at the complex along with other devotees. Later, he also visited the Vaikuntham complex, the entry points of darshan lines and reviewed the procedure for depositing of mobiles, footwear, supply of beverages and health clinics. The festivities inside the temple drew to a close with ‘Muthyapu pandiri vahanam’ in the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lord-rides-simha-vahanam/article32889308.ece
19 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctors’ academy students excel at NEET||Students of Doctors Medical Academy (a wing of Krishna Reddy Sri Chaitanya Academy, Tirupati), bagged top ranks and scored high percentile points in the NEET exam, results of which were released on Friday. While U. Srilakshmi topped the list by scoring 665 marks, ten students scored above 600 marks and many others are in the 550-plus bracket. Chairman B.V. Krishna Reddy and Academic Director K.W. Rahim expressed delight at a hundred students from the institution getting into MBBS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctors-academy-students-excel-at-neet/article32889007.ece
19 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. to send modified Disha Bill to Centre||The State government is preparing to resend the Andhra Pradesh Criminal Law (Amendment) Bill, 2019, also referred to as Disha Bill, to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) after making necessary modifications. The MHA returned the Bill to the State government seeking clarification on certain aspects two days ago. The Bill, which envisages death penalty for the accused in sexual assault (rape), gang-rape and other heinous offences, was passed by the Andhra Pradesh Assembly on December 12, 2019. The Sections 354 (E) and 354 (F) of the IPC were introduced in the Bill to deal with sexual offences. The State Cabinet too approved the Bill. As per the Bill, trial in cases of crime against women and children must be completed in 14 working days and judgment delivered in 21 days. The Bill aims at expediting trial and awarding death sentence to the convicts, and bringing down the crime against women and children. Following the Cabinet’s approval, the government has started establishing special courts to deal with the cases. In February this year, the government forwarded the Bill to the Centre seeking the President’s assent. However, the MHA returned the Bill after making some observations and seeking clarifications. ‘Foolproof system’ “The MHA has sought some clarifications on trial within 14 days and awarding verdict in 21 days. We will give a clarification. We want to ensure a foolproof system for protection of women in the State,” Home Minister M. Sucharitha told the media recently. Speaking to The Hindu , Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang said the Centre had suggested some modifications in the Bill. “The State government is also constituting committees with all departments concerned to discuss modifications to the Bill. There are some technical issues that need to be modified,” he said. “We are working with legal experts to respond to the suggestions made by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Bill will be aligned on a par with the State’s policy to curb crime against women and children. It will be sent to the MHA soon,” Mr. Sawang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-to-send-modified-disha-bill-to-centre/article32889372.ece
19 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ECBC mandatory for getting building approvals||The government has issued orders making the Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Building Code (APECBC) mandatory for obtaining approvals for commercial and non-residential buildings with a plot area of 1,000 square metres, or built-up area of 2,000 square metres. The Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MAUD) Department has issued a government order making the amendments to the Andhra Pradesh Building Rules-2017, which makes the APECBC compliance mandatory for commercial buildings. Union Ministry of Power-led Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has introduced the ECBC in commercial and non-residential buildings to ensure construction of energy efficient buildings with reduced electrical energy by 30-40%, an official release said. Online system The MAUD Department had already integrated the ECBC compliance into the online Development Permission Management System for building approvals. With the APECBC, all the commercial buildings, other non-residential buildings that had a plot area of more than 1,000 square metres, or built-up area of 2,000 square metres and multiplexes, hospitals, hotels, and convention centres, irrespective of their built-up area, have to comply with the APECBC, the G.O. said. Meanwhile, the Energy Department has empsanelled 34 third-party assessors for checking the ECBC compliance at the design and occupancy stages in all the upcoming commercial buildings across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ecbc-mandatory-for-getting-building-approvals/article32889370.ece
19 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Goddess blesses devotees as Bala Tripura Sundari Devi||On Sunday, as many as 10,655 devotees visited the Kanaka Durga temple atop Indrakeeladri from 5 a.m. to 6 p.m. to seek the blessings of Goddess Kanaka Durga, the presiding deity, who was adorned as Sri Bala Tripura Sundari Devi, as part of the ongoing Dasara festivities. Speaking to the media, the devasthanam Chairman Pyla Somi Naidu and Executive Officer Suresh Babu said the temple had earned a revenue of Rs. 8,25,100 through sale of darshan tickets, laddu prasadam and auction of the saris draped around the goddess till Sunday evening. Besides people who had online tickets with them, an additional 400 people were also allowed the darshan in the free time. They said COVID-19 protocol was strictly followed on the temple premises. Avataram explained The temple priests offered special pujas to the deity and explained that ‘Bala’ means child. On this day, girls aged between 2 and 10 years are treated as manifestation of the Goddess and are offered new clothes and gifts. The Goddess is draped in red, green and yellow saris on this day and a naivedyam of payasam (rice kheer) and gaarelu are offered to her. Balatripura is the first goddess in the Tripura Traya and she is the main Goddess of all in the Sri Yantra. Without having got the mantra of Bala, one is not eligible to perform the Sri Yantra puja. Worshiping Balatripura Sundari is a vital part in the Shakti puja. Even listening to her name is considered to be beneficial to the sadhaka, they said. Rajya Sabha Member Mopidevi Venkataramana visited the temple on Sunday night along with his family and offered prayers to the deity. The Goddess will be adorned in Sri Gayathri Devi alankaram on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/goddess-blesses-devotees-as-bala-tripura-sundari-devi/article32889377.ece
19 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘It’s up to the CJI to take a decision on CM’s letter’||A few members of the Bezawada Bar Association (BBA) and the YSRCP Legal Cell have observed that the Chief Minister’s letter to the Chief Justice of India (CJI), accusing Justice N.V. Ramana, a judge of the Supreme Court, of influencing justice delivery in the Andhra Pradesh High Court should not be treated as a personal matter. “An inquiry into it is a must for the sake of transparency and accountability in the system. It’s up to the CJI to take a decision,” they said while addressing the media here on Sunday. “Some lawyers’ associations and Bar councils in the country are commenting on the issue when the matter merits a serious look at higher levels of judiciary,” said BBA member B. Raghava Rao. “Advocates’ associations should take care of the lawyers’ welfare and desist from meddling with the functioning of the system to be in the good books of a few officers,” said O. Gavaskar, another advocate. He also took objection to a few members of the BBA finding fault with the Chief Minister writing a letter to the CJI. Gag order on media “The gag order issued by the High Court restraining the media from covering any news on the FIR filed by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) against a former Advocate-General in the alleged land scam in Amaravati and the order staying further probe into the case are nothing but taking the system into one’s hands,” said Ch. Sai Ram, a member of the BBA. “We are not against any officer. But there should be a discussion on the gag order and the stay order,” he added. BBA members T. Mahesh, Nagaraju, Yadala James, and K. Venkateswara Sharma were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-up-to-cji-to-take-a-decision-on-cms-letter/article32888965.ece
19 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Private bus catches fire, passengers safe||As many as 35 passengers travelling in a Vijayawada-bound private travels bus had a narrow escape as the bus caught fire in the early hours on Sunday. When the bus, that started from Visakhapatnam, reached Prasadampadu at around 5 a.m., the driver noticed smoke emanating from the rear side of the vehicle, and immediately alerted the passengers and asked them to get down, the police said. All passengers escaped unhurt and the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. The driver and the locals put off the flames, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/private-bus-catches-fire-passengers-safe/article32889409.ece
19 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, son die as tractor hits bike||A 60-year-old woman and her son were killed in a road accident near Chittinagar tunnel in the city on Sunday. The victims have been identified T. Samrajyam and her son Radhakrishna (37), residents of Vidyadharapuram. The mishap occurred when when the bike they were riding by was hit by a speeding tractor under the II-Town police station limits. The woman died on the spot, while Radhakrishna succumbed to injuries on the way to a hospital. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-son-die-as-tractor-hits-bike/article32889408.ece
19 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar held on literary arts of famed Telugu writer||Writers, book lovers, poets and academicians participated in the webinar organised on the literary arts of Jnanpith Awardee Sri Viswanadha Satyanarayana on Sunday. The virtual programme was held in connection with the 44th death anniversary of Kavisaamrat Satyanarayana, said his grandson and advocate Viswanadha Satyanarayana. Retired IPS officer K. Aravinda Rao released the book ‘Kinnerasani Paatalu’ online, penned by Mr. Satyanarayana. Director-General of Police (Railways) Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, retired government college principal Ch. Susheelamma participated in the function. Ms. Susheelamma said Satyanarayana got Jnanpith Award for ‘Ramayana Kalpavruksham’. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-held-on-literary-arts-of-famed-telugu-writer/article32889411.ece
19 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto-rickshaw drivers give social distancing norms the go-by in city||Social distancing has gone for a toss in auto-rickshaws in the city. Most of the auto-rickshaws are seen overloaded with passengers for a greater part of the day and on many occasions, not just passengers, even drivers were seen without a face mask, which is mandatory. Though RTC city buses have resumed in the city, many prefer to travel in auto-rickshaws. Lack of adequate number of RTC buses and confirmed seating are what they say as a reason for choosing the three-wheelers. Several auto-rickshaws are seen carrying eight to 10 passengers in various routes on a sharing basis. Especially daily-wage labourers, construction workers and college students are being ferried in huge number on a share basis during peak hours. “Ninety per cent of people prefer only share journey. In case of share journeys, we cannot run the show with just two or three persons. We will eventually end up in losses,” said N. Raju, an auto-rickshaw driver from the city. Another auto-rickshaw driver S. Murali said that COVID-19 lockdown has affected them a lot and they need to clear the debts. “We clean our vehicles before coming onto the roads in the morning. We have to maintain a sanitiser and ask people to wear mask without fail while boarding the vehicle. But during peak hours, we cannot turn them away,” he said. K. Satyaprasad, who works at a supermarket in the city, boards an auto-rickshaw at Madhavadhara every day in the morning to Dwaraka Nagar and back home in the evening. “I prefer to travel in auto-rickshaws because we can have a seat first. However these days it seems to be risky with passengers not wearing masks and the vehicle being overcrowded sometimes. I had a heated argument with the driver once on the issue. He asked me to get down if I had problem,” he added. A senior police officer said that they have informed the auto-rickshaw drivers to adhere to COVID-19 norms for collective good. Drives were also conducted to ensure that all the drivers wear masks, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/auto-rickshaw-drivers-give-social-distancing-norms-the-go-by-in-city/article32889415.ece
19 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 218 new cases and one more death||The district reported 218 new COVID-19 cases and one death in the last 24 hours according to the bulletin issued on Sunday evening. Over 95% recovery The new cases take the cumulative tally to 54,318 and the death toll to 458. As many as 209 persons who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have recovered in the last 24 hours. With the latest discharges, the total number of recoveries in the district stands at 51,669, which is about 95.12 %. As on date, active cases in the district are 2,191. According to the Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, out of 316 clusters in the district, four are very active and 64 are active. As many as 248 clusters are dormant. Already 627 clusters were de-notified. Officials said that more clusters may be de-notified by the end of the month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-218-new-cases-and-one-more-death/article32889414.ece
19 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ECoR announces festival specials||Festival special trains will be operated by East Coast Railway (E Co R) to clear the extra rush of passengers. Train no. 02887 Visakhapatnam-Nizamuddin Special Express will leave Visakhapatnam on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday at 6.25 a.m. from October 20 to November 29 to reach Nizamuddin on the next days at 4.45 p.m. The train no. 02888 Nizamuddin-Visakhapatnam Special Express will leave Nizamuddin on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Monday and Tuesday at 8.35 a.m., from October 22 to December 1, and arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 6.10 p.m. Train no. 02851Visakhapatnam-Nizamuddin special train will leave Visakhapatnam on Mondays and Fridays at 8.20 a.m. from October 23 to November 27 to reach Nizamuddin at 5.10 p.m. on the next day. The train No.02852 Nizamuddin-Visakhapatnam special train will leave Nizamuddin on Wednesdays and Sundays at 5.50 a.m. from October 25 to November 29 to reach Visakhapatnam at 5.30 p.m. on the next day. Train no. 02869 Visakhapatnam-Chennai Central Special Express will leave Visakhapatnam on every Monday at 7.05 p.m. from October 26 to November 30 to reach Chennai Central at 8.55 a.m. on the next day. Train no.02870 Chennai Central Special Express will leave Chennai Central on every Tuesday at 9.10 p.m. from October 27 to December 1, to reach Visakhapatnam at 10.25 a.m. on the next day. Train No. 02857 Visakhapatnam-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus via Rayagada special train will leave Visakhapatnam at 9 a.m. on Sundays from October 25 to November 29 to reach Lokmanya Tilak Terminus at 1.35 p.m. on the next day 02858 Lokmanya Tilak Terminus- Visakhapatnam Express will leave Lokmanya Tilak Terminus at 00.15 (past midnight) on Tuesdays from October 27 to December 1 and arrive in Visakhapatnam at 5.20 a.m. on the next day. Train no.08501 Visakhapatnam-Gandhidham Weekly Special Express will leave Visakhapatnam at 5.35 p.m. on Thursdays from October 22 to Novmber 26 and will reach Gandhidham on the third day at 9 a.m. 08502 Gandhidham-Visakhapatnam Weekly Special Express will leave Gandhidham on Sundays at 10.45 p.m. from October 25 to November 29 and arrive in Visakhapatnam on the third day at 2.35 p.m. Train no. 07488 Visakhapatnam-Kadapa special express will leave Visakhapatnam daily at 2 p.m. from October 20 to November 30 to reach Kadapa on the next day at 7.25 a.m. 07487 Kadapa-Visakhapatnam special express will leave Kadapa at 5.05 a.m. daily from October 21 to December 1 and arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 11.30 a.m. Train no.02705 Visakhapatnam-Vijayawada Double Decker special express will leave Visakhapatnam at 05.45hrs on every Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday from October 20 to November 30 and reach Vijayawada on the same day at 11.15 a.m. In the return direction, 02706 Vijayawada-Visakhapatnam Double Decker Special will leave Vijayawada at 5.30 p.m. on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays from October 20 to November 30 and arrive in Visakhapatnam on the same day at 11 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ecor-announces-festival-specials/article32889374.ece
19 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One arrested, 3 kg ganja seized||The Pendurthy police took a 22-year-old man into their custody for allegedly being in possession of three kg ganja and a button knife at Sujatha Nagar area here on Sunday. According to the police, traffic police team noticed triple-riding and stopped the vehicle. On noticing the police, two persons fled the spot, while one was caught. The police identified him as S. Manikanta, a resident of Kancharapalem, who was allegedly involved in several cases at IV Town, Kancharapalem and a few other police station limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-arrested-3-kg-ganja-seized/article32889384.ece
19 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three of a family die in road accident||Three members of a family, including a 14-month-old baby, died while another person was severely injured when the motorcycle on which they were travelling rammed a stationary lorry on the National Highway (NH-16) near Regupalem area under Yelamanchili (Town) police station limits here on Sunday. The deceased were identified as L. Leela Santosh (22), his grandmother S. Kanthamma (68) and his niece A. Tanvitha (14 months). Santosh’s mother L. Sujatha was severely injured in the incident. According to the police, the four persons were heading to Pulaparthi from their native Yelamanchili on Sunday. While Kanthamma and Tanvitha died on the spot, Leela Santosh died while being shifted to hospital. Sujatha is undergoing treatment at the hospital. The district police said that they are yet to ascertain the reason for the accident. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-of-a-family-die-in-road-accident/article32889416.ece
19 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State govt. targeting TDP workers’||Telugu Desam Party leader N. Chinarajappa has alleged that the YSR Congress Party government is targeting TDP workers. Former MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao and MLC Buddha Naga Jagadeeswara Rao, who were appointed presidents of the TDP Visakhapatnam and Anakapalle Parliamentary constituencies respectively, assumed charge at the party office here on Sunday. Mr. Chinarajappa, who participated as chief guest, described the party workers as the backbone of the TDP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-targeting-tdp-workers/article32889413.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports fewer than 4,000 cases for 5th time||Meanwhile, the total number of samples tested in the State has crossed the 70-lakh mark and reached 70,66,203. Their positivity rate stands at 11.08%. Daily positivity rate The daily positivity rate of the 74,945 samples tested in the past day was put at 5.32%. The daily positivity rate of the tests conducted in the past five days was not more than 5.6%. About 10.44 lakh samples ( 60 lakh to 70 lakh) have been tested in the past 15 days and their positivity rate was 6.7%. while the positivity rate of 10.62 lakh (50 lakh to 60 lakh) tested was 9.73%. The tests per million ratio was put at 1,32,325, the highest among the States with high incidence of infections. Also, 14,655 persons in every million tested positive in the State. Meanwhile, West Godavari district has reported the highest number of new cases and three districts reported highest number deaths while three districts reported no deaths and three others reported only one death. The district-wise new cases and deaths are as follows: West Godavari (528 and 2), Krishna (503 and 4), Guntur (496 and 4), East Godavari (481 and 2), Chittoor (458 and 4), Prakasam (334 and 1), Kadapa (266 and 1), Visakhpatnam (218 and 1), Anantapur (201 and 2), Nellore (196 and 2), Srikakulam (168 and 0), Vizianagaram (82 and 0) and Kurnool (55 and 0). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,10,092), West Godavari (79,131), Chittoor (73,655), Anantapur (62,469), Guntur (62,348), Kurnool (58,782), Nellore (58,125), Prakasam (56,582), Visakhapatnam (53,806), Kadapa (49,863), Srikakulam (42,606), Vizianagaram (38,180) and Krishna (34,598).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-less-than-4000-cases-for-5th-time/article32889368.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chiefs for 56 BC corpns. announced||Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana said the establishment of these corporations was the first-of-its- kind initiative in any State and slammed the TDP leaders for raking up controversies over it.  The new chiarpersons are Sugumanchipalli Ranganna (Rajaka Corporation), Koti Surya Prakash Babu (Kuruba/Kuruma Corporation), Gaddam Sunitha (Thogata /Thogataveerakshetriya Corporation), B. Nalani (Kunchiti Vakkaliga Corporation), K. Vanitha (Vanyakulakshatriya Corporation), Tarigonda Muralidhar (Pala- Ekari Corporation), Thirupathur Govindarajan Suresh (Mudaliar Corporation), K. Santhi ( Ediga Corporation), Sankisa Bhavani Priya (Gandla/Telikula Corporation), Purushotham Gangabhavani (Perika Corporation), Bandana Hari (Agnikula Kshatriya Corporation), Avala Rajeswari (Ayyaraka Corporation), Shaik Yasin (Shaik/Sheikh Corporation), Devalla Revathi (Vaddera Corporation), Mandepudi Purushotham (Kummari Shalivahana Corporation), Kola Bhavani Krishna (Balija/PoosalaCorporation), Nanyampalle Harish Kumar (Yadava Corporation), Siddhavatam Yanadaiah (Nayee Brahmin Corporation), Jinka Vijaya Lakshmi (Padmasali Corporation), Aspari Fakurubi (Noor Basha/Dudekula Corporation), Ganugapenta Ramanamma (Sagara/Uppara Corporation), Tholeti Srikanth (Viswabrahmins Corporation), Madu Sivaramakrishna Krishna (Gowda Corporation), Sydu Gayatri Santosh (Vaddelu Corporation), Kurapati Geethanjali Devi (Bhatraja Corporation), A. Madhusudhan (Valmiki/Boya Corporation), Butta Saradamma (Kurmi/Karikalabhakthulu Corporation), Y. Rudra Goud (Veerashaiva Lingayat Corporation), Telugu Sudharani (Besta Corporation), Korna Venkatanarayana Mudhiraj (Mudiraj/Mutrasi Corporation), Valiveti Prasanna (Jangam Corporation), S. Kishore Singh (Bondili Corporation), Sayyad Asifa Nellore (Muslim Sanchara Jathula Corporation), T. Manoj Kumar Chattadasrivaishnava Corporation), Dada Kumara Lakshmi (Arekatika/Katika Corporation), Beeraka Surendra Babu (Devanga Corporation), Ketha Lalitha Nancharamma (Medara Corporation), Perada Tilak (Kalinga Corporation), Andavarapu Suribabu (Kalinga Komati/Kalinga Vysya Corporation), Dukka Lokeswara Rao (Reddika Corporation), P. Krishnaveni (Polinativelamas Corporation), Rajapu Hymavathi (Kurakula/Pondara Corporation), Cheepuru Rani (Srisayana Corporation), Kola Guruvulu (Mastyakara Corporation), Boddeda Prasad (Gavara Corporation), Pilla Sujatha (Nagaralu Corporation), Pilli Sujatha (Yata Corporation), Boddu AppalaKondamma (Nagavamsam Corporation), Mamidi Srikanth (Turupu Kapu/Gajula Kapu Corporation), Nekkala Naidu Babu (Koppula Velama Corporation), Kantimahanti Anusha Patnaik (Sistakaranam Corporation), Rangumudri Ramadevi (Dasari Corporation), Setti Anantha Lakshmi (Surya Balija Corporation), Gubbala Thammaiah (Setti Balija Corporation), Pendra Veranna (Most Backward Classes Corporation) and Ella Bhaskar Rao (Atirasa Corporation).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/list-of-56-bc-corporation-chiefs-out/article32889367.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s alankaram||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/todays-alankaram/article32889385.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chock-a-block||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chock-a-block/article32889373.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/religious-fervour/article32889417.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s alankaram||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/todays-alankaram/article32889410.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s alankaram||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/todays-alankaram/article32889008.ece
19 October 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Adivasis call for dharna today against LRS||The Adivasi Samkshema Parishad and Bhadrachalam Adivasi Samithi have called for a dharna in Bhadrachalam on October 19 to register their protest against the alleged move to implement LRS in Scheduled areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/adivasis-call-for-dharna-today-against-lrs/article32889392.ece
19 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Irrigation engineers told to be on their toes||With another spell of heavy rain forecast for the catchment areas of Krishna and Godavari rivers and their tributaries at least for five days from Monday, the State government has instructed engineers of irrigation department to step up vigil on the installations and told the supervisory officers/engineers to be in their headquarters. The instructions assume significance in the wake of flooding of the Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Project (LIP) pump house at Yellur in Nagarkurnool district on Friday, making the facility non-functional and forcing farmers and people depending on water pumped from it into uncertainty over their irrigation and drinking water needs. In the instructions issued to all superintending, executive, deputy executive and assistant executive engineers of irrigation units, the government asked them to be in their headquarters so that they could take all precautionary measures in advance to safeguard the irrigation network in their purview. “Their responsibility is to see that all the rain water is safely discharged into the downstream network and to report any damage within 24 hours of occurrence indicating nature of the damage, estimating the amount required for temporary repairs and funds needed for permanent restoration,” a senior officer of the department stated. Besides, they are also supposed to make a detailed report to the government on the damage. In case any officer/engineer was found to be not following the instructions issued by the government, it would be the responsibility of the superior officer to report the same to the government for initiating action against those indulging in dereliction of duties, the source said. With the prolonged flood season still active, the authorities of Nagarjunasagar dam, one of the two common reservoirs of Telugu states managed by Telangana, has taken up round-the-clock patrolling of the dam and its systems, including posting deputy executive engineers (DEEs) on night duties on turn basis. “It is being done to ensure proper watch over the dam safety and patrolling during the night until the water level recedes to 570 feet against the full reservoir level of 590 feet being maintained for about a couple of months now,” the officer said, adding that a total of 18 DEEs have been drawn for patrolling duties till the month-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/irrigation-engineers-told-to-be-on-their-toes/article32889321.ece
19 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Inundated areas to be sanitised with sodium hypochlorite||Thousands of Hyderabadis who are still reeling under reeling under COVID-19 are facing another challenge. Apart from possible spike in COVID-19 cases, the silt, filth, murky water that the recent floods in Hyderabad has brought into and around homes the risk of water-borne, food-borne and mosquito-borne diseases. From the past seven months, the Health Department officials have been urging people to wear masks, maintain physical distance and hand hygiene, to avoid COVID-19. Because of the incessant rains in the past few days and its aftermath, the officials added another precaution - which is to - consume hot food, drink water which is boiled and cooled down. Apart from the gusty rains on October 13, the rains on Saturday night led to inundation in more areas. The localities in Hyderabad which are inundated will be sanitised using sodium hypochlorite solution after clearing silt and garbage, said Telangana Director of Public Heath Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao when asked if COVID-19 might spread further in the localities since coronavirus spreads through droplets. As asymptomatic COVID-19 patients too might spread the virus, one such patient in rain relief camps in the city could infect other people. To avoid this, the State Health Department staff is conducting Rapid Antigen Tests on people who are rescued from inundated localities. Around 182 health camps are held at rain relief centres. The COVID-19 tests were conducted on around 2,000 people who showed symptoms of COVID-19, and 19 have tested positives. A total of 14,961 people were examined for various illnesses at the camps. Of them, 1,055 were detected with fever, and 235 had diarrhoea. There are two more factors which could lead to increase in COVID-19 cases - upcoming festivals and winters. Dussera, Diwali, Christmas will be celebrated in coming days. Currently, Bathukamma is being celebrated. The officials urged people to avoid mass gatherings, and to celebrate the festivals with family members. Usually, viruses find cold temperatures favourable. The same is anticipated with coronavirus. Dr Srinivasa stressed that coming months till January is crucial and asked people to continue maintaining precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inundated-areas-to-be-sanitised-with-sodium-hypochlorite/article32889314.ece
19 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eyes wide shut to rise in lake encroachments||Nature is not elected government. Pandering to public demand is not its mandate, as could be seen from the repeated spells of urban wrecking which have become an expected phenomenon every now and then. Fall in line with utmost speed or perish, is the warning note being left behind every so often, but measures in that direction fall woefully short of the desired result. Several reports and recommendations since the devastating floods in 2000 are lying unimplemented, and projects taken up by the government towards this direction are moving at snail’s pace, but the encroachment of water bodies and stormwater drains with impunity is proceeding at alarming pace. Activists point to the areas where very recent encroachments have obstructed the water flow, which led to inundation during the latest spate of floods. “Between 2014, and 2020, encroachments have been made on lake beds at extraordinary pace. Gurram Cheruvu, Sunnam Cheruvu, Palle Cheruvu, APPA Cheruvu… you name it. Several areas are under water, and the government is doing precious little to salvage the situation. I have made some 200 representations to the government over various violations, but received no response to even one,” fumes activist and Telangana State General Secretary of Socialist Party (India) Lubna Sarwat. M. Srinivas, city secretary of the CPI(M), notes that APPA Cheruvu in Gaganpahad has been reduced to four acres from its original spread of 14 acres. “The development has been very recent. The area is occupied by industries and commercial establishments,” he says. Same is the fate of Palle Cheruvu in Mailardevpally and Gurram Cheruvu near Chandrayangutta. Strangely, the APPA Cheruvu, which was the reason behind the flooding of the Hyderabad-Bengaluru highway, is not even notified by theHyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) despite its discovery way back in 2014 by NGO Save Our Urban Lakes. Google’s historic imagery shows that the lake was encroached only recently between 2018 and 2020. The Lake Protection Committee under HMDA has so far identified 3,132 lakes in its purview, but issued preliminary notification for only about 2,000 of them. Final notification has been issued only for 224. Ms.Sarwat claims that even in the notified lakes, the authorities have reduced the FTL limits to suit the fancies of a few influential encroachers, and condoned illegal constructions inside the limits. For instance, an FTL stone of the Saroornagar lake which has inundated area up to Dilsukhnagar, is found to be in the Singareni Officers’ Colony! Besides encroachment of the full tank level (FTL) of lakes, the hydrological chain links — water channels connecting one lake with the other, and finally to Musi river — too have been tampered with and occupied, leading to calamitous consequences when it rains copiously. Town Planning is hardly a matter paid heed to, and indiscriminate permissions for layouts and illegal layouts have wrecked the natural topography of several areas. Anant Maringanti, another climate activist and founder-executive director of Hyderabad Urban Labs, says, the Town Planning wing lacks teeth in Hyderabad, when compared to those in cities such as Chennai, Mumbai and Kolkata. “The planning body here has no power at all. It has no money, no capacity to do anything. It doesn’t have manpower, nor regulatory authority,” he says. Urban planners who should obtain information about the significance of any area’s natural terrain and the land use from the Revenue department, actually get only the information about cadastral survey of properties. Mr. Maringanti suggests establishment of a Land Commission through HMDA, which will pore deeply over the current status, and arrive at long lasting solutions for turning the urban agglomeration into a ‘sponge city’.  The planning body here has no power at all. It has no money, no capacity to do anything. It doesn’t have manpower, nor regulatory authority Anant Maringanti, Climate activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eyes-wide-shut-to-rise-in-lake-encroachments/article32889309.ece
19 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bhatti calls Mahabubnagar bandh against PH mishap||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka Mallu has called for a bandh of combined Mahabubnagar district on October 21 blaming the government for the submergence of the Kalwakurthy LIP pump house and the undemocratic way of preventing Congress leaders from visiting the site. Mr. Bhatti along with MLAs Duddila Sreedhar Babu and T. Jagga Reddy and MLC T. Jeevan Reddy were arrested at Veldanda while they were going to inspect the site. Mr. Bhatti argued with the police against their detention but to no avail. Police blocked their vehicles and did not permit them arguing that there was no permission to visit the site. He argued with the police on how ministers and TRS MLAs were being allowed but not Congress leaders. “Why is the Chief Minister afraid of Congress leaders’ visit?”, he asked and said that the police were busy arresting only the Congress leaders. Mr. Jagga Reddy demanded a CBI inquiry into the redesigning of projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhatti-calls-for-bandh/article32889327.ece
19 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A choked Gurram Cheruvu leaves Old City flooded||There is no outflow channel for the Gurram Cheruvu that breached the bund and inundated Hafiz Baba Nagar, according to findings of Irrigation department officials who visited the lake in Balapur. All they found was a diminutive sluice through which not even one per cent of flood water could be drained. While officials are not going on record saying that the lake was encroached, an FIR filed with the Balapur police and later transferred to the Chandrayangutta police station confirms that encroachment attempts had been reported last year. The complaint was filed by Balapur mandal revenue officer against seven persons who were filling up the lake bed and levelling it using heavy machinery. The persons named in the FIR were Abdulla Saadi, Farooq Saadi, Ali Saadi, Umar Baom, Mohammed Bin Hyder, Hasham and Mustafa, some of them with criminal record. Google Maps displays the filled up land on the other side of the bund, and rumours are afloat that the lake was breached on purpose to save the encroachment from flooding. Pictures don’t lie The historical images from 2014 and 2017 show abundant water where the ground is levelled now, and even those as recent as November 2019 show some water on the other side. “It is a clear encroachment, and doubts that the lake was deliberately breached are not without basis,” says Lubna Sarwat, State general secretary of Socialist Party (India), and well known activist for lakes. Irrigation officials, however, have not confirmed that, and said the lake was already brimming with water owing to the spell of rain up to October 13. The officials have been on the ground trying to drain water through the sluice, with some success, despite vociferous objections from the dwellers downstream. “We brought the water to safer levels, but before we could heave a sigh of relief, there was another bout of very heavy rain. The bund gave way under the pressure allowing the water to gush forth,” informed an official. The Gurram Cheruvu is part of a network, which contains Burhan Khan Cheruvu, Balapur Pedda Cheruvu, Venkatapuram Cheruvu and somewhere in the line, the Gurramkani Cheruvu also known as Shukoor Lake. From Gurram Cheruvu, the outflow channel meets the confluence of outflows from other lakes such as Palle Cheruvu, Salkam Cheruvu and Surram Cheruvu, which are all notified lakes of huge extents. “All these outflow channels meet to make a huge stream of water closer to Al Jubail and Ghazi-e-Millat Colonies, which were drowned recently. The stream goes on to join Musi river,” explains Ms.Sarwat. Owing to encroachments in the outflow channel of Balapur Pedda Cheruvu, which empties into Gurram Cheruvu, Nabil Colony is flooded too, she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-choked-gurram-cheruvu-leaves-old-city-flooded/article32889312.ece
19 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Had warned of flooding in 2016’||AICC secretary Challa Vamshi Chand Reddy blamed the TRS government for the submergence of pump house at Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Project, saying that he had warned of such an accident in the Assembly in 2016 itself. He said the accident was due to the redesigning of the Palamuru-Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Scheme (PRLIS) and had cautioned about the impending dangers in 2016 itself on the floor of the Assembly. However, the government went ahead with the redesigning of the pump house of the PRLIS by considering the report from its departmental committee that included even a contractor as one of its members while three other committees had rejected the redesign. He said Penta Reddy, who was felicitated as the father of lift irrigation projects by Chief Minister K. Chandrasehkar Rao and then Irrigation Minister Harish Rao, had also cautioned and warned the government not to go ahead with the redesigning. Even the steering committee had called it a futile approach both technically and economically in June 2016 and warned of the difficulties to be faced in case the project was executed. He said that TRS ministers and Palamuru MLAs should be held accountable for the loss of more than Rs. 1,000 crore incurred and should resign from their posts immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/had-warned-in-2016/article32889326.ece
19 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Regularisation of Sada Bainamas till Oct. 31||The State government has decided to accept applications for regularisation of Sada Bainamas (land transactions on plain paper) till October 31. The development follows an assurance given by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during the recent Assembly session that the government was not averse to give one last opportunity for regularisation of these transactions. Accordingly, the district collectors had been asked to personally monitor the submission of claims Form-X for regularisation. The regularisation process would be taken up under Section 22 (2) of Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Rules read with Section 5(A) of Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 1971. Land transactions done till June 2, 2014, would be considered. The regularisation process would be applicable for transactions related to agricultural lands in rural areas. It would not be applicable for lands under the HMDA, Kakatiya Urban Development Authority, municipal corporations and municipalities. The government had decided to exempt small/marginal farmers with land up to five acres from payment of stamp duty. Regularisation in respect of large farmers with more than five acre land would be done only on payment of stamp duty and registration fee. Farmers opting for regularisation of their Sada Bainamas should submit a copy of the Aadhaar card, Sada Bainama document scanned and uploaded, pattadar passbook copy of buyer/seller if available and any other documentary proof as required. Applicants should also collect the acknowledgement from Mee Seva centres as proof of submission of documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/regularisation-of-sada-bainamas-to-be-allowed-till-oct-31/article32889322.ece
19 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Comedy show for Skin Bank at OGH||Rotary Club of Hyderabad East, one of the active clubs in Rotary Dist.3150, conducted an online two-hour ‘stand up comedy show’ to spread the awareness of the proposed ‘Skin Bank’ and to raise some funds for the same, said Y.V. Giri, president of Rotary Club Of Hyderabad East. “Virtual Comedy Dhamaal” had popular comedians Sunil Pal and Ahsaan Qureshi on the virtual platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/comedy-show-organised-to-raise-funds-for-skin-bank/article32889316.ece
19 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||190 social welfare, tribal welfare residential students excel in NEET||About 142 social and 48 tribal welfare residential students fought their way out of poverty and secured top All India ranks in SC/ST categories in NEET 2020 on Saturday. These are children of beedi workers, small farmers, agricultural labourers, tea sellers, vegetable vendors, mechanics, cooks, masons, auto drivers, housemaids, watchmen and peons. Dejavath Girija, a tribal girl from ‘Operation Emerald’ coaching programme being run by the Telangana Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions (TTWREI) Society, secured all India 85 rank in ST category. She is likely to get admission into the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. G. Abhilash, who secured 168 All India rank in SC category, said, “My parents are the happiest people to see me as a doctor and I can’t thank Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao more for his approval for free intensive long-term NEET coaching for poor students like me.” “The success of these students from poverty stricken families means a lot to their families in overcoming generations of deprivation and under development,” says an elated secretary of TSWREI and TTWREI Societies R.S. Praveen Kumar. He congratulated the toppers and said that the entire credit goes to teachers for their hard work and going an extra mile in fulfilling the aspirations of underprivileged students Earlier, less than five students used to secure seats in medical colleges every year but the transformation has come about in the last few years as about 108 SC/ST students joined medical colleges last year. Operation ‘Blue Crystal’ programme meant for SC students and ‘Operation Emerald’ for ST students were being launched in the year 2015 to provide top-class free NEET coaching to meritorious students and these two programmes have come as a boon to marginalised students, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/190-social-welfare-tribal-welfare-residential-students-excel-in-neet/article32889324.ece
19 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sanitation, demolition drives||As part of the special sanitation drive taken up in the backdrop of floods, a total of 3049 metric tonnes of garbage has been cleared from different parts of the city on Sunday. A statement from the GHMC informed that the flotsam was accumulated on roads at 3,564 identified locations, and is being cleared. Additional vehicles have been deployed to transport the garbage for the next three days. The Entomology wing has deployed 125 teams with 1400 workers to carry out anti-larval operations wherever stagnant water is found. A total of 156 locations with stagnant rain water have been identified. Special drive has also been taken up by the Town Planning wing to clear the building debris on roads to facilitate free flow of traffic. A total of 45 locations with construction debris have been identified on 56 stretches in nine circles, of which 25 have been cleared so far, using the concessionaire agency vehicles. Another statement from GHMC informed that a total of 59 dilapidated structures in the city have been pulled down starting from October 12, taking the total number of demolitions in this season to 287. Notices have been issued to the owners of 545 more buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sanitation-demolition-drives/article32889319.ece
19 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,436 COVID-19 cases recorded||Telangana recorded 1,436 more COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total cases to 2,22,111. Six more COVID-19 patients died, taking the toll to 1,271 till now. Out of the 41,403 people who were examined for coronavirus on October 17,38,241 underwent tests at government facilities and 2,802 opted private labs. Results of 965 are awaited. The new 1,436 cases includes 249 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 110 from Rangareddy, 105 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 78 from Khammam, 77 from Bhadradri Kothagudem, 76 from Karimnagar, 75 from Nalgonda. On the whole, 38,30,503 samples were put to test in the State, and 2,22,111 have tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1436-covid-19-cases-recorded/article32889315.ece
19 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Body of missing boy found||The body of a seven-year-old boy, who along with three members of his family went missing on Tuesday night, was found at Gaganpahad on Sunday. Rajiv Gandhi International Airport police said the victim, Ayan, was washed away in Appa Cheruvu. The bodies of Aamir Khan, Kamera Begum and Sahil (4) were retrieved by the authorities on Thursday, while Ayan’s body was found near Celebrity Function Hall on Sunday. Soon after getting information about the body, police rushed to the spot and shifted the body to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/body-of-missing-boy-found/article32889311.ece
19 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR commissions 22-km third line||The South Central Railway (SCR) has announced the successful completion of the third line and electrification between Raghavapuram and Kolanur for a distance of 22 km. The line part of Kazipet – Balharshah tripling and electrification project, has been commissioned for operation of train services from Saturday. The section between Kazipet – Balharshah is a vital rail link situated in ‘Grand Trunk’ route connecting northern States with southern region of the country with a major portion coming under Telangana and partly in Maharashtra. This main line provides a vital rail connectivity to many cement clusters, coal screening plants and power houses situated in this section, informed General Manager Gajanan Mallya on Sunday. Tripling works between Raghavapuram – Mandamarri for 33 km have been completed in 2016, including construction of third line on the major bridge across river Godavari between Mancherial – Peddampet. The total project of Kazipet-Bahlarshah section of 202 km with 159 km in Telangana and 43 km in Maharashtra was sanctioned in 2015-16 with an estimated cost of Rs. 2,063 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-commissions-22-km-third-line/article32889317.ece
19 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Crime brief Man jumps into River Musi||Malakpet police with the Disaster Response Force of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation are searching for the body of a 60-year-old man in Musi river. Police said that Mohammed Azeem from Afzalnagar jumped into the brimming Musi to end his life around 5 p.m.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crime-brief-man-jumps-into-river-musi/article32889318.ece
19 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No water supply||The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has stopped Krishna Phase-III water supply to protect the ring main that is laid parallel to Gurram Cheruvu bund which breached on Sunday. As a result, the some areas will not have water supply for 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-water-supply/article32889389.ece
19 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Komatireddy demands Rs. 20,000 exgratia for crop losses||Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy has come down heavily on CM KCR for not visiting farmers who lost their crops due to rains. He said farmers were committing suicide unable to bear the crop loss but the government was not bothered. “Banoth Suresh of Lal Thanda in Karepally mandal of Khammam district had committed suicide for the same reason,” he said. “Neither the CM nor MLAs had time to visit farmers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/komatireddy-demands-rs-20000-exgratia-for-crop-losses/article32889328.ece
19 October 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two tanks breach, road cut off||For the first time in the district in more than a decade, two tanks — Devuni Cheruvu at Kandi and Mallepally tank — breached in the wee hours of Sunday. According to sources, the bund of the tank breached between Mallepally and Charlagopularam at about 1 a.m. cutting off the road connecting the two villages. Villagers alleged gross negligence of officials that led to the breach. They had even lodged a complaint with the district authorities way back in November 2010 stating that the construction of the culvert at the tank disturbed the full tank level (FTL) and resulted in submergence of their standing crops. This was confirmed by the Irrigation department officials who inspected the tank and submitted a report in December same year suggesting changes to maintain the standard FTL. “We have made repeated appeals to the officials to address the issue but no action was taken so far in the name of law and order problem as some locals are opposing any alteration to the structure. But now, it has damaged crops and the tank breached,” P. Ravinder Reddy, one of the villagers, told The Hindu . The Devuni Cheruvu at Kandi mandal headquarters breached and water reached the low lying areas and NH 65 and as a result, traffic came to a standstill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-tanks-breach-road-cut-off/article32889391.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Flood water drowns wedding glitter||Hyacinth is entangled in the metal transom over a broken door. On the ledge, about eight feet above, hangs more hyacinth. Some of the streets too are flooded with it. After the Gurram Cheruvu bund broke on Saturday night, flood waters brought with them the lake’s invasive vegetation to Baba Nagar, apart from devastation and despair. It was late at night that residents realised the water level was rising perilously, and that they had only a few minutes to act. Mohammed Salman, a Baba Nagar–B Block resident who specialises in optical fibre trenching, says it was around 1.30 a.m. that the water level started to rise. Within a few minutes, he sought help of an acquaintance who evacuated his family in an SUV. Salman stands in his now ravaged home, shin-deep in muddy, cold water, with nothing but the clothes on his back. “Looks like we have to start all over. This has set us 10 years behind,” he says, and points to the place where a wall once stood. From here, one can see his TV set which was swept away in the torrent, and is now in the firm grip of a non-functioning electrical transformer. Across the narrow road lives Mohammed Moinuddin. A couple of days ago, he was busy planning his sister’s wedding. But on Sunday morning, gold, clothes and cash, were swept away along with the almirah in which they were kept. “Her wedding was scheduled to take place on November 12. Five tolas of gold, a lakh in cash, and some other articles were in the almirah. We don’t know where the water took it,” says the 24-year-old who moved to Baba Nagar with family from Rein Bazaar 18 years ago. The neighbourhood was to see another wedding, that of Ghousia Begum’s daughter in six months. “The clothes that we had bought are soiled,” she says, adding the family of seven moved there three years ago. “The rent in Yakutpura was high, so we came here. Our landlords too have moved out,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flood-water-drowns-wedding-glitter/article32889313.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Politicians’ photo opportunity, but citizens’ problems never-ending||Assurances but no implementation Come natural calamity, one sees ministers and MLAs visiting various localities with officials in tow. The deluge that hit the State capital and other areas proved yet another occasion for ministers and higher officials to visit various areas and console people. They no doubt announced the government’s commitment to resolve their problems during interaction with the affected residents. But how far are these assurances materialising remains the moot question. This could be seen from the plight of people who are confronted with a second spell of heavy rain, days after the city witnessed it’s second highest rainfall on a single day in a century. The bad roads remained the same and water-logging continued while several areas witnessed inundation causing huge loss to residents. It is time the powers that be wake up to the reality and initiate concrete measures to avoid recurrence of such developments. CP plunges into action Cyberabad Commissioner of Police Vishwanath Channappa Sajjanar has walked the talk and plunged into action when Hyderabad was battered by unprecedented rains. The tough training he got at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy has come in handy once again for this 1996 batch IPS officer. His readiness to jump into action has been proved time and again while the society is getting better and better. The recent rains showed the sharpness of the officer rescuing marooned citizens reaching them to safety. An action photograph of Mr. Sajjanar helping the needy caught in swirling waters went viral on social media and it became the talk of the town. Pouring out woes People poured out their woes as politicians neglected their misery. Residents of Uppal constituency lashed out at their MLA Bethi Subhas Reddy for not providing them any relief when he ‘toured’ the inundated areas in a boat. In a video, which went viral on social media, a woman was seen talking to him from her balcony. She asked Mr. Reddy if they should stay alive or die. “If you don’t do justice, we will write your name and die.” she threatened. The MLA tried to convince the woman and later picked up an argument with her. Between the devil and deep sea! TRS politicians, including GHMC corporators and MLAs of constituencies in Hyderabad and its surrounding areas, and ministers are facing a test of their political nerve as people are staring at the worst-ever problem of flooding for decades. Devastated by the unprecedented impact of flooding on their lives, residents of affected localities are venting their emotions (anger) on these elected representatives, particularly those of the ruling party, who are visiting the areas to examine the damage, oversee relief work and console them. “Forced to a corner by nature’s ire and man-made conditions, the affected people are left with nothing literally and have no option but to question the rulers. Politicians too have no option but to visit the affected. The situation very much resembles like getting caught between the devil and deep sea, ahead of the GHMC elections in Hyderabad,” a retired bureaucrat lamented.  (M. Rajeev, Abhinay Deshpande and B. Chandrashekhar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/politicians-photo-opportunity-but-citizens-problems-are-never-ending/article32889323.ece
19 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Bypoll an opportunity to wrest Baroda: Dhankar||Haryana BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar reckons that that Baroda bypoll is an “opportunity” for the ruling BJP-JJP coalition, but a “litmus test” for the Congress. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Dhankar countered the Congress rhetoric that Baroda bypoll would be a referendum on the government’s work. He said the seat traditionally belonged to the Congress and the BJP had never won it. “It is a litmus test for the Congress. It is to be seen whether they retain or lose it. For us, it is an opportunity like the Jind bypoll last year. And we are working hard to convert this opportunity into an achievement,” said Mr. Dhankar, who took over the reins of the party in July this year. Development hurdles He accused Mr. Hooda of doing “little” for the region’s development in his tenure as Chief Minister, claiming that his party had approved two colleges, a university and an Industrial Model Township for the Assembly segment pledging Rs. 200-300 crore over the past few months. Mr. Dhankar said development was the most important issue in the by-election and the key to it was with the BJP in Haryana and Delhi for the next four years. “The Congress did only lip service. The BJP will do the real service. People of the region are making up their mind for development,” he quipped. Mr. Dhankar, a former Haryana Agriculture Minister, said the BJP had succeeded in convincing the farmers on the three legislations, adding that he didn’t think there was any resentment among the farming community in Haryana. “Now only those who are in habit of holding agitations are left on the ground protesting. And they are frustrated,” he said. The 59-year-old leader accused the Congress of playing the politics of “hypothetical fears”, adding that people had now seen through its tactics. Playing the politics “They tried to create an atmosphere of fear by saying that crops will not be bought on Minimum Support Price and mandis cease to exist. But the crop is being bought on MSP and the mandis are running. Now they say the government will gradually stop procurement on MSP. Congress has this habit to play politics by showing fear of hypothetical situations. They did so [played politics] on Article 370 and triple talaq. But people have seen through it,” argued Mr. Dhankar. On the guarantee for MSP, Mr. Dhankar said no one can control the entire market in a country and the demand was not “viable”. He, however, asserted that the government would continue to procure crops on MSP. On the coalition partners failing to reach a Common Minimum Programme for the governance even a year after they came into power, Mr. Dhankar conceded that though nothing was available in “black and white”, the two parties had reached an agreement on 30-odd points and had a few differences. “The coalition is running on the common and viable points of the manifestos of the two parties,” said Mr. Dhankar. He said that he aimed to expand the base of the party in the State and change the electoral pattern so that the party remained in power for long. “Though people in Haryana don’t usually repeat the government unlike Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, I hope to change it and make sure that the party get mandate for long,” said Mr. Dhankar.  Though people in Haryana don’t usually repeat the government unlike Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, I hope to change it and make sure that the party get mandate for long Om Prakash Dhankar Haryana BJP president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bypoll-an-opportunity-to-wrest-baroda-dhankar/article32889129.ece
19 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||No virus death in Haryana after over four months||No death on account of COVID-19 was reported in Haryana on Sunday, after a gap of over four months. Earlier, it so happened on June 6. “Haryana Health Department is happy to announce that no death has been reported on account of COVID-19 today [Sunday]. While it is heartening, yet there is no room for complacency and the Haryana Health Department will remain in the highest position of alert till there is a lasting solution to the COVID-19 infection,” said Additional Chief Secretary Health and Home, Rajeev Arora. As per the latest statistics, 1,640 people, including 1,143 males, have lost their lives due to the deadly infection in the State so far with a fatality rate of 1.09 %. Those died include 1,448 with co-morbidities. Faridabad at 238 has recorded the highest number of deaths, followed by Gurugram (190), Karnal (115) and Panchkula (106). Charkhi Dadri has reported four deaths, the least in the State. A total of 1,50,033 people have tested positive for COVID-19 so far and 10,042 cases are active at present. On Sunday, 169 people in the State were on oxygen support and 31 on ventilator. The State conducts 93,549 tests per million and the cases are doubled every 42 days with the positivity rate of 6.34%. The recovery rate is 92.21%.  There is no room for complacency and the Haryana Health Department will remain in the highest position of alert till there is a lasting solution to the COVID-19 infection Rajeev Arora Additional Chief Secretary Health and Home||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-virus-death-in-haryana-after-over-four-months/article32889130.ece
19 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Workers allege termination without notice||Eight women workers of a garments export company, Chelsea Mills in Udyog Vihar Phase-IV here, have filed a complaint before the Labour Department against the management for “terminating” them without assigning any reason and also not paying their legal dues. The women also staged a demonstration outside the company this past week seeking reinstatement. Garment and Allied Workers Union general-secretary Amarnath Sharma said the garments companies in the area had been terminating old workers, citing lack of work due to the lockdown, but they are hiring new workers at lower wages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/workers-allege-termination-without-notice/article32889131.ece
19 October 2020||Mumbai,||Uddhav warns against let-up in COVID-19 fight in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said the fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak was at a decisive stage and people must adhere to all social distancing norms strictly, including wearing masks. Mr. Thackeray was speaking while inaugurating a plasma treatment centre in Ratnagiri at an e-function on Sunday. He asked officials to ensure that the State government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign creates awareness of following COVID-19 norms. “We have to ensure that there is no second COVID-19 wave,” he said at the gathering. With Mr. Thackeray scheduled to visit rain-affected areas in Solapur district on Monday, State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Sunday took a dig at the Chief Minister, saying that he is now venturing out of his house as he is continuously being criticised by the Opposition party for not going out due to the pandemic. “A government can be run only by being on the field as it helps in quick decision-making. Not all decisions can be taken through video-conferencing,” Mr. Patil said. He said the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, will undertake a 800-km tour of the flood-hit parts of the State starting Monday. “We expect financial assistance to be provided expeditiously. A wet drought should be declared.Panchnamasare not possible as everything has been destroyed,” he said. Mr. Patil also criticised the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government for demanding Central assistance to tackle the novel coronavirus, cyclone and floods. “What will you do? Do you have an estimate of the damages and losses and have you given a memorandum to the Centre?” he asked. Meanwhile, Sena leader Arjun Khotkar said the BJP should “stop playing politics over everything”. A day after Union minister Raosaheb Danve asked why Mr. Thackeray does not step out of his house and visit rain-hit parts of the State, Mr. Khotkar said Mr. Thackeray is on a visit to Solapur and Parbhani districts to review the situation after heavy rains. Talking to mediapersons during a programme in Paithan in Aurangabad district on Saturday, Mr. Danve had criticised Mr. Thackeray saying that those in power are supposed to meet the distressed people. Mr. Khotkar said the BJP leader has no right to speak against the Chief Minister. “Uddhavjiis not sitting at home. He is on a tour of Solapur and Parbhani. BJP leaders should stop playing politics over everything,” he said. “In this time of crisis, the BJP should support the farmers,” Mr. Khotkar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/uddhav-warns-against-let-up-in-covid-19-fight-in-maharashtra/article32889142.ece
19 October 2020||Mumbai,||Over 6,000 patients benefit from eSanjeevaniOPD||Over 6,000 patients in Maharashtra have so far benefited from the government’s recently introduced online medical consultation portal, eSanjeevaniOPD, by availing themselves of free online medical check-ups and expert advice. The digital platform, developed by the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing in Mohali, enables patient-to-doctor teleconsultation. The State government has now added a fresh time slot for eSanjeevaniOPD and made the service available twice a day. Now, residents of Maharashtra can avail of online medical check-ups, and seek advice between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. in addition to the existing 9:30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. slot. The mobile application was pressed into service four months ago and has been catering to patients across the State. Using a desktop computer, laptop or smartphone, people residing in any district can connect with medical experts and seek advice on any illness. Medical experts have been able to provide instant help and recommend treatment to 6,072 patients in the State so far. The Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare rolled out the eSanjeevaniOPD service in April following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and made it a full-fledged service within a month through the website: www.esanjeevaniopd.in Patients can download the eSanjeevani mobile app from the Google Play Store and fill up the online registration form. After entering the mobile number and uploading documents and medical reports related to the ailment, patients will receive a one time password to complete the registration. They will then receive a token number through SMS to log in for the e-appointment. Soon, they will receive a video call from the doctor available. After the consultation, patients will receive an e-prescription on the app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-6000-patients-benefit-from-esanjeevaniopd/article32889137.ece
19 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Gokul enters UHT treated Tetra Pak milk segment||Gokul, a packed milk and its derivative brand, has forayed into the Ultra High Temperature treated Tetra Pak milk segment under the brand ‘Gokul Select’ to capitalise on the demand for the product since the outbreak of COVID-19 in India. With an annual turnover of Rs. 2,500 crore and presence in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa, Gokul has introduced the new product with a six months’ shelf life in Mumbai at Rs. 64 a litre. It has lined up plans to enter Pune, Delhi NCR, Himachal Pradesh, Northeast India, Goa and the rest of Maharashtra, where fresh milk supply is a challenge. “Mumbai has a huge cosmopolitan population with buying behaviour shifting towards Tetra Pak milk due to high shelf life. It is easy to use and gives customers the opportunity to stock the product for monthly supply,” said Ravindra Apte, chairman, Kolhapur Zilla Sahakari Dudh Utpadak Sangh Ltd, the producer of Gokul brand Tetra Pak milk. “This pattern has seen a huge jump during COVID-19 and lockdown while following social distancing norms.” Gokul will use its existing dealers and retailers for distribution of Tetra Pak milk. It plans to boost sales through online and modern trade channels, he said. “In U.S. and Europe, the use of fresh milk is low and Tetra Pak milk consumption is very high. India is moving in the same direction steadily. During the nationwide lockdown, consumption of Tetra Pak milk has gone up significantly in India and we are sure that Gokul Select will do well,” Mr. Apte said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gokul-enters-uht-treated-tetra-pak-milk-segment/article32889138.ece
19 October 2020||Nagpur,||Dip in road accidents in last three years in State: Highway Police||The State Highway Police said the number of road accidents in Maharashtra has been reduced in the last three years with the help of its ‘intelligent traffic management system’ and steps to check overspeeding. Last year, the State recorded a drop of 8.47% in all road accidents, and fatalities also came down by 3.56%, according to statistics of the Highway Police. The State recorded 39,878 road accidents in 2016, and the number dropped to 36,056 in 2017, 35,717 in 2018 and 32,925 in 2019. The data showed that ‘without injury accidents’ also decreased in the State in the last three years. A total of 6,271 ‘without injury accidents’ were recorded in 2016. The figure dipped to 3,568 in 2019, a record drop of 43.10%. The State recorded 11,787 fatal accidents last year as compared to 12,098 in 2018, a drop of 2.57%. The road fatalities also came down from 13,648 in 2018 to 12,788 last year, a dip of 3.56%. In 2016, a total of 12,935 people were killed in 11,780 fatal accidents, while 12,511 people were killed in 11,454 fatal accidents in 2017. A senior Maharashtra highway police official said the drop in number of road accidents was the result of efforts taken by the highway and State police over the years. The Mumbai-Pune expressway, and Pune, Solapur, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts have been contributing around 30% of the road accidents in Maharashtra, the official said. “The Highway Police had introduced the intelligent traffic management system on the Mumbai-Pune expressway. As a result, the number fatal accidents reduced on the expressway from 96 in 2018 to 74 last year,” he added. Similarly, fatalities on this expressway also came down to 92 last year as compared to 110 in 2018, he said. The official further said the number of ‘black spots’ also reduced to 1,000 from 1,050 with corrective measures taken by the Highway Police. “This helped the police in making roads safer for users,” he said. ‘Black spots’ are the locations where five road accidents involving fatalities and grievous injuries were reported during the last three years. To check overspeeding, 96 interceptor vehicles armed with speed guns were distributed across the State last year. Of these, 66 were given to the Highway Police and 34 were allotted to district police units, the official said. “These vehicles helped the police in curbing the menace of overspeeding, which ultimately resulted in reducing the number of road accidents,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dip-in-road-accidents-in-last-three-years-in-state-highway-police/article32889141.ece
19 October 2020||Nagpur,||5 Naxals killed in gun battle with police in Gadchiroli||Five Naxals were killed in an exchange of fire with police in Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra on Sunday, officials said. The face-off took place at Kosmi-Kisneli forest around 4 p.m., the Gadchiroli Superintendent of Police (SP) office said. “The C-60 commandos of the Gadchiroli police were conducting a combing operation in the forest area in Dhanora taluka, when Naxals opened fire,” the SP’s office said in a statement. “However, the Naxals soon fled from the spot after the police team launched a retaliatory attack,” it added. Later during the search, bodies of five Naxals were recovered from the spot. Their identity is yet to be established, the statement said. Following the incident, the Gadchiroli police have intensified the anti-Naxal operation in the forest area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/5-naxals-killed-in-gun-battle-with-police-in-gadchiroli/article32889140.ece
19 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||2 held for stealing TV sets from hotel||Navi Mumbai Crime Branch’s Central unit has arrested two men for allegedly stealing 10 smart television sets from a hotel last month. The accused have been identified as Salman Khan (45), a resident of Mankhurd, and Satyam Harijan, (22), a resident of Nallasopara. The duo broke into The Hill View Residency in Nerul on the intervening night of September 9 and 10. The hotel was undergoing renovation and the duo stole 10 TVs, a computer desktop and bathroom fittings such as towel racks and jet sprays from 15 rooms. Workers renovating the hotel found the items missing the next day and alerted the owner. The CBD Belapur police registered a case and the Crime Branch initiated a parallel investigation. Duo nabbed in Lonavala “With the help of CCTV footage, we identified the accused, who were history-sheeters. We alerted our informers and nabbed the duo in Lonavala based on a tip-off,” said senior police inspector Nivrutti Kolhatkar. The police said the accused broke windows to enter the hotel. They then loaded the stolen items into an autorickshaw and fled the scene. “The auto driver is wanted in the case,” assistant police inspector Rajesh Gajjal said. The police said the accused were planning to sell the TVs, but hid them at Mr. Harijan’s house in Nallasopara when they learnt that the police were on the lookout for them. They then fled to Lonavala and took up odd jobs there. The police are yet to recover the stolen items.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2-held-for-stealing-tv-sets-from-hotel/article32889139.ece
19 October 2020||New Delhi,||Active virus cases in Delhi rise for sixth day in a row||As many as 3,299 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 3,31,017, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday. Also, 28 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 6,009. Of the total cases, 3,01,716, people have recovered and there are 23,292 active cases. There are a total of 2,770 containment zones.  49,414 tested A total of 49,414 COVID-19 tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total tests, 14,506 were RT-PCR – the third highest in the month. Friday had seen the highest number of such tests till now with 15,660 RT-PCR tests. The High Court had directed the Delhi government to increase the number of RT-PCR tests, which is considered as the gold standard, when it comes to COVID-19 testing. Also, the number of active cases increased for the sixth consecutive day and the people under home isolation increased for the fifth straight day. The number of people in hospitals also slightly increased on Sunday. Out of the total 15,704 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 67.9% were vacant, as per government data. However, 57.2% of ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 54.5% of such beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate was 6.6% – the highest in October. The overall positivity rate till now is 8.3%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/active-virus-cases-in-delhi-rise-for-sixth-day-in-a-row/article32889135.ece
19 October 2020||New Delhi,||Slight improvement in AQI in Delhi-NCR||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram and Noida improved slightly and was in the ‘poor’ category on Sunday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The AQI of Delhi is expected to be in ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category as there has been an increase in stubble burning in neighbouring States, said government-run monitoring agency System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The AQI of Delhi was 254 and the values for Gurugram and Noida were 273 and 252 respectively, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin on Sunday, which is an average of the past 24 hours. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. “The wind speed is forecast to marginally improve for the next two days leading to relatively better dispersion. However, the AQI is predicted to stay in the higher end of ‘poor’ to the lower end of ‘very poor’category for next two days. Though fire emission has increased and transport-level wind direction is also favourable, an increase in transport-level wind speed as well as local Delhi surface winds are likely to maintain the stubble contribution in Delhi PM2.5 around the same level,” SAFAR said. The stubble burning fire counts around Haryana, Punjab and neighbouring border regions of Delhi were 1,230 on Saturday, as per SAFAR. The contribution of stubble burning in the neighbouring States to the PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi is estimated to be around 17% on Sunday. The wind direction is favourable for transport of pollutants due to stubble burning in other States to the city. Also, the local wind speed is less and this leads to pollutants not getting dispersed easily and in turn, negatively affects the air quality of Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/slight-improvement-in-aqi-in-delhi-ncr/article32889134.ece
19 October 2020||New Delhi,||Shopkeepers join anti-dengue campaign||Responding to the appeal by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, shopkeepers joined the ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ anti-dengue campaign here on Sunday. Mr. Kejriwal welcomed the move and thanked the shopkeepers for taking part and protecting themselves and their customers from dengue. The seventh week of the programme sought to encourage shopkeepers in national capital to inspect their shops and surroundings for stagnant water every Sunday for 10 minutes and drain it to prevent the breeding of dengue mosquitoes around them. “This time, shopkeepers of Delhi also took part in the fight against dengue, checked the shops and changed the stagnant water. By doing so, they are protecting themselves and their customers from dengue. Delhi is again defeating Dengue [sic.],” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/shopkeepers-join-anti-dengue-campaign/article32889133.ece
19 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP accuses Delhi govt. of failing to run DU colleges||The Opposition BJP on Sunday accused the Delhi government of failing to administer Delhi University colleges under its jurisdiction and suggested that they be handed over to the Centre. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, warned of a mass movement if the Delhi government did not pay due salaries to teachers and other staffers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-accuses-delhi-govt-of-failing-to-run-du-colleges/article32889132.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Shiv Sena welcomes Amit Shah’s stand on CM-Governor letter row||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday welcomed Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s remark that Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari could have chosen his words better while writing to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on reopening places of worship in the State. Talking to a TV channel, Mr. Raut also said with Mr. Shah’s statement, the Sena has put the issue to rest. Mr. Koshyari recently wrote to Mr. Thackeray on reopening places of worship in the State and asked if the Sena president had “suddenly turned secular,” triggering a war of words between the Governor and the Chief Minister. ‘Responsible remark’ Mr. Shah on Saturday told a news channel that “Koshyari could have chosen his words better”. Reacting to it, Mr. Raut said Mr. Shah is the country’s Home Minister and speaks with responsibility and caution. The Raj Bhavan and the office of the Governor is a constitutional institution and falls under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Home Affairs, he said. Mr. Raut said, “The Governor’s letter followed by the Chief Minister’s reply was an unavoidable controversy and we haven’t started it. But, we are satisfied with the Union Home Minister’s stand and thank him for understanding the reason for our anger.” Mr. Raut dismissed speculation that Mr. Shah was being soft on the Sena, a year after it snapped its ties with the BJP. “There is nothing political. What Mr. Shah spoke was in line with the Constitution of India.” On Mr. Shah’s comments that the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death should have been handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) earlier, Mr. Raut asked, “Why should that have been done when the Mumbai Police are capable of probing it?” “Before the investigation was completed, the case went to the CBI. What has the CBI found? Truth will come out,” Mr. Raut said. ‘Drugs a global menace’ The Sena leader also said that he agreed with Mr. Shah’s observation that drugs and Bollywood should not be seen together. “It [drugs] is a global menace which should be nipped in the bud,” the Sena MP said.  We are satisfied with the Union Home Minister’s stand and thank him for understanding the reason for our anger Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/shiv-sena-welcomes-amit-shahs-stand-on-cm-governor-letter-row/article32889143.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Monorail back on track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/monorail-back-on-track/article32889344.ece
19 October 2020||JANESVILLE,||Trump slams ‘anti-American radicals’||President Donald Trump stepped up attacks on the Democratic Party on Saturday as he accused the “left” of trying to “destroy the American way of life” in a late re-election pitch to voters in Michigan and Wisconsin — two Midwestern states that were instrumental to his 2016 victory but may now be slipping from his grasp. In back-to-back rallies, Mr. Trump accused the “left” of wanting to “erase American history” and “purge American values.” He claimed, with no basis, that Democratic rival Joe Biden would put communities at risk. Battleground surveys Mr. Trump offered the dark message as he faces headwinds not only in national polling, which shows Mr. Biden leading, but also in key battleground surveys. His comments come after his campaign, with far less cash than Mr. Biden’s, largely retreated from TV advertising in the Midwest, shifting much of its money to Sun Belt states such as Florida, North Carolina, Arizona and Georgia, as well as Pennsylvania. As he tries to energise his base and keep on-the-fence voters from turning against him, Mr. Trump sought to paint Democrats as “anti-American radicals” and said moderates had “a moral duty” to join the Republican Party. “The Democrat Party you once knew doesn’t exist,” he said. It was the same on issue after issue, as he claimed in hyperbolic terms that Mr. Biden’s election would spur “the single biggest depression in the history of our country” and “turn Michigan into a refugee camp.” Addressing the coronavirus crisis, Mr. Trump warned that Mr. Biden would “shut down the country, delay the vaccine and prolong the pandemic.” Public health experts say the nation would be in far better shape had Mr. Trump’s administration taken more aggressive action early on. And while he repeatedly predicted victory, Mr. Trump seemed to grapple throughout the day with the prospect that he could indeed lose in November. In Michigan, he quipped that, in January, he “better damn well be President. In Wisconsin, he wondered how he would process a loss. “Can you imagine if I lose? I will have lost to the worst candidate in the history of American politics,” he said. “What do I do?” Mr. Trump has continued to hold rallies despite the threat of the coronavirus, which hospitalised him for several days earlier this month. Wisconsin broke the record for new positive virus cases on Friday— the third time that’s happened in a week. The state also hit record highs for daily deaths and hospitalisations this past week. But there was little evidence of concern among the thousands of supporters Mr. Trump drew in both states, where audience members stood closely together in the cold, mostly without masks. Mr. Trump continued to call on Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer to roll back restrictions that remain in place to try to halt the spread of the virus, prompting the crowd to break into a “Lock her up!” chant. The same chant also broke out after he mentioned his 2016 Democratic rival Hillary Clinton and Minnesota Representative Ilhan Omar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-rails-against-the-left-to-regain-lead/article32888954.ece
19 October 2020||YEREVAN,||Armenia, Azerbaijan report truce violations||Despite a second attempt at a ceasefire, Armenia and Azerbaijan traded accusations on Sunday of violating the new truce in their conflict over the separatist region of Nagorno-Karabakh. The latest truce, which was announced on Saturday and took force at midnight, came after a week-old Russian-brokered ceasefire failed to halt heavy fighting between Armenian and Azerbaijani forces that broke out in Nagorno-Karabakh on September 27. The fighting and shelling has killed hundreds of people — both combatants and civilians — and marks the biggest escalation of a decades-old conflict over the region in more than a quarter-century. Spectre of conflict The recent fighting, involving heavy artillery, rockets and drones, has continued despite repeated calls for cessation of hostilities coming from around the globe. The escalation of fighting raises the spectre of a wider conflict that could draw in Russia and Turkey and threaten Caspian Sea energy exports. Armenian military officials on Sunday reported artillery shelling and missile strikes by Azerbaijani forces in the conflict zone overnight. In the morning, “the enemy launched an attack in the southern direction,” and there were “casualties and wounded on both sides,” Armenian Defense Ministry spokeswoman Shushan Stepanian said. Azerbaijan’s Defence Ministry, in turn, maintained that Armenian forces used mortars and artillery in the conflict zone overnight despite the cease-fire and in the morning attempted attacks in several directions. The Ministry accused Armenia of using large-caliber weapons to attack the positions of the Azerbaijani army in two regions north of Nagorno-Karabakh along the border between the two countries, a claim Armenian military officials denied. The Azerbaijani military also said it downed an Armenian Su-25 warplane “attempting to inflict airstrikes,” but Ms. Stepanian dismissed the statement as untrue. Nagorno-Karabakh lies within Azerbaijan but has been under the control of ethnic Armenian forces backed by Armenia since a war there ended in 1994. According to Nagorno-Karabakh officials, 673 of their servicemen have been killed in the fighting. Azerbaijan hasn’t disclosed its military losses, but says 60 civilians have died so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/armenia-azerbaijan-report-truce-violations/article32888945.ece
19 October 2020||Paris,||Thousands rally in Paris to pay tribute to beheaded teacher||Thousands of people rallied in central Paris on Sunday in a defiant show of solidarity with a teacher beheaded for showing pupils cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad. Demonstrators on the Place de la Republique held aloft posters declaring: “No to totalitarianism of thought” and “I am a teacher” in memory of murdered colleague Samuel Paty. “You do not scare us. We are not afraid. You will not divide us. We are France!” tweeted Prime Minister Jean Castex, who was among those gathered at the historic protest spot. Some in the crowd chanted “I am Samuel”, echoing the “I am Charlie” cry that travelled around the world after Islamist gunmen killed 12 people at the Charlie Hebdo satirical magazine in 2015 for publishing caricatures of the Islamic prophet. Between bursts of applause, others recited: “Freedom of expression, freedom to teach.” Paty was brutally murdered on his way home from the school on Friday afternoon. Depictions of the Prophet are widely regarded as taboo in Islam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/thousands-rally-in-paris-to-pay-tribute-to-beheaded-teacher/article32889264.ece
19 October 2020||Bangkok,||For young Rohingya brides, marriage means a deadly crossing||Haresa counted the days by the moon, waxing and waning over the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea. Her days on the trawler, crammed into a space so tight that she could not even stretch her legs, bled into weeks, the weeks into months. “People struggled like they were fish flopping around,” Ms. Haresa, 18, said of the other refugees on the boat. “Then they stopped moving.” Banished from homes Dozens of bodies were thrown overboard, some beaten and some starved, survivors said. Ms. Haresa’s aunt died, then her brother. Six full moons after she boarded the fishing boat in Bangladesh with hopes that human traffickers would ferry her to Malaysia for an arranged marriage, Ms. Haresa, who goes by one name, and almost 300 other Rohingya refugees found sanctuary in Indonesia last month. Her sister, 21, died two days after the boat landed. Banished from their homes in Myanmar and crammed into refugee settlements in neighboring Bangladesh, thousands of Rohingya have taken the perilous boat crossing to Malaysia, where many from the persecuted minority group toil as undocumented workers. Hundreds have died along the way. Most of those now undertaking the trip, like Ms. Haresa, are girls and young women from refugee camps in Bangladesh whose parents have promised them in marriage to Rohingya men in Malaysia. Two-thirds of those who landed in Indonesia last month with Ms. Haresa were women. Amira Bibi and her family escaped their native Rakhine state, in Myanmar’s far west, as the military torched hundreds of Rohingya villages three years ago. The fourth of nine siblings, she said she knew her place in life. “My parents are getting old and my brothers are with their own families,” she said. “How long are my parents going to bear the burden of me?” Through the matchmaking of a cousin in Malaysia who works as a grass-cutter, Ms. Bibi’s parents found a fiancé for her. She asked for details about the man but none were provided, apart from his name, she said. After surviving more than six months at sea in a failed attempt to reach him, Ms. Bibi spoke from Indonesia with her fiancé a country away. The phone call lasted two minutes. “He sounded young,” she said. That is the extent of what she knows about him. Ms. Bibi initially told staff from the United Nations refugee agency that she was 15 years old, but later amended her age to 18. Fishermen in Aceh, on the tip of the Indonesian island of Sumatra, are among the few who have welcomed the Rohingya. A battered trawler with around 100 refugees landed in June, followed by the larger boat on Sept. 7. “The question is how Southeast Asia as a region responds to this humanitarian crisis on its doorstep,” said Indrika Ratwatte, director for Asia and the Pacific for the U.N. refugee agency. The Bangladeshi government has threatened to relocate thousands of Rohingya from the camps to a cyclone-prone islet in the Bay of Bengal. The island was uninhabited until the Navy forced about 300 Rohingya — many of them women and children — to shelter there this summer, when their bid to sail to Malaysia ended after months at sea.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/for-young-rohingya-brides-marriage-means-a-deadly-crossing/article32888949.ece
19 October 2020||Beijing,||China passes law to safeguard national security, sensitive tech||China has passed a new law restricting sensitive exports to protect national security, a move that adds to policy tools it could wield against the U.S. as tensions — especially in technology — continue to rise. The law, which China’s top legislature passed on Saturday, comes into effect on December 1 and allows Beijing to “take reciprocal measures” against countries that abuse export controls and pose a threat to national security. Technical data related to items covered will also be subject to export controls, according to the published text of the law. Beijing’s measure gives it more room to hit back in U.S. President Donald Trump’s war on Chinese tech firms, with the White House moving against popular platforms and major companies — including apps TikTok and WeChat, tech giant Huawei and chipmaker Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. The new law, “formulated to safeguard national security and interests”, adds to China’s regulatory toolkit which also involves a restriction catalogue of tech exports and an unreliable entity list. “Where any country or region abuses export control measures to endanger the national security and interests of the People’s Republic of China, (it) may take reciprocal measures,” the law states. It adds that Chinese authorities will formulate and adjust an export control list of items to be published in a “timely manner”. Foreign individuals and groups can also be found liable for violating export control rules. The economic relationship between Beijing and Washington has been roiled by Mr. Trump’s unprecedented campaign of tariffs, threats of bans and sanctions on Chinese tech firms. ‘Unreliable entities list’ With Mr. Trump facing a tough re-election campaign ahead of polls next month, U.S. officials have described measures against China as national security safeguards — prompting a backlash from Beijing. In September, China launched a long-expected “unreliable entities list”, widely seen as a weapon to retaliate against the US which has used its own “entity list” to shut Huawei out of the U.S. market. The month before that, China’s Commerce Ministry stepped up rules on technologies restricted for export, adding “civilian use” to the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-passes-law-to-safeguard-national-security-sensitive-tech/article32888948.ece
19 October 2020||Tehran,||Iran hails lifting of UN arms embargo||Iran said a longstanding UN embargo on arms sales to and from the Islamic republic expired on Sunday in line with a 2015 landmark nuclear deal with world powers from which Washington has withdrawn. Tehran, which could now purchase weapons from Russia, China and elsewhere, has hailed the development as a diplomatic victory over the U.S., which had tried to maintain an indefinite freeze on arms sales. “As of today, all restrictions on the transfer of arms, related activities and financial services to and from the Islamic Republic of Iran... are all automatically terminated,” the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. The embargo on the sale of conventional arms to Iran was due to start expiring progressively from Sunday, October 18, under the terms of the UN resolution. “As of today, the Islamic Republic may procure any necessary arms and equipment from any source without any legal restrictions, and solely based on its defensive needs,” the Ministry added in the statement. U.S. President Donald Trump withdrew his country from the nuclear deal in 2018 and has unilaterally begun reimposing sanctions on Iran. But Washington suffered a setback in August when it failed to win support from the UN Security Council to indefinitely extend the arms embargo. Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said Sunday marked the “normalisation of Iran’s defense cooperation with the world”. ‘Momentous day’ It was “a momentous day for the international community,” the Iranian Ministry said on Sunday, adding the world had stood with Tehran “in defiance of the U.S. regime’s efforts”. But it stressed that “unconventional arms, weapons of mass destruction and a buying spree of conventional arms have no place in Iran’s defense doctrine”.  Meanwhile, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that arms sales to Iran would breach UN resolutions and result in sanctions. “The U.S. is prepared to use its domestic authorities to sanction any individual or entity that materially contributes to the supply, sale, or transfer of conventional arms to or from Iran,” Mr. Pompeo said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-hails-lifting-of-un-arms-embargo/article32888950.ece
19 October 2020||Manama,||Israel and Bahrain to formalise diplomatic ties||Israel and Bahrain will officially establish diplomatic relations on Sunday at a ceremony in Manama as the wealthy Gulf region continues to open up to the Jewish state. An Israeli delegation, led by National Security Council chief Meir Ben Shabbat, arrived from Tel Aviv for a one-day trip that will see Israel and Bahrain formalise a US-brokered agreement they signed at the White House on September 15. The United Arab Emirates and Bahrain became only the third and fourth Arab states to agree to normalise ties with Israel, following Israel’s 1979 peace deal with Egypt and a 1994 pact with Jordan. A flurry of diplomacy between some of Washington’s key regional allies has handed U.S. President Donald Trump a key foreign policy win as he campaigns for re-election ahead of polls in November. “Bahrain and Israel will sign a joint communique on the establishment of diplomatic, peaceful and friendly relations, as well as a number of memorandums of understanding in areas of mutual benefit,” according to a joint statement. U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Mr. Trump’s special assistant for international negotiations, Avi Berkowitz, joined the Israeli delegation’s flight to Manama.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-and-bahrain-to-formalise-diplomatic-ties/article32888951.ece
19 October 2020||Washington,||Anti-Trump women’s rallies organised across U.S.||Thousands took to the streets across the U.S. for women’s marches on Saturday, many wearing pink protest hats while issuing fervent calls against President Donald Trump and his conservative Supreme Court pick Amy Coney Barrett. In the midst of the pandemic, the demonstrations were smaller, though protesters still turned out in cities across the country, according to organizers. Over 1,00,000 people took part in some 430 marches, organizers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/anti-trump-womens-rallies-organised-across-us/article32888944.ece
19 October 2020||KABUL,||13 killed in Afghanistan bombing||A suicide car bombing on Sunday killed at least 13 people and wounded around 120 others in Afghanistan’s western Ghor province, officials said. The head of a hospital in Ghor, Mohammad Omer Lalzad, said emergency staff were treating dozens of people with both serious and light injuries from the bombing. He expected the death toll to rise. Interior Ministry spokesman Tariq Aran said the car bombing struck near the entrance of the provincial police chief’s office and other nearby government buildings in the area. No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack in Ghor, which comes amid an uptick in attacks by the Taliban as representatives of the group and Afghan government officials hold their first-ever face-to-face talks in Qatar, where the Taliban have had a political office for many years. The negotiations are meant to end decades of war. in Afghanistan. Arif Aber, spokesman for the provincial Governor in Ghor, said the blast was so strong that its sound could heard across Feroz Koh, the capital city of the province. “It damaged and partially destroyed a few government buildings, including the police chief’s office, the women’s affairs department and the provincial office for refugees,” Mr. Aber said. On Friday, the Taliban agreed to suspend attacks in southern Afghanistan, which displaced thousands of residents in recent days. That came after the U.S. vowed to halt all airstrikes in keeping with the peace deal the U.S. signed with the Taliban in February. The U.S. had been conducting strikes in support of Afghan forces trying to repel Taliban in Helmand province.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/13-killed-in-afghanistan-bombing/article32888947.ece
19 October 2020||Bangkok,||Thai protests continue for fourth day||Tens of thousands of protesters defied a ban on gatherings of more than four people at a major Bangkok landmark on Sunday, carrying posters portraying activists detained in four straight days of strident anti-government rallies. The youth-led movement has suffered several blows this week, with scores arrested after demonstrators surrounded a royal motorcade and flashed “democracy salutes” at Queen Suthida. The government reacted with emergency measures — including banning gatherings of more than four people in Bangkok — and the arrest of protest leaders who have called for the removal of Prime Minister Prayut Chan-ocha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/thai-protests-continue-for-fourth-day/article32888953.ece
19 October 2020||La Paz,||La Paz, Oct 18, 2020 (AFP) -||Bolivians began voting on Sunday in a presidential election many hope can restore stability to a nation that was plunged into turmoil after a fraught and eventually voided vote last year. Frontrunners in the election are Luis Arce, who champions a return to the socialist and pro-indigenous policies of former President Evo Morales, and Carlos Mesa, a centrist.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/la-paz-oct-18-2020-afp/article32888946.ece
19 October 2020||ISLAMABAD,||Landslide in northern Pakistan buries bus with 15 onboard||A landslide in northern Pakistan on Sunday buried a minibus with 15 people onboard under tons of mud and rock with rescue workers digging through the wreckage in the hopes of finding survivors, police said. Police officer Wakil Khan said the landslide overtook the minibus that was travelling from Rawalpindi to the city of Skardu.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/landslide-in-northern-pakistan-buries-bus-with-15-onboard/article32888952.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The Raj Bhavan’s new role — taking centre stage||When in 2007 at the height of the agitation in Nandigram in West Bengal, Governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi had allowed himself to express his “cold horror” at the ugly violence, Raisina Hill overseers were not pleased and their displeasure was conveyed to the Raj Bhavan in no uncertain terms. There was a definite clarity in New Delhi that a Governor need not get involved in the fracas among the political parties and leaders. That was “old India” and there was a commitment to the federal principle. In the “new India”, a new role is being scripted for the Raj Bhavan, as is for all other constitutional institutions. The Governors in the non-Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled States have been given a licence to convert Raj Bhavans into a rival centre of political activism — even intrigue — against the elected governments. The letter in Maharashtra Hon’ble Jagdeep Dhankhar at the Kolkata Raj Bhavan, so far, had the distinction of being the most active licentiate — till his counterpart in the Mumbai Raj Bhavan decided last week to cross all limits of gubernatorial propriety. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s by-now famous letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, demanding re-opening of the places of worship to the devotees across Maharashtra, is a brilliant but thoroughly unnerving innovation in a Governor’s bag of tricks of over-reach. Various Raj Bhavans, of course, have become embroiled in extremely unsavoury controversies over the decade, partly because the Constitution of India does allow a certain discretion to the Governor. And a discretion invariably does get abused. The framers of the Constitution had definitely disfavoured the idea of an elected Governor because they were unambiguously clear that political power would only be vested with the Council of Ministers, headed by a Chief Minister; yet, they were not inclined to put in a formal Instrument of Instructions for the Governors and were content to believe that political decencies and correctness would be observed both by the Governor and the Chief Minister. As the distinguished constitutional expert, Nani A. Palkhivala, saw it, “the Constitution intended that the Governor should be the instrument to maintain the fundamental equilibrium of the people of the State and to ensure that the mandates of the Constitution are respected in the State”. The assumption, of course, was that those appointed to a Raj Bhavan would be endowed with “a buddhi [wisdom] which sets apart a statesman from a politician”. A twist to discretion In the post-Nehruvian era, as our politics became rough and our politicians rougher, that buddhi eluded most Governors. As an appointee of the Union Government, the Governors have, predictably enough, been all too prone to do the bidding of the ruling party at the Centre. Inevitably the “discretion” — be it choosing a Chief Minister, or requiring a Chief Minister to prove his/her majority, or dismissing a Chief Minister, dissolving the legislature, recommending President’s Rule — came to be tainted with partisan political considerations. More often than not, the gubernatorial discretion was abused, sometimes absurdly, even whimsically. The Supreme Court did try, through its judgment in the S.R. Bommai case, to restore some kind of order on the rampant proclivities of Raj Bhavans. That, of course, did not prevent a Governor from becoming difficult. For example, a Governor has been known for, once, withholding his assent to the Budget because the Chief Minister was not inclined to accede to the Raj Bhavan’s demand for a fourth imported luxury car for “ His Excellency”. But now, the BJP has accelerated the process of institutional lumpenisation. A new role for the Governors in the non-BJP ruled States has been devised. Without seeming to abuse his ‘discretion’, a Governor, like the gentleman in the Kolkata Raj Bhavan, can blatantly put the licence of ‘gubernatorial activism’ in the service of his bosses’ party interests. There is probably nothing in the Constitution that forbids a Governor from making a political nuisance of himself. The Twitter handle comes in handy. Or, no one can fault a Governor for granting an audience to delegations hostile to the Chief Minister. The Maharashtra Governor was all too willing to get himself photographed with a film actress, who was demonstratively brawling with Chief Minister Thackeray. Or, take the case of the West Bengal Governor openly suggesting that the police officials and the bureaucrats should perform their duties as “public servants are not political workers”. Almost, a hit-and-run strategy. And, then, leave it to the media to whip up a political cloud over such loaded utterances. New low Article 167 of the Constitution does allow a Governor to call for any information “relating to the administration of the affairs of the State”; but, with a wink from the bosses in the Union Home Ministry, a Governor like Mr. Dhankhar or Mr. Koshyari can become a total partisan. But, it was a new low when the Maharashtra Governor mockingly asked the Chief Minister if he had suddenly turned ‘secular’. In the “old India”, the President of India would have mostly probably found a way of communicating the Rashtrapati Bhavan’s displeasure to the Maharashtra Governor for this ‘secular’ taunt. After all, secularism is very much a part of the basic structure of the Constitution, the very sacred book that a Governor takes oath to “preserve, protect and defend”. “Secularism” is not a dispensable part of the Constitution, nor is it a dirty word, as Governor Koshyari’s letter implied. After all, it has been pointed out by jurists and constitutional scholars that in the Kesavananda Bharati case, the Supreme Court had declared secularism as a basic feature of the Constitution, even before the Forty-Second Amendment had introduced the word ‘secular’ in the Preamble to the Constitution. The political design behind an over-active Raj Bhavan is simple: poke, prod, pinprick and provoke the elected government to waste its political energies and capital in an unwanted war of attrition; the BJP can be the only beneficiary from the resulting skirmishes. Reflecting an arrogance However, there is a certain method to this gubernatorial madness. Governors like Mr. Koshyari and Mr. Dhankhar are too insignificant as political players to have crafted on their own this new gubernatorial meddlesomeness; their overreach is only a reflection of a new arrogant mindset at work. The Narendra Modi-Amit Shah leadership subscribes to a maximalist approach to the obligation of institutionalised sharing of power within our federal framework. Over and above the primacy of the Union, the BJP is allergic to the idea of having to share power and space with other political parties and players. The non-BJP governments, an unafraid Mamta Banerjee and unintimidated Uddhav Thackeray, are seen as eyesores which need to be removed. To that end, wherever possible, the Raj Bhavans would become the State BJP’s extension counters. No one should be surprised if the BJP were to use the contrived Koshyari-Thackeray dust-up in the Bihar election campaign later this month. This itch for political intolerance is a recurring nightmare for the Indian Union. After she returned to power in 1980, Indira Gandhi was determined to use the Raj Bhavans to get rid of unhelpful non-Congress governments. Remember Governor Ram Lal in Andhra Pradesh or Governor Jagmohan in Jammu and Kashmir. But, now, a new righteous of the “new India” is being deployed to beautify an old-fashioned power lust. An over-bearing Centre appeals enormously to wannabe emperors.  Harish Khare is a senior journalist based in Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-raj-bhavans-new-role-taking-centre-stage/article32888935.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The hues in the green tribunal’s resilient journey||Yesterday (October 18) was a significant day, as it marked the 10th anniversary of the National Green Tribunal, or NGT (https://bit.ly/2T8BzlO). Few ministries can boast of as varied, diverse, and challenging a mandate as the Ministry of Environment and Forests. The downside to this vast and all-encompassing scope, which covers forests, wildlife, environment, climate change and coastal protection, is that it gives rise to an equally diverse volume of litigation. Complexities from day one This was one of the very first things I realised upon assuming office as the Minister for Environment and Forests in the year 2009. The sheer number and complexity of cases, with several more being added every week, led the Supreme Court of India to designate a special Bench to handle these matters. This Bench, which met every Friday to deliberate on these and many other matters, came to be known fittingly as the ‘Forest Bench’. And this was to say nothing of the numerous matters that were filed and pending hearings in the various High Courts. Given the time constraints of the top court and the High Courts, some cases had been pending for decades and in turn, spawning other linked matters which further delayed the process. I also realised that despite the efforts of the capable officers and experts assisting the Supreme Court, this was at best an ad hoc solution. Stages in an evolution Several years prior to my tenure, Parliament had passed laws related to the establishment of a National Environment Tribunal (1995) and a National Environment Appellate Authority (1997). The Authority (https://bit.ly/3o0QiOb) was intended to act primarily as a forum for challenges to environmental clearances while the Tribunal (https://bit.ly/2HgGA9g) could award limited amounts of compensation in cases of environmental damage to life or property. In my opinion, these did not go far enough in terms of jurisdiction, authority, impact, or autonomy. It was clear that the enforcement, protection, and adjudication of environmental laws required a specialised and dedicated body. A tribunal, staffed with judges and environmental experts, would need to be empowered to hear these issues so that the burden on the High Courts and the Supreme Court could be reduced. The quality of time spent on these issues could also be increased as, unlike the Supreme Court, the tribunal could have benches in various States, thereby increasing access to all citizens. Thus, the idea for the ‘NGT’ was born. This was not the first time that the idea had been mooted. In judgments such as M.C. Mehta & Anr. Etc vs Union Of India & Ors. Etc (1986), the then Chief Justice of India, Justice P.N. Bhagwati, had suggested “to the Government of India that since cases involving issues of environmental pollution, ecological destructions and conflicts over national resources are increasingly coming up for adjudication and these cases involve assessment and evolution of scientific and technical data, it might be desirable to set up Environmental Courts on the regional basis with one professional Judge and two experts drawn from the Ecological Sciences Research Group keeping in view the nature of the case and the expertise required for its adjudication. There would of course be a right of appeal to this Court from the decision of the Environment Court” (https://bit.ly/31jDxEv). These observations were recalled in 1999 by the Supreme Court in the landmark case of A.P. Pollution Control Board vs Prof. M.V. Nayudu (Retd.) which added its own emphasis on the need for a court that was “a combination of a Judge and Technical Experts” (https://bit.ly/345PPlR) with an appeal to the Supreme Court from the Environmental Court. The NGT’s first year was a turbulent one. Unlike the opaque legislative process followed today, the first draft of the NGT Bill was circulated as part of a pre-legislative consultation process and inspired widespread debate. Concerns ranged from the genuine to the absurd. In the first category, one of my senior colleagues argued that it would contribute to the trend of ‘tribunalisation’ (a debate that would achieve some closure a year later with the Supreme Court’s judgment in R. Gandhi’s case in 2010). In the last category, an environmental non-governmental organisation took issue with the name and argued that the word ‘Green’ could act as a green signal to potential polluters. Following its passage, the Madras High Court even issued notice on a petition which had challenged the Act as unconstitutional and stayed appointments to the body (an order vacated by the Supreme Court on appeal). Incidentally, I had intended for the parent bench of the NGT to be in Bhopal, as a tribute and homage to the memory of the victims of the Bhopal Gas Tragedy of 1984. However, many of the jurists and retired judges I consulted suggested that for administrative considerations, it would be better for the Chair to be at Delhi. The track record Since its inception, the NGT has, apart from creating a new breed of legal practitioners, protected vast acres of forest land, halted polluting construction activities in metros and smaller towns. It has penalised errant officials who have turned a blind eye towards enforcing the laws, and held large corporate entities to account. It has protected the rights of tribal communities and ensured the enforcement of the “polluter pays” principle in letter and spirit. In this endeavour it has been assisted by brilliant practitioners, many of whom are young counsels, passionate and dedicated towards protecting the environment. A change in attitude Perhaps the biggest testament to the NGT’s success has been the attitude of the ruling government towards it. Three years ago, in a fashion similar to what has been done with the Right to Information Act, the Central Government attempted to dilute the criteria for appointments to the NGT and other tribunals. I challenged this dilution before the Supreme Court and my counsel, the renowned senior advocate, Mohan Parasaran, was called upon to assist the Bench as an amicus curiae in the case. The rules (though not the Rule making power) were ultimately suspended by the Supreme Court. But key challenges remain: the NGT must focus less on governance issues and more on adjudication. Benches have to expand manifold. Vacancies have to be filled quickly. In its next decade, the NGT must continue to remain a proactive ‘inconvenience’ to all those who, while pontificating grandiloquently on the need for environmental protection, take actions that make economic growth ecologically unsustainable. Jairam Ramesh is a Member of Parliament and the Chair of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science & Technology, Environment & Forests||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-hues-in-the-green-tribunals-resilient-journey/article32888936.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Probing judicial impropriety and corruption||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy dropped a bomb last week when he wrote to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) accusing a sitting judge of the Supreme Court of judicial impropriety and corruption and State High Court judges of bias. Contents of the letter The letter refers to the purchase of agricultural land, in the area to be declared as the capital city of Andhra Pradesh, between the time when Chandrababu Naidu became Chief Minister in 2014 and the time when he announced the demarcation of the new capital at Amaravati. The charge is that the land was purchased by persons, including the Supreme Court judge’s daughters and in-laws (named subsequently in an FIR), after declaration of the capital area limits, at the same low price for the lands which existed before the demarcation, when in fact the market prices had skyrocketed, thereby causing huge pecuniary gain to them. In this connection, in March, the Principal Secretary (Home), Andhra Pradesh Government, wrote to the Secretary of the Union Ministry of Public Grievances and Pensions seeking a CBI inquiry into the findings of a Cabinet sub-committee, set up to investigate charges of corrupt dealings in land purchases. The sub-committee had “opined that public servants at the helm of affairs in the erstwhile government misused and abused their official position to pre-determine the location of the new capital and subsequently purchased lands to unjustly and illegally benefit their associates and their companies and businesses, family members and political party members…” Mr. Reddy accused the Supreme Court judge of influencing the allocation of benches at the State High Court (his parent High Court) to hear politically sensitive cases. This, he wrote, led to the passing of a string of orders staying a number of investigations of corruption against the Naidu government. One of the cases the letter cites to show that the High Court is favouring Mr. Naidu is an extraordinary order passed late one evening by the Chief Justice of the High Court staying all investigations into the FIR involving this land scam, which mentions the relatives of the Supreme Court judge as well as a former Advocate General as beneficiaries. The Chief Justice also issued an unprecedented gag order on the media from reporting the contents of the FIR. The letter also mentions the High Court’s recent order of an inquiry into a private conversation between a retired judge of the High Court and a district judge (under suspension). In the conversation, the retired judge is heard mentioning his knowledge about the corruption of this Supreme Court judge and asking the district judge if he has more information in this regard. The district judge then surprisingly files an application in a pending writ (seeking an investigation into the death of a backward class registrar of the High Court due to alleged violations of COVID-19 guidelines at the High Court) bringing on record this telephone conversation which he had secretly recorded. This unrelated conversation, filed in an intervention which was not even allowed, and which has nothing to do with the prayers in the main writ, is then made the basis for ordering an inquiry into what the High Court terms “designing a plot against The Hon’ble Chief Justice of High Court of Andhra Pradesh and another sitting Judge of the Supreme Court”. This is a rather extraordinary order, especially considering that much of the conversation contained information on the Supreme Court judge already in the public domain and does not make out any plot or conspiracy against a judge or the judiciary to warrant such an inquiry. With these developments, two questions have arisen: one, whether such a letter/complaint against the Supreme Court judge should have been put out in the public domain; and two, what the CJI’s response should be. In 1997, judges adopted an in-house procedure for inquiring into such charges. In case of a complaint against a Supreme Court judge, the CJI is expected to order an inquiry by three sitting judges of the Supreme Court. Though in C. Ravichandran Iyer v. Justice A.M. Bhattacharjee (1995), the court held that such complaints should be kept confidential, the unfortunate reality is that the judiciary tends to try and brush complaints of corruption against judges under the carpet. Sometimes, if the public becomes aware of such complaints, the CJI is compelled to order an inquiry. But we have often seen that even credible complaints against judges, made confidentially to the CJI, are ignored. The same is seen in attempts to impeach a judge. I have found that at least two conditions must be satisfied before a sufficient number of MPs are willing to sign an impeachment motion against a judge: there should be solid documentary evidence of corruption and it should have become a public scandal. In the absence of the second condition, MPs are reluctant to sign an impeachment motion even if there is documentary evidence of corruption. The  Ravichandran Iyer  decision, that the complaint should be kept confidential, is only likely to lead to more serious complaints being shelved. In any case, as the court has held, sunlight is the best disinfectant and there is no reason why such complaints, even if made against senior sitting judges, should not be put out in the public domain. The view that this would scandalise the court is archaic and has been discarded in most progressive democracies. Now, petitions have been moved seeking action against Mr. Reddy for releasing the letter to the media. Contempt proceedings against him would be counterproductive, since he is unlikely to be cowed down. The issue will probably escalate, further denting the image of the judiciary. Some say Mr. Reddy’s charges against the judge should not be taken seriously since he is himself facing several corruption cases. In fact, a Bench headed by the same Supreme Court judge ordered fast-tracking of such criminal cases against MPs and MLAs. However, the fact that the complainant may be corrupt should not cloud the view about the charges made by him; if those charges are serious and backed by evidence, they must be investigated. Charges of corruption can also be a ground for initiating impeachment. Such charges therefore cannot remain secret. What should the CJI do? The purpose of the in-house procedure is that all credible complaints of misconduct against judges of the High Court and Supreme Court should be looked into by a committee of judges. The charges made in Mr. Reddy’s complaint are serious and appear to warrant an in-house inquiry. The code of conduct requires an inquiry by three sitting judges of the Supreme Court. But in a complaint involving the senior-most puisne judge, it is unlikely that junior judges will conduct a robust and credible inquiry. In the case of the sexual harassment complaint against the previous CJI, Ranjan Gogoi, by a woman employee of the Supreme Court, the in-house committee did not allow the complainant to be accompanied by her lawyer, nor did it allow recording of the proceedings. The final report, which purportedly exonerated Mr. Gogoi, has not yet seen the light of day. Strangely, the woman whose allegations were found to be unsubstantiated by this committee was later reinstated by the Court. This casts serious doubts on the credibility of the report. Only retired judges of high credibility will be able to conduct a robust inquiry into Mr. Reddy’s complaint. The Chief Justice should set up a credible inquiry committee. This will enhance the reputation of the judiciary, dispel mistruths, and redeem the image of the judge concerned. Prashant Bhushan is a public interest advocate practising at the Supreme Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/probing-judicial-impropriety-and-corruption/article32888941.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The global pandemic and its impact on journalism||The COVID-19 pandemic has taken a toll on every sector. Its impact on journalism is immense. Economists have given us sufficient warnings about how the lack of reliable data in India hurts the most vulnerable. Just as we do not have data on migrant labourers, we do not have any data on COVID-19’s impact on Indian journalism. But a global survey gives us an indication of the cost extracted by the pandemic from the world of journalism. The International Center for Journalists (ICFJ) and Columbia’s Tow Center for Digital Journalism started the ‘Journalism and the Pandemic’ survey to understand how members of the media are faring in these trying times. The authors of this project are Julie Posetti, an award-winning journalist and academic who leads the ICFJ’s global research programme; Emily Bell, Founding Director of the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia Journalism School; and Peter Brown, Research Director at the Tow Center for Digital Journalism. They surveyed 1,406 English-speaking journalists and news workers from 125 countries with the aim of providing a meaningful and actionable snapshot of the challenges faced by journalists in the first few months after the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic.  Many threats Thirty per cent of the respondents who were reporting in the field during the first wave of the outbreak said their news organisations did not supply them with a single piece of recommended protective equipment. Forty-five per cent said they did not receive a face mask; 49% said they were not given hand sanitisers; and 85% said they did not receive appropriate technical equipment such as extendable boom microphones and telescopic lenses that would have enabled them to conduct interviews at a safe distance. The survey found other threats too. Seventy per cent of the respondents rated the psychological and emotional impacts of dealing with the COVID-19 crisis as the most difficult aspect of their work, and 82% reported having at least one negative emotional or psychological reaction as a result of the pandemic. Two-thirds of the respondents reported multiple negative mental health impacts. Twenty per cent said their experience of online abuse, harassment, threats or attacks was “much worse than usual”. The question of false balance comes out in a critical manner in the survey. In their report, ‘How are we feeling?’, the authors write: “Readers have been outraged at the commissioning of dangerously inflammatory opinion columns under the justification that it’s important to expose readers to a range of views.” Reliance on platforms such as WhatsApp and Facebook saw a sharp increase as reporters depended on remote sourcing rather than being a witness. Many questions emerge from this development: “Are they more like public meetings or private conversations? How secure are they? And what are the ethical implications of dependence on tech platforms for building communities?” The survey also said that “politicians and elected officials were identified by 46% of the respondents as a top source of disinformation, along with government agencies and their representatives (25%), and State-linked troll networks (23%), highlighting a serious lack of trust in political and governmental actors as the pandemic took hold.” It identified Facebook as a “prolific disinformation vector” (66%). Over one-third (35%) also found the Facebook-owned closed-messaging app WhatsApp as a top spreader; 11% of the respondents identified Instagram, also Facebook-owned, as a top enabler; 9% cited Facebook Messenger; and 42% cited Twitter as a “prolific disinformation spreader”. Some positive findings Amidst this generally depressing news, there were some positive findings too. Forty-three per cent of the respondents reported that audience trust in their journalism had increased during the first wave of the pandemic and 38% said they had experienced increased audience engagement (which was also largely positive) during the period. And 61% expressed an increased commitment to journalism as a result of the pandemic. Most respondents want to alter the publishing environment in favour of high-quality reporting, and governments and civil society organisations to reaffirm a belief in the value of critical, independent journalism. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-global-pandemic-and-its-impact-on-journalism/article32888940.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Still awaiting police reform||Police brutality in recent months has turned quotidian. The thrashing of a Dalit Ahirwar couple by the police in Guna district of Madhya Pradesh on July 14 was very distressing. But for the media coverage, the incident would have gone unnoticed. The District Collector and the Superintendent of Police have been transferred and six police personnel have been suspended since the incident. The matter will soon be forgotten. The public outcry following the brutal torture of J. Benicks and his father P. Jayaraj in Sattankulam town in Thoothkudi district of Tamil Nadu resulting in their death had still not died when news came that a gangster, Vikas Dubey, was killed by the Uttar Pradesh police in Kanpur when he allegedly tried to flee from custody. The police version of the incident was quite unbelievable. It looked like the law had been subverted. These incidents and several others show that we need immediate remedial measures lest the country witnesses an upheaval of the kind that the U.S. saw following the death of George Floyd. Should such a situation arise, it will be the political class that will squarely be held responsible, for it is they who have proved to be the stumbling block in the implementation of various apex court directives aimed at improving the functioning of the police. Solutions that remain on paper Commissions and committees are set up every time there are demands for police reforms after a major incident. Then the recommendations of such commissions and committees are simply consigned to the archives. But they are not forgotten as some senior police officials vociferously demand implementation of their recommendations from time to time.  The first serious attempt to overhaul the policing machinery was made when the National Police Commission (NPC) was set up in 1977. The NPC submitted eight reports to the Ministry of Home Affairs between 1979 and 1981. Seven of these reports were circulated to the States in 1983 with an annotation that “the Commission has been unduly critical of the political system or the functioning of the police force in general”. In a subtle manner, a signal had been sent. The report was put in cold storage until Prakash Singh, a retired IPS officer, filed a PIL in the apex court in 1996 demanding the implementation of the NPC’s recommendations. In 2006, the Supreme Court issued a slew of directives on police reform. These would have had a far-reaching impact had the States and the Centre paid any serious attention to them. But that would have upset the applecart of our politicians and even the bureaucrats, some of whom are known to be corrupt and mired in crime. According to a report by the Association for Democratic Reforms (2018), there were 1,580 MPs and MLAs facing criminal charges. Therein lies the crux of the matter. Turning a blind eye The one diktat that would hurt the most is the setting up of a State Security Commission (SSC) in each State which would divest the political leaders of the unbridled power that they wield at present. Of the States that constituted an SSC, only Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have made SSC recommendations binding on the State government, according to the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative  . Only six States provided a minimum tenure of two years to the Director General of Police (DGP). In Tamil Nadu, T.K. Rajendran, who was made DGP (Intelligence) and given full additional charge as DGP in September 2016, was formally appointed DGP on the day he attained the age of superannuation. Many States have not implemented a single directive of the Supreme Court. Since expecting political will to implement police reforms is a far cry, it is for the judiciary to step in and enforce the diktats it had passed. Fourteen years is too long a period for any further relaxation. The Court has to come down heavily on the States and the Centre to ensure that its directives are not dismissed lightly. A bold step towards bringing down crimes is possible only when the politicians-criminals-police nexus is strangled. M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), CRPF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/still-awaiting-police-reform/article32888937.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||No great escape||India’s poor progress on nutritional indices must dispel the hubris surrounding strong economic growth for years, and turn national focus on persisting hunger, wasting and stunting among children. This year’s Global Hunger Index (GHI) places India in the company of Sudan — rank 94 among 107 countries — with the unedifying assessment of the national situation as “serious”. The country’s score of 27.2 is the worst among BRICS countries, and inferior to Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. The GHI is developed around wasting and stunting (under five), the share of the population with insufficient caloric intake, and child mortality. Index scores by international agencies have been critiqued as flawed for choosing the wrong weights in scoring, and also for not including genetics and social determinants, but that would be a narrow view. The evidence from the NFHS-4 of 2015-16 is not very different. The reality is that national policy has no appetite for a radical transformation in the delivery of adequate nutrition especially to women and children, and has paid inadequate attention to achieving diet diversity through the PDS. On the other hand, the country is widely seen as falsely equating energy calories with a diverse diet. The existing deprivation has been aggravated by the pandemic, with food inflation putting pressure on depleted incomes or meagre pensions and savings. The NFHS-4 found that under-five stunting from chronic undernourishment stood at 38%, and wasting, a result of acute lack of nutrition, at 21%. These data represent some progress, at a drop of about 10 percentage points in both categories compared to a decade earlier, although steady economic prosperity should have yielded a far bigger social dividend. The latest GHI measure is a reminder that much work is necessary to bring the true benefits of the National Food Security Act to the unreached, not merely as hunger mitigation through cereals, but as nourishment through a diverse diet that includes fat, protein and micronutrients. But there are worrying indications that the Centre has chosen the wrong course. In its pursuit of fraud within the PDS, it is inclined to take hard measures that would deprive the disabled and the elderly of even cereals, by insisting on biometric verification to get supplies. Strengthening the PDS, with a focus on women’s health, would lead to healthier pregnancies, and stronger supplemental nutrition under the ICDS scheme would give children a better chance at all-round development. The importance of sustained, immediate intervention is further underscored by recent findings of International Food Policy Research Institute scholars that three out of four rural Indians cannot afford a balanced, nutritious diet. The right to food would be meaningless if it leaves a large section of Indians hungry, stunted and wasted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-great-escape/article32888932.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||An incomplete solution||The past week witnessed some forward, albeit inexplicably delayed, movement towards breaking the deadlock between the Centre and States on bridging this year’s shortfall in cess collections to recompense States for adopting the GST. Following a lack of consensus at a third meeting of the GST Council on the issue last Monday, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said States that had agreed to the Centre’s proposal could begin borrowing from the market. To recap — the Centre had argued that just Rs. 1.1-lakh crore of the estimated Rs. 2.35-lakh crore shortfall in GST cess inflows was due to GST implementation; the rest was due to COVID-19. States could borrow Rs. 1.1-lakh crore with interest and principal payments to come from future cess collections; or borrow the Rs. 2.35-lakh crore, but bear the interest from their coffers. By Wednesday, 21 States had agreed to the Centre’s first option and were permitted to raise about Rs. 79,000 crore (0.5% of their gross State domestic product) as additional borrowing linked to their acceptance of the option. On Thursday, however, the Centre changed tack and said it was now willing to borrow the Rs. 1.1-lakh crore and lend it onward. Calling this an administratively easier measure to ensure States do not end up borrowing at different interest rates, the Ministry asserted this would neither increase the fiscal deficit nor the general government debt. States and economists have welcomed this change of heart, especially as it helps bring in much needed cash for States to fight the pandemic. However, it is odd that the ‘administrative ease’ of the Centre borrowing and lending to States, had not struck North Block mandarins earlier — given that the cess collection worries surfaced soon after the lockdown was imposed. Over the course of the negotiations, States had urged the Centre to borrow and pay them, but the Finance Ministry had repeatedly stressed that this would push up interest rates and upset its fiscal math. Precious time could have been saved had the Centre made this offer earlier — seven months into a year that has seen economic activity and revenue sources dry up, and States have only received Rs. 20,000 crore from the GST cess. Kerala, which was considering a petition in the Supreme Court with other Opposition-ruled States, has cooled off on the legal route, but sought full payment of the Rs. 2.35-lakh crore shortfall this fiscal. On Friday, Ms Sitharaman wrote to Chief Ministers suggesting that the Rs. 1.1-lakh crore, in addition to the 0.5% of GSDP borrowing, would give them Rs. 2.16-lakh crore, or almost 90% of the compensation shortfall. Cash flow assurances aside, the Centre must now talk to States to ensure greater clarity on the unanswered questions — including when the States will get the balance GST compensation. That is imperative to sustain the fragile peace attained for now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-incomplete-solution/article32888933.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The Coal Strike (From an editorial)||The threatened strike of the miners in Britain has now began. On the merits of the miners’ claims, the non-recognition of which has resulted in the present disastrous strike, we do not now propose to enter. We shall we be content with touching briefly the position taken up by the Government and the miners respectively. The Government’s case is that at the present level of coal prices and wages of miners, many of the mines could just only manage without closing down and that therefore no rise in wages or reduction in prices was justifiable or possible. The Government strengthened their position with statistics which tended to show that, far from production increasing or at least keeping pace with rise in wages, it had fallen concurrently with such rise. The miners, on the other hand, at first contended that there must be effected a reduction in prices by 14s.2d per ton and, subsequently, shifting their ground, asked for a 2s. increase in wages. The miners are consumers as well as producers of coal and they are interested as much in getting coal prices decreased as in getting miners’ wages increased; and hence their first request to get coal prices reduced as the cost of living was high.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-coal-strike-from-an-editorial/article32888938.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Quebec extremists kill minister||Quebec extremists executed Labour Minister Pierre Laporte after holding him captive for a week but as a wave of deep shock and anger swept Canada there was confusion over the fate of the second kidnap victim — British diplomat James Cross. The body of Mr. Laporte, 49-year-old father of two children, was found wrapped in blood-covered blankets in the boot of a car in Montreal, with a single bullet hold through his head. Police in reporting the grisly find last night also said they had discovered the body of Mr. Cross abducted from his Montreal home on October 5, by members of the Quebec Liberation Front (F.L.Q.). But the police later would not confirm or deny the report. A Montreal radio station reported that a letter written by Mr. Cross saying he was alive was recieved to-day [October 18] by the Montreal police. With the letter was a communique from the F.L.Q. Police later confirmed receipt of the letter and communique. According to the radio station the communique said the full demands of the F.L.Q. must be met or Mr. Cross would be executed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/quebec-extremists-kill-minister/article32888939.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||All eggs in one basket Q.I am a 41-year-old from Chennai and have bought a medical insurance policy named iHealth for myself recently from ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Ltd. In addition to my health insurance, I have also taken two-wheeler and accident insurance policies from ICICI Lombard. Likewise, I am paying premium for two unit-linked insurance policies with SBI Life Insurance Company for the past three years (one is a pension policy and the other, a life insurance policy) and also have selected SBI as the fund manager in Tier I of my NPS account. I would like to know what the advantages and disadvantages of enrolling with a single insurer for various insurance products are? SETHURAMAN H A.Congratulations on being a believer in insurance for so many of your needs and for your several and diversified investment options. The core decision you have to make when buying insurance is whether a product suits your requirements, about which you should have clarity. The choice of an insurance company should be a natural progression of this. Having said this, if you have several policies with the same insurer for whatever reason, you become a priority customer and the relationship gets stronger to your benefit. Administration of policies becomes easier in case of change of address, for example, as you have to get in touch only with one person in the organisation, usually. Across life and general insurance, this synergy will work if you have gone through the same intermediary because the entities, even if they belong to the same business group, are entirely different. Of course, the intermediary can simply be the bank that also belongs to the same group! Coming to the disadvantages, should the business group face difficulties, then all your products will also be at risk and administrative and procedural issues can get bogged down and complicated. But your benefits and rights as a policyholder will be safeguarded even if your insurer fails because Indian insurance regulations ensure that another insurer will be given the responsibility. Starting health insurance policy Q.My father is 60 years old. Is it possible to start a new health insurance policy with full claim from now? T. K. P. THAMARA A.The short answer to that is ‘No.’ There will be a blanket 30-day waiting period for any claim under a new policy except hospitalisation because of an accident. At his age, a pre-underwriting medical examination will be necessary and all hospitalisation policies exclude pre-existing conditions for three or four years. In addition, some treatments and procedures will be payable after two years and this differs from policy to policy.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article32888929.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article32888930.ece
19 October 2020||DUBAI,||AB greatest of all time: Katich||Royal Challengers Bangalore’s head coach Simon Katich described A.B. de Villiers as a “freak” who single-handedly won the game against Rajasthan Royals on Saturday. “He is a freak, isn’t he? That’s why he is the greatest of all time. What we saw was another masterclass, we have seen a number of them already in this tournament. “He had one here against Mumbai, and obviously the other day he got 73 off 33,” said Katich during the press conference. The coach also said that they learned from their mistake in the last game and ensured that de Villiers batted at his usual No. 4 spot. The South African star had come in at No. 6 against KXIP on Thursday. “We certainly made sure that he batted in his right position today [Saturday]. We certainly learnt from our mistake and he was wonderful. “The reason we won was I think he was magnificent, Chris Morris was brilliant, (Yuzvendra Chahal) got us back in the game with his two wickets, we had a number of crucial performances but AB basically won us the game single-handedly.” ‘Serious batting’ Royals captain Steve Smith said it was just “serious batting” by de Villiers, who made the penultimate over look so “awful“. “In hindsight and now in the result, yeah absolutely,” Smith said when asked if he should have bowled Jofra Archer in the 19th over. “But look, it is a tough one. Jaydev bowls this cutters and stuff into the wicket and bowls really well normally to a long boundary at the leg side. It wasn’t an awful over, it was some pretty serious batting to be honest. “There are not too many guys who can hit the ball the way AB did, under pressure, to a big side and clear the fence very easily... But hindsights are a wonderful thing, isn’t it?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ab-greatest-of-all-time-katich/article32889021.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Kings rule after incredible finish||Kings XI Punjab struggled with its death-overs bowling yet again, as Mumbai Indians’ late charge resulted in an above-par total of 176 for six at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium on Sunday. Kieron Pollard came to the party for the second time against KXIP this season, the Caribbean’s cameo (34 n.o., 12b, 1x4, 4x6) and his unbroken partnership of 57 off just 21 balls with Nathan Coulter-Nile (24 n.o., 12b, 4x4) putting MI in control. With the conditions more favourable to bowlers this time around, KXIP would be disappointed not to have restricted MI, especially after the good work early on. Thanks to an inspired performance with the new ball, KXIP put MI under pressure at the outset. Rohit Sharma’s decision to bat first seemed to have backfired as the team lost three wickets in the PowerPlay. Steadying the ship But, undeterred by the dismissals at the other end, Quinton de Kock (53, 43b, 3x4, 3x6) anchored the innings yet again with his fourth half-century of the season. The South African steadied the ship through a 58-run stand with Krunal Pandya (34, 30b, 4x4, 1x6). However, three quick wickets — that of the Pandya brothers and de Kock — appeared to have pegged MI back. de Kock was caught at deep-square off Chris Jordan in the 17th over. Pollard and Coulter-Nile then cut loose. The former was at his blistering best, going after Mohammed Shami, the pick of the bowlers (4-0-30-2), the experienced Jordan and rookie left-arm pacer Arshdeep Singh, who had earned the prize scalps of Rohit and Ishan Kishan. Young Arshdeep was carted around for 22 runs in the 18th over of the innings, including back-to-back trademark straight sixes by Pollard, apart from a boundary from Coulter-Nile. Shami suffered less, conceding only 12 in the penultimate over, but Pollard was back in the swing, hitting Jordan for 19 runs in the 20th over, including two sixes and a four.   Kings 87 for two  Kings were 87 for two in 10 overs, with Rahul (38) and Pooran (11) at the crease. Mayank (11) and Gayle (24) were dismissed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pollard-blitz-powers-mi-to-176/article32888992.ece
19 October 2020||SHARJAH,||A move that proved costly||Chennai Super Kings’ left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja bowling the final over was an advantage for the Delhi Capitals’ left-handed duo of Shikhar Dhawan and Axar Patel, the senior opener said after his maiden IPL hundred. Dhawan scored 101, capitalising on the ‘lives’ he got, while Axar smashed three sixes in the final over as Capitals knocked off the required 17 runs for a five-wicket win here on Saturday. “We knew (Dwayne) Bravo would not be able to bowl the last over and it would be Jadeja. Being left-handers, we had a certain advantage against him,” Dhawan said at the post-match press conference. “Sam Curran bowled very well in the 19th over, his yorker execution was very good. There was dew and we took advantage of that as well,” Dhawan said. He praised Axar’s contribution and said having a quality all-rounder makes a big difference. “Axar Patel has been a great asset. Whenever we demand good overs from him, he does the job. He is normally very economical. Having a quality all-rounder makes a big difference.” Being positive On his own performance, Dhawan said he tries to remain positive and confident. “I was always focusing on my process. I was playing well. I stayed positive and confident. Every time I score runs, I make mistakes as well. I was analysing what to do, what shot to play and what not to play. I pick and choose what shots to play or strategy I should use on different kinds of pitches.” Dhawan felt the team was playing good cricket and everyone was doing their job. “It is a great feeling. The best thing is we are playing very good cricket, everyone is doing their job and that’s a great sign for us. We all stay hungry and we make sure that we focus on the process. We guys make sure that we stay fresh as well,” he said.  Whenever we demand good overs from him (Axar), he does the job. He is normally very economical||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-move-that-proved-costly/article32889020.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Ferguson delivers for KKR in Super Over||Two wickets from Lockie Ferguson helped Kolkata Knight Riders snatch a thrilling Super Over victory over Sunrisers Hyderabad at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Sunday. The Kiwi pacer nipped out David Warner and Abdul Samad in three deliveries, leaving KKR with just three runs to chase. Earlier, KKR had the upper hand with SRH needing 18 to win off the final over. Warner swung the momentum SRH’s way with a hat-trick of fours off Andre Russell. With four required off two, Russell pulled it back, conceding just three and stretching the match to a Super Over. Chasing 164, Jonny Bairstow (36, 28b, 7x4) and Kane Williamson (29, 19b, 4x4, 1x6) gave SRH a flying start. The side cruised to 58 for no loss in PowerPlay, before Ferguson, playing his first match, had Williamson caught off his first ball. Priyam Garg, Bairstow and Manish Pandey then fell in quick succession before Pat Cummins accounted for Vijay Shankar. However, Warner’s unbeaten 33-ball 47 (5x4) ensured that the teams finished on an even keel. Put in to bat, KKR scored just 15 off the first three overs before Rahul Tripathi switched gears, hitting T. Natarajan for a six and a four in the fourth over. At the other end, Shubman Gill (36, 37b, 5x4) broke the shackles with three back-to-back boundaries off Basil Thampi. However, Natarajan provided SRH the breakthrough, castling Tripathi. Nitish Rana (29, 20b, 3x4, 1x6) provided the innings the much-needed momentum. Rana hit two back-to-back boundaries off Rashid before launching him over long-on. Rashid sent back Gill before Vijay Shankar got rid of Rana. The move to promote Russell did not pay dividends and it was left to an enterprising 58-run fifth-wicket stand between Dinesh Karthik (29, 14b, 2x4, 2x6) and Eoin Morgan (34, 23b, 3x4, 1x6) — the two plundered 52 off the last four overs — to give KKR a total of 163. Ferguson then took over.   Super Over   SRH: W, 2, W;  Bowler: Ferguson  KKR: 0, 1, 0, 2 leg byes; Bowler: Rashid||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ferguson-delivers-for-kkr-in-super-over/article32888989.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Elavenil clinches gold||Elavenil Valarivan won the women’s gold in the Sheikh Russel international air rifle championship organised online by the Bangladesh Shooting Federation on Sunday. The women’s world No. 1, the 21-year-old Elavenil shot a total of 627.5 with her 60 shots for the gold. Elavenil beat Shiori Orata of Japan comfortably, even though she was far from her best. There was more success for India in the six-nation competition as Shahu Tushar Mane won the men’s silver. With the best rifle shooters of the country busy preparing for the National camp in the capital, the 18-year-old Youth Olympic Games silver medallist got his chance to compete. Japan’s Naoya Okada was too good in clinching the men’s gold with a total of 630.9, more than seven points ahead of the Indian. Host Bangladesh won the men’s bronze through Abdullah Hel Baki. The gold medallists won $1000 each while the silver and bronze medals were worth $700 and $500 respectively.  The results: 10m air rifle: Men: 1. Naoya Okada (Jpn) 630.9; 2. Shahu Tushar Mane 623.8; 3. Abdullah Hel Baki (Ban) 617.3.       Women: 1. Elavenil Valarivan 627.5; 2. Shiori Orata (Jpn) 622.6; 3. Vidya Rafika Rahmatan Toyyiba (Ina) 621.1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/elavenil-clinches-gold/article32889022.ece
19 October 2020||Kolkata,||Mohun Bagan officially crowned champion||The Hero I-League trophy for the year 2019-20 was officially handed over to champion Mohun Bagan at a function organised in a city hotel here on Sunday. With the COVID-19 pandemic halting the tournament and all other sports activities in the country, the official trophy presentation was delayed for around seven months after Mohun Bagan clinched the title with four rounds to spare. Mohun Bagan has since then moved into ISL after merging with ISL champion ATK.  With the new entity replacing the team that won its last I-League crown, the function saw a reunion as some of the erstwhile Mohun Bagan players regrouped in the city to receive the trophy along with the officials of the club. I-League CEO Sunando Dhar presented the trophy to Mohun Bagan. Also present were West Bengal Sports Minister Aroop Biswas and Indian Football Association secretary Joydeep Mukherjee. Dhar said that Mohun Bagan played the “best brand of football” and made it memorable by winning the title with a record four rounds to spare. Mohun Bagan then took a trophy tour from the hotel to the official address of the club with hundreds of its fans joining the 14km journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohun-bagan-officially-crowned-champion/article32889011.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Dhawan-powered DC edges CSK||Shikhar Dhawan made Chennai Super Kings pay a heavy price for some shoddy fielding as he slammed an unbeaten 101 (58b, 14x4, 1x6) to carry Delhi Capitals to a five-wicket win at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Saturday. CSK’s butterfingered fielders dropped the opener four times as the side succumbed to its sixth defeat even as DC went top of the table. Despite Dhawan’s knock, DC still needed 17 off the last over, but Axar Patel punished Ravindra Jadeja, slamming three sixes to seal the match with a ball to spare. Death-overs specialist Dwayne Bravo had one over left, but the West Indian had left the field for some treatment and Dhoni had to choose between Jadeja and Karn Sharma. Chasing 180, DC lost Prithvi Shaw and Ajinkya Rahane cheaply to Deepak Chahar, but Dhawan sent the CSK bowlers on a leather hunt. The left-hander was at his fluent best, charging bowlers at will and unleashing his brute power, to record his maiden IPL century.   Capitals 76 for two  Capitals were 76 for two in 10 overs, with Dhawan (51) and Shreyas (15) batting. Shaw (0) and Rahane (8) were dismissed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhawan-powered-dc-edges-csk/article32888990.ece
19 October 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Struggling Super Kings and Royals in a battle for survival||Sailing in the same boat, Chennai Super Kings (CSK) and Rajasthan Royals (RR) lock horns here on Monday with the knowledge that any more slip-ups could dash their slim play-off hopes. With just five matches remaining for both the teams, the road ahead is definitely going to be tricky. Improvement Saturday’s outing against Delhi Capitals was a nightmare for the Super Kings fielders and Dhoni would certainly seek improvement in that department. Royals also find themselves in a very difficult situation and desperately need to explore ways to close out games. Captain Steve Smith’s return to form was welcome news for Royals, but star all-rounder Ben Stokes is yet to fire. Sanju Samson has been subdued after his early exploits. Robin Uthappa seems to have found some form at the top, scoring 41 off 22 balls against RCB on Saturday. The Jofra Archer-led bowling attack looked ordinary in front of the marauding Royal Challengers Bangalore batsmen, particularly A.B. de Villiers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clash-between-strugglers/article32888993.ece
19 October 2020||London,||West Ham scripts amazing fightback||Real Madrid and Barcelona each wore pink jerseys in their respective games on Saturday in LaLiga but the unusual fashion experiment did not turn out well for either side. Madrid, which wore its pink kit to show support for World Breast Cancer day, fell to a shock 1-0 defeat at home to promoted Cadiz, while a few miles down the road Barcelona, also sporting pink, then lost 1-0 at Getafe. It was the first time the two giants of Spanish football had both lost league matches on the same day without scoring since May 6, 2000, when Barca went down 2-0 to Rayo Vallecano and Madrid was beaten 1-0 by Alaves. Weaknesses The twin results showcased both side’s weaknesses at the worst possible time, a week before they meet each other in the ‘Clasico’, Spanish football’s showcase game. Talk of Antoine Griezmann’s best position had dominated the build-up to Barca’s game at Getafe after the striker had scored for France against Croatia and appeared to send a message to coach Ronald Koeman for not playing him in his favoured role. The Frenchman’s grievances looked woefully out of place, however, when a glorious chance fell his way early in the game only for him to blast the ball way over the bar. Harrowing first half Real coach Zinedine Zidane has long been an advocate of rotating his squad to keep his top players sharp, but the harrowing first half display against Cadiz showed this policy is now fraught with risk. The Frenchman hauled off three players plus an injured Sergio Ramos at the start of the second half after his side had conceded five clear chances to Cadiz and he later remarked that Madrid was lucky to not be 3-0 down by halftime. In 2016/2017 the likes of Lucas Vazquez and Isco used to shine when given the chance, but both players were quickly hooked on Saturday after poor displays in the 1-0 loss.  The results: Premier League: Sheffield United 1 (Sharp 85-pen) drew with Fulham 1 (Lookman 77); Crystal Palace 1 (Zaha 19-pen) drew with Brighton 1 (MacAllister 90).   Serie A: Bologna 3 (Soriano 9, Svanberg 39, Orsolini 60) lost to Sassuolo 4 (Berardi 18, Djuricic 64, Caputo 70, Tomiyasu 77-og); Torino 2 (Belotti 4-pen, 49) lost to Cagliari 3 (Joŗo Pedro 12, Simeone 19, 73); Spezia 2 (Verde 39, Farias 75) drew with Fiorentina 2 (Pezzela 2, Biraghi 4).   LaLiga: Eibar 0 drew with Osasuna 0.   Bundesliga: FC Cologne 1 (Duda 52) drew with Eintracht Frankfurt 1 (Silva 45+2-pen).   Saturday: Premier League: Manchester City 1 (Sterling 23) bt Arsenal 0; Newcastle 1 (Shaw 2-og) lost to Manchester United 4 (Maguire 23, Fernandes 86, Wan-Bissaka 90, Rashford 90+6).   Serie A: Sampdoria 3 (Quagliarella 32, Augello 41, Damsgaard 74) bt Lazio 0; Crotone 1 (Tochukwu Nwankwo 12-pen) drew with Juventus 1 (Morata 21).   LaLiga: Celta Vigo 0 lost to Atletico Madrid 2 (Suarez 6, Carrasco 90+5).   Real Madrid 0 lost to Cadiz 1 (Lozano 16); Getafe 1 (Mata 56-pen) bt Barcelona 0.   Bundesliga: Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Doan 58) lost to Bayern Munich 4 (Muller 8, 51, Lewandowski 26, 45+1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spains-big-two-left-blushing-pink/article32889025.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Bravo blow for CSK||Chennai Super Kings’ season of misery continued with Dwayne Bravo set to miss the next few matches after picking up an injury during the match against Delhi Capitals on Saturday. Bravo’s absence forced CSK to use Ravindra Jadeja for the last over while defending 17 runs and Axar Patel hit the left-arm spinner for three sixes to seal it. After the match, coach Stephen Fleming gave an update on Bravo’s injury. “I think he has a right groin injury. It was serious enough for him not to come back and bowl. He could be out for a few days or maybe a couple of weeks,” said Fleming. It is understood that the all-rounder has undergone a scan and the result will be known on Monday. In case, the injury is serious, Bravo could miss the remainder of the tournament since CSK’s last match is on November 1 against KXIP. On the team’s sixth loss, the coach laid the blame squarely on the poor fielding. “We gave Dhawan a few lives. He was playing well, but we had opportunities to get him early and we didn’t take them,” said the former New Zealand captain. “If we could have got him out early, the game might have been different.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bravo-blow-for-csk/article32888994.ece
19 October 2020||Kochi,||Young Blasters ties up with Sporthood||Young Blasters, the grassroots and youth development initiative of Kerala Blasters FC (KBFC), has announced a five-year tie-up with Sporthood, which runs a network of sports centres, to spread the KBFC style of football across the State through a standardised and scientific form of coaching. The partnership aims at combining core strengths of both the entities to reach out and provide quality and systematic footballing infrastructure (online, on-ground) to a larger base of young talent from across the State. The programme running at potential football venues will now be called ‘Young Blasters-Sporthood Academy’ (YBSA). Promising talent (five to 15 years) from YBSA, that will be operating in different districts, will have an opportunity to be promoted to the Young Blasters District Centre of Excellence (CoE) based on their performance in KBFC trials. The best talent (above 14 years) from the Young Blasters District CoE’s will then have a chance to be selected to the Young Blasters High Performance Academy. The programme also aims to organise training and certification of new coaches joining the YBSA and to provide a platform for coaching education to all empanelled coaches on a periodic basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/young-blasters-ties-up-with-sporthood/article32889145.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Diti’s conception||Many hymns addressed to the Supreme Lord by deities such as Brahma, Rudra, Indra, and by sages such as the Sanatkumaras, Narada and so on are found in the Bhagavata Purana. These describe the Lord’s transcendent nature as well as His divine presence in every aspect of creation to stress His Paratva, Supremacy and His Saulabhya, accessibility by which man can realise Him as the prime indwelling force. So, when the Devas approach Brahma for help to alleviate their fears caused by Diti’s conception, they praise him with the divine attributes exclusive to the Paramatma. It is to be noted that though Brahma is directly addressed in their hymn, the praise is clearly to the Paramatma who is the only Master and creator of all power holders, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. For actually, Brahma himself who is created by Him and is entrusted with the powers to create, only reflects His glory. The Devas pray that Brahma does something to save the world from the gloom. Brahma then explains the entire background of the situation, going back to the visit of the Sanatkumaras to Vaikunta when out of divine Sankalpa many incidents happened. The gatekeepers of Vaikunta and the Lord’s personal attendants, Jaya and Vijaya, are cursed to be born as demons on earth and would have to seek Him through enmity. When Diti conceives during the sandhya kala, it portends ill effects. This is the reason for the disturbances that take place at the time of their birth. Actually Diti repents for her impulsive act by which she now bears in her foetus a pair of wicked sons. Kashyapa consoles her that they will be blessed and will die at the hands of the Lord and that one of her grandsons would be a great devotee, foretelling the advent of Prahlada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ditis-conception/article32888987.ece
19 October 2020||Thrissur:,||Jubin Jimmy wins title||FIDE Master Jubin Jimmy (Kollam) won the Thrissur leg of the qualifiers for the all-Kerala online Open chess tournament here on Saturday. Jubin tallied 8.5 points in the nine round tournament. This is the second title for Jubin as he had earlier won the Kozhikode leg. O.T. Anilkumar (Kozhikode) was second with eight points while Adballa M. Nishtar (Kollam) was third, also with eight.  Final standings (Open):   1. Jubin Jimmy (Klm, 8.5 points), 2. O.T. Anilkumar (Koz, 8), 3. Abdalla M. Nishtar (Klm 8), 4. K. Gagan Bharadwaj (Ksgd, 7.5), 5. P. Jayakrishnan (Ksgd, 7.5), 6. D.V. Ananthapadmanabhan (Ekm, 7.5), 7. N.R. Anilkumar (Tsr, 7), 8. S. Pournami (Pkd, 7), 9. Ajeesh Antony (Knr, 7), 10. S. Adithya (Tsr, 7).   Qualifiers from Thrissur: Anilkumar, Adithya, Shawad Shamsudeen, Syed Rehman Nazeer, Ebin Benny, Jos Paul Davis, K.K. Manikantan, V.R. Manoj, Paul Kodaly and Shaheen Ainikkal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jubin-jimmy-wins-title/article32889144.ece
19 October 2020||CHENNAI:,||Harish brings joy to Happy 11s||Harish (129) powered Happy 11s to a seven-wicket over Eleven Rising Star in the final of the Elite Trophy inter-academy tournament, conducted by KCM Sports Foundation, recently.  The scores (final): Eleven Rising Star 221 in 48.1 overs (Aadil 63, Rushilkumar 59, Dinesh 4/32, Goutham Sharath 3/24) lost to Happy 11s 224/3 in 27.1 overs (Srinivasan 43, Harish 129, Udeshmillan 33).   Special awards: Player-of-the-final: Harish (Happy 11s); Best batsman: Harish; Best bowler: Dinesh (Happy 11s) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harish-brings-joy-to-happy-11s/article32889279.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Siddhant’s golden goal clinches it for Sona Polo||Siddhant Sharma scored four goals, including the golden goal in the sudden-death fifth chukker, to steer Sona Polo to a 6-5 victory over Rajnigandha Achievers in the final of the Bhopal Pataudi Cup 8-goal polo tournament at the Jaipur Polo ground here on Sunday. It was Sunjay Kapur who forced the tie-break with an equaliser in the last minute of the fourth chukker, after Achievers had led. Siddhant converted a 60-yard penalty to clinch it for Sona Polo. The season will continue with the Cavalry Gold Cup 10-goal tournament next week.  The results (final): Sona Polo 6 (Siddhant Sharma 4, Tommy Severn, Sunjay Kapur) bt Rajnigandha Achievers 5 (Daniel Otamendi 4, Padmanabh Singh) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siddhants-golden-goal-clinches-it-for-sona-polo/article32889190.ece
19 October 2020||MUMBAI,||MCFC signs Mourtada Fall||ISL franchise Mumbai City FC (MCFC) on Sunday signed Senegalese defender Mourtada Fall on a two-year contract. The 32-year-old centre-half started his playing career with Moghreb Tetouan, featuring for the Moroccan club over three spells. “We have a fantastic group here and some very talented youngsters,” Fall said in a statement issued by the club.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mcfc-signs-mourtada-fall/article32889017.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Women’s wrestling camp from today||All the 12 women wrestlers who have assembled at SAI centre in Lucknow, including Olympic qualifier Vinesh Phogat, have tested negative for coronavirus, clearing the decks for the resumption of training from Monday. Sakshi Malik (62kg), Seema (50kg), Lalita (53kg) and Nisha (68kg) will join the camp from Oct. 25. “All the wrestlers have tested negative. We will begin with light training from tomorrow,” said National coach Kuldeep Malik “The focus will be on general fitness, gym training, running and exercise. The mat training will only start from next week (starting October 26),” he added. The camp, postponed twice due to the pandemic, will continue till Dec. 31.  Wrestlers at the camp:   50kg: Nirmala Devi, Pinki, Ankush; 53kg: Vinesh Phogat, Anju; 57kg: Anshu Malik, Sarita Mor, Pooja Dhanda; 62kg: Sonam Malik, Navjot Kaur.   68kg: Divya Kakran, Anita .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-wrestling-camp-from-today/article32889024.ece
19 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Narine’s action cleared||The Indian Premier League Suspect Bowling Action Committee has cleared Kolkata Knight Riders spinner Sunil Narine, the IPL said IN a statement ahead of KKR’s match against Sunrisers Hyderabad in Abu Dhabi on Sunday. Narine was reported for “suspected illegal bowling action” during KKR’s match against Kings XI Punjab in Abu Dhabi on October 10. Following the report, Narine was placed on the Suspect Action Warning List. After reviewing footage of Narine’s bowling action “with the naked eye”, the committee concluded “the elbow-bend appears to be within the range of permissible limits” and removed the West Indian from the warning list. It noted: “Narine should reproduce the same action going forward in IPL 2020 matches as presented to the Committee in the video footage.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-panel-clears-narines-action/article32888997.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Manmeet gets past Junaid||Manmeet Bhatia got past Junaid Ahmed 32-16, 22-32, 25-16, 35-24 in the Suresh Sharma memorial Delhi State 6-Red snooker championship.  The results: Avinash Kumar bt Subodh Garg 33-31, 33-18, 48-11; Manmeet Bhatia bt Junaid Ahmed 32-16, 22-32, 25-16, 35-24; Sanchit Gupta bt Mayank Rana 28-19, 52-0, 42-20 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manmeet-gets-past-junaid/article32889191.ece
19 October 2020||PANAJI,||Jeje joins SC East Bengal||SC East Bengal on Sunday announced the signing of striker Jeje Lalpekhlua ahead of the upcoming Indian Super League season. The 29-year-old was a free agent after leaving Chennaiyin FC earlier this year. The club also announced the signing of Scottish defender Danny Fox and German midfielder Ville Matti Steinmann from Wigan Athletic and Wellington Phoenix FC respectively.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jeje-joins-sc-east-bengal/article32889012.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 08:00 IST,||Sudoku - October 19, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-19-2020/article32889479.ece
19 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Fight will go on against Centre’s agriculture laws, says Punjab CM||Ahead of the two-day special session of the Punjab Assembly, beginning October 19, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday said views of the MLAs would be taken into account while finalising the strategy to battle the Centre’s farm laws, in consultation with legal and independent experts. The Opposition parties — Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal — however, questioned the State government’s alleged “secrecy” surrounding the proposed agenda. “This fight will go on, we will take the fight to the Supreme Court,” Captain Amarinder said at a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP). He said the whole world was watching Punjab with a lot of expectation and the views of the MLAs were extremely important for drafting a comprehensive strategy to protect the State’s farmers and agriculture.  ‘Clear stand’ He said for the Congress, the fight was not about politics but to save the State’s farmers and decision will be taken in the interest of the farming community. Taking a dig at the Akalis, the Chief Minister said the Congress was not double-faced and had a clear stand on the issue of the farm laws. Extend session: AAP AAP has demanded an extension to the proposed one-day special session to at least seven days to discuss and debate threadbare the implications of the farm laws. A delegation of the party, led by Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, met Assembly Speaker Rana K.P. Singh and submitted a memorandum flagging certain core issues of concern. “Barely a few hours were left for the special session to commence, neither the Punjab government nor the Vidhan Sabha secretariat had informed the principal opposition party about the detailed agenda to be put across in the Vidhan Sabha,” he said. ‘Fool-proof legislation’ The SAD asked the Chief Minister to come out with a fool-proof legislation so that the rights of the farmers were secured in perpetuity. SAD leaders Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Bikram Singh Majithia said there were already apprehensions that the Congress was hand-in- glove with the Modi government and had purposely not taken all stakeholders into confidence so that no effective step was taken to stymie the implementation of the Central laws in Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fight-will-go-on-against-centres-agriculture-laws-says-punjab-cm/article32889127.ece
19 October 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested wrongfully in riots case granted bail||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a 65-year-old man, who was arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, noting there was no evidence against him and that rather he was a victim of the incident. “That petitioner [Mr. Singh] is a victim of the riots. His house was also damaged by an unlawful assembly to which he has also lodged a complaint dated February 28,” the court said. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait granted bail to Mithan Singh against whom the police have registered a case for rioting at Khajuri Khas police station here. The Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) had opposed bail plea stating that there are serious allegations against Mr. Singh of him playing “an active role in the riots”. The SPP said Mr. Singh’s name cropped up after different complaints were merged. ‘Complaints merged’ The SPP said the complaints made on March 3 and March 5 did not mention Mr Singh’s name but he and his son’s name cropped up on March 13 when other complaints were merged. The SPP said the bail plea deserves to be dismissed. Justice Kait, however, pointed out that on perusal of the complaints initially made, it reveals that no role was assigned to Mr. Singh, however, in supplementary statements he and his sons are named. ‘No video or photograph’ “It is also a fact that there is no video clip or photograph on record against the petitioner whereby the petitioner was chargesheeted in the present crime,” Justice Kait said adding, “In view of above, I am of the view that the petitioner deserves bail.” The court ordered that Mr. Singh shall be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs. 25,000 with one surety in the like amount. “It is made clear that the trial court shall not get influenced by the observations made by this court while passing the order,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-wrongfully-in-riots-case-granted-bail/article32889193.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Will give fresh faces a chance again in 2022 polls’||With a vision to enhance its stature in the 2022 civic body elections, the BJP in Delhi has pressed the reboot button. Delhi BJP presidentAdesh Gupta  speaks to The Hindu on issues ranging from the recent reorganisation of the party’s State unit and internal discontent to repeating its strategy of fielding fresh faces in the polls.  You took over the reins of BJP’s Delhi unit months after its defeat in the Assembly polls. What is your plan to rejuvenate the party in Delhi?  We have started doing that from the bottom upwards. We began with making a new team and reorganising the party’s organisation from the mandal level. In fact, both the zila and mandal levels have been reorganised to include women, young faces, and those with an impeccable social image. From October 25, we will begin training the new team at identifying and countering the failures of the AAP government and in the merits and the vision of the Modi-led government at the Centre. Over 28,000 party workers will be trained in relation to the vision, ideology and organisational integrity of the party. How did you choose individuals for various posts?  The main objective was to pump young and energetic individuals into the party. No one was chosen because they are considered close to someone else. We did not impose the choices of the party’s leadership on the cadre. We surveyed and made choices on the basis of the opinions of over 5,000 individuals connected to the party and by considering how they could add to the organisational strength of the State unit. There seems to be some discontent in the unit after the reorganisation. Some individuals — from MPs to previous office bearers — are apparently unhappy. How do you plan to persuade everyone to come together and work for the same objective?  I would not say there is discontent but, rather, disagreements which are characteristic of any big family. The party’s constitution limits the number of posts but just because someone did not get one doesn’t mean they will not be utilised. We have spoken to each other about the fact that overall we now have a very good team with an average age of 47; the strengths and efforts of every individual will be needed and utilised whether or not they occupy a post. What are your strategies for the municipal polls in 2022? What do you think are the strengths you will build your campaign on?  Despite being starved for funds, the Municipal Corporations of Delhi have done very good work in public healthcare, education and mitigating pollution, which the people of the city know. Delhi has a peculiar system because of its municipality authorities. Many times, the civic body does the best possible work but it either falls through because of the inaction of another authority. People know this. On one hand, we have undertaken projects such as improvements related to landfills – both the Bhalswa and Ghazipur landfills will see drastic reductions in height within a year – and on the other, we will expose the Delhi government for its failure in not doing what it has the power to, in relation to civic issues for the elections. Are you likely to field fresh faces in the municipal elections like in 2017? Do you think such a strategy would work again? What is your stance on the reunification of the three civic bodies?  It is too early to say precisely what the party will do but I will say that it believes in the potential of such an approach. It believes in pumping fresh blood into the organisation and giving people with a clean image and reputation a platform to influence social change. So we will surely give such people a chance in 2022 as well. As far as reunification is concerned, that is a long process and there is no proposal for it at the moment though it is clear that they were divided due to political reasons. At the end of the day, whether there are three bodies or one, they will depend on funding from the State government, which is hurting them by delaying funds. Delhi government is attacking the BJP-run civic bodies on a daily basis, regarding the lack of funds to run hospitals and schools. How do you respond to these charges? Where does the problem related to funding actually lie and why?  In this city, the fact that the civic bodies do 90% of the work and must remain dependent on the Delhi government for 90% of the funds is a tragedy. The Delhi government has surpassed all limits when it comes to starving the corporations for funds which obviously hampers their work. But in spite of it, they have performed exceedingly well on various fronts. On one hand, there are the civic bodies that are doing the best they can despite delayed funding and on the other, is a government which promises to pay the examination fees of economically backward students but refuses to do that at a time when they are struggling due to the COVID-19 crisis. There have been times in the past when there was one party’s government at the Centre and another’s in the city but such politics around funding didn’t exist; it was never this bad. Speaking of politics, both the Delhi BJP and AAP have more or less gone silent on the Delhi riots. What is your opinion?  The riots were a sponsored conspiracy to aid appeasement politics. It is clear and there are WhatAapp chats to prove that Popular Front of India, AAP and Tukde Tukde gang came together to create the riots. AAP’s Tahir Hussain was not acting alone; he is connected to AAP’s senior leadership. People were called to wreak havoc for the political gain of others.  Many times, the civic body does the best possible work but it either falls through because of the inaction of another authority  Adesh Gupta  Delhi BJP president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/will-give-fresh-faces-a-chance-again-in-2022-polls/article32889195.ece
19 October 2020||New Delhi,||Student moves HC after govt. school denies admission||A student has approached the Delhi High Court alleging that a government school had denied admission to him on grounds of his age being higher than the requirement. Shekh Habibul, who is 18-and-a-half years old, said he was forced to leave his private school due to financial constraints during the pandemic. He was studying in K.D. Model School at Bawana Road in Barwala since Class II. He passed his Class X CBSE examinations earlier this year. Shekh said his family suffered a major financial loss after the COVID-19 outbreak and could not pay his school fee. The petition, filed through advocate Ashok Agarwal, stated that Habibul has been trying to get admission in Government Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya, Prahalad Pur in Delhi, under non-plan admission since the first week of September. Mr. Aggarwal said the student had visited school several times and also applied for admission in Class XI through online mode under non-plan admission for academic session 2020-21, which was not accepted on the website. Mr. Aggarwal stated that the government has issued a circular laying down age criteria for non-plan admissions in government schools, seeking direct admission, in all classes upto to Class XII for the academic session 2020-21. The circular provides that only those students will be granted direct admission in Class XI who are over 15 years of age but are less than 17 years. The circular further provides that the age criteria laid down is not applicable to plan admissions i.e. the existing students of government schools. The plea contended that there is no justification on the part of the government school to deny admission to Habibul on grounds of his age. The plea stated that Habibul has no gap in his studies and him coming from a private school to a government school cannot be a ground for differentiation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/student-moves-hc-after-govt-school-denies-admission/article32889192.ece
19 October 2020||Ujjain,||M.P. hooch tragedy: Ujjain district SP, ASP transferred||Ujjain District Superintendent of Police and another police officer were transferred to Bhopal on Sunday following the death of 12 people after consumption of spurious liquor, while two constables were arrested for their alleged involvement in its sale, officials said. The move to shunt out Ujjain District SP Manoj Singh and Additional SP Rupesh Dwivedi came after Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took a serious view of the incident during a review meeting at his residence in Bhopal, a government official said. Satyendra Kumar Shukla replaces Mr. Singh, who has been shifted to Bhopal as Assistant Inspector General at the police headquarters (PHQ), and the area city superintendent of police is suspended, said an order from the State Home Department. Besides, Ujjain’s Additional Superintendent of Police has also been transferred to the PHQ as Assistant Inspector General, the order said. At the review meeting, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Dr .Rajesh Rajora, who heads the Special Investigation Team (SIT) which is conducting a probe into the incident, apprised Mr. Chouhan of the ground situation. Mr. Chouhan asked the officials to check the sale of illicit liquor and other intoxicants. Earlier, constables Shaikh Anwar and Nawaz of Kharakuan police station in Ujjain were arrested on Saturday for their alleged involvement in the sale of spurious liquor, a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mp-hooch-tragedy-ujjain-district-sp-asp-transferred/article32889124.ece
19 October 2020||Bhubaneswar,||NHRC warns Odisha officials in wrong blood transfusion case||The National Human Rights Commission has issued a warning to the Odisha Health Secretary for personal appearance as the State government failed to submit its response in the case of transfusion of HIV-infected blood in a government-run hospital. Human rights activist Radhakanta Tripathy had moved the NHRC highlighting that two elderly patients were transfused with HIV and hepatitis inflected blood in Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Science and Research (VIMSAR), Burla, in 2016. As the alleged negligence of doctors had put the life of two patients in grave danger, Mr. Tripathy sought an independent probe into both the cases and punitive action. He had also requested the NHRC to award a hefty compensation to both the patients. A 70-year-old person hailing from Rairakhol was admitted to the surgery ward of VIMSAR on June 9, 2016. He had undergone operation on June 13, 2016. Due to non-availability of blood units, a relative’s blood was transfused. Later, tests revealed that it was HIV infected. Infected blood Similarly, a 60-year-old person of Brajarajnagar was admitted to the hospital on June 12, 2016 for a leg surgery. After blood transfusion, it was revealed that the blood was hepatitis-infected. The NHRC noted that despite its directions, no reports were provided by the Chief Secretary and the Health Secretary, and the government through a lower-rung officers sought additional two months’ time to respond. The Commission directed its registry to send a copy of the proceedings to the authorities concerned for filing requisite reports within six weeks. “The Chief Secretary has not submitted the requisite reply. Further, the Health Secretary has also not submitted the status of the departmental action taken against the delinquent officers along with the status of condition of the two patients so far,” the apex rights body pointed out. The Commission has issued a fresh show-cause notice to the Odisha Chief Secretary as to why it should not grant a monetary compensation of Rs. 1 lakh each to next of kin of the two victims in six weeks positively.  ‘Issue reminder’ “Issue reminder to the State Health Secretary to submit the requisite report regarding departmental action taken against the delinquent officers within the said period failing which the Commission may invoke coercive process u/s 13 of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 for personal appearance of the authority concerned,” the NHRC order says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nhrc-warns-odisha-officials-in-wrong-blood-transfusion-case/article32889128.ece
19 October 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested for duping IPS officer, others||A 49-year-old man was arrested for allegedly duping people, including an IPS officer, by creating their fake profiles on Facebook and asking money from their friends on the social media site on the pretext of an emergency, the police said on Sunday. The accused — Munnalal Mavasi — from Satna district in Madhya Pradesh, is a graduate and holds a diploma in veterinary. He worked as a veterinary doctor in his village and later joined a firm — International Marketing Corporation, they said. To earn quick money, he started committing the crime along with his accomplices. Two mobile phones, which were used to create fake FB IDs, have been recovered. The matter came to the fore on September 26 after an IPS officer lodged a complaint at Lodhi Colony police station alleging that someone had created his fake account on Facebook. He also said the accused asked for money from his friends on the pretext of an emergency. During investigation, the details of the Facebook account were verified and with the help of technical surveillance, location of the accused was traced to Madhya Pradesh, said DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur. “A team was sent to Satna from where the accused was nabbed. On questioning, he tried to mislead them but finally confessed to his crime. He also disclosed that he spent all the cheated money in opening a hotel business,” he said. As per his preliminary account statement, there are approximately Rs. 44,000 suspicious transactions. The officer said a manhunt on for his accomplices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-for-duping-ips-officer-others/article32889198.ece
19 October 2020||Jabalpur,||Boy abducted for ransom found dead||A 13-year-old boy kidnapped three days ago from Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur district for a ransom of Rs. 2 crore was found dead on Sunday, police said. The boy was murdered and three persons, who committed the crime despite receiving Rs. 8 lakh ransom from his family, have been arrested, police said. The accused possibly killed the minor as the victim had recognised one of them as an acquaintance of his father, they said. “The body of the boy, who was the son of a local transporter, was found floating in Bargi dam canal near Bichua village, located around 20 km from here,” city Superintendent of Police Alok Sharma said. A piece of cloth was found wrapped around the boy’s neck, he said.  ‘Victim strangulated’ “It is suspected that the boy was strangulated with a piece of cloth before the body was dumped into the canal,” the officer said. The victim was kidnapped from Dhanvantari Nagar area here on Thursday when he went to buy some items from a shop near his home, he said. Later, his mother and father got ransom calls for Rs. 2 crore and the callers warned them not to approach police, he added. Superintendent of Police Sidharth Bahuguna said Rahul alias Monu Vishwakarma (30), whom the child recognised as his father’s acquaintance, Malay Rai (25) and Karan Jaggi (24) were arrested for the crime. Vishwakarma and Jaggi are history-sheeters, with the former having five criminal cases, including that of loot and theft, while the latter had seven cases, including that of extortion and sexual assault, registered against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/boy-abducted-for-ransom-found-dead/article32889125.ece
19 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder should resign immediately: Akali Dal||While the police are yet to make any arrests in the killing of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu, the Opposition has hit out at the ruling Congress government, asking Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to take moral responsibility for the breakdown in the law and order situation in the State and resign immediately.  ‘Rampant killings’ Former Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Daljit Cheema in a statement, said, “It seems there is a law of the jungle in Punjab. We are witnessing rampant killings and armed dacoities. A Shaurya Chakra awardee — Balwinder Singh Sandhu — was murdered at his native village Bhikhiwind, a few days after his security detail was withdrawn. Not only this, there have been at least three incident of killing in one week in the area under the Bhikhiwind police station alone.”  Call for action Calling for an immediate course correction, Mr. Cheema said if the law and order situation was not brought under control immediately and peace and communal harmony was not restored there was likelihood of Punjab becoming a disturbed State yet again. Balwinder Sandhu, who had fought against terrorism in Punjab for years, was shot dead on October 16 by unidentified assailants at his native Bhikhiwind village in Tarn Taran district. The Chief Minister had later ordered the constitution of a Special Investigative Team to probe the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amarinder-should-resign-immediately-akali-dal/article32889126.ece
19 October 2020||Guwahati,||Heroin worth Rs. 15 cr. seized in Assam||Four persons have been arrested and heroin worth over Rs. 15 crore has been seized from their possession in two incidents in Assam on Sunday, police said. Acting on a tip-off, police personnel conducted checking and intercepted a truck carrying 3.45 kg of heroin in Karbi Anglong district, a release from the police headquarters said.  In another incident, police raided a house and seized 88 containers with 1 mg of suspected heroin each in Morigaon district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/heroin-worth-rs-15-cr-seized-in-assam/article32889123.ece
19 October 2020||October 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Riding for change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/riding-for-change/article32889196.ece
19 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Youth ‘beaten to death’ by neighbours||A 22-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by a group of men in east Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar on Friday, the police said on Sunday. The victim, Manish Yadav, was found unconscious in the building where he lives with his family on rent. His family alleged that he was beaten to death. “We have registered an FIR. The post-mortem report is awaited,” said an officer. However, during probe, the police said the incident happened when Manish came home late at night from work with a friend. Manish worked at an automobile workshop in Noida. An officer said the duo consumed alcohol in the building. Next, when Manish was leaving the building to drop his friend, he urinated at the toilet inside the premises when one of his neighbour complained against it. “A group of people started beating him. During commotion, a liquor bottle broke in Manish’s pocket and a piece of glass damaged his main artery. He died due to excessive bleeding,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/youth-beaten-to-death-by-neighbours/article32889197.ece
19 October 2020||New Delhi,||Trader stabbed to death in Ghazipur||A 43-year-old trader was allegedly stabbed to death in east Delhi’s Ghazipur Mandi, the police said on Sunday. The deceased — Omkar Sharma — is from Haryana, they said. The police suspect that Sharma was killed somewhere else and later his body was packed in a bedsheet and dumped here at Ghazipur Mandi. His body was recovered on Friday and later handed over to his family after post-mortem, an officer said. He was killed over money dispute but CCTV cameras near the spot are being scanned while his family members are being questioned in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/trader-stabbed-to-death-in-ghazipur/article32889199.ece
19 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi minister launches campaign against drug abuse||Delhi Women and Child Development Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Sunday launched a campaign against drug and substance abuse. He said there was a need for coordination of all stakeholders for a meaningful contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-minister-launches-campaign-against-drug-abuse/article32889194.ece
