21 November 2020||New Delhi,||Jaish plot to target democratic exercise in J&K foiled, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the security forces had defeated a “nefarious plot to target grassroots-level democratic exercises in Jammu and Kashmir” by killing “four terrorists” belonging to the Pakistan-based terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammad. The terrorists, who recently infiltrated from Pakistan, were killed in a gunfight at the Ban Toll Plaza near Nagrota on the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway on Thursday. The four had a huge amounts of ammunition and explosive materials on them. Two policemen were injured in the incident. The Prime Minister held a detailed review of the Nagrota encounter on Friday. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and top intelligence officials were present at the meeting. Ministry of External Affairs officials said the government was likely to summon Pakistan High Commission officials to protest against the continued acts of terrorism against India being planned on its soil. ‘Something big planned’ A senior government official said the Pakistan-based terrorists were “planning something big on the anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks”. In a tweet after the meeting, Mr. Modi said, “Neutralising of 4 terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammed and the presence of large cache of weapons and explosives with them indicate that their efforts to wreak major havoc and destruction have once again been thwarted.” In another tweet, he said, “Our security forces have once again displayed utmost bravery and professionalism. Thanks to their alertness, they have defeated a nefarious plot to target grassroots-level democratic exercises in Jammu and Kashmir”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jaish-plot-to-target-democratic-exercises-in-jk-foiled-says-pm/article33146412.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||U.P. govt. denies confining Kerala journalist illegally||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday denied illegally confining Malayalam journalist Siddique Kappan and did not object to a lawyer meeting him in jail, but accused him of using the garb of journalism to create a “caste divide” in Hathras, where a 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped by four upper-caste Hindu men recently. Appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta submitted that Mr. Kappan was arrested and remanded by a competent court. “His bail plea was heard for nine days... His bail was rejected after nine days of hearing... they should approach the High Court. He is in judicial custody in pursuance of a valid judicial order passed by a court,” Mr. Mehta submitted. KUWJ petition He was responding to a petition filed by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) for the immediate release of Mr. Kappan. The union said Mr. Kappan is its secretary. He, according to the KUWJ, was illegally detained while on his way to Hathras on October 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-govt-denies-confining-kerala-journalist-illegally/article33146424.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 tests nearing one crore mark in State||Karnataka is all set to create another milestone in its pandemic control measures with COVID-19 tests nearing the one crore mark. With 1,21,612 new samples tested in the last 24 hours, the total number of tests touched 99,81,137 on Friday. This number includes 68,07,043 RT-PCR tests. With this, the cumulative test positivity rate (TPR) touched 8.71% on Friday. From an average 80 tests a day in March, the State is now testing an average of over one lakh samples a day. The State ramped up its testing from May onwards. From a total of 2,310 tests in March, the State conducted nearly 16 lakh tests in August. This further went up to nearly 20 lakh tests in September. The tests per million went up from 44,099 on September 1 to 72,541 on September 30. On October 2, the State’s tests had breached the 50 lakh mark touching 50,89,730. The total number of tests touched 79,05,868 till October end. RT-PCR tests The State’s dependence on rapid antigen tests (RAT) has reduced considerably with over 68% of the total 99,81,137 tests conducted till date being molecular (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction - RT-PCR). RT-PCR testing is the gold standard test that has negligible chances of false negativity. On Friday, a record 1,03,801 tests of the total 1,21,612 tests conducted were through RT-PCR method. This is the highest number of RT-PCR tests conducted so far on a single day. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State COVID-19 task force, said there is need to further ramp up testing to not just prevent the spread of infection but ensure early intervention in sick patients. “We need to track patients at a moderately symptomatic stage for early admission and treatment. This is the key to reduce mortality, especially now that the second wave has begun in some States,” he said. The State on Friday reported 1,781 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number to 8,69,561. With 17 deaths, the toll rose to 11,621. This is apart from deaths of 19 patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 2,181 people were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,33,169. Of the remaining 24,752 active patients, 539 were being monitored in the ICU. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,067 cases, taking its tally to 3,61,654. With six deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,084. The active cases in Bengaluru touched 17,663.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-tests-nearing-one-crore-mark-in-state/article33147092.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police collect Rs. 26 cr. in COVID-19 fines||The Delhi police have collected Rs. 26.72 crore in fines from people not wearing masks or following social distancing rules in public places from June 15 until November 19. A total of 5,35,167 people have been fined for violating social distancing norms, not wearing masks or spitting in public places. The maximum number of violators were those found roaming in marketplaces or travelling in cars without wearing a mask. A senior police officer clarified that people travelling alone in a car have to wear mask as well — something upheld recently by the Delhi High Court as well. “We have not only fined people for not wearing mask but also distributed more than four lakh masks to needy Delhiites. We always ensure that underprivileged people do not get harassed while enforcing mask violation rules We have undertaken drives to spread awareness and held several meetings with market welfare associations and resident welfare associations,” said Eish Singhal, PRO, Delhi Police. The police have also run awareness campaigns on radio, newspapers and other media. “Apart from fining people, we also register an FIR in case there is a violation of social distancing rules because of any protest march or a gathering of people larger than the permitted number,” he said. Old fine amount The Delhi Police PRO said that they haven’t received any notification regarding the city government’s November 18 decision to create greater deterrence by enhancing the fine from Rs. 500 to Rs. 2,000 and are continuing to enforce the earlier amount as of now. On June 14, Rs. 500 on-the-spot penalty was fixed for not wearing a mask in public place under a rule passed by the Delhi government under the Delhi Epidemic Diseases, COVID19 Regulations, 2020, duly approved by the L-G. The police have been solely entrusted with the responsibility of enforcing COVID-19 rule violations after the Delhi Traffic Police was withdrawn from such duties on September 8 and asked to focus again on their core role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-collect-rs-26-cr-in-covid-19-fines/article33146814.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||10 deaths and 1,221 new cases in State||The State has reported 1,221 new COVID-19 infections and 10 new deaths in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The tally increased to 8,59,932 and the death toll reached 6,920. The mortality rate continued to be at 0.80%. The recovery rate increased to 97.41% with 1,829 more patients recovering during the period, taking the number of recoveries so far to 8,37,630. With this, only 15,382 patients were undergoing treatment. The overall positivity rate of the 94.74 lakh samples tested so far was at 9.08%. In the last 24 hours, 66,002 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 1.85%. With two new deaths each, Chittoor and Krishna continue to have highest death rate among the districts. East Godavari, Guntur, Kurnool, Nellore, Prakasam and Visakhapatam reported one new death each. There were no fatalities in the remaining districts. More than 70% of the new cases came from East Godavari (202), Krishna (198), Chittoor (175), West Godavari (145) and Guntur (144). The remaining eight districts together reported only 357 new cases – Visakhapatnam (69), Kadapa (65), Prakasam (50), Nellore (47), Anantapur (41), Srikakulam (34), Vizianagaram (32) and Kurnool (19). The recovery rate in Kurnool, Vizianagaram, and Kadapa was close to 99%. Similarly, the recovery rate in Srikakulam, Anantapur, Prakasam and Chittoor was more than 98%. While all the districts have more than 95% recovery rate, Krishna lags behind with 93.8% recoveries and 1.40% deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-deaths-and-1221-new-cases-in-state/article33146417.ece
21 November 2020||MYSURU,||Five-member gang taken into custody for blackmailing doctor||A five-member gang, including a woman, has been taken into custody by the city police for allegedly blackmailing a doctor by threatening to make public a video of the latter’s private moments with other women. The police said the gang members were after the doctor since January this year after one of them accidentally stumbled upon a memory card at his clinic at Periyapatna.  Demand Rs. 1 crore The memory card contained videos that the doctor had himself shot while he was spending his private moments with other women. The gang demanded Rs. 1 crore to return the memory card and threatened to expose the doctor if he did not pay up. “They managed to extort up to Rs. 50 lakh in instalments since January this year,” according to a senior police official. One of the gang members reportedly sent a woman, with whom he had a relationship, to the doctor to extract more money. The gang members allegedly waylaid his car when he was on the way to his house in Mysuru from Periyapatna and snatched more cash from him. The doctor, who was mentally disturbed from the constant threats from the gang, decided to lodge a complaint with the Kuvempunagar police station in Mysuru. Sum spent Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Prakash Gowda, confirmed that the gang members had been taken into custody and said investigation was on. The accused had purchased a car and spent the remaining sum extorted from the doctor. The police are also investigating if the gang members were involved in any other honeytrap cases elsewhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-member-gang-taken-into-custody-for-blackmailing-doctor/article33146736.ece
21 November 2020||KURNOOL,||Traditional start to Tungabhadra Pushkaralu||Clad in traditional attire, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy offered flowers, ‘harathi’, and ‘vastrams’ to the statue of Tungabhadra Thalli on the banks of the Tungabhadra, marking the beginning of the 12-day Pushkaralu at the Sankal Bagh Pushkar Ghat here on Friday amid tight security and COVID-19 protocol. At the auspicious 1.21 p.m., the Chief Minister, accompanied by his Cabinet colleagues, performed the rituals standing in knee-deep water at the ghat, and later made all the traditional offerings to the fire God at the ‘homam’ performed at the ghat. He also offered prayers to all the four ‘mandapams’ – Yagasala - Vaastu Mandapam, Sarvathobhadra Mandapam, Yogini Mandapam, and Navagraha Mandapam. Earlier, the Chief Minister was received with ‘Poornakumbham’ and blessed by the priests. He was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzad Basha, and Ministers P. Anil Kumar, Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, G. Jayaram, V. Srinivas, and M. Sankaranarayana. Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav and MLAs from all the constituencies of Kurnool district were present. At Mantralayam At Mantralayam, where the Tungabhadra enters the State, the Peethadhipathi of the Sri Raghavendra Swamy Mutt, Subudhendra Tirtha, along with others, performed puja and took a holy dip at the appointed time of 1.21 p.m. There was hardly any crowd at the ghats in the district on the first day of the Pushkaralu. At the Sankal Bagh Ghat, the presence of a large posse of police personnel kept the common devotees away from the venue with only the VIPs making their way to the riverside. The police were expecting crowds to descend on the ghats on Saturday and Sunday, and on second Monday of ‘Karthika Masam’. Earlier, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy arrived by a special flight to the Orvakal airport, where he was received by district Collector G. Veerapandian, DIG Venkateswarlu, Nandyal Sub-Collector Kalpana Kumari, and Superintendent of Police Fakeerappa Kaginelli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traditional-start-to-tungabhadra-pushkaralu/article33146346.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||894 more COVID cases reported in Telangana||A total of 894 COVID-19 cases were reported during the 24-hour period till 8 p.m. on Thursday, as the positivity continues to be low in Telangana at about 2.27% of the 39,448 screening tests conducted during the period. With the reporting of fresh cases, the total number of cases has gone up to 2,61,728 in the State. As four more deaths were reported on Thursday, the total number of fatalities has gone up to 1,423. According to the medical bulletin issued by the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare on Friday, the number of cases recovered from COVID has gone up to 2,47,790 as 1,057 persons were declared recovered from the infectious disease. It has further stated that the case fatality rate in Telangana continues to remain low at 0.54% against 1.5% at the national level. The number of active cases as on Thursday 8 p.m. was 12,515, including 10,245 in home and institutional isolation and the remaining 2,270 patients admitted in several government and private hospitals across the State. Similarly, the number of samples tested for COVID-19 in the State so far has gone up to 50,50,612 as at 8 p.m. on Thursday. Of the total positive cases reported in the State so far, 70% were asymptomatic cases and the remaining 30% were symptomatic. Meanwhile, Hyderabad and its surrounding areas continue to remain the hotbed of COVID-19 cases in the State with 154 of them reported in GHMC limits on Thursday followed by 84 in Medchal-Malkajgiri district and 70 in Rangareddy district. Outside the State capital and its surroundings, Bhadradri-Kothagudem continues to report a higher number of cases (54) compared to other rural areas (districts).  Fatality rate in Telangana continues to remain low at 0.54% - against 1.5% at the national level. Directorate of Health and Family Welfare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/894-more-covid-cases-reported-in-telangana/article33147180.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu Governor promulgates ordinance to ban online gaming||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Friday promulgated an ordinance to ban online gaming in the State, providing for the levy of a Rs. 5,000 fine and six months’ imprisonment for those found to be engaging in it. An official statement from the Raj Bhavan noted that innocent people, mainly youngsters, were being cheated due to online gaming, and some had even been pushed to take the extreme step. “In order to avoid such incidents of suicide and protect innocent people from the evils of online gaming, the State government has submitted a proposal to the Governor to promulgate an ordinance by amending the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act, 1930 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1930), the Chennai City Police Act, 1888 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1888) and the Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859 (Tamil Nadu Act XXIV of 1859),” the statement added. Wagering or betting The ordinance provides for banning persons who are wagering or betting in cyber space using computers or any communication device or resource. People who open/keep common gaming houses will be punished with a fine of Rs. 10,000 and two years' imprisonment, the statement added. Transfer of funds The ordinance provides for banning “electronic transfer of funds” for wagering or betting, distributing the winnings or prize money. It also provides for punishing the persons running the company which conducts online gaming through wagering and betting.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available with the State health helpline 104 and Sneha's toll free helpline 044-24640050)   People who open/keep common gaming houses will be punished with a fine of Rs. 10,000 and two years' imprisonment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-governor-promulgates-ordinance-to-ban-online-gaming/article33146468.ece
21 November 2020||Gurugram,||Haryana shuts all schools till Nov. 30||In the wake of an increasing number of students testing positive for COVID-19, the Haryana government on Friday decided to shut all public and private schools in the State till the end of this month. Premises of all schools will be sanitised during this period, read a letter by the director of Haryana Secondary Education to all District and Block Education Officers. The directions came in the wake of media reports suggesting that over 100 students and teachers across three Haryana districts got infected since schools reopened two months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-shuts-all-schools-till-nov-30/article33146817.ece
21 November 2020||Kolkata,||No chhath at major Kolkata water bodies||In what is being described as a victory by environment activists, devotees stayed away from Kolkata’s two major water bodies during chhath puja celebrations on Friday. Following orders from the court and the National Green Tribunal, the administration closed Rabindra Sarovar in south Kolkata and Subhas Sarovar in north Kolkata. There was a huge deployment of police outside the entrance to the water bodies and vehicular traffic was also diverted. There were some instances of people arguing with the police personnel, but they were turned away. A few environment activists were also present at the water bodies through the day. “The role of the police is commendable. Those who want to offer puja are well aware that they will not be allowed, so they went to other places,” said Sumita Bandyopadhyay, an environmental activist, who was at Rabindra Sarovar. Last year, despite an NGT order, devotees had forced themselves inside. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also participated in the festival and reached a ghat on the river Hooghly in Hastings area. “In many states people have not been allowed to offer rituals in the river also, but we did not ban it. People have been allowed to come to the river in small groups and offer prayers. .. In West Bengal, Bengalis, Biharis, people from Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha live peacefully,” Ms. Banerjee said. The State unit BJP president Dilip Ghosh also participated in the festivities at Babu ghat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-chhath-at-major-kolkata-water-bodies/article33146616.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||State sees next big wave of growth in bioeconomy||Karnataka is probably is the first State in the country to see the impact of bioeconomy on its economic growth, after having successfully explored the IT and biotechnology sectors. The State’s bioeconomy has grown in the range of 14 to 17% in the last two years and currently it contributes 10.3% to the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) of $221.82 billion. Bioeconomy comprises all sectors and systems that rely on biological resources (animals, plants, micro-organisms, and derived biomass), their functions and principles. It includes and interlinks land and marine ecosystems and the services they provide; all primary production sectors that use and produce biological resources; and all economic and industrial sectors that use biological resources and processes to produce food, feed, bio-based products, energy, and services. Realising the growth potential of this segment, the Karnataka government launched its first BioEconomy Report at the Bengaluru Tech Summit on Friday. Although the sector is projected to fall by 2 to 6 percent in FY2021 as some segments have been affected by COVID-19, it is expected to bounce back in FY2022 and grow in the range of 8 to 15 per cent between FY2022 and FY2025, says the report. “To bridge the gap in revenues, the report recommends a series of strategic initiatives to overcome this hurdle and cross the target in time, in the continuing spirit of the State’s industry, policy makers and the government working together with a visionary approach,” said Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Chairperson of the Karnataka Vision Group on Biotechnology (VGBT) and Biocon Group. To accelerate the growth, the report suggests that the State should do a slew of things such as opening a vaccine hub, biomanufacturing hub, agritech ecosystem to support gene editing and molecular breeding, a biomedical cluster to make important diagnostic and medical devices, an integrated biorefineries cluster to use available biomass. It also identified Hassan, Dharwad and Belagavi areas for setting up value-added agriculture systems. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said, “We are aiming higher and our government has set a challenging task of more than doubling the value of bioeconomy in the next five years. Our target is to raise Karnataka’s bioeconomy share to 50% of the national bioeconomy revenue target of $100 billion by the year 2025.” A bio-industry cluster is coming up at Helix Biotech Park at Electronics City; besides state-of-the-art bio-incubators are being set up in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Dharwad, Bagalkot and Udupi. Under the Elevate initiative, more than 150 biotech startups received seed funding. Biopharmaceuticals and medical devices industry account for nearly 35% of the total contribution of the bioeconomy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-sees-next-big-wave-of-growth-in-bioeconomy/article33147090.ece
21 November 2020||Mumbai,||Schools in Mumbai to remain shut till Dec. 31||With the possibility of a second wave in view of rising COVID-19 cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday announced that schools in Mumbai will remain closed till December 31. The decision comes in the wake of State government’s recent announcement to open schools for students of classes IX to XII from November 23. State Education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday said the local authorities in all districts would take a decision on reopening of schools in their respective areas after assessing the pandemic situation there. “Local officials, such as municipal commissioners, district collectors, block development officers in Zilla Parishads and education officers, will have to discuss the situation in their respective areas and reopen the schools accordingly,” Ms. Gaikwad said. She added that even if the schools do not reopen, the students can still attend the online classes and learn. “I have given necessary instructions to the officials concerned,” she said. The BMC issued a notification on Friday saying the possibility of a second coronavirus wave cannot be denied considering the similar pattern in different countries as well as in other States. “The next four to six weeks should be observed with special care. As a result schools will not start from November 23 and instead schools will remain closed till December 31,” said the notification. It added that supplementary examinations for students of Class X and XII will take place as planned. After recording 409 new coronavirus cases on November 16, the lowest daily count since April, Mumbai registered 541, 871, 924 and 1,031 fresh infections on November 17, 18, 19 and 20 respectively.  Thane to follow Meanwhile, Thane Collector Rajesh Narvekar announced that the schools in the district will remain closed till December 31. Earlier, the schools were supposed to start from November 23. Following the announcement by Thane district, the Raigad guardian Minister Aditi Tatkare also announced the same for schools under Panvel Municipal Corporation. Meanwhile, Raigad Collector Nidhi Choudhary clarified, “Only Panvel Municipal Corporation in Raigad has decided to postpone the reopening. No other schools in Raigad are restricted,” Raigad Collector said.  (With inputs from Raina Assainar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-in-mumbai-to-remain-shut-till-dec-31/article33147270.ece
21 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Night curfew in Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot||After imposing a weekend curfew in Ahmedabad, the Gujarat government on Friday decided to impose night curfew from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. in Surat, Vadodara and Rajko as authorities intensified efforts to contain the surge in COVID-19 cases. Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said all four major cities would observe night curfew. The State saw its highest single-day surge of 1,420 cases on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-curfew-in-surat-vadodara-rajkot/article33147271.ece
21 November 2020||Mangaluru,||Material recovery facility proposed at Ganjimutt||The government has proposed to set up a material recovery facility (MRF) on two acres of land at Ganjimutt near here under the Swachh Bharat Mission. It will be among four such facilities presently sanctioned in the State under the mission. The other three have been proposed at Udupi, Ramanagaram, and Ballari. The government has sanctioned Rs. 2.32 crore to the proposed facility, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Selvamani R. told The Hindu . DPR ready The detailed project report (DPR) of the facility is ready. The zilla panchayat has sought the land, whose survey has been completed, from the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) on lease. Once the land is handed over the facility can take off, he said. The CEO said that the materials recovered from dry waste will be stored at the facility and sent for recycling. Various gram panchayats will hand over their dry waste to the facility. No wet waste will be stored in the facility. The dry waste mainly comprises low-density polyethylene, high-density polyethylene, polyethylene terephthalate, polyvinyl chloride, polypropylene materials, which will be segregated and sent for recycling. Mr. Selvamani said that the district has 228 gram panchayats. Presently, the government has sanctioned 91 solid-waste management projects which will cover 108 gram panchayats. In some cases one project will cover three or four panchayats. All the 91 projects will be completed by the end of January, 2021. When projects are completed, those panchayats will have their own dry waste storage facility. Bio-gas units The CEO said that under the ‘Gobar Dhan’ scheme of the government, two bio-gas units have been proposed to be built at Kateel and Gurupura. Wet waste will be used to generate bio-gas in those units. Wet waste from the Durgaparameshwari temple in Kateel will be mainly used for the bio-gas plant at Kateel. The detailed project report of the Gurupura project is ready and bids have been invited to take up the project there. In addition, Mr. Selvamani said, faecal sludge treatment plants have been proposed to be built at the Golthamajalu and the Ujire Gram Panchayats. The two are among 100 such plants sanctioned in the State under the mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/material-recovery-facility-proposed-at-ganjimutt/article33147252.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||13,500 policemen to be deployed in Cyberabad||To nip any anti-social activity in the bud, the Cyberabad police will deploy as many as 13,500 personnel in 38 Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation divisions under its jurisdiction during the upcoming civic polls. Of these 13,500, as many as 3,000 would be armed personnel deployed at sensitive and critical polling locations. Two polling location officers have been appointed per polling station. Further, Assistant Commissioners of Police have been designated to each GHMC circle as nodal officers for coordinating with election authorities. CCTV cameras are being installed at sensitive polling stations which are also being geo-tagged. Three teams are monitoring posts on social media. Measures to keep law and order in place include setting up of 15 dynamic and static checkpoints to keep a check on transportation of money and liquor, flag marches in mixed localities and neighbourhoods with areas which have witnessed conflagrations in the past, and 11 flying squads and 11 static surveillance teams. Further, as many as 186 persons with a record of being trouble makers have been bound-over. Meanwhile, as many as 157 licensed weapons have been deposited by their owners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/13500-policemen-to-be-deployed-in-cyberabad/article33147178.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Nod for fresh contempt action against comedian||Attorney General K.K. Venugopal on Friday gave consent to initiate fresh contempt action against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra for his “grossly vulgar and obnoxious” tweet with a photograph of two fingers meant to “deliberately insult” the Chief Justice of India. Mr. Venugopal said the tweet, posted on November 18, tended to lower the authority of the Supreme Court and undermined public confidence in it. “The depiction of the two fingers, with the legend that he means the middle one, is to deliberately insult the Chief Justice of India, which would equally be an insult to the Supreme Court of India, which the Chief Justice heads,” the Attorney General reasoned. The consent letter under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, was in reply to a complaint made by advocate Anuj Singh from Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nod-for-fresh-contempt-action-against-comedian/article33146414.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bhutan says no Chinese village on its territory||Reports showing the construction of a Chinese village inside sovereign Bhutanese territory are incorrect, the envoy of Bhutan has told The Hindu . The statement from Ambassador Vetsop Namgyel came a day after sections of the Indian media reported the presence of a Chinese-built village approximately 2 km inside the Bhutanese border. "There is no Chinese village inside Bhutan,” said Ambassador Namgyel, categorically denying reports in the media that suggested settlements are near the area of the 2017 confrontation between Indian and Chinese troops on the Doklam plateau. The confrontation, which was triggered by the detection of Chinese construction near the India-Bhutan-China trijunction, lasted for approximately 70 days but the details of the ultimate withdrawal of the Chinese troops and heavy machinery remained sketchy. News broadcaster NDTV reported on Thursday that the Chinese had built a residential area and named it “Pangda village”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bhutan-denies-chinese-village-on-its-territory/article33146425.ece
21 November 2020||Guwahati,||Children pen manifesto for political parties||More than 4,000 children from 17 districts of Assam on Friday put forward their issues and recommendations for political parties to include in their manifestos ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls. Advising the parties to invest in an Assam that will be better for children, they presented a 10-point children’s manifesto. The demands include protection from violence in all forms, access to nutritious food and to quality and affordable healthcare and education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/children-pen-manifesto-for-political-parties/article33146617.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Exacting a heavy price||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/exacting-a-heavy-price/article33146819.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Caution amid celebrations||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caution-amid-celebrations/article33147274.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Cleaning up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cleaning-up/article33146544.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Troubled waters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/troubled-waters/article33146416.ece
21 November 2020||KURNOOL,||CM promises job for Salam’s kin||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, on his way back from the Sankal Bagh Pushkar Ghat, met and consoled Mabunnesa, the mother-in-law of Abdul Salam, at the APSP Guest House. Heeding a request made by Mabunnesa, the Chief Minister asked Collector G. Veerapandian to secure an appointment for Sajeeda as an outsourced employee. Abdul Salam had ended his life along with three other family members. Mabunnesa’s son Shahenshah Vali, who works as a senior assistant at the DMHO’s office in Anantapur, sought a transfer to Nandyal so that he could be close to his family and support them. On orders from the Chief Minister, the Collector immediately arranged for a transfer of Vali to Nandyal on deputation. Mr. Jagan on Friday also assured to bring those accused of abetting their suicide to justice. Meanwhile, with the BJP and two Communist parties demanding the allowing of a holy dip at the 23 Pushkar Ghats during the 12-day period, the Kurnool police put leaders and representatives of some people’s organisations under house arrest from midnight. They were released after the Chief Minister left Kurnool for Gannavaram airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-promises-job-for-salams-kin/article33146418.ece
21 November 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal BJP for probe by Central agencies into Malda blast||The toll in Thursday’s blast at a plastic factory in Malda’s Sujapur increased to six on Friday with one more person succumbing to injuries. Even as forensic experts reached the spot, the BJP State leadership demanded Central intervention. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said there had been a series of blasts in the State, including in Malda, Naihati, Baduria. He said the State had become a hub of illegal bomb-making factory under Trinamool Congress rule. “Only Central agencies can probe the matter impartially. The State police, instead of probing the matter, will try to hush it up,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-bjp-for-probe-by-central-agencies-into-malda-blast/article33146615.ece
21 November 2020||Lucknow,||6 minors among 14 killed in U.P. road accident||Fourteen people returning home after attending a marriage were killed when their car rammed a stationary truck on a highway in Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh late on Thursday. The dead included six minors aged between 6 and 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/6-minors-among-14-killed-in-up-road-accident/article33146816.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Kannada Okkoota firm on call for bandh||Kannada Okkoota on Friday set November 30 as the deadline for Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to scrap the recently set up Maratha Development Corporation. The okkoota resolved to go ahead with its call for a Karnataka bandh on December 5 if the demand is not met.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kannada-okkoota-firm-on-call-for-bandh/article33147093.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Smart City roadworks won’t be done by March||Pedestrians and motorists will have to put up with roads dug up under Smart Cities Mission in and around the central business district up to February-March 2021. However, the government has promised that work on Commercial Street will be completed within the first week of December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/smart-city-roadworks-wont-be-done-by-march/article33147095.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||City shivers in coldest Nov. night in 14 years||Delhi experienced the coldest November night in over a decade early on Friday with the mercury settling at 7.5 degrees Celsius, which is five degrees below normal for the season. The weatherman has forecast clear skies and cold wave-like conditions till November 22. Meanwhile, the air quality continued to be in the ‘poor’ category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-shivers-in-coldest-nov-night-in-14-years/article33147171.ece
21 November 2020||Pune,||‘Power arrears rose during BJP regime’||Holding the erstwhile BJP government responsible for Maharashtra’s mounting electricity arrears,State unit president of NCP Jayant Patil claimed that the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL)’s arrears had shot to Rs. 67,000 crore during the tenure of the BJP government led by Devendra Fadnavis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/power-arrears-rose-during-bjp-regime/article33147272.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||High command may send final list in three days: BSY||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday expressed confidence that the party high command would send him the final list of names to be inducted into the Cabinet in the “next two to three days”. On whether it would be a ministerial expansion or reshuffle, the Chief Minister said he was awaiting directions on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-command-may-send-final-list-in-three-days-bsy/article33146548.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Denial of promotion to student draws HC’s ire||Taking serious note of NLSIU’s conduct of denying promotion to a law student on the allegation of plagiarism without a preliminary inquiry, the High Court has said that it is high time that the university of repute be reminded that it is dealing with children and not others’ chattel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/denial-of-promotion-to-student-draws-hcs-ire/article33146549.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Power TV head gets anticipatory bail||The High Court has granted anticipatory bail to Rakesh Shetty, managing director of Power TV news channel, in a criminal case against him after the channel telecast programme “exposing alleged corruption” involving family members of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/power-tv-head-gets-anticipatory-bail/article33146550.ece
21 November 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,||Udhayanidhi Stalin, 200 DMK cadre arrested||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin was arrested at Thirukkuvalai along with 200 party cadres on Friday, moments before commencing his State-wide ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural’ campaign from the ancestral home of party patriarch and his grandfather M. Karunanidhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udhayanidhi-stalin-200-dmk-cadre-arrested/article33146465.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 1,688 fresh cases, 18 deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 1,688 fresh COVID-19 infections and 18 fatalities on Friday, taking the overall case tally to 7,66,677 and the toll to 11,568. In Chennai district, 489 fresh cases were reported and 418 persons were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-1688-fresh-cases-18-deaths/article33146466.ece
21 November 2020||G. AnandThiruvananthapuram,||ED sees ‘hit job’ on its integrity||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has reportedly come to the view that a voice clip attributed to gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh is a well-crafted ‘hit job’ to portray the agency in an unflattering light to ‘stall’ its ongoing high-profile investigations in Kerala. The ED is exploring the possibility of seeking the legal recourse against what officials believe to be a brazen attempt to cast aspersions on the agency’s integrity and hobble the prosecutorial process. Sources said the ED may prefer a police complaint to unearth the provenance of the questionable voice recording that accused it of coercing suspects to incriminate Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in a false case. The ED suspects that a website with a pronounced political bias had released the voice recording initially. Soon, other news outlets had picked it up. The agency feels the recording surfaced in the public domain shortly after it summoned C.M. Raveendran, private secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, for questioning in connection with the anti-money-laundering probe into the LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent contract. Conspiracy angle The ED is also probing the suspected “kickbacks in the various infrastructure contracts” being implemented by the State government. The website that released the recording had disseminated the clipping in the form of a meme heralded by an electronically generated caption. The ED believes that the creative work that went into the meme points to a measure of deliberation and possible conspiracy to tarnish the agency’s public and legal standing. It is of the view that the audio recording is patently false and fabricated. At no point did the narrator name the ED. Moreover, Swapna had not complained in court that the agency had made her attest misleading statements. The ED also denied having persuaded Swapna to turn approver. Sources point out that Swapna is the prime accused in the gold smuggling related money laundering case. Legally, it is inexpedient for the ED to make her an approver in the case, officials point out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-sees-hit-job-on-its-integrity/article33146358.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||Azad, Sharma on Cong. panels||Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Veerappa Moily and Shashi Tharoor, part of the Group of 23 (G-23) letter writers who had sought a revamp of the party earlier this year, were appointed members of three party committees by party president Sonia Gandhi on Friday. The changes come amid a further churn in the party and calls for introspection over its poor show in the recently concluded Bihar Assembly election. Manmohan on all teams While former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is part of all three panels, former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram and senior leaders Mallikarjun Kharge and Digvijaya Singh will be part of the economic affairs committee. Former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh will be the convener of the panel. The committee on foreign affairs will have Mr. Sharma, Mr. Tharoor, Salman Khurshid and Saptagiri Ulaka, with Mr. Khurshid as the convener. Mr. Azad, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, will be part of the committee on national security, which will also include Mr. Moily, Vincent H. Pala and V. Vaithilingam. Mr. Pala will be the convener of this committee.  The latest changes are meant to signal a more broad-based decision-making process in the party. Earlier this week, senior leader Kapil Sibal’s comments that the Bihar election showed that voters did not consider the Congress a “viable alternative” and the leadership (the Gandhis) may be taking it as “business as usual” triggered a war of words. Senior party leaders, including Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Mr. Khurshid and Mr. Kharge, defended the leadership. Lok Sabha member Karti Chidambaram endorsed Mr. Sibal’s views. In a separate interview, the former Finance Minister acknowledged that the Congress may have contested more seats than its “organisational strength” in Bihar allowed, and expressed concern over the byelection losses across several States. However, in a series of tweets on Friday, he said the “decline” in the BJP’s performance after the 2019 Lok Sabha election was “visible and significant” despite the Bihar win. ‘Small difference’ “Even after the Bihar Assembly elections, the decline in BJP’s performance after 2019 Lok Sabha elections is visible and significant. Of the 464 Assembly segments that the BJP contested both in 2019 and in subsequent Assembly polls and bypolls, the BJP has won only 218 segments. On the contrary, in 2019 the BJP had won 392 segments,” Mr. Chidambaram said. “As I have pointed out, the MGB lost to the NDA by a whisker of 0.03%. The elections turned on 8 seats,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-dissenters-on-key-panels/article33146381.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Health Ministry pushes for more COVID-19 tests||The Union Health Ministry has advised the States and Union Territories to conduct more COVID-19 tests to track undetected and missed-out patients. In an order on Friday, the Ministry advised them to adopt an aggressive and widespread testing strategy for prompt detection of the infection for effective tracing, containment and treatment. The order comes a day after the Centre rushed high-level teams to Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Manipur to visit districts reporting high number of cases and support those States’ control efforts. Stating that India had conducted 10,83,397 in the past 24 hours, the Ministry said high levels of testing had ensured that the cumulative positivity rate was sustained at low levels and followed a downward trajectory. “The cumulative national positivity rate, which was 7.48% on October 31, stands at 6.95% currently. Bihar (1.81%), Uttar Pradesh (2.95%), Jharkhand (2.99%), Gujarat (3.09%) are among the top 20 States/UTs to have COVID-positivity rate less than the current national average,” the release said. New cases It said 45,882 persons were found to be newly infected in the 24 hours. Ten States and Union Territories accounted for 78.2% of the active case load. India registered 44,807 new recoveries, taking the total recovered cases to 84,28,409. “The recovery rate has improved to 93.6% on Friday and the gap between recovered cases and active cases stands at 79,84,615. 78.02% of the new recovered cases is contributed by ten States/UTs. With 6,860 persons recovering from COVID, Kerala saw the most number of recoveries followed by Delhi with 6,685 daily recoveries, Maharashtra reported 5,860 new recoveries,” the release said. Ten States and Union Territories contributed 77.2% of the new cases. Delhi reported 7,546 cases, Kerala 5,722 and Maharashtra 5,535. Of the 584 fatalities, 81.85% have been reported from 10 States and Union Territories, with 154, or 26.32%, from Maharashtra, 93 from Delhi and 53 from West Bengal. e-Sanjeevani The Ministry said e-Sanjeevani, the national telemedicine initiative, completed 8 lakh consultations on Friday. “Over 11,000 patients are seeking health services on a daily basis in 27 States/UTs,” the Ministry said. The 10 States which registered highest consultations are Tamil Nadu (2,59,904), Uttar Pradesh (2,19,715), Kerala (58,000), Himachal Pradesh (46,647), Madhya Pradesh (43,045), Gujarat (41,765), Andhra Pradesh (35,217), Uttarakhand (26,819), Karnataka (23,008), and Maharashtra (9,741).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-ministry-pushes-for-more-covid-19-tests/article33146384.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Initial vaccine support will cover 92 low- and middle-income economies’||Seth Berkley , CEO of Gavi the Vaccine Alliance, says over $2 billion has been raised for the Gavi COVID-19 Vaccines Advance Market Commitment (COVAX AMC) so far. A public-private global partnership, GAVI aims to increase access to immunisation in poor countries and has extended its services to handle the biggest immunisation crisis imminent, he says.  Gavi’s COVAX AMC is an effort to jumpstart countries’ ability to deliver COVID-19 vaccines. Do we have details of the assistance programme that aims at equitable access, yet? When do you plan to roll it out? Initial, catalytic support will be made available to 92 low- and middle-income economies eligible for participation in the Gavi COVID-19 Vaccines Advance Market Commitment (COVAX AMC), to assist them in planning for delivery of COVID-19 vaccines, including support for technical assistance and strengthening cold chain equipment, according to a decision taken at the Gavi Board in October. This amount builds on the $200 million re-allocated by Gavi in the initial stages of the pandemic to help Gavi-eligible countries respond and protect health systems. Following briefings with AMC-eligible participants, Gavi and its Alliance partners — WHO and UNICEF — are finalising details on the operationalisation of this support, to be implemented as soon as possible, as well as planning for longer-term support for country readiness and delivery. What will be the specifics with reference to India? Also, what is your requirement from the Indian government? We are currently in discussions with economies, including India, that are eligible for the Gavi COVAX AMC on detailed terms of participation in the COVAX Facility including their need for technical assistance — we will be able to provide more specifics on India’s engagement later this year. In the estimation of Gavi, how have nations been performing, in terms of their response to the pandemic, in particular in LMIC countries. Are you looking at a certain robust response or demonstration of a commitment before countries get on the COVAX bandwagon? It is not Gavi’s role to grade countries on their performance in these unprecedented conditions: what is important is that we make sure that every country in the world that needs access to COVID-19 vaccines is able to access them for their most at-risk populations at the very earliest opportunity. In addition to the 92 economies eligible for AMC support, another 94 have joined as self-funding members of the COVAX Facility. This brings us up to 186 economies around the world. At the same time, we are negotiating deals with manufacturers for doses to be supplied upon licensure or prequalification: here, we have already secured up to 200 million doses of a vaccine for lower-income countries with the support of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, under their tech transfer agreements with AstraZeneca and Novavax, to be produced at the Serum Institute of India. A Memorandum of Understanding between AstraZeneca and Gavi, announced in June also commits an additional 300 million doses of AstraZeneca’s candidate vaccine to the wider COVAX Facility. We have recently announced an additional agreement with GSK and Sanofi for 200 million doses. We will be announcing future deals and doses secured in due course. In terms of access to regular vaccines, as part of the immunisation programme, has there been a disruption the world over as a result of the pandemic? Would you care to point to nations where there seems to be a deep impact? What are the ramifications in terms of child health? The COVID-19 pandemic is having a major impact on continuity of primary health care services, particularly immunisation. Disruption of immunisation services due to COVID-19 increases the risk of vaccine preventable diseases and outbreaks. Existing health and economic inequities are being exacerbated, putting the most disadvantaged and poorest communities at even greater risk. Despite the variable trajectory of COVID-19 in different countries, it has adversely impacted immunisation programmes nearly everywhere. Out of 68 Gavi-supported vaccine introductions and campaigns projected to take place in 2020, several have been impacted due to COVID-19: 39 are confirmed delays, and a further four are at risk of delay. A number of Gavi-eligible countries have resumed campaigns and vaccine introductions: Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Nepal, Solomon Islands, Uganda, Uzbekistan, Yemen and Zambia. Eighteen Gavi-eligible countries have reported shipment delays, while approximately six countries are reporting stock-outs at central or subnational level due to COVID-19. UNICEF has been reporting that the overall the shipment trend has been stabilising, with approximately 45–50 vaccine shipments delivered per week. Both the number of shipments and the number of countries reached per week are within the range of pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels. This has led to a progressive reduction of the backlog of shipments, with only a handful of long-standing shipments pending; these are being booked and consolidated as required. There are some delays in cold chain equipment optimisation platform (CCEOP) implementation. Where additional costs have been incurred due to COVID-19, these costs have been covered under the CCEOP buffer. Immunisation is an essential health service that should be prioritised for the prevention of communicable diseases and maintained during the COVID-19 pandemic. A recent study suggests that if people were to avoid going to the health centres and miss immunisation to avoid COVID-19, for every death prevented from COVID-19, over 80 vaccine-preventable deaths would occur, highlighting the importance of identifying strategies to continue to deliver immunisation. The pursuit towards SDGs — is the journey going to be disrupted? Are there going to be setbacks in the achievement of goals, as a consequence of the pandemic? If we do not rise to the challenge, there is a substantial risk — COVID-19 has taken an unprecedented toll on health systems and economies. We must do everything we can to ensure that our world’s path towards sustainable development remains on track.  COVID-19 has adversely impacted immunisation programmes nearly everywhere||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/initial-vaccine-support-will-cover-92-low-and-middle-income-economies/article33146389.ece
21 November 2020||Belagavi,||‘Elephant Man’ Ajay Desai passes away in Belagavi||Field biologist and wildlife conservation expert Ajay Adrushyappa Desai passed away in Belagavi on Thursday night. He was 62. Family sources said he suffered a heart attack in his sleep. Mr. Desai is survived by wife and two children. Fondly known as “Elephant Man”, he spent decades in the research of species specific behaviour of Asiatic elephants. He was a consultant to World Wildlife Fund and some State governments in resolving man-animal conflicts. Mr. Desai’s family hailed from Konnur in Bagalkot district but had settled in Belagavi decades ago. After schooling in Belagavi, he joined the Bombay Natural History as a researcher. Mr. Desai spent years studying elephant track formation and herd leadership in Mudumalai and in Sri Lanka. Mr. Desai was a pioneer in the study of elephant movements using radio collar. His studies included problems such as elephants entering agricultural fields and pastures. Based on scientific research, he argued that deforestation and destruction of wildlife habitations were forcing elephants to come to villages and towns seeking food and water. He advocated a holistic approach towards conserving nature and wildlife, along with forest areas. He also served as chairman of the elephant expert committee of the International Union of Conservation of Nature. “He was a wildlife photographer, scholar, and a conservation activist. But more than that, he was a great human being. His passing is a great loss to the cause of wildlife conservation,” said Jaideep Siddannanavar, wildlife photographer and a long-time friend. ‘A great loss’ Mysuru Special Correspondent reports: Conservationists and wildlife activists described Mr. Desai’s understanding of elephant behaviour and ecology as monumental. Sanjay Gubbi, a wildlife biologist and who along with Mr. Desai, was the member of the State Board for Wildlife said he was a true conservationist by heart and stood firm for wildlife issues. His knowledge of elephants was unfathomable and Mr. Desai’s death was a great loss to conservation, Mr. Gubbi said. Praveen Bhargav of Wildlife First recalled working with Mr. Desai on many committees of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and how his explanation and analysis of animal behaviour in general and elephants in particular provided insight to other members of the committee to formulate policy measures. He also gave a report to NTCA on the imperatives of further investment to reclaim the Srisailam Tiger Reserve which was recovering from naxalism. Human-elephant conflict He was also working on policy guidelines to mitigate human-elephant conflict under the National Elephant Action Plan (NEAP) which was to be submitted in due course and the conservation community had lost a great friend in his demise, said Mr. Bhargav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/elephant-man-ajay-desai-no-more/article33146524.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. sought FB data of 57,294 users||Facebook received 35,560 requests from the Government of India for user data during the first half (January-June) of 2020 — the second highest globally, according to the latest Transparency Report published by the firm. This is an increase of over 33% from the 26,698 queries in the second half (July-December) of 2019, and 57% higher than the 22,684 requests during January-June 2019. Of the 35,360 requests for 57,294 users or accounts, Facebook said some data was produced in 50% of the cases. “We comply with government requests for user information only where we have a good-faith belief that the law requires us to do so. In addition, we assess whether a request is consistent with internationally recognised standards on human rights, including due process, privacy, free expression and the rule of law,” Chris Sonderby, vice-president and deputy general counsel at Facebook, said in a blog post. The company scrutinised every government request to make sure it was legally valid. Facebook did not provide governments with direct access or “back doors” to people’s information, he said. In the first six months of 2020, government requests for user data globally increased 23% from 1,40,875 to 1,73,592. Of the total volume, the U.S. continued to submit the largest number of requests (61,528), followed by India, Germany (11,211), France (11,086), the U.K. (9,185), Brazil (7,517), Turkey (6,171) and Poland (4,572). Hate speech The social network giant also released its report for ‘community standards enforcement’, November 2020. It said it had included in the report the prevalence of hate speech on its platform globally for the first time.  “In Q3 2020, hate speech prevalence was 0.10% – 0.11% or 10 to 11 views of hate speech for every 10,000 views of content,” Guy Rosen, vice-president of integrity at Facebook, said in a separate post. As per available data, in Q3, 2020 (July-September) 2020, the company took action on 22.1 million pieces of content on Facebook for hate speech, of which 94.7% was found and flagged by it before users reported the content. Additionally, it acted on 6.5 million pieces of hate speech content on Instagram during the quarter. Mr. Rosen said the company acted on 19.2 million pieces of violent and graphic content on Facebook, 12.4 million pieces of child nudity and sexual exploitation content on Facebook, 1 million pieces of child nudity and sexual exploitation content on Instagram, 3.5 million pieces of bullying and harassment content on Facebook. Internet disruptions As per the data shared by Facebook, in the first half of 2020, it witnessed about 53 instances of Internet disruptions affecting its services in 10 countries. India continued to top the list, accounting for 79% or 42 disruptions. The total duration in India was 38 weeks, three days and 19 hours. The 42 instances detailed for places in India where Facebook said it saw service disruption include for 47 weeks, 1 day, and 20 hours in Jammu and Kashmir, August 5, 2019, onwards; four days and nine hours in North 24 Parganas, and West Bengal; 13 hours in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh; six days and 15 hours in Murshidabad, Malda, South Dinajpur, North Dinajpur, Birbhum, Jalpaiguri, and Cooch Behar Districts, West Bengal; five days and eight hours in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh; and five days and 16 hours in East Jaintia Hills, West Jaintia Hills, East Khasi Hills, Ri Bhoi, West Khasi Hills and South West Khasi Hills Districts, Meghalaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-sought-fb-data-of-57294-users/article33146394.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||Exercise Malabar comes to an end||The 24th edition of Exercise Malabar, which concluded on Friday, was reflective of the “commitment of the participating countries to support a free, open, inclusive Indo-Pacific as well as a rules-based international order,” the Navy said in a statement. Simultaneously, it also carried out Coordinated Patrol (CORPAT) with Thailand in the Andaman Sea and delivered food aid to South Sudan in western Indian Ocean under Mission Sagar-II. The naval exercise, consisting of India, Australia, Japan and the U.S., was held in two phases this time. Australia joined the war games for the first time since 2007. In the backdrop of COVID-19, it was conducted in a ‘non-contact at sea only’ format. “In addition to ‘Dual Carrier’ operations, advanced surface and anti-submarine warfare exercises, seamanship evolutions and weapon firings were also undertaken during both phases of Malabar 2020, demonstrating the synergy, coordination and inter-operability between the four friendly navies,” the Navy said. For Phase-II, Indian and the U.S. deployed aircraft carrier groups INS Vikramaditya and USS Nimitz respectively and P-8 long-range maritime reconnaissance aircraft for Anti-Submarine Warfare drills. The two aircraft carriers, along with other ships, submarine and aircraft of the participating navies, engaged in high intensity naval operations, including cross-deck flying operations and advanced air defence exercises by MiG-29K fighters of INS Vikramaditya andF/A-18 fighters and E2C Hawkeye aircraft from USS Nimitz, the Navy said. The 30th edition of India-Thailand Coordinated Patrol (CORPAT) concluded in the Andaman Sea close to the strategic Strait of Malacca. It saw the participation of indigenously-built missile corvette INS Karmuk and Thailand Frigate HTMS Kraburi, along with Dornier maritime patrol aircraft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/exercise-malabar-comes-to-an-end/article33146372.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||To defeat BJP, it is necessary to defeat Trinamool: Yechury||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury has said there is no confusion about who is the primary political adversary for his party in West Bengal. Speaking to The Hindu , he said, “To defeat the BJP, which is the priority, it is necessary to defeat the TMC [Trinamool Congress] too.” In an earlier interview to the Bengali newspaper Ganashakti , Mr. Yechury had said that in West Bengal, there was a need to defeat the BJP “isolating and defeating the Trinamool.” “The Trinamool had prepared the road of entry for the BJP in Bengal. The BJP has strengthened its foothold with the help from the Trinamool. The Trinamool was in alliance with the BJP. The present Chief Minister was a Union Cabinet Minister in NDA governments. Their credibility in fighting the BJP is very low in the first place,” he was quoted as saying. Recently, CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, whose party won 12 of the 19 seats it contested in Bihar, said that any subservience to the Congress would be suicidal. Mr. Yechury said speculation on the Congress playing the elder partner in the alliance was misplaced. “We haven’t had any discussions on seat-sharing arrangements so far. It is still a long way away,” he said. The Congress and the Left parties recently had a meeting in Kolkata. However, the leadership on both sides maintained that it was only to prepare for the nationwide strike of trade unions protesting against new labour laws. “So far, we have only initiated political discussions to mount a fight against the BJP and the Trinamool and to create conditions for us to emerge as the largest political force in the State. To this end, we will have joint political movements. The seat-sharing arrangements have not been discussed yet. Before that, we have to first consult with the party leadership,” senior Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya said. He dismissed reports that the Congress is vying to be the face of the alliance. “We don’t have any intention to insist that we be given more seats than the Left parties,” Mr. Bhattacharya said.  The Trinamool had prepared the road of entry for the BJP in Bengal Sitaram YechuryCPI(M) general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/to-defeat-bjp-it-is-necessary-to-defeat-trinamool-yechury/article33146375.ece
21 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot slams BJP on proposals for ‘love jihad’ law||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday slammed the BJP over the “love jihad” controversy, saying it was a term manufactured by the party to divide the nation and disturb communal harmony. With several BJP-ruled States going ahead with moves to bring in legislation on the issue, Mr. Gehlot said marriage was a matter of personal liberty and bringing a law to curb it would be “completely unconstitutional”. The BJP governments in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have announced plans to enact a law. The senior Congress leader said in a series of tweets that such a legislation would not stand in any court of law and Jihad had “no place in love”. He said BJP leaders were creating an environment in the country where consenting adults would be at the mercy of the State. “Marriage is a personal decision and they are putting curbs on it, which is like snatching away personal liberty,” Mr. Gehlot said. In similar comments, Chhattisgarh’s Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo also lambasted the BJP for coining the “exhaustingly bigoted term”. He added that the “brazen plans” of the BJP-ruled States to bring laws against consensual interfaith marriages had shown how deeply intolerance had crept in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlot-slams-bjp-on-proposals-for-love-jihad-law/article33146373.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Bill against cow slaughter likely in coming session: Ravi||National general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party C.T. Ravi on Friday said “cow slaughter ban will be a reality in Karnataka in the near future”, and a Bill in this regard may be presented in the upcoming Assembly session, scheduled to start on December 7. He tweeted, “I have asked Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan to get ‘The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter & Preservation of Cattle Bill’ passed in the Cabinet and present the same in the upcoming Assembly session”, on Friday. Given that Mr. Ravi is not part of the Cabinet as well, this has raised eyebrows. Addressing mediapersons earlier in the day, Mr. Ravi said in line with the recent resolution at the BJP’s State executive meet in Mangaluru, the State government would soon enact laws banning cow slaughter and to tackle “love jihad”. “The BJP government had passed the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill in 2010, but the Governor did not give his assent and later the Congress government withdrew the Bill. We will reintroduce it with certain amendments that provide for stringent punishment for violators of the ban,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bill-against-cow-slaughter-likely-in-coming-session-ravi/article33146349.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Digital health mission ready for nationwide roll-out soon||The National Digital Health Mission will soon be ready for a nationwide roll-out, said Dr. Indu Bhushan, Chairman, National Health Authority and CEO of Ayushman Bharat. Speaking at the Bangalore Tech Summit 2020, Indu Bhushan said the digital health mission has been launched in six Union Territories and was set for an all-India launch. “Healthcare sector is emerging as one of the largest sectors in India, as the country is on the threshold of becoming a digital health nation. The mission of the new digital health programme is to provide affordable medical health facilities to the citizens,” he said. Dr. Bhushan said around 500 million people were covered under the Ayushman Bharat Universal Health Insurance scheme in the last one year. A health coverage up to Rs. 5 lakh per household has been provided across 24,000 networked hospitals under the scheme. Also Rs. 17,000 crore was spent to cover the treatment of 1.4 crore beneficiaries under the Ayushman Bharat. According to him, given its scale of operation of the scheme, Ayushman Bharat was a 100% transaction-based model that ran on robust IT systems without compromising on security and privacy. The IT framework was further being strengthened and made scalable as the country got ready to go for the National Digital Health Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/digital-health-mission-ready-for-nationwide-roll-out-soon/article33146352.ece
21 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Virus claims more lives in three southern States||Kerala tested 60,365 samples and registered 6,028 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday, with a test positivity rate of 9.9%. The State’s official toll from the virus rose, as 28 more deaths were added. Seven deaths were reported from Thrissur, four from Kollam, three each from Thiruvananthapuram, Alapuzha, Kozhikode and Kannur, two from Ernakulam and one each from Kottayam, Palakkad and Malappuram. Many asymptomatic In Telangana, 894 cases were reported on Thursday, and positivity was claimed to be low at 2.27% based on 39,448 tests. As four more deaths were reported on Thursday, the total number of fatalities had gone up to 1,423. Of the total positive cases reported in the State so far, 70% were asymptomatic cases. Andhra Pradesh added 1,221 new infections and 10 new deaths on Friday. While the overall test positivity rate for 94.74 lakh samples was 9.08%, daily samples of 66,002 had a positivity rate of 1.85%. With two new deaths each, Chittoor and Krishna continued to have highest death rate among the districts. East Godavari, Guntur, Kurnool, Nellore, Prakasam and Visakhapatam reported one new death each.  1,688 more cases in T.N. Another 1,688 persons tested positive for COVID-19 infection on Friday, taking the tally of positive cases in the State to 7,66,677. However, in the last 24 hours 2,173 more persons were discharged after treatment. As on date 7,41,705 have been discharged, according to public health officials. Chennai district recorded 489 fresh cases while as many as 418 persons were discharged in a day from various health facilities post-treatment. The district also recorded eight deaths. Currently, 4,622 persons are under treatment, including those on home treatment. So far 2,11,084 persons have tested positive for the infection in the district. The Directorate of Public Health daily bulletin said 2,02,660 had been discharged and 3,802 had died of the infection so far.  (With inputs from   Hyderabad, Vijayawada   and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virus-claims-42-more-lives-in-three-southern-states/article33146369.ece
21 November 2020||Srinagar,||Complaint draws J&K L-G’s attention to campaign issue||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (LG) Manoj Sinha on Friday passed “necessary instructions” in view of the concern raised over the campaigning by local parties for the upcoming maiden District Development Council (DDC) polls in the Union Territory (UT). “The issue is already in my notice and necessary instructions stand conveyed to the concerned. I am sure the coming elections will go a long way in strengthening the Panchayati Raj institutions,” he said in response to a complaint raised by CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami. In his letter to the LG, Mr. Tarigami, also general secretary of the mainstream parties’ amalgam Peoples Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration, claimed that a good number of candidates were being kept away from their constituencies and bundled into cluster accommodations. “The first-ever DDC elections are commencing in the next few days and to make the process credible, the participation of voters is imperative. However, after filing nomination papers, the candidates are not allowed to hold campaigning in their respective segments due to a perceived threat to their lives”, Mr. Tarigami’s letter reads. ‘Movement restricted’ He said confining candidates against their wishes had severely restricted their movement and ability to campaign. “Even in some cases, they are not allowed to attend party meetings. Opposite candidates are sent in same vehicle to a village for campaigning and are asked to campaign together,” the CPI(M) leader said. Mr. Tarigami said it was urged not to put avoidable restrictions on the contesting candidates and the legitimate movement for the campaigning must be effectively facilitated. Scores of candidates contesting the DDC polls have alleged that they were being shifted to security enclosures and not allowed free movement in south, central and north Kashmir. The DDC polls start on November 28.  quote panel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/complaint-draws-jk-l-gs-attention-to-campaign-issue/article33146378.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||In a first, govt. approves study on ‘status of radicalisation’||The Union Home Ministry has, for the first time, approved a research study on “Status of radicalisation in India”. The study will attempt to legally define “radicalisation” and suggest amendments to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), the police think tank of the Ministry, had invited research proposals from academics and legal experts in 2018. It received 75 proposals, and two topics, “Status of radicalisation in India: an exploratory study of prevention and remedies” and “Functioning and impact of open prisons on rehabilitation of prisoners” were shortlisted by the Ministry in September. G.S. Bajpai, Director of the Centre for Criminology and Victimology, National Law University (NLU), Delhi, will conduct the research on radicalisation. Speaking to The Hindu , he said, “The study will be religion-neutral and will go by facts and the reported cases. Radicalisation is yet to be defined legally, this leads to misuse by the police. It should be defined and necessary amendments made to the UAPA.” Field visit Mr. Bajpai, who is also the member-secretary of the Committee on Criminal Reforms constituted by the Ministry to overhaul the British-era Indian Penal Code (IPC), said that the study would take a year to conclude as it required field visits and interviews. “Radicalisation has to be addressed in a systematic manner and a policy should be devised by the Centre. It is not merely a policing issue. In India, people are sensitive about religion, what we are attempting is correct interpretation of holy books such as the Koran, Gita or Bible,” he said.  Aggressive policing measures could be counter-productive as the youth who were radicalised were “misguided” and not the culprits. “We have studied the Maharashtra model, where several youth were de-radicalised. Merely sending young men behind the bars will not solve the purpose, right thinking people in the community will have to be mobilised,” he added. The United Nations’ 26th report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team concerning the IS (Islamic State), Al-Qaeda and associated individuals and entities had pointed out “significant numbers” of IS and Al-Qaeda members in Kerala and Karnataka. UN report The report said, “One member State reported that the ISIL Indian affiliate (Hind Wilayah), which was announced on May 10, 2019, has between 180 and 200 members”. On September 16, Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy informed the Lok Sabha that the information was “not factually correct”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-a-first-govt-approves-study-on-status-of-radicalisation/article33146382.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Power TV head gets anticipatory bail||The Karnataka High Court has granted anticipatory bail to Rakesh Shetty, managing director of Power TV news channel, in a criminal case that was registered against him by a civil contractor after the channel telecast a series of programme “exposing alleged corruption” involving family members of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Justice B.A. Patil passed the order while allowing Mr. Shetty’s petition on the condition that he should surrender before the investigating officer within 20 days and should cooperate with the investigation as and when required. While citing various decisions of the apex court on proposition of law for grant of bail, the High Court also referred to the recent decision in Arnab Manoranjan Goswami Vs. The State of Maharashtra & Others. The case against the petitioner was registered on a complaint lodged by Chandrakanth Ramalingam, Director of Ramalingam Construction Company Pvt. Ltd., whose communications with the family members of the Chief Minister was telecast by the channel beginning September 2. The case against the channel’s head was registered on September 24. Apart from furnishing a bond for Rs. 2 lakh with two sureties of like sum to the satisfaction of the investigation officer, the petitioner has also been directed not to tamper with the investigation. While referring to allegations made by the complainant and counter-allegations by the petitioner, the court said it was to not only keep in mind the antecedents of accused persons while granting anticipatory bail but also the need to weigh the antecedents of complainant. Observing that the complainant, Mr. Ramalingam, has also “not come up with clean hands and it appears that all is not well”, the court expressed doubt over his claim that he was tutored by the petitioner considering the complainant’s position as a director of a big construction company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/power-tv-head-gets-anticipatory-bail/article33146347.ece
21 November 2020||Washington DC,||At UNSC, India calls for immediate Afghan ceasefire||India has told the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) that it calls for an “immediate comprehensive ceasefire” in Afghanistan, while welcoming all opportunities to bring peace to the country. India’s position was articulated by its Permanent Representative to the United Nations, T.S. Tirumurti, at a UNSC meeting on Friday, convened under the Arria Formula (informally convened at the request of a UNSC member). Current and incoming members of the UNSC spoke on how the Council could support the Afghan peace process. “For durable peace in Afghanistan, we have to put an end to terrorist safe havens and sanctuaries operating across the Durand Line,” Mr. Tirumurti said, in a reference to Pakistan. India has been concerned that the Afghan peace process and premature withdrawal of NATO/ U.S. coalition forces could leave opportunities for terrorist networks that could target both Afghanistan and India. “The report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team under the Al-Qaeda/Da’esh Sanctions Committee has also highlighted the presence of foreign fighters in Afghanistan. For violence to end in Afghanistan, these terrorist supply chains must be broken,” Mr. Tirumurti said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-unsc-india-calls-for-immediate-afghan-ceasefire/article33147084.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Australia to temporarily host ISRO satellite tracking facilities||As part of steps to deepen cooperation in civil space activities, the space agencies of India and Australia were working together to position temporarily Indian tracking facilities in Australia, Australian Minister for Industry, Science and Technology Karen Andrews said on Friday. This would support India’s planned human space flight programme. “These include earth observation and data analytics, robotics, and space life sciences. This mission will see India become just the fourth nation to send a crew into space,” Ms. Andrews said virtually speaking at the Bengaluru Tech Summit 2020. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has embarked on an ambitious plan to put an Indian in space by 2022 under Gaganyaan mission. “There are significant opportunities for space agencies, research organisations, and commercial sectors in both of our countries”, she stated. Joint efforts from 1987 India, Australia space cooperation is underpinned by a formal Memorandum of Understanding signed between the two countries in 2012. Australian Deputy Consul General Michael Costa said both nations have been collaborating since 1987 to “support data calibration and laser raging for Indian satellites, launching Australian satellites, and conducting joint research”. At a virtual summit in June, both countries elevated the bilateral relationship to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, and put in place practical agreements on cybersecurity, emerging technology and critical minerals. Research funding Since the summit, Ms. Andrews said, they have announced $15 million for extending the Australia-India strategic research fund for another four years to facilitate collaboration between researchers on strategically focused, leading-edge science and technology projects. The fund, the Australian government’s largest bilateral science programme, has seen a total commitment of nearly $100 million since 2006. Tobias Feakin, Australia’s Ambassador for Cyber Affairs and Critical Technology, said India and Australia concluded a framework arrangement on cyber and cyber-enabled critical technology cooperation. This was enhancing how the two countries collaborated to promote and preserve an open, free, safe and secure Internet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/australia-to-temporarily-host-isro-satellite-tracking-facilities/article33146386.ece
21 November 2020||COIMBATORE,||Desai did extensive work in T.N.||“Ajay was a very important part of the Elephant Task Force that I had set up and that led to its being declared as the national heritage animal. Passionate scholar and fine human being. Learned so much from him,” tweeted former Union Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh on the passing away of Ajay Desai. Though Desai’s works were spread across India, he was close to the Tamil Nadu landscape. The protected areas that are now known as the Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) and Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) were among his early turf in research and conservation. “Though he did his post-graduation in Marine Biology, he was drawn to the world of forests and especially elephants after getting inspired by people namely J.C. Daniel from the Bombay Natural History Society. A.J.T. Johnsingh, former Dean of the Wildlife Institute of India, was among his early mentors,” said D. Boominathan, landscape coordinator of WWF-India, Coimbatore, who worked closely with Desai for about two decades. Desai was consulted by the Tamil Nadu Forest Department on crucial issues related to elephants. His expertise was sought for the capture and translocation of elephants nicknamed Vinayagan and Chinnathambi in the Coimbatore Forest Division, Arisi Raja in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve and a few others in the Nilgiris landscape. At the time of his demise, Desai was a member of an expert committee appointed by the Forest Department to study the elephant population in Tamil Nadu and deaths of elephants in Coimbatore Forest Division. “Desai had the gift of viewing any elephant or ecological problem with a completely new perspective and was always ready to come up with practical solutions. The field of Asian elephant conservation has lost its foremost champion,” said I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle) about his association with Desai since 2007. Retired forest official C. Badrasamy recalled that Desai always tried to remain non-controversial though he was highly resourceful. “His views were always acceptable to others”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/desai-did-extensive-work-in-tn/article33146525.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||CM holds virtual meeting with U.K. Minister||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday held a virtual meeting with Lord Tariq Ahmad, the Baron Ahmad of Wimbledon and Minister of State at the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office. They discussed bilateral cooperation and collaboration in various sectors such as renewable energy, pollution control, animation/gaming, regulatory sandboxes, and waste management. During the meeting, the Chief Minister said Karnataka had become the prime spot for global industries to invest owing to availability of skilled workforce and other favourable industrial environment. “Being a champion of renewable energy production, Karnataka would like to engage with the U.K. on forecasting, scheduling, and ancillary service solutions on renewable energy front,” he said. In his remarks, Lord Ahmad said, “As economies around the world recover from the impact of COVID-19, this is the time to look to the future. We must take the opportunity to create a world that is green, clean, and sustainable”. British Deputy High Commissioner to Karnataka and Kerala Jeremy Pilmore-Bedford and senior officers were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cm-holds-virtual-meeting-with-uk-minister/article33147096.ece
21 November 2020||KASARAGOD,||Threatening witness: MLA’s secretary indicted||The police have indicted Pradeep Kumar, office secretary to Pathanapuram MLA K.B. Ganesh Kumar, for threatening and intimidating a key prosecution witness in the actor assault case. A police team investigating the charges submitted a report in this regard to the Kasaragod District and Session Court on Friday. It submitted that there was strong evidence against Mr. Kumar and he should not be granted anticipatory bail.  CCTV footage The police told the court that there was CCTV footage of Mr. Kumar coming to Kasaragod and also digital evidence, including telephone metadata, to prove the suspect’s attempts to threaten Vipin Lal, the approver. After analysing his call records, the probe team found that the SIM had been used only once and the call Mr. Kumar made to the approver emanated from a tower at Pathanapuram. The report said he may try to sabotage the case and influence the witness. It said Mr. Kumar had seen actor Dileep in jail when the latter was arrested in the actor assault case. He had admitted that he once went to the jail with Mr. Ganesh Kumar and once alone to see Dileep. The report said he did not cooperate with the probe and should be remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/threatening-witness-mlas-secretary-indicted/article33146678.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,||KC(M) Jose faction gets ‘two leaves’ symbol||Upholding the decision of the Election Commission of India (ECI), the Kerala High Court on Friday confirmed the allocation of the “two leaves” election symbol to the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani. It was while considering two writ petitions, one filed by P.J. Joseph, working chairman of the Kerala Congress (M) and another one by a member of the party, against the order of the ECI that the court passed the order. The ECI had earlier held that the group led by Mr. Mani was the Kerala Congress (M), which was entitled to use its name and its reserved symbol “two leaves” for the purpose of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968. No reason to interfere The court, which found no reason to interfere with the order of the ECI, dismissed the petition filed by Mr. Joseph. The court said that election symbols were essential in India where literacy level of voters was not satisfactory. It is also a statutory requirement under the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961. As there was no statutory provision regulating allocation of symbols to political parties and candidates in elections, the duty and power to regulate allocation of symbols would vest with the ECI, the court noted. Allocation of election symbols was intended to maintain purity in elections. Any order passed by the ECI in allocating election symbol to any one of the rival faction of a political party cannot have a direct impact on registration of a political party, it said. A decision taken by the ECI on the symbol is not tentative, but final. When a Constitutional functionary exercises powers and passes orders which are final in nature, subject only to judicial review under Constitutional provisions, it cannot be said that such Constitutional functionary's jurisdiction is peripheral, the court observed. The court noted that the ECI came to the conclusion that there were two factions in the KC(M) based on materials available before it. The conclusions of the commission cannot be said to be perverse. The court cannot interfere with the said finding of fact, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcm-jose-faction-gets-two-leaves-symbol/article33146353.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka proposes law to ban online games||Can a ban help address the growing problem of gaming addiction, especially among the youth? The State government seems to think so and is considering promulgating a law to ban online games. “They have turned our youth into addicts, pushing them into a debt trap and other crimes,” said Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai at the Chief Minister’s Police Medal investiture ceremony at the Vidhana Soudha here on Friday. According to Mr. Bommai, online games, especially those that are paid or take money as bets, have ruined the lives of many people in the State. “We have received complaints from parents, some even in writing. Once the youth are addicted, we have seen cases where they get involved in various nefarious activities to fund their gaming addiction as well,” he said. The Home Minister also said the government will study laws in other States that regulate online games to adopt the best practices from their experiences and draft a regulatory legal framework. Andhra Pradesh, for instance, recently sought a ban on online gaming and online betting and wrote to the Union government seeking to get 132 websites/apps blocked in the State. The Union government also recently banned PUBG, an online game, over its China links. However, a senior official said that while online gaming and gambling was fast turning into a social menace, it cannot be entirely banned. Many of them are categorised as skill games and enjoy legal protection, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-proposes-law-to-ban-online-games/article33146361.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR: let competitive exam aspirants write in regional language||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting that candidates wanting to take competitive exams for recruitment in Central services, departments and undertakings through Union Public Service Commission and other agencies be permitted to write in regional languages also. Apart from UPSC, the permission should be extended to exams conducted by Railway Recruitment Board, public sector banks, Reserve Bank of India, Staff Selection Commission and any other national agency, Mr. Rao pointed out. He recalled that competitive exams at present for recruitment to posts in Central government, Central Public Sector Undertakings, Indian railways, defence services and nationalised banks were held in only English and Hindi, which was a serious disadvantage to students who did not study in English medium or not from Hindi speaking states. Therefore, all competitive exams should be conducted in regional languages also to provide equal and fair opportunity to students from all states. By another letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Mr. Rao requested him to release a commemorative stamp on the late Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao preferably during the former’s southern sojourn in Hyderabad, which generally takes place in December. Mr. Rao, however, requested the President to give his consent to release the stamp at his convenience. The Chief Minister informed Mr. Kovind about the Centre’s plans to release the stamp at a time when the State government was organising the centenary year of P.V. Narasimha Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-let-competitive-exam-aspirants-write-in-regional-languages/article33147211.ece
21 November 2020||Hassan,||Ancient Kali idol found damaged near Hassan||A Kali idol at the historical Mahalakshmi Temple, an important temple of the Hoysala period, at Doddagaddavalli, near Hassan, was found damaged on Friday. The temple is a Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) protected monument, and the incident has occurred at a time when the organisation is observing the World Heritage Week. Local people and the temple priest noticed the damaged idol on Friday morning and informed ASI and the police. The ASI has a staff member for protecting the monument. It is said that there was no one on night duty at the monument site when the incident occurred.  The temple, built by a merchant-couple, Kalluhana Rahuta and Sahaja Devi, during King Vishnuvardhana’s rule in 1113 AD has great significance as it is unique among Hoysala temples. It is the only temple with four sanctums ( chatuskuta ). Mahalakshmi is the presiding deity. Kali and Bhootanatha (Shiva) are the two other idols found in two other sanctums. However, the fourth one has no idol. Shalva Pille Iyengar, Head of the Department of Ancient History and Archaeology at Karnataka State Open University, told The Hindu that the temple stood unique among Hoysala temple because of its architecture. Expressing shock over the damage, the scholar said despite it being a ASI protected monument, no proper care had been taken by the authorities concerned. The temple is about 16 km from Hassan and is close to two other significant tourist places – Belur and Halebid.  When contacted Shivakant Bajpai, Superintending Archaeologist of Bengaluru Circle, said he learnt about the incident around 11 a.m. and would verify the facts. “We will take stern action against those responsible for the incident. If it had happened owing to negligence of our staff, I will take action. If it is a case of vandalism, then also we will catch hold of them. I have already spoken to the Superintendent of Police of Hassan,” Mr. Bajpai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ancient-kali-idol-found-damaged-in-hassan-dist/article33146546.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Nod for fresh contempt action against comedian||“The tweet is grossly vulgar and obnoxious, and I have no doubt that it would tend to lower the authority of the Supreme Court as well as undermine the confidence that the litigant public have in the institution of the Supreme Court itself,” the top law officer wrote. This is the second consent given by Mr. Venugopal for contempt action against Mr. Kamra in November. The earlier one was for Mr. Kamra’s tweets on the decision of the Supreme Court to grant interim bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami. Mr. Kamra had refused to apologise or retract the tweets. Instead, he tweeted that he wished to “volunteer” the time that may be allotted for hearing his contempt case to others “who have not been as lucky and privileged as I am to jump the queue”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nod-for-fresh-contempt-action-against-comedian/article33146363.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Jaish plot to disrupt polls in J&K foiled: PM||A senior government official said that other than the huge quantity of arms and ammunition, a digital mobile radio manufactured by a Pakistani company – Micro electronics — was also recovered from the terrorists. “The messages exchanged on the device show that the intruders were continuously in touch with their handlers in Pakistan. One of the messages on the device said ‘ Kaha phnche kia sorate hal hai koi mushkil to nahi ?’ [where have you reached? Hope you are not in any trouble?]” the official said. Shoes manufactured in Pakistan were also recovered. A smartphone Q mobile that is made in Pakistan, a wireless set and a GPS device were also found on them. However, Pakistan denied Mr. Modi's statement, calling the details of the Nagrota plot “groundless allegations”. In a statement released on Friday night, the Pakistani Ministry of Foreign Affairs repeated last weeks allegations against Indian intelligence agencies, with claims of a “terror dossier” against India. “It is evident that India has stepped up anti-Pakistan propaganda, following presentation of the dossier by Pakistan providing irrefutable evidence of India’s state-sponsorship of terrorism,” the Pakistani MFA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaish-plot-to-disrupt-polls-in-jk-foiled-pm/article33146365.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Bhutan says no Chinese village on its territory||But details of the ultimate withdrawal of Chinese troops and heavy machinery remained sketchy. News broadcaster NDTV reported on Thursday that the Chinese had built a residential area and named it “Pangda village”. The settlement consists of a neat housing locality, clean roads and other amenities next to a stream. The presence of the Chinese village is the first time since 2017 that a Chinese residential area has been noticed near the Doklam region, which is strategically important for India. In recent months, India has maintained close coordination with Bhutan and has included the Himalayan country in plans for containment of the COVID-19 pandemic. Launching the second phase of the RuPay card in Bhutan electronically on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi assured his Bhutanese counterpart Dr. Lotay Tshering that meeting Bhutan’s requirements would be given “top priority” by India. The card will increase the domain of digital transactions in Bhutan. “I want to assure that in this difficult time, we are standing with Bhutan and your requirements will always receive highest priority from us,” Mr. Modi said, adding that Bhutan would be a “full partner” in the RuPay network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhutan-denies-chinese-village-on-its-territory/article33146366.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Children account for one in 9 cases: UNICEF||Children and adolescents account for one in nine reported COVID-19 infections across 87 countries, according to an analysis by UNICEF, which highlights the trifecta of threats due to COVID-19 facing children, including the disruption of essential services and rise in poverty and inequality. The report was released on World Children’s Day on Friday and coincides with nearly one year of the COVID-19 spread. It seeks to reject the myth that children are not affected by the infection and estimates that children and adolescents account for 11 per cent of the 25.7 million infections reported across 87 countries until November 3. Of these cases, more infections occurred among adolescents ages 10-19 compared to children 0-9, and among males compared to females (as is true at older ages). “Children face a trifecta of threats: direct consequences of the disease itself, interruption in essential services and increasing poverty and inequality. Unless the global community urgently changes priorities, the potential of this generation of young people may well be lost,” the report titled “Averting a Lost COVID Generation” says. Much worse though is the impact of disruption of critical services that support and safeguard children such as vaccination and maternal and newborn care, which could aggravate mortality and morbidity, which will further increasing their vulnerability to COVID-19 and other diseases. As a result, there could be an estimated 20 lakh additional child deaths under age 5, and 2 lakh additional stillbirths in the first year of the pandemic. The UNICEF calls upon governments to implement a six-point plan to secure the future of children, which include bridging the digital divide to ensure all children are able to access school learning and guaranteed nutrition and health services. It also appeals that measures be taken to curb rise in child poverty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/children-account-for-one-in-9-cases-unicef/article33146392.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||U.P. govt. denies confining Kerala journalist illegally||“You told us in the last hearing that you did not know where he was and you were not allowed to meet him... He [Mr. Mehta] is now saying he [Kappan] was duly produced before a court?” Chief Justice Bobde turned to ask senior advocate Kapil Sibal for the KUWJ. Mr. Sibal responded, “But what is said in the FIR is ex-facie false... Whenever we went to the jail authorities, they would tell us to go get a judicial order... We want to meet this man... Let a lawyer go to meet him and get his signature for a vakalatnama .” The CJI responded, “We will enable that for you.” Mr. Mehta, in turn, said the State government had no objection to a lawyer meeting Mr. Kappan in jail to sign a vakalatnama . The court recorded the statement made by the law officer. “There was no objection and there is no objection,” Mr. Mehta said. During the hearing, the CJI said the court was concerned about the “inaccurate reporting” of the top court proceedings held on November 16, the previous hearing. “We are concerned,” he remarked. An 82-page affidavit filed by the senior superintendent of the Mathura district jail, where Mr. Kappan is lodged, said he was “the office secretary of the Popular Front of India (PFI)”. The identity card he had shown was of a Kerala-based newspaper, Tejas , which was closed in 2018. “It is revealed during the investigation that he, along with other PFI activists and their student wing [Campus Front of India] leaders were going to Hathras under the garb of journalism with a very determined design to create a caste divide and disturb law and order,” the affidavit said. The accused were found carrying “incriminating material”. Mr. Kappan misled the investigators by giving the wrong residential address. “No family member of the accused has approached jail authorities till date for meeting the accused,” it stated. The court gave the KUWJ time to study the affidavit. It scheduled a hearing next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-govt-denies-confining-kerala-journalist-illegally/article33146362.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Feedback on draft safety rules sought||The Union Labour Ministry has notified the draft rules under the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, inviting objections and suggestions from stakeholders within 45 days. The draft rules provide for implementation of the Code provisions related to safety, health and working conditions of dock workers, building or other construction workers, mines workers, inter-State migrant workers, contract labour, working journalists, audio-visual workers and sales promotion employees. The rules propose appointment letter in a prescribed format, including designation, category of skill, wages, avenue for achieving higher wages/higher position,etc., to every employee of an establishment within three months of coming into force of the rules. As per new rules, no employee will be recruited without an appointment letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/feedback-on-draft-safety-rules-sought/article33146370.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||14 killed in accident in Uttar Pradesh||Fourteen people returning home after attending a marriage were killed when their sport utility vehicle (SUV) rammed a stationary truck on a highway in Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh late on Thursday, police said. The victims, all residents of a village in Kunda area, were returning after attending a ‘baraat’ function in Sheikhpura village in Nawabganj area, said the police. The dead included six minors, aged between 6 and 15. The other deceased were men aged between 20 and 60, said SP Pratapgarh Anurag Arya. While five bodies were recovered from the SUV initially, the other nine bodies were pulled out from under the truck, said Mr. Arya. As per a preliminary probe, the truck driver had parked his vehicle on the side of the road after a tyre got punctured, said the officer. The SUV rammed into the truck from behind and half of it went under the truck, said the SP. “Senior officers reached the spot immediately & carried out the rescue work. Our prayers & condolences for the bereaved family members & loved ones of those who lost their lives,” the police tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-killed-in-accident-in-uttar-pradesh/article33146396.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,||HC rejects plea in actor rape case||The plea for change of trial court in the sensational actor rape case was rejected by the High Court on Friday. Dismissing the petitions moved by the survivor and the prosecution, Justice V.G. Arun said the court needed to look whether the apprehension of judicial bias was reasonable or not while considering the question of judicial bias. The prosecution had complained that the trial court was acting in a biased manner and the survivor may not get justice from the trial court. The trial in the rape and abduction case is being considered by Honey M. Varghese, Special Judge, Additional Special Sessions Court (SPE/CBI-3), Ernakulam. Cross-examination row The High Court refused to buy the contention that counsel for actor Dileep, 8th accused, was permitted to cross-examine the survivor after four months of completion of cross-examination by the others. The cross-examination was deferred awaiting a Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) report on the cloned copy of the pen drive furnished to Dileep, as ordered by the Supreme Court. The trial had to be adjourned for almost three months following COVID-19 and the resultant lockdown, the court noted. On the prosecution complaint that copies of the petition, the questionnaire and the report received from the CFSL were not made available to it, the High Court noted that the Special Judge had had noted that the court was bound to keep the report confidential until the conclusion of the trial and not to allow it to be accessed by others, except the accused as ordered by the apex court. Delay in passing orders Regarding the delay in passing orders on the petitions filed by the prosecution, the High Court noted that it was always open for the prosecution to approach the court seeking expeditious disposal of the petitions. Moreover, the prosecution had not stated how the delay in passing the orders has prejudiced the prosecution in the conduct of the case.  The court found no merit in the contention that it would be appropriate for the Special Judge to recuse from the case. As the case was transferred to the trial court by the High Court and the Supreme Court prescribing a time limit for completing the process, the judge cannot be expected to recuse, as long as her conscience was clear, the court observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-plea-in-actor-rape-case/article33146354.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||End relief to Sahara group, SEBI tells SC||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has asked the Supreme Court to cut short the “long rope” given to the Sahara group and direct it to cough up Rs. 62,602.90 crore in dues or send its chief, Subrata Roy, to jail for contempt. SEBI, represented by law firm M/s K.J. John & Co, has filed a contempt petition in the top court. The companies, Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. (SIRECL) and Sahara Housing Investment Corporation Ltd. (SHICL), are respondents in the case along with Mr. Roy. “Direct the Saharas to forthwith deposit the balance amount of Rs. 62,602.90 crore as on September 30, failing which the contemnorsmay be directed to be taken into custody as directed by the Supreme Court in a judgment on June 15, 2015,” the 59-page SEBI application said. SEBI informed the court of the increasing liability of the companies towards investors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/end-relief-to-sahara-group-sebi-tells-sc/article33147083.ece
21 November 2020||Srinagar,||‘Article 370 can never be restored’||BJP leader Syed Shahnawaz Hussain on Friday campaigned for the District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir and reiterated that the provisions of Article 370 could never be restored. “The ‘Gupkar Gang’ is deceiving people by making promises over its restoration. The atmosphere in Jammu and Kashmir has changed after the abrogation of Article 370 last year. Jammu and Kashmir will see a new dawn of development,” Mr. Hussain, recently appointed Kashmir in-charge for the elections, said. The former Union Minister and BJP national spokesman targeted the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on the issue of dynasty politics. “Most leaders in Jammu and Kashmir are those who have a family background and did not allow others to grow,” he said. The DDC polls are due to start on November 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/article-370-can-never-be-restored/article33146376.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||Sonia in Goa to avoid Delhi air pollution||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday afternoon moved to Goa following medical advice to avoid smog and avoid air pollution in Delhi. Accompanied by her son and former Congress chief, Rahul Gandhi, Ms. Gandhi, 73, is likely to be in Goa till the air quality in Delhi improved, a Congress functionary said. “The Congress president has been advised by doctors to shift out of Delhi to a place with cleaner air. The polluted air in Delhi has taken a toll on her health and has aggravated her asthma and chest condition, which has not shown much improvement despite medication”, said the functionary. Ms. Gandhi was hospitalised in July for a chest infection and has been on medication since. On September 12, she went abroad for a routine medical check-up with Mr. Gandhi and skipped the monsoon session of Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-in-goa-to-avoid-delhi-air-pollution/article33146379.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Poll bonds worth Rs. 280 cr. sold in Bihar||Electoral bonds worth Rs. 282.29 crore were sold in October ahead of the Bihar Assembly election, the State Bank of India said on Friday in response to a Right to Information (RTI) query. The bank was responding to an application by Commodore Lokesh K. Batra (retired). He had sought a “branch-wise and denomination-wise” information on the sale of electoral bonds between October 19 and October 28. The RTI reply showed that bonds worth Rs. 282,29,01,000 were sold from nine SBI branches. The Mumbai branch sold the highest amount of electoral bonds at Rs. 130 crore. Electoral bonds valued Rs. 1 crore each were sold the most at 279. This was followed by bonds worth Rs. 10 lakh each — 32 of them were sold. Nine bonds worth a lakh each were also sold. A solitary bond valued at Rs. 1,000, which was not encashed, was transferred to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poll-bonds-worth-rs-280-cr-sold-in-bihar/article33147087.ece
21 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Marriage between first cousins illegal’||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stated that marriage between first cousins is illegal. The assertion came after a youth moved the High Court against the State of Punjab for anticipatory bail. The petitioner, a 21-year-old youth, had sought anticipatory bail in a case filed under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366A (Procuration of minor girl) of the Indian Penal Code at Khanna city-2 in Ludhiana district. The counsel for petitioner submitted that his client had also filed a criminal writ petition, along with the girl, praying for grant of protection to their life and liberty. The State argued that the duo were first cousins and their fathers were real brothers. Hence they fall in the prohibited ‘sapinda’ under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA). Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan said, “..the submission in the present petition that as and when she [the girl] attains the age of 18 years, they will perform marriage is per se illegal.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/marriage-between-first-cousins-illegal/article33146397.ece
21 November 2020||Dumka,||‘Don’t hesitate to shoot armed criminals’||Jharkhand Police chief M.V. Rao said a list of dreaded criminals in the State was being prepared and if they resist arrest with arms, they would be killed. Speaking to reporters after holding a crime review meeting here, Mr. Rao said a lot of police personnel hesitate to shoot, fearing litigations, but he has told the force not to worry about using weapons when needed. “For the protection of civilians, if the police shoot an armed criminal, then it is absolutely a lawful action.”PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-hesitate-to-shoot-armed-criminals/article33146625.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,||High Court rejects plea in actor rape case||The plea for change of trial court in the sensational actor rape case was rejected by the High Court on Friday. Justice V.G. Arun said the court needed to look at whether the apprehension of judicial bias was reasonable or not. The prosecution had complained that the trial court was acting in a biased manner and claimed the survivor may not get justice from the trial court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-court-rejects-plea-in-actor-rape-case/article33147254.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Students protest for and against Anna University Vice-Chancellor||Anna University witnessed two student protests on Friday. While one group demanded that Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa be dismissed, another demanded justice for him. A week ago,the State government constituteda single retired judge inquiry commission to probe into allegations of corruption against the Vice-Chancellor. The government cited allegations of misappropriation of Rs. 280 crore, corruption and faculty appointment for financial benefits against Mr. Surappa. Charges denied The V-C has said that the allegations were baseless and that he was ready to face any inquiry. On Friday, around 100 persons representing the Students’ Federation of India staged a protest outside the university’s gates demanding his suspension as the inquiry was pending. Inside the campus, a group of students and professors held placards that said #WeSupportSurappa and #JusticeForSurappa. Research scholar Preethi Ramadoss, who led the protest on the campus, said the Vice-Chancellor had taken up the students’ issues immediately and resolved them amicably, and was always on the side of the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/students-protest-for-and-against-anna-university-vice-chancellor/article33146677.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||Maneka Gandhi graft case: Delhi HC issues notice to CBI||The Delhi High Court on Friday issued a notice to the CBI on a petition by BJP MP Maneka Gandhi challenging a trial court order rejecting the closure report and directing the agency to further probe a graft case against her. Justice Yogesh Khanna also stayed the trial court’s February order to the extent it directed the CBI to place the material it has before the sanctioning authority for her prosecution. The case relates to alleged sanction of Rs. 50 lakh for a nursing college building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maneka-gandhi-graft-case-delhi-hc-issues-notice-to-cbi/article33146393.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||CAG elected to Geneva body||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India, Girish Chandra Murmu, has been elected External Auditor of Inter Parliamentary Union, Geneva, for a three-year term. He will take charge of this position from the Supreme Audit Institution of Switzerland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cag-elected-to-geneva-body/article33146398.ece
21 November 2020||Hyderabad,||2,226 candidates file nominations on last day||As many as 2,226 candidates filed 1,889 nominations for the 150 divisions of the GHMC on Friday, the last day to do so. About 1,561 candidates had filed their papers on the last day with 494 from BJP, 493 from TRS, 312 from Congress, 186 from Telugu Desam, 66 from Majlis, 24 from CPI(M) and 15 from CPI besides 550 independents. Scrutiny today GHMC Commissioner and election authority Lokesh Kumar said scrutiny of the papers will be done on Saturday. In a separate notification, the election authorities also informed that while a candidate can file nominations for more than one ward in the Municipal Corporation, he or she will be allowed to contest from a single division. And, if the nominations filed for more than more division is not withdrawn before the last date, the nomination papers will become invalid and the candidate concerned will not be allowed to contest from any division. The last date for withdrawal of nominations is 3 p.m. of November 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2226-candidates-file-nominations-on-last-day/article33147181.ece
21 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||39.5 kg gold looted, IIFL Finance informs Odisha police||A day after armed robbers looted the office of India Infoline Finance Limited in Cuttack, Odisha, the company on Friday informed the police that about 39.5 kg of gold, worth around Rs. 20 crore, was found missing. However, the police said the claim could not be ascertained as the firm had not handed over the ledger to them. The police also raised several security lapses by the firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/395-kg-gold-looted-iifl-finance-informs-odisha-police/article33147085.ece
21 November 2020||Guwahati,||Meghalaya groups renew demand for ILP curbs||Seven Meghalaya-based organisations have renewed their movement for the implementation of the British era inner-line permit (ILP) for entry into the State and the scrapping of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The agitation prior to the COVID-19 pandemic had led to communal violence between a section of the tribal and non-tribal people, primarily Bengali speakers. The groups, led by the Khasi Students’ Union , have warned of an intensified stir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-groups-renew-demand-for-ilp-curbs/article33146387.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||Petrol price up 17 paise, diesel 22 paise after two-month hiatus||Petrol price on Friday was hiked by 17 paise per litre and diesel by 22 paise, as firming international oil prices broke a nearly two-month hiatus in price revision. Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs. 81.23 per litre from Rs. 81.06, according to a price notification from oil marketing companies. Diesel rates went up from Rs. 70.46 to Rs. 70.68 per litre.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petrol-price-up-17-paise-diesel-22-paise-after-two-month-hiatus/article33146391.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI begins probe into ‘illegal’ sale of waqf properties in U.P.||The CBI has taken over two cases alleging illegal sale, purchase and transfer of properties by the Uttar Pradesh Shia Central Waqf Board and the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board. Among those named as accused are the then Shia Waqf Board chairman Wasim Rizvi and its former administrative officer Ghulam Sayyeden Rizvi and Waqf inspector Waqar Raza.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-begins-probe-into-illegal-sale-of-waqf-properties-in-up/article33147086.ece
21 November 2020||Guwahati,||BJP may end ties with BPF before Assam polls||The BJP in Assam has indicated that the two-phase Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls in December would be the beginning of the end of its alliance with the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF). The BJP has been ruling Assam in alliance with the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and the BPF since 2016. The BJP and BPF have been drifting apart over the former’s bid to take control of the council that the latter has ruled for 17 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-may-end-ties-with-bpf-before-assam-polls/article33146395.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||‘Sasikala’s release will be as per norms’||The release of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala, who is serving a prison term in a disproportionate assets case, will happen as per court judgment and prison norms, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday. “Whatever judgment is there... conditions in the judgment, as well as regarding fine and punishment, and the prison norms will decide (the release),” he said in response to a question from reporters here on Sasikala’s release. “Everything will be as per law only, nothing else,” he said. A fine of over Rs. 10 crore imposed on Sasikala was remitted to the 34th City Civil Court, Bengaluru, by way of demand drafts, her counsel N. Raja Senthoor Pandian had said on Wednesday, as he expected her to be set free soon, earlier than the scheduled release date of January 27, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikalas-release-will-be-as-per-norms/article33146493.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Memorial for Jayalalithaa to be completed by early December||The AIADMK government’s ambitious project to construct a memorial for former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on the Marina beachfront is set to be completed by early December. The memorial, resembling a phoenix with two granite lion statues at the entrance, would be surrounded by lush gardens and small ponds. It would also house a state-of-the-art museum and a knowledge park. According to the Public Works Department (PWD), which is executing the Rs. 57.96 crore project on the nine-acre site, the finishing touches are being put to the structure coming up behind the memorial of M.G. Ramachandran. PWD officials said the aesthetically designed main edifice is a cantilever shell structure, with two arches acting as the spine, and would primarily be in white colour. The 75-foot-wide and 50-foot high columnless winged structure was designed by a team of the Structural Engineering Department of IIT-Madras, headed by S. Arul Jayachandran. “We used formwork designed by a U.K.-based company and manufactured in Dubai for the unconventional superstructure. Formwork is temporary moulds that are crucial in holding the cement concrete structure intact. About 200 props were used for each wing,” a senior official said. The work had to be continued through the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure its stability and about 200 labourers were engaged to execute the challenging and unique design. Nearly 400 tonnes of steel were used for the foundation alone. “We took nearly a year for the design and the work on the main structure alone,” the official said. As an extension of the bird’s wings on the northern and southern sides, a museum and a knowledge park have been built on space of 8,500 sq ft each. While the museum would have a chronicle of the events in Jayalalithaa’s life through audio-visual presentations, photographs and virtual reality, the knowledge park would have digital shows on her achievements and speeches. A life-size statue of the former AIADMK leader would also be installed. An additional sum of Rs. 12 crore has been allotted to give finishing touches to the project. “We visited Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh and chose saplings that will arrive next week. The memorial will also have disabled friendly ramps, pavilions, ornamental lights and service blocks,” the official said. The new constructions have come up on a space of about 50,000 sq ft. The MGR Memorial has also been refurbished and a compound wall has been built as part of the project. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami laid the foundation for the Jayalalithaa Memorial in 2018. It is expected to be inaugurated around Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary in February next.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/memorial-for-jayalalithaa-to-be-completed-by-early-december/article33147146.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,688 more test positive for COVID-19||Another 1,688 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, taking the case tally in Tamil Nadu to 7,66,677. In the last 24 hours, 2,173 persons were discharged after treatment. As many as 7,41,705 persons have been discharged so far, according to public health officials. The State recorded 18 deaths, taking the toll to 11,568. In Chennai district, 489 fresh cases were reported and 418 persons were discharged. The district also recorded eight deaths. At present, 4,622 persons are under treatment, including those under home treatment. So far, 2,11,084 persons have tested positive in the district. The daily bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health said 2,02,660 persons had been discharged and 3,802 had died of the infection so far. Spike in Kancheepuram After the number of cases dropped below 100 for nearly a month, Kancheepuram district recorded 102 fresh cases. As many as 104 persons were discharged. The district recorded one death. Coimbatore, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts continued to record more cases. While 147 fresh cases were detected and two persons lost their life to the infection in Coimbatore, 132 more were identified with the infection in Tiruvallur. In Chengalpattu, 125 fresh cases were detected and two persons died. One of the 18 persons whose death was recorded had no co-morbid conditions. The 47-year-old man from Chennai was admitted to Government Medical College, Omandurar Government Estate, on November 15 and tested positive the next day. He died on Thursday morning owing to COVID-19 pneumonia/acute respiratory failure/acute respiratory distress syndrome, according to hospital authorities. Eleven of the 17 deaths due to the pre-existing complications occurred at private hospitals. The oldest among them was a 90-year-old man from Chengalpattu who had tested positive on November 12. The diabetic patient was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai the next day with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing for three days. He died on Friday morning, and doctors cited COVID-19 pneumonia as the cause of death. The Health Department has recently authorised a private laboratory in Chennai to conduct tests, taking the total number of testing facilities to 214. A total of 66 government laboratories and 148 private laboratories are now available for tests.  In Chennai district, 489 fresh cases were reported and 418 persons were discharged. The district also recorded eight deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1688-more-test-positive-for-covid-19/article33146485.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Weather radar in Karaikal shut for maintenance||For the past few days, the Meteorological department’s website stopped showing radar images from the Karaikal doppler radar, sparking concern about weather observations. However, the department said that the Chennai radar was functional (but not round-the-clock) and measures were afoot to replace it with new equipment. Radars are only a part of the network of weather observation devices and the department did not rely on them alone. Weather bloggers said the website showed that the radars in Chennai, Karaikal and Thiruvananthapuram, used to check on weather in extreme south Tamil Nadu, were under maintenance. Setback for bloggers According to them, this may lead to a setback in predictions, particularly during severe weather events. The higher resolution images help track weather frequently and provide accurate details about the likely intensity of rains. The real-time images of clouds and rains were critical to track landfall of approaching cyclones. Making information available on the public domain would help the community to be more weather-aware, they added. However, officials said the Chennai radar, which was installed in 2002, was being operated as per requirements as it had outlived its utility. It was operated even during the recent rain spell over the State. Measures were on to replace and repair the mechanical parts of the doppler weather radar. “We are not uploading images on the website as there are chances of misinterpreting old images as it is not functional round-the-clock now,” said officials. The Karaikal doppler radar will be operational in a few days. ‘High-energy systems’ S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said these were high-energy systems and there were chances of malfunction. “Radars are one among the weather tools that detect events within 400 km radius and we use other complementary devices like GPS-based systems and high wind speed recorders. This will not affect weather predictions during severe weather events too.” While the radar in Thiruvananthapuram maintained by ISRO is being repaired, data from the radar at Sriharikota is used for the Chennai region’s forecast. On the new radar coming up at the National Institute of Ocean Technology, Pallikaranai, Chennai, he said tower installation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karaikal-weather-radar-shut-for-maintenance/article33147131.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Engineer held for harassing woman||The Adyar Cyber Crime Cell of the city police arrested a 25-year-old engineer for allegedly harassing several college students over social media, by sending them obscene messages and videos. The man was nabbed by the police following a complaint from the father of a college student. According to the complainant, a stranger had befriended his daughter on social media and was harassing her by demanding the phone numbers of her classmates, and had threatened to upload videos of her on social media, the complainant alleged. On instructions of Deputy Commissioner of Police (Adyar) V. Vikraman, the case was taken up for investigation by Cyber Crime Cell. After a scrutiny of call records of the student’s mobile phone, the police traced the suspect, who was identified as Arun Christopher, 25, of Mutthamizh Nagar, Tondiarpet. The suspect was caught and interrogated by the police. On interrogation, he was found to have completed a degree in Aeronautical Engineering and was working as a temporary staff of Tangedco. The police said: “He was introduced to her through Instagram. He gained her confidence and pretended to love her. The girl was very close to him and within two months of their relationship, they were interacting on video calls. She shared her nude photos and videos with him.” Later, Arun managed to get her Instagram ID and passwords. By using these, he opened her account and sent messages to her classmates and friends. He stalked and harassed them, said police. The young woman’s friends told her father about this, since the obscene messages came from her account. Then the victim told her parents about the trouble. Arun used to threaten her, saying that he had several pictures and videos of her, which he would make public if she did not heed to him, police officials said. Stored on cloud Just before the arrest, Arun quickly formatted his gadget and feigned ignorance. He claimed that he had nothing to do with the case since there was nothing on his mobile phone. On the face of it, what was stored on his mobile phone was erased and there was no evidence. It later struck investigators that people like him would have stored the pictures and images not on his mobile phone, but on cloud. On rechecking his mobile phone, the police found that he had an application named ‘Easy Vault’. This app enabled Arun to hide the images in a storage place. “After opening the app, we found hundreds of pictures and videos of several girls,” said a senior police officer. Arun was booked under provisions of thr Information Technology Act and TN Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act. Appealing to the public, Mr. Vikraman said, “People should not trust any stranger who comes on the online space. While interacting with strangers, they should be more vigilant and should not share any personal information or pictures.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engineer-arrested-for-harassing-women/article33147120.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only two depots for Metro’s phase II||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) plans to have only two depots under the phase II project, with one at Poonamallee and another at Madhavaram. Earlier, the plan was to have three depots, including a small one at SIPCOT. Depots are crucial for the everyday upkeep of the metro trains. The depots are equipped with stabling lines, inspection lines, dedicated space for train repairs and washing and cleaning, according to the detailed project report. According to CMRL officials, the plan to have a depot at SIPCOT was dropped as two would be enough. The Madhavaram depot would be built over an area of 27.8 hectares and could house 49 rakes. This would take care of the upkeep of trains for the two corridors — Madhavaram to SIPCOT and Madhavaram to Sholinganallur. Similarly, the Poonamallee depot, to be built on 15 hectares of land, would provide for the upkeep of trains along the Light House to Poonamallee stretch. The SIPCOT depot plan, which has been dropped now, required about 4 hectares of land. The reason for not taking up construction was to cut down on the construction costs of the project, sources said. The two depots will come with additional space for property development — like leasing out to companies or having retail outlets for getting additional revenue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-two-depots-for-metros-phase-ii/article33147134.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Walking the thin red line||Long hours of traffic regulation does not deter A. Purushotaman, a traffic head constable at Adyar, from doing that extra bit. He has gone beyond his call of duty and started a blood donation network in the city, called Police Blood Donation Group, to help pregnant women, infants, children afflicted with cancer and families of policemen. “We have seen families of policemen struggle to arrange blood. Furthermore, during our duty, we have taken many accident victims, pregnant women and children to hospitals, and I am keenly aware of the importance of having blood available for transfusion on time. Hence, I started this network. I have also requested a few other policemen to start similar groups in other districts, so we will be able to help more people,” says Mr. Purushotaman, a body-builder, who has won the Mr. Tamil Nadu title and a silver medal at the national police meet. In the last fortnight, a one-and-a-half-year-old boy, a four-day-old child and two pregnant women across the State have been helped by policemen in the group. He says the group operates through a message-sharing platform. “There are 500 policemen who are members in the Chennai group. Across the State, there are over 6,000,” says Mr. Purushotaman, who donated blood last week. Once a member posts blood requirements in the group with the contact number, the message is cross-checked. “Thereafter, we coordinate with the policemen in the respective district and then our volunteers visit the hospital and donate blood,” explains Mr. Purushotaman. One of the persons helped by this group is R. Chitra from a village near Salem. She has been bringing her one-and-a-half-year-old son Sarveshwaran to the Institute of Child Health, Egmore, for blood transfusion. During this trip, A. Vijayakumar, a highway patrol head constable from Madhavaram, donated blood for her child on time, and she is grateful for his help. “My child has been in need of blood transfusions since he was five months old, and we come to the hospital every month. I was happy to get support from policemen in a city that I am not familiar with,” she says. Mr. Vijayakumar says that while he is used to donating blood, being part of the police network makes things much easier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/walking-the-thin-red-line/article33146483.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur farmers continue opposition to expressway||An estimated annual food production of 5,300 tonnes of paddy, 3,500 tonnes of sugarcane, oil seeds and vegetables would be lost if 949 acres of patta land were acquired for the construction of the Chittoor–Thatchur greenfield expressway (NH 716B) in Tiruvallur district, said farmers of Uthukottai, Ponneri and Pallipattu taluks. The farmers who would be directly affected by the project have been sending representations seeking relief in the form of cancellation of the project. “This estimate is only for 950 acres of land being directly affected. However, due to the impact on irrigation as canals would be hit, farming activities on 12,000 acres of land would get affected,” said J. Kumaresan, a farmer of Ponneri. The proposed access-controlled expressway would lead to loss of 221 acres of grazing lands, directly affect 15 lakes and indirectly 12, directly affect 11 ponds and 47 irrigation channels that lead to ayacut areas of 12,000 acres. The loss would be so phenomenal because the proposed road falls between Araniyar and Kosathalaiyar rivers that have made the land extremely fertile. “Over the past few weeks, Revenue Department officials have been conducting public hearings and taking petitions from us. But though over 1,200 persons signed and submitted a petition and individual farmers, too, have been writing to the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests and to various agencies concerned, our issues have not been taken into consideration. If the project comes up on our lands, we are staring at a loss of livelihood and food safety for future generations,” said Sridhar, another farmer from the region.  If the project comes up on our lands, we are staring at a loss of livelihood and food safety for future generations Sridhar Farmer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvallur-farmers-continue-to-oppose-national-highway-project/article33147127.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Korean Consulate, TVS trust distribute medical kits||The Consulate General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai and Srinivasan Services Trust, the social service arm of TVS Motor Company, distributed 4,000 medical kits to primary health centres and government schools across south Indian States in commemoration with National Foundation Day. The initiative is aimed at reinforcing the significance of hygiene to ensure the safety of teachers, children and parents in local communities. While 450 kits comprising thermometer, handwash and sanitiser were provided to primary health centres, 3,550 kits were provided to government schools and anganwadis in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Every year, Consul-General of the Republic of Korea and Venu Srinivasan, Chairman, TVS Motor Company, and Managing Trustee, Srinivasan Services Trust, and Goodwill Envoy for Culture and Diplomacy of the Republic of Korea, host an event to commemorate the National Foundation Day of Korea. This year it was replaced with a community connect initiative due to the ongoing pandemic. InKo Centre, the Indo-Korean Cultural and Information Centre, started social interventions to contribute towards the health of local communities. Young-seup Kwon, Consul General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai, said: “We can overcome COVID-19 and economic recession if we stand strong and work together… Korean companies have donated money and medical materials to help India to overcome the coronavirus. This is meaningful, considering that India helped during the Korean war by despatching medical units.” In his special message, Mr. Srinivasan said they were committed to the sustainable development of local communities across the country. The special messages will be accessible athttps: //www.inkocentre.org/NFD/index.html along with a short film that provides a snapshot of cultural programmes presented at National Foundation Day events in the past, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/korean-consulate-srinivasan-trust-distribute-medical-kits-to-phcs/article33147129.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New industrial policy in the works, says Industries Minister||Tamil Nadu Industries Minister M.C. Sampath on Friday said the State government is in the process of bringing out a new industrial policy and is also focusing on further strengthening the economic and industrial growth of southern districts. The government is working towards bringing infrastructure and new investments into the Chennai-Kanniyakumari Industrial Corridor and has already received some new investment, he said during the inaugural address at CII Tamil Nadu Ease of Doing Business 2020, held virtually on Friday. Pointing out that Tamil Nadu was a pioneer in introducing the ‘single window’ system in the country, he said Tamil Nadu Guidance, which is the nodal agency for investment promotion and facilitation for largescale investors, was developing an upgraded single window portal to improve business climate in the State. More provisions “At present, 39 services, spanning 14 departments, are on the existing single window portal. The new portal will have 224 services, spanning 37 departments,” Mr. Sampath said. The new portal will have provisions to issue deemed approval for eight services, as per the Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Act, 2018, he added. Information on land The State government is in the process of implementing a comprehensive land information portal to provide key details relating to land. Investors can obtain planning and construction permission and completion certificate through the construction permit portal, Mr. Sampath said. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the State government signed 55 MoUs with an investment potential of Rs. 40,719 crore and the potential to create 70,000 jobs, he said. The State had unveiled several policies like the Aerospace and Defence policy, the revised IT policy, the e-vehicle policy and the Electronics and Hardware Manufacturing policy, he added.  The new portal will have 224 services spanning 37 departmentsM.C. SampathIndustries Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-industrial-policy-in-the-works-says-industries-minister/article33146495.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suspended DMK leader K.P. Ramalingam to join BJP||Former DMK MP K.P. Ramalingam, who was suspended from the party earlier this year on “disciplinary” grounds, is likely to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah here on Saturday and join the BJP. A source in the BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit confirmed the development. In March, DMK president M.K. Stalin suspended Mr. Ramalingam from the primary membership of the party and as agriculture wing secretary after he expressed himself against the convening of an all-party meeting to discuss the COVID-19 pandemic as suggested by Mr. Stalin. Mr. Ramalingam was elected to the Lok Sabha in 1996 as a DMK candidate and the party nominated him to the Rajya Sabha in 2010. He was an AIADMK MLA from Rasipuram in 1980 and 1984. He had been suspended in 2014, too, after he expressed support for M.K. Alagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspended-dmk-leader-kp-ramalingam-to-join-bjp/article33147152.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rangarajan panel wants T.N. to switch to less water-intensive crops||A shift from highly water-intensive crops to less water-intensive crops and establishment of dairy processing and milk value chain are among the recommendations made to the Tamil Nadu government by the Rangarajan Committee that studied the impact of COVID-19 on the State’s economy. In its recommendations for agriculture and allied sectors, the committee said eligible farmer groups and farmer producer organisations (FPOs) should be given funds for pooling produce and marketing. “FPOs/FPCs [Farmer Producer Companies] are to be encouraged to be the aggregators of farm produce,” it said. The committee said integrated market complexes could be the “one stop solution” across the State and at least one agricultural machinery custom hiring centres should be established in every village. Intense implementation at the earliest of the solar energy pumping system under the B and C schemes of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha evem Utthan Mahabhiyan (KUSUM) and the opting of eggs and meat processing units in the public-private partnership mode were the other recommendations for the agriculture sector. As for the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector, the committee pitched for a State-level credit guarantee scheme and an MSME fund to take advantage of the Union government’s MSME Fund of Funds to increase credit ﬂows to these units. “An appropriate area-based insurance scheme for the sector needs to be devised,” it said. For banking and finance, the committee recommended an amendment to make mortgages valid as long as they were registered with the Sub-Registrar’s Office on or before March 31, 2020. Decentralised health care The committee has recommended a decentralised health care delivery system, which it felt was necessary in the context of the pandemic. “The health and wellness centres scheme needs to be revived and implemented with a much higher level of ﬁnancial investment,” it said. Urban primary health centres should be complemented by mobile units to deliver basic services and the cadre/number of public health professionals should be increased substantially. It underlined the need for implementing the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, which it felt was key to improving the lot of migrant workers. The government should make sure that migrant workers were registered under the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangarajan-panel-wants-tn-to-switch-to-less-water-intensive-crops/article33146492.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK kick-starts election campaign||The DMK began its election campaign from Friday and as per plan, 15 leaders will be sent as messengers of party president M.K. Stalin to meet people from various sections of the society in the 234 Assembly constituencies. According to a statement, in the campaign called ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural’ (Stalin’s Voice Towards A New Dawn), the party plans to hold 1,500 meetings, 500 local events in 75 days and interact with more than 10 lakh people in three phases. The focus of the campaign would be to highlight the last 10 years of the “misrule of the AIADMK government” to the people and hear their grievances. It also intends to get a feedback from the people about what they expect from the DMK. “Over the past 10 years, people of the State have been suffering under the AIADMK rule due to misgovernance, mismanagement of the COVID-19 situation, and constant U-turns on policy decisions,” DMK principal secretary K.N. Nehru said, while launching the campaign. In addition to that, the government had been yielding to the pressures from the Centre. . DMK MP Kanimozhi and Tiruchi Siva, propaganda secretaries Dindigul I. Leoni and Sabapathy Mohan will take part in the first phase of the campaign. Party deputy general secretaries K Ponmudi, I. Periyasamy, Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan, and Anthiyur Selvaraj, MPs S. Senthilkumar and Thamizhachi Thangapandian among others will also be part of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-kick-starts-election-campaign/article33147140.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Apsara Reddy rejoins AIADMK||Transgender activist and national general secretary of the women’s wing of the All India Mahila Congress Apsara Reddy on Friday returned to the AIADMK. The activist, who had been in the BJP too, re-joined the party in the presence of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam at the party headquarters here. The AIADMK announced that Janani P. Satishkumar had been made secretary of the Vellore zone of the party’s Information Technology (IT) wing, in the place of M. Kovai Sathyan, who would remain spokesperson of the party. R. Gopalakrishnan, former Member of Parliament, has been included in the committee for drafting the election manifesto and K. Manickam, Member of the Legislative Assembly, in the panel for the election campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apsara-reddy-rejoins-aiadmk/article33147149.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amit Shah to get a sense of political situation, provide strategies||Home Minister Amit Shah will hold consultative meetings with Tamil Nadu BJP leaders and district presidents in Chennai on Saturday evening and get a sense of the prevailing political situation in the State ahead of the Assembly polls in 2021. This meeting will be more about taking inputs from the Tamil Nadu unit, senior leaders said. Mr. Shah’s interaction will also focus on the party’s work in the past few months and provide inputs on how to take things forward, State leaders said. “His meeting will give a fillip to the cadres in Tamil Nadu,” party state unit president L. Murugan said. “The meeting is going to be significant because he is going to interact with a lot of the State leaders, district presidents and other leaders. Interacting with him directly up close is going to be encouraging for us,” K. Annamalai, State vice-president, told The Hindu.  He said the Tamil Nadu unit, which is pretty much a “new team”, will also explain the work being done by it and the plans for the future. “There might be some specific direction from him... he might give his inputs. Since he is more of a listener, he is likely to use this meeting to get a first-hand understanding of the current political situation in Tamil Nadu,” he said. Among other things, the party unit is also likely to bring up the issue of appointing assembly in-charges for the election. “This is pending for more than two months. This will be important going forward for the election. Earlier, in some places candidates used to be the election in-charges for their constituencies. We have to see what Mr. Shah’s plans are,” another senior BJP leader said. The leadership is also expected to convey its suggestions on the alliance for the election. M.N. Raja, another vice-president of the State unit, said every move of Mr. Shah is important. “He is someone who listens to the grassroots workers and takes inputs. He will give a lot of advice and ask questions. The meeting is going to be very important for the State’s future,” he said. Mr. Shah is also likely to hold one-on-one meetings with some leaders after the group meetings and discuss specific strategies, a source said. Multiple party leaders said they were not sure if the Home Minister would meet actor Rajinikanth as was widely speculated in the past week. But with his tight schedule, he is unlikely to meet the actor, a source said. “Plus, why would he meet Mr. Rajinikanth at this time if he was planning to discuss politics. He would do that over the phone and video calls and unlikely in full public glare. That’s not how he operates,” another source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amit-shah-to-get-a-sense-of-political-situation-provide-strategies/article33147138.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six BDS seats vacant under govt. school quota||Counselling under the 7.5% reservation for government school students ended on Friday with six seats remaining vacant in self-financing dental colleges. Selection Secretary G. Selvarajan said these seats would be filled in the second phase. Meanwhile, counselling for candidates seeking admission under Persons with Disability quota will be held on Saturday. The Directorate of Medical Education has uploaded the list of 44 candidates who had been called for verification of their certificates two days ago. It has also uploaded the list of 51 candidates under the sports quota category. For the general category, counselling will be held from November 23 and continue till December 4. There will be no counselling on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-bds-seats-vacant-under-govt-school-quota/article33147135.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Workmen special services expanded||While Southern Railway is bringing relaxations for allowing more commuters to use the workmen special suburban trains in the city, it has been simultaneously increasing services. The Chennai division began operating nearly 250 electrical multiple unit trains from Thursday. Southern Railway officials said the workmen special trains had been increased to 244. This is the second instance of service expansion after the first week of November, when the number of trains were increased from 154 to 204. Services to Tiruttani have been introduced and EMUs to Sullurpeta have been increased, taking into consideration a number of commuters visiting the city from far off places like Tiruttani and beyond Gummidipoondi.  Norms relaxed Since the introduction of the workmen specials from October 5, Southern Railway has been gradually unlocking services for office- goers, staff of educational institutions, workers involved in transport operations and for personnel of print and electronic media. Commuters on the Mass Rapid Transit System stretch between Chennai Beach and Velachery complained about services being inadequate during the evening rush hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workmen-special-services-expanded/article33147334.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bharatanatyam artistes urge CM to re-open halls||The Association of Bharatanatyam Artistes of India (ABHAI) has written to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to reopen small and medium auditoriums for organising dance and music performances. With no directive yet on the opening of auditoriums for organising performance, the livelihood of hundreds of artists and technicians had taken a hit, according to a press release from ABHAI. Many classical, folk artistes, sound and light technicians and make-up artistes have been suffering as there were no performances. “Since the beginning of the lockdown, because of the pandemic, these artists have undergone untold miseries because of cancellation of performances and festivals and classes which led to a situation where they are all suffering with limited or no income at all,” the release said. So far, ABHAI had spent Rs. 30 lakh to help 575 artistes in need, the release said. ABHAI had requested the Chief Minister to reopen Open Air Rukmini Devi Kalai Arangam for conducting performances with norms of physical distancing in place.  Since the beginning of the lockdown, the artists have undergone untold miseries because of cancellations’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharatanatyam-artistes-urge-cm-to-re-open-halls/article33147132.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Korea Consulate presents insights into pandemic from renowned scholars||The Consulate-General of Republic of Korea has presented insights into the pandemic and post-COVID-19 era by world-renowned scholars on its webpage and social media platform. Five dialogue videos would help south Indians understand how to deal with the pandemic and prepare for and adapt themselves to the post-pandemic world, according to a statement. Guy Sorman, a globally acclaimed public intellectual and counsellor to world leaders, has spoken on the major change in ‘culture and society’. In another video, Michael J Sandel, professor in political philosophy, Harvard University, highlights the character of our society in terms of the deep divisions the pandemic has exposed. Jacques Attali, economist and futurologist, says many industries will restructure their priorities to form a new ecosystem. Stephen M Walt, the Robert and Renee Belfer Professor of International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, shares his thoughts on the future of international relations after the pandemic, while Jim Yong Kim, former president of the World Bank, shared his views on how to achieve development cooperation for global health governance in the post-COVID-19 era.  Five dialogue videos would help south Indians understand how to deal with the pandemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/korea-consulate-presents-insights-into-pandemic-from-renowned-scholars/article33146489.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Projectors stolen from Anna University||As many as 41 projectors worth more than Rs. 15 lakh were reportedly stolen from a classroom in Anna University. The Kotturpuram police began investigation following a complaint from the management. The police said the projectors went missing from a room in the C.V. Raman Science Park building. During the lockdown, the building was used as a COVID-19 Care Centre for patients in isolation. The projectors were removed and stored in a room when the building was handed over to the Corporation. The building was handed back to the Anna University administration in October. On Tuesday evening, when Muthukumar, a junior civil engineer, opened the room where the projectors were stored away, he noticed that 41 devices were missing. Based on a complaint from K. Gunasekaran, 55, who is an estate officer for the university, on Thursday, a case was registered and the matter was taken up for investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/projectors-stolen-from-anna-university/article33147389.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dry weather likely to prevail for a few days: IMD||The Northeast monsoon is set to take a short break over the State for the next few days. The Meteorological Department forecasts largely dry weather in most parts till November 22. During the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, Ottapidaram in Thoothukudi district received the highest amount of rainfall of 12 cm. Coonoor in Nilgiris district recorded the next highest rainfall of 9 cm. The Meteorological Department said a low pressure area had formed over central parts of the Arabian Sea and this may intensify into a depression by November 21. However, it might not have much impact. While light rain is possible in one or two places in south Tamil Nadu, dry weather is likely to prevail over north Tamil Nadu till November 22. There may be a slight increase in rainfall around November 23 and the next spell may begin around November 24, officials said. The city may experience dry weather, and the maximum temperature may be around 34 degree Celsius for two days. While many districts are yet to get their seasonal total rainfall, districts, including Ariyalur, Vellore, Tiruchi, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, are among the most rain-deficient, with the shortfall above 45%. Inflow into city reservoirs, like Red Hills and Chembarambakkam, dropped to below 200 cusecs on Thursday. The storage at Chembarambakkam reservoir stood at 2,936 million cubic feet against its capacity of 3,645 mcft. Its water level has reached 21.31 ft against the full level of 24 ft. “We will maintain the level at 22 ft this month and take a decision on opening sluices depending on inflow and rainfall,” said a Water Resources Department official. Of the 909 waterbodies in Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu, nearly 126 tanks have reached capacity as on Thursday, according to the WRD.  The inflow into city reservoirs, like Chembarambakkam and Red Hills, dropped to below 200 cusecs on Thursday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dry-weather-likely-to-prevail-for-a-few-days-imd/article33147241.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bar Council complains against ex-judge||The Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (BCTNP) on Friday complained to the Madras High Court that its former judge Justice C.S. Karnan was continuing to post objectionable videos on social media despite an interim order passed by the court on November 10. Appearing before a Division Bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and R Hemalatha, BCTNP counsel C.K. Chandrasekhar wondered why the police was not taking any action against the former judge despite several complaints having been lodged with it. The advocate pointed out that the Bar Council had initially filed a writ petition on the issue and obtained an interim direction to the Home Secretary and Director General of Police to ensure that Facebook, Google and YouTube block access to videos in which the former judge had abused some Supreme Court as well as High Court judges and their spouses using “vituperative and vulgar” language. Even after the interim order, the former judge continued his tirade of abuse against the judiciary and hence the BCTNP chose to file a criminal original petition too seeking a specific direction to the cyber crime cell attached to the Greater Chennai Police to register a First Information Report (FIR) on the basis of a complaint lodged by the council on November 6. When the direction petition was listed before Justice T. Ravindran on Thursday, he chose to refer it to the Division Bench, led by Justice Sathyanarayanan, since it was seized of a similar writ petition preferred by BCTNP. After explaining the developments, Mr. Chandrasekhar urged the Bench to issue a direction to the police to register an FIR forthwith and arrest people who were aiding the former judge to upload the videos on social media. Lawyer questions silence The lawyer expressed surprise over the stoic silence maintained by many eminent personalities who had not even chosen to issue a statement condemning the former judge and also the reluctance of the police to register an FIR against him. He said it was unfortunate that no one was coming forward to take action against a person who was sullying the image of the judiciary. After hearing him out, Justice Sathyanarayanan said his Bench would hear the direction petition on Monday if the Registry could obtain, by then, the approval of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi to the reference made by Justice Ravindran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bar-council-complains-against-ex-judge/article33146679.ece
21 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Governor calls on Vice President||Governor Banwarilal Purohit called on Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu in the Raj Bhavan on Friday, an official release from the Raj Bhavan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-governor-calls-on-vice-president/article33147139.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free Rajiv case convict, says film fraternity||Movie stars, directors, writers, political leaders and activists participated in a social media campaign that demanded the immediate release of A.G. Perarivalan, one of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, imprisoned for close to 30 years. Filmmakers Pa. Ranjith, Karthik Subbaraj, Lokesh Kanagaraj, cinematographer P.C. Sreeram, music composer Santhosh Narayanan, actors Prakash Raj and Vijay Sethupathi and many others shared posts in support of the immediate release of Perarivalan with a hashtag #ReleasePerarivalan. In a video message, Mr. Sethupathi appealed to the Governor of Tamil Nadu to respect the Supreme Court’s judgment and release Perarivalan. “I appeal to the Governor of Tamil Nadu to respect the Supreme Court’s verdict and release Perarivalan. This is a 29-year struggle of Arputhammal for a person who did nothing wrong,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-rajiv-case-convict-says-film-fraternity/article33147147.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fisheries varsity seats filled up||The Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University has completed its admission process for 386 seats in its various programmes. The university had received 3,030 applications this year. Under the special category for the wards of fishermen, 150 applications were received for eight seats. The State government will absorb the entire tuition, hostel and mess fees of the candidates admitted under this category, according to officials of the university. Counselling held Counselling for all special category candidates, including sports quota, children of ex-servicemen and persons with disability, was conducted in person, whereas for the general category it was conducted online, said M. Rajkumar, Director of Extension Education. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar distributed admission cards to the first five candidates at the university, Vice-Chancellor G. Sugumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisheries-varsity-seats-filled-up/article33147128.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No pressure from BJP leadership’||Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami is believed to have told his party colleagues that neither did the BJP’s central leadership “interfere” with the functioning of the State government nor did the AIADMK “have to feel obliged” to anyone. Sources said he was responding to the remarks of deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy on the need for effectively tackling the perception battle about the ties between the AIADMK and the BJP at a meeting of senior functionaries held at the party headquarters on Friday. Mr. Munusamy recounted how he had declared that only those who accepted the AIADMK’s decision to name Mr. Palaniswami as the candidate for Chief Minister could remain with the ruling party as allies. Recalling that the Centre was “helpful in facilitating a smooth transfer of power” after the death of Jayalalithaa, the Chief Minister told party leaders that there were “friendly ties” between the Centre and the State government. He also wanted the party leaders to highlight the government’s achievements, like the 7.5% horizontal reservation for the NEET-qualified government school students in admission to undergraduate medical courses, at public fora. O. Panneerselvam, Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator, wanted the zonal pointpersons and district secretaries to ensure enrolment of all eligible voters in the electoral rolls and stick to the practice as followed when Jayalalithaa was at the helm. The leaders called upon the functionaries to see to it that the services of 20-25 women were enlisted at the level of every polling booth for intensifying party work. This would be in addition to the work of the wings for young men and women. They also explained the functions of the zonal pointpersons and district secretaries. Among those who attended the meeting were E. Madhusudanan, chairman of the presidium, and R. Vaithilingam, deputy coordinator. ‘BJP aspires for power’ BJP Mahila Morcha president Vanathi Srinivasan said on Friday that her party aspires to come to power in Tamil Nadu, while also asserting that its alliance with the AIADMK continues to be strong. “Every party will aspire to come to power one day. BJP has that aspiration too,” she told mediapersons at Coimbatore airport. She also stressed that there are no changes in the AIADMK-BJP alliance and that it remains strong. The BJP’s national leadership will announce the seat-sharing details for the Assembly election, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-pressure-from-bjp-leadership-says-cm/article33147150.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. to help students pay college fees||Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu has issued instructions to all medical and dental colleges in the State to admit candidates who were allotted seats under the new 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students. In separate letters written on Thursday to government colleges and self-financing colleges, the DME said all self-financing medical and dental colleges coming under the single window selection of the DME are instructed to admit all the candidates of government schools selected under 7.5% reservation category immediately without insisting on fees after verifying their certificates and identity as per norms. “They should not be denied admission for inability to pay fees at any cost. Post-matric and other financial aid will be appropriately taken care of as already announced by the government. Any student denied admission should be called back and given admission as per the instructions,” the letter signed by the DME read. A similar letter has been issued to the deans of government medical and dental colleges as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-to-help-students-pay-college-fees/article33146486.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Letter to Haryana CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday wrote to his counterpart in Haryana over the plight of 200 Tamil families in Panchkula, who were being evicted. In his letter to Haryana ChiefMinister Manohar Lal Khattar, Mr. Palaniswami said the State government had received representations from 200 Tamil families living in Maheshpur village, Panchkula district, about their plight. Condole death Governor Banwarilal Purohit and CM Edappadi K. Palaniswami condoled the death of an Army soldier in an accident in Ladakh on November 18. In his message, the Governor said he was saddened to know about the demise of Naik K. Karuppasamy from Thoothukudi district in an accident. CM said a family member of the soldier would be given a job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-writes-to-haryana-counterpart-on-plight-of-200-tamil-families/article33147141.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized in Chennai||Four kg gold, estimated to cost Rs. 2.06 crore, was seized by the Chennai Air Customs. Two persons were arrested at the airport. On Friday, officials found two gold paste packets covered in black adhesive tape underneath a seat on a flight from Dubai. They recovered 1.3 kg of gold worth Rs. 67.25 lakh, according to a press release. On Thursday, six passengers, who arrived from Dubai, were detained and 2.7 kg of gold was found concealed in their rectum. There was also a gold chain and a gold plate in hand baggage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-kg-gold-seized-at-airport/article33147124.ece
21 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Governor, CM condole Army man’s death||Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami condoled the death of an Army soldier in an accident in Ladakh on November 18. In his condolence message, the Governor said he was saddened to know about the demise of Naik K. Karuppasamy from Thoothukudi district in an accident in Ladakh. “I convey my deep condolences to the bereaved members of the family. I pray to the Almighty God to rest his soul in peace and give strength to his family to overcome this unfathomable loss,” he said. Chief Minister, in his statement, condoled the death and said he has instructed Minister Kadambur C. Raju and Thoothukudi Collector to visit his family and pay tributes. He also announced that a family member of the deceased soldier would be given a government job based on qualification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-cm-condole-army-mans-death/article33147251.ece
21 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||18 outfits to hold demonstration against BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra||Condemning the arrival of Bharatiya Janata Party’s Vetrivel Yatra in Coimbatore, 18 political parties and organisations including Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) will hold a demonstration here on November 22. TPDK’s general secretary K. Ramakrishnan announced on Friday that the demonstration would be held in front of the Police Commissioner’s office to condemn the Coimbatore City Police for allowing the yatra. Other outfits including Dravidar Kazhagam, Bahujan Samaj Party, Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi, Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam and May 17 Movement will participate, he said. “The BJP is organising the Vel Yatra to divert attention from people’s sufferings and their discontent with the party and to spread communal hatred among the public,” Mr. Ramakrishnan alleged in a statement. He further accused the State government and the police of not taking strict action against the yatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-outfits-to-hold-demonstration-against-bjps-vetrivel-yatra/article33147159.ece
21 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Poster row: DMK worker protests outside police commissioner’s office||A commotion ensued in front of the office of the City Commissioner of Police here on Friday, as a DMK party worker protested against the anonymous posters, lampooning DMK President M.K. Stalin,that have surfacedin parts of Coimbatore. The woman, identified as Chithrakala (49), threatened to die by suicide outside the Commissioner’s office at around 11.30 a.m. However, the police prevented her. Slogans raised Following this, Ms. Chithrakala sat on the road with a DMK flag in her hand and raised slogans, demanding the arrest of those who had stuck the anonymous posters. She was taken to the Race Course police station for an inquiry, according to the police. The anonymous posters lampooning Mr. Stalin were found in many parts of Coimbatore city on Thursday, prompting DMK’s Coimbatore district youth wing leader Kottai Abbas to petition Commissioner of Police Sumit Sharan demanding action against those behind the campaign.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poster-row-dmk-worker-protests-outside-police-commissioners-office/article33147153.ece
21 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DRI seizes gold, drones, mobile phones at airport||Sleuths from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized gold, mobile phones, drones and foreign cigarettes worth Rs. 4.82 crore from 15 passengers who arrived in Coimbatore from Sharjah by Air Arabia flight on November 14 morning. Based on intelligence inputs, the officials led by Deputy Director of DRI G. Satish identified 15 passengers hailing from Chennai, Tiruchirapalli and Kasargod district in Kerala. During personal search, they were found to have six kg gold in paste form concealed in their inner garments and a 24 carat crude gold chain weighing 1 kg. They were also carrying foreign cigarettes valued at Rs. 1.03 crore and latest mobile phones and drones valued at Rs. 53 lakh. The officials recovered 5,200g of gold and the gold chain weighing 1010g worth Rs. 3.26 crore from them. Of the 15 passengers, 11 were arrested under the Customs Act 1962 for carrying smuggled goods worth more than Rs. 20 lakh. They were later enlarged on bail, DRI officials said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dri-seizes-gold-drones-mobile-phones-at-airport/article33147164.ece
21 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP aspires to come to power in T.N., says Vanathi Srinivasan||BJP Mahila Morcha president Vanathi Srinivasan said on Friday that her party aspires to come to power in Tamil Nadu, while also asserting that its alliance with the AIADMK continues to be strong. “Every party will aspire to come to power one day. BJP has that aspiration too,” she told mediapersons at the Coimbatore airport. She also stressed that there are no changes in the AIADMK-BJP alliance and that it remains strong. BJP’s national leadership will announce the seat-sharing details for the Assembly elections, she said. The Vetrivel Yatra led by BJP state president L. Murugan will come to Coimbatore and Tiruppur on Sunday. The yatra is being conducted not just to strengthen the BJP in the State but also for Tamil culture, she claimed. Ms. Srinivasan arrived at Coimbatore on Friday after taking charge as the national president of the BJP Mahila Morcha in New Delhi and was welcomed by party leaders and functionaries at the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-aspires-to-come-to-power-in-tn-says-vanathi-srinivasan/article33146540.ece
21 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘63 child marriages stopped so far this year in Coimbatore’||Officials from the Department of Social Welfare said on Friday that 63 child marriages were stopped in Coimbatore district so far this year. The marriages were stopped either through calls to Childline helpline 1098 or based on specific information from other sources, the officials said. While the reporting of child marriages reduced during April, May and June, which were the initial months of the imposition of COVID-19 lockdown, the cases began to increase since July, according to the officials. A similar trend was also observed regarding the number of distress calls received by Childline in Coimbatore district, according to Childline officials. There was a dip in the number of calls received during April and May, where Childline received around 40 calls from children in distress. However, the numbers gradually increased from June, as the lockdown restrictions began to ease, following which the Childline received around 100 distress calls every month from the district. From January to October, Childline officials received 831 calls from children in distress in Coimbatore district regarding child marriage, child labour and physical/sexual abuse, the officials said. According to Section 12 (b) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, a marriage of a minor child can be deemed void if the child is “by force compelled, or by any deceitful means induced to go from any place.” Childline, a 24x7 emergency helpline service for children in distress, can be reached at 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/63-child-marriages-stopped-so-far-this-year-in-coimbatore/article33147160.ece
21 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Collector releases list of electoral registration officers||District Collector K. Rajamani on Thursday released the list of Electoral Registration Officers (EROs) and Assistant Electoral Registration Officers (AEROs) for the 10 Assembly constituencies in Coimbatore district. For Mettupalayam, Kavundampalayam and Coimbatore North Assembly constituencies, the Revenue Divisional Officer of Coimbatore North will be the ERO. The Revenue Divisional Officer of Coimbatore South will be the ERO for Sulur, Thondamuthur and Kinathukadavu constituencies. For Coimbatore South and Singanallur constituencies, Assistant Commissioner (Central Zone) and Assistant Commissioner (East Zone) of Coimbatore Corporation will be the EROs respectively. Pollachi Sub-Collector will be the ERO for the Pollachi and Valparai Assembly constituencies, a release said. The tahsildars of the respective taluk offices will serve as the AEROs of the 10 constituencies. Forms for enrolment, deletion, correction and transposition in the electoral roll will be available at all polling stations, revenue divisional offices and taluk offices till December 15. Special camps for submission of these forms will be held at all polling stations on November 21 and 22 and December 12 and 13. The forms could also be submitted online through the websitewww.nvsp.inor through the ‘Voter Help Line’ mobile application, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-releases-list-of-electoral-registration-officers/article33147158.ece
21 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Nominations invited for ‘Alert Being Awards’||The fourth edition of the ‘Alert Being Awards’, organised by the non-governmental organisation ‘Alert’ to honour good Samaritans, will be held in Chennai on January 29, 2021. A release said that a new category would be introduced this year to honour those who “supported the society selflessly” during the COVID-19 pandemic. Apart from this, the awards will also be given to those “who have made a difference to individuals or the society at large, by impacting with prevention of trauma and saving lives.” Individuals and organisations may submit their nominations for the relevant categories atwww.alert.ngo/ababy December 15. A jury comprising Md. Shakeel Akhtar, DGP, Enforcement; J.S. Rajkumar, Chairman of LIMA; Nawabzada Mohammed Asif Ali, Dewan to Prince of Arcot; Veena Kumaravel, Founder of Naturals Group of Salons, and Sujith Kumar, Founder of Maatram Foundation, will shortlist the awardees, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nominations-invited-for-alert-being-awards/article33147161.ece
21 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DMK leaders court arrest||DMK leaders and members courted arrest in various parts of Coimbatore district on Friday for staging protests condemning the arrest of the party’s youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin at Tirukkuvalai. Coimbatore urban east unit in-charge N. Karthik, urban west unit in-charge R. Krishnan aka Paiyya Gounder, district north unit in-charge C.R. Ramachandran and district south unit in-charge ‘Thendral’ Selvaraj staged protests at Gandhipuram, Saravanampatti, Thondamuthur and Pollachi respectively, party sources said. Police personnel removed the leaders along with hundreds of party workers during the protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-leaders-court-arrest/article33147162.ece
21 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hashtag launched||Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF) has launched #IndiaForSure on leading professional social media platforms for textile entrepreneurs to talk about their products that are stable, sustainable, reliable, and ethical. A release from the ITF said the hashtag was an open invitation to all Indian textile entrepreneurs to share their stories that would also inspire others. There would be a website too for the purpose. Fashion brands and international buyers were now showing interest in sourcing from India and this was the right time to establish a platform to showcase the Indian manufacturing capabilities that were also sustainable.   A. Nirmala, Dean of the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, won the award for excellence in administration during COVID-19 pandemic instituted by the Tamil Nadu State Branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). She received the award from Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar in the presence of Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hashtag-launched/article33147167.ece
21 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Trust sponsors girl’s medical education||A girl, who scored eighth place in community ranking merit list in the State and secured MBBS admission at a private medical college in Coimbatore was assured of full course sponsorship by Mungil Kaatru Trust of Perundurai. K. Kaviya of Karaipalayam Pudu Colony in Reddipalayam Panchayat in Tiruppur district completed Plus Two at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Uthukuli and had also cleared NEET. Under the 7.5% quota for MBBS admissions in 2020-21 for government school students in community ranking, she secured eighth rank and got admission at the private medical college in Coimbatore in the counselling. Since she could not bear the fees, her parents approached the trust members, who readily agreed to sponsor her course fee for five years. Cheque handed over Jeyakumar, president of the trust and member of Perundurai Panchayat Union, handed over a cheque to meet her initial expenses. Her parents were assured that once the college intimates the course fee, the trust would pay the balance fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trust-sponsors-girls-medical-education/article33146527.ece
21 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||BJP condemns alleged humiliation of Poongothai Aladi Aruna||BJP State unit president L. Murugan on Friday claimed that the DMK is a party that humiliates women and questioned how the party could protect the people when it cannot protect its own MLA. Participating in the party’s Vetrivel Yatra at Sampath Nagar, he alleged that DMK MLA Poongothai Aladi Aruna touched the feet of some party functionaries and apologised recently. “Even though they are party functionaries, how can we accept it,” he said and condemned the incident. He claimed that there are reports that she attempted suicide and was hospitalised. “Till today, no action has been taken against the persons responsible for her decision nor has the DMK president M.K. Stalin condemned the incident or consoled her. “If the DMK comes to power, people cannot live freely,” he said. Mr. Murugan said that ‘Kanda Sashti Kavacham’ was first chanted by Baladevarayar at Arulmigu Subramania Swami temple in Chennimalai and lessons should be taught to Karuppar Koottam for denigrating it. “They should be booked under the National Security Act,” he demanded. According to him, BJP functionaries and cadre served the people during COVID-19 lockdown and the yatra is also held to thank them. The BJP-led Central government is implementing various schemes for farmers and women in the State, he said and added that the party will decide the next government in the State after the 2021 Assembly elections. “Irrespective of hurdles, we will complete the yatra at Tiruttani on December 7,” he added. After the meeting, he, along with party State vice-president Annamalai and cadres, was detained by the police and lodged at a wedding hall. Earlier, he offered prayers at the Chennimalai temple and distributed a booklet, ‘Desiyam Kaakka, Tamilagam Kaakka,’ (To save nation, T.N.) to some local residents. Poongothai clarifies Meanwhile, Ms. Aruna refuted reports that she had attempted suicide. She clarified that due to ill-health, she fainted on Thursday morning and her staff immediately rushed her to Shifa Hospitals in Tirunelveli. In a Facebook post, she said as per her blood test report she had low blood clotting and sugar levels and a C.T. scan was taken and she was given appropriate treatment. Ms. Aruna expressed disappointment about reports which alleged that she attempted suicide. “I have been in politics for 15 years. Former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi appointed me as a Minister and treated me like his daughter. In the same way, present DMK president M. K. Stalin is showing affection towards me like a brother. It is the DMK which gave recognition to me and my father,” she said, and urged the media not to spread wrong information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murugan-condemns-alleged-humiliation-of-dmk-mla/article33146529.ece
21 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Wild boars damaging crop, say farmers||A section of farmers from Tirupparankundram, T. Kallupatti and Usilampatti blocks have complained to the Collector T. Anbalagan that they have been facing problem in protecting their crop from wild boars. The meeting was chaired by the Collector and farmers from 13 blocks took part in the online meeting from the Agriculture Assistant Director's office at each block. Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan also participated in the meeting. Farmers from Tirupparankundram block said that in places such as Samanatham, Vadapalanji and Thenpalanji, crop damage caused by wild boars was higher. Sathuragiri, a farmer from T. Kallupatti block, said the boars extensively damaged the maize crop in their block. He asked the officials to take steps against this problem. O. Soundarapandian from Usilampatti block said a section of farmers from their area were using a bio-repellent to successfully prevent the entry of wild boars into the farmlands. He urged the officials to provide the bio-repellent at a subsidised rate to the farmers. The Collector said that action will be taken to address the problem. A farmer from Sedapatti block said that the area coverage under maize was higher in the block and urged the authorities to procure maize from farmers. N. Palanichamy from Melur said expired pesticides were being sold at shops and asked the officials to form a committee to monitor this issue. P. Manikandan, a farmer from Chellampatti block, urged the Collector to release water through the 58-canal to help improve groundwater level in Usilampatti block. The Collector said that currently the water level in the Vaigai dam had not reached the adequate level to release water for the 58-canal. But other possible options would be explored, added Mr. Anbalagan. ‘Desilt dam’ Babu, a farmer from Alanganallur block, said Sathaiyar dam must be desilted and steps must be taken to fill it. The Collector replied that a field study would be conducted to check the ways to fill the dam. There was a shortage in labour for agricultural activities as many people have gone to work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), complained farmers from Tirupparankundram block. They urged the Collector to set an age limit to give work under the job scheme.  Some of the demands Procure maize from farmers in Sedapatti block  Check sale of expired pesticides in shops  Release water through 58-canal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wild-boars-damaging-crop-say-farmers/article33147246.ece
21 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai records 32 new cases, two deaths||Madurai recorded 32 new COVID-19 positive cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 19,457. A total of 52 persons were discharged and active cases stood at 273. Two deaths were recorded, taking the district’s toll to 436. Eight new COVID-19 cases were recorded in Ramanathapuram district, increasing the district's case tally to 6,155. A total of three persons got discharged and active cases were at 42. In Sivaganga district eight new cases were recorded, taking the case count in the district to 6,192. A total of 20 persons were discharged and active cases stood at 79. Dindigul district saw nine positive cases, taking the total number of cases in the district to 10,103. A total of 37 persons were discharged and the active cases stood at 84. One death was recorded, which increased the district’s death toll to 193. A total of 16 new cases were recorded in Theni, taking up the district’s case tally to 16,495. A total of 24 persons got discharged and active cases stood at 34. Number of active cases in Virudhunagar district fell to 57, the lowest level in the past several months, after 29 patients got discharged. The district recorded only five positive cases on Friday that took the total number of positive cases to 15,731. Meanwhile, the total number of patients discharged was 15,449. Death toll in the district remained at 225. Southern districts While the number of COVID-19 cases getting discharged from hospitals is steadily improving in the southern districts, the number of fresh cases is going down. Sixteen new cases were admitted to hospitals in Tirunelveli district on Friday that increased the district’s overall infection tally to 14,679 and put the number of active cases at 174 after 35 patients were discharged. Kanniyakumari recorded 14 new cases on Friday to take the tally of active cases to 156 and the infection tally of 15,499 even as 22 persons were discharged from the hospitals. Tenkasi’s infection tally moved up to 7,968 following the admission of six more patients on Friday. After 18 patients were discharged, 47 patients are undergoing treatment in the hospitals. Thoothukudi recorded the lowest number of fresh cases on Friday with the addition of just four more cases to take the total tally to 15,512. After 52 patients were discharged, the district has 113 active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dindigul-district-records-nine-new-cases-and-one-death/article33146502.ece
21 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Atrocities against Dalits on the rise’||Atrocities against Dalits were on the rise across the State, said A. Kathir, Executive Director of Evidence, a Madurai-based non-governmental organisation. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, he said a Dalit couple was brutally murdered in a village in Erode district on the night of Deepavali. He said a fact-finding team from his organisation visited the village, Chittapullapalayam near Kodumudi, on Thursday. The couple, Ramasamy, 58, and Arukkani, 54, had three children - Menaka, 35, Yuvaraj, 30, and Boopathi, 28. Menaka lost her husband five years ago and married Perumal, a Caste Hindu, last year. From her first marriage, Menaka had a 12-year-old son. When Menaka complained to Ramasamy that an youth, Surya, verbally abused her, he reprimanded him and warned of lodging a police complaint against him. Irked over his ‘boldness,’ the youth went to the house of Ramasamy in the odd hours and attacked him and Arukkani with sharp weapons in which the couple died on the spot. Their 12-year-old grandson, who was sleeping in another room, was witness to the crime. The boy ran and brought his mother. Mr. Kathir said Menaka had planned to visit her parents on Deepavali eve. While she was approaching the house, Surya and his friends intercepted them and allegedly abused the couple. The youth were apparently unhappy over Menaka marrying a man from an upper caste. Grudge against Dalits Surya had a grudge against the SC people as his sister had married a boy from that community. So, when Ramasamy reprimanded Surya for abusing his daughter, the youth, in an inebriated mood, had killed the couple, Mr. Kathir said. Mr. Kathir said that had the police acted earlier, two lives could have been saved as Menaka had informed the police that they were under threat. Crimes against Dalits were on increasing in every district of Tamil Nadu. The government should give jobs to the two sons of the deceased couple and pay compensation of Rs. 50 lakh. The Kodumudi police should give protection to Maneka and her family, Mr. Kathir said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atrocities-against-dalits-on-the-rise/article33147240.ece
21 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 25,400 seized from AC’s office||In a joint surprise check, officials of the Inspection Cell and Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) Wing seized Rs. 25,400 unaccounted for money, from the office of Assistant Commissioner, Zone 4 of Madurai Corporation, on Thursday. Following complaints of collection of bribe money by Assistant Commissioner T.S. Mani, 46, Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Sathyaseelan and Senior Revenue Inspector of Inspection Cell office Feroze conducted the surprise check at the zonal office near Periyar bus stand. The officials seized Rs. 19,900 kept in the official vehicle of the Assistant Commissioner. Mani, who is the Administration Officer in the Corporation, also holds additional charge of the post of AC, Zone 4. Besides, Rs. 5,500 was recovered from the two-wheeler of a junior assistant, K. Murugasamy, 54, on the office premises. The officials have also seized a few files pertaining to fixation of property tax for buildings. The complaint against the officials was that they were collecting bribe for fixing reduced property tax. Further investigations are under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-25400-seized-from-acs-office/article33147244.ece
21 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Soorasamharam’ performed at Tirupparankundram temple||‘Soorasamharam,’ the highlight of Kanda Sashti festival, was celebrated in a subdued manner without public participation inside Subramaniyaswamy Temple at Tirupparankundram here on Friday. ‘Soorasamharam,’ the annhilation of demon ‘Sooran’ by Lord Subramaniaswamy, is considered one of the important events at the Tirupparankundram temple, one of the six abodes of Lord Murugan. While thousands of devotees used to throng the temple to witness the ‘soorasamharam’ every year, public were not allowed to witness the event held inside the temple this year owing to the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, said Deputy Commissioner (in charge) of the temple M. Ramasamy. “Soorasamharam was performed at around 5 p.m. The public were allowed inside the temple for a darshan only after 6.30 p.m.,” he said. The seven-day Kanda Sashti festival began with ‘kaappu kattudhal’ ceremony on November 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soorasamharam-performed-at-tirupparankundram-temple/article33147250.ece
21 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Emphasis laid on integrating ecology with economy||The government, corporates and civil society must work towards integrating ecology with the economy, in the wake of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, said S. Ramadorai, Chairman, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, and former CEO of Tata Consultancy Services. He was delivering the Shri Manikam Ramaswami Memorial Lecture hosted by Thiagarajar School of Management through an online platform on Friday. Mr. Ramadorai said that with unemployment rising due to the pandemic, it was important to reconsider jobs where the environment takes centre-stage. Youth must choose jobs that were more environment-oriented. The pandemic had highlighted shortage of hospitals, testing centres and other shortcomings in the healthcare sector, he added. K. Venugopal, Director, Kasturi and Sons Limited, who spoke at the event, recalled his experiences with Ramaswami, a renowned industrialist. Mr. Venugopal said Ramaswami was very passionate towards the development of the country and had clear and practical ideas for the development of the nation. He was an honest industrialist who never supported corruption, he added. B.T. Bangera, Chairman, Board of Governors, TSM, was present.  It is important to reconsider jobs where the environment takes centre-stage  S. Ramadorai Chairman Tata Institute of Social Sciences||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/emphasis-laid-on-integrating-ecology-with-economy/article33147242.ece
21 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC reserves orders on pleas to extend quota to aided school students||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday reserved orders on a batch of petitions that sought a direction to the State to extend the 7.5% reservation for NEET-qualified government school students in medical admissions to those of government-aided schools. The petitioners said the government should not have excluded the students of government-aided schools as most of them were of a humble background and aspired for medical education. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi reserved orders. The judges also sought a response from the government to a petition filed by M. Grahambell, of Perungudi in Tirunelveli district, for a direction to the committee on fixation of fees in self-financing professional colleges to fix reasonable fees for the medical seats under the government, management, NRI and lapsed NRI quotas. The petitioner said that in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, people were in a financial crisis and the government should take the situation into account and fix reasonable fees. The judges also urged philanthropists to help out deserving candidates. The case was adjourned by a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-reserves-orders-on-pleas-to-extend-quota-to-aided-school-students/article33146488.ece
21 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report on probe into temple mismanagement||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday directed the State government to submit a report on progress made in the investigation of serious allegations on mismanagement of a temple in Radhapuram in Tirunelveli district. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi had taken a serious view of the fact that idols were stolen from the temple, its lands were being used for mining blue metal rock without permission and the person acting as the in charge of the temple was actually removed in 2015. During the course of the hearing, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department submitted before the court that the department had taken over the affairs of the temple and a case was registered in this regard. Earlier, in a status report, the Joint Commissioner of the HR and CE Department, Tirunelveli, submitted that one Nainar Naikar had continued to discharge his duties at the temple in Radhapuram despite the fact that he was removed in 2015, following serious allegations against him. It was brought to light that Nainar Naikar was trying to lay his hands on the compensation amount for the temple lands that were acquired for a river-linking project. The court sought a report in the case and adjourned the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-report-on-probe-into-temple-mismanagement/article33147243.ece
21 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Concern over vacancies in university||Filling up vacancies of teaching and non-teaching staff at Madurai Kamaraj University dominated the discussion at the online meeting of the academic council on Friday. Former Registrar V. Chinniah stressed that out of the total vacancies for teaching and non-teaching staff, many positions reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were not filled. They must be immediately filled up, he said. Syndicate member S. Theenathayalan replied that there were 144 vacancies for teaching staff and 364 vacancies for non-teaching staff. A committee had been formed to look into the appointments. The COVID-19 pandemic caused the delay in recruitment, he said. Mr. Theenathayalan said that based on the order from the judiciary, the filling up of vacancies reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes would be completed. The members enquired about the status of conducting senate elections from the academic council. Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan said they would be conducted in January. The meeting stressed that if colleges wanted to start a new course which did not have the approval of the University Grants Commission, they must submit a detailed proposal to the UGC on the need for the course at least six months before introducing the course. New courses Resolutions were passed to reduce the duration of M.C.A. to four semesters, and introduce a PG Diploma course in Saiva Siddhanta Philosophy, a certificate course on Marine Ornamental Fish Production and a diploma course in Disaster Management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-vacancies/article33147248.ece
21 November 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Udhayanidhi Stalin held||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin was arrested at Thirukuvalai along with 200 party cadres on Friday moments before commencing his State-wide ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural’ campaign from the ancestral home of party patriarch and his grandfather M. Karunanidhi. Citing COVID-19 restrictions on public gatherings, the Thirukuvalai police registered a case against Mr. Udhayanidhi Stalin and party functionaries. They were kept at a marriage hall and let off after a couple of hours. The campaign planned for the day in Keelvelur Assembly constituency was reportedly shelved. “We will proceed with the campaign to expose the corrupt deeds of the AIADMK government and anti-people policies of the BJP government at the Centre, despite the obstacles caused through the police department,” Mr. Udhayanidhi told mediapersons. Accusing Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami of carrying out a political campaign in the State under the pretext of conducting official COVID-19 review meetings, he asked if the police would extend the same approach during meetings of AIADMK workers. Condemning the detention, former MLA K.N. Sekaran courted arrest by leading a demonstration of partymen at Tiruverumbur in Tiruchi district, where the DMK youth wing leader was intercepted by the police earlier in the day while he was proceeding to Thirukuvalai from the airport. The police blocked the road by parking a lorry and permitted only Mr. Udhayanidhi to proceed further. Subsequently, the other vehicles were permitted in batches. Meanwhile, DMK general secretary Duraimurugan and MDMK chief Vaiko strongly condemned the arrest of Mr. Udhayanidhi. In a statement, Mr. Duraimurugan said Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami, his cabinet colleagues and the ruling AIADMK have been holding various meetings. These meetings are not stopped, but when it comes to DMK restrictions are imposed, he alleged. “This raises suspicion that AIADMK wants to halt DMK’s campaign in the name of COVID-19 restrictions. Despite arrest, our campaign won’t stop,” he added. Mr. Vaiko said nobody can curb freedom of expression and alleged that the government has arrested Mr. Udhayanidhi due to the fear of losing the election. DMK MP Kanimozhi and CPI (M) State secretary K Balakrishnan also condemned the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/udhayanidhi-stalin-arrested/article33146497.ece
21 November 2020||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||‘Kanda Sashti’ celebrated||For the first time in the history of Sri Dhandayuthapani Swami Temple, the grand festival - ‘Soorasamharam,’ part of the week-long Kanda Sashti celebrations, ended without the presence of devotees here on Friday. At least close to a million devotees from far and near would witness various events held during the Kanda Sashti celebrations, which are held during the Tamil month of Karthigai (November). Among the Murugan Temples, Palani has a special place in the ‘Arupadai Veedu’ as the devotees from even overseas come here to offer prayers and seek divine blessings. The ‘Soorasamharam,’ which is the cynosure of the Kanda Sashti celebrations ended on a sombre note as the COVID-19 pandemic had prevented the devotees from assembling here. The ‘girivalam,’ which would usually wear a festive look here, was deserted as shops had downed shutters. Officials from the HR and CE and other staff on special duty, however, neglected the covid-19 guidelines and vied with one another in taking photos and videos of the ‘Soorasamharam.’ Around 500 police personnel were on duty in and around the temple town. On Saturday, the Celestial wedding would take place for the presiding deities - Shanmugar-Valli, Deivanai on the temple premises. Thoothukudi For the first time in the history, the ‘Soorasamharam’ (annihilation of demon by Lord Muruga) was held at Lord Subramaniya Swami Temple in Tiurchendur on Friday without the participation of devotees. In the wake of the pandemic-induced restrictions, celebrations started with special ‘yagasala puja’ on November 15 without the devotees observing fast on temple premises as part of the annual event. However, 10,000 devotees a day were allowed just to have darshan in the temple. After the sanctum sanctorum was opened at 1 a.m. on Friday for viswaroopa deepaaraadhanai, other rituals were conducted as usual. The ‘soorasamharam’ was enacted at the entrance of the beach between 4.49 p.m. and 5.04 p.m., which was witnessed by District Collector K. Senthil Raj, Inspector General of Police, South Zone Murugan, Thoothukudi Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range Praveen Kumar Abinapu, Additional Collector Vishnu Chandran, Sub-Collector, Thoothukudi, Simranjeet Singh, ASP, Tiruchendur, Harish Singh, Revenue Divisional Officer, Tiruchendur Dhanapriya, and temple authorities. ‘Thirukalyaanam’ will be held at 11 p.m. on Saturday. Since devotees were not allowed to witness the ‘Skanda Sashti’ events in the view of COVID-19-related restrictions, all rituals were aired live. Besides deploying over 2,000 policemen in and around Tiruchendur to check the entry of devotees, check-posts had also been erected at 7 places to stop the vehicles coming to Tiruchendur from other areas. ‘Soorasamharam’ event was enacted in all Murugan temples in the district. Madurai ‘Soorasamharam’ was celebrated in a subdued manner without public participation inside Subramaniyaswamy Temple at Tirupparankundram. ‘Soorasamharam,’ the annhilation of demon ‘Sooran’ by Lord Subramaniaswamy, is considered one of the festive events at the Tirupparankundram temple, one of the six abodes of Lord Murugan. Deputy Commissioner (in-charge) of the temple M. Ramasamy said ‘Soorasamharam’ was performed at around 5 p.m. inside the temple. The public were allowed inside the temple for a darshan only after 6.30 p.m.,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soorasamharam-held-in-subdued-manner/article33146505.ece
21 November 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Call for restoration of Maruthaiyar gets louder in Perambalur district||Residents living along the Maruthaiyar in Perambalur district complain about the sorry state of the river that was once a major source of irrigation. Weeds and polluted water flowing along the course have contaminated the groundwater, they say. The Maruthaiyaur, flowing through Perambalur and Ariyalur districts before joining the Kollidam, is the lifeline for people of Neduvasal, Kalpadi, and nearby villages. “In the past, we did not have to struggle for water. The groundwater was recharged regularly and the large tracts of agricultural lands were nourished sufficiently,” says G. Vasantha, a resident. S. Ragavan, another resident, pitches in: “Nowadays, even after heavy overnight rainfall, there is no water in the river. A little stream of waste water released from Perambalur town is all that flows into it.” Ragavan, along with a group of youth, approached the district administration several times for redressal of the issue. Now, people are weary of submitting petitions. “For over four years, we have submitted petitions to various officials but in vain,” he says. According to Ms. Vasantha, people of her village have planned to organise a protest demanding rejuvenation of the river. “We have decided to stage road roko the next time the Collector visits. We have no choice but to draw attention to our issues this way. We have struggled for too long,” says P. Shakthivel, panchayat president, Kalpadi village, Perambalur block. He recalls a meeting that 50 people had with the Collector to put forth their demands a month ago. “We were told that a plan is being drawn up to divert the water to a private company nearby and that the river would be cleaned up only after six months," he said. Cattle drink the polluted water and fall ill, while the problem of mosquitoes is never-ending, he adds. Groundwater too, has become unpotable. “We take water from our houses to irrigate our agricultural land,” he points out. “We had to separately approach the Public Works Department for getting prosopis juliflora and other weeds cleared, but there has been no response," he says. Meanwhile, officials of the Perambalur Municipality deny all claims that untreated waste water was being let off into the river. “Water is collected through ungerground-drainage systems and processed at sewage treatment plants in the district,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-restoration-of-maruthaiyar-gets-louder-in-perambalur/article33146477.ece
21 November 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||ICMR for doing away with home isolation in U.T.||The ICMR has recommended doing away with the practice of home isolation of COVID-19 patients given the consistently declining caseload in the past several weeks in the Union Territory. B. Ganesh, scientist with the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, who participated in a review meeting convened by Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, said as the caseload has waned and adequate beds are available, home isolation may be done away with and all positive cases placed under institutional care in hospitals. On Friday, Puducherry reported 54 new COVID-19 cases while no deaths were reported in the Union Territory in the last 24 hours. There were 621 active cases after the recovery of 101 patients. While 248 patients were in hospital, 373 were in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.55%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 96.64%. The tally is 609 deaths, a cumulative total of 36,585 cases with 35,355 recoveries. The Lt. Governor said it was decided to treat small gatherings as caution points as they are the spreaders. Intensive testing focused at workplaces would be continued. Random testing Over the course of the day, mobile testing teams deployed for random testing in the community carried out 772 tests across multiple locations, with zero samples testing positive. To sustain the low positivity rate and prevent the outbreak of a second wave, a checklist of all good practices followed across agencies such as health, police, local administration, rural development, education and PWD will be prepared. A random mask compliance assessment survey will be carried out shortly. The data would drive a more aggressive public campaign for compliance towards wearing masks. NGOs, local bodies and community participation would be adopted for IEC activities. The ICMR team, which undertook field visits to PHCs of Abishegapakkam, Mannadipet and Kurusukuppam, reported that the centres were carrying out in-depth investigation of cases. With low active cases, PHCs are able to identify source infection.  However, field officials still encountered resistance among a section of the public in revealing contacts or volunteering for testing. Stringent punitive action against persons who refuse to disclose contacts has been proposed. Ensuring that random border testing is carried out by the assigned private medical college teams and formulating an SOP for tracing and tracking Sabarimala pilgrims were among other decisions. A Chennai-based developer will collaborate in upgrading the COVID Data Information Portal for linking contact tracing/testing modules. Meanwhile, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said the post-recovery survey of recovered COVID-19 patients to assess long-term effects was scheduled to be completed by November 25. Already, an estimated 3,542 recovered patients have reported persistence of some or the other problem. The consolidated report of such patients would be submitted to the Chief Minister to frame a treatment protocol. A decision will also have to be taken on whether the patients can be treated at a facility in Puducherry or be referred elsewhere, perhaps Chennai, and on meeting the expenses of post-COVID-19 treatment, Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/icmr-for-doing-away-with-home-isolation-in-ut/article33147342.ece
21 November 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Centre’s move to privatise power distribution referred to MHA||Following strong objections raised by the Electricity Department against the move by the Centre to privatise power distribution in the Union Territory, Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Kiran Bedi has referred the subject to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). “The matter is pending with the MHA. A decision is yet to be taken,” a senior official in the Electricity Department told The Hindu.  In the objection raised through an inter-departmental note two months ago, the department had pointed out the reasons for its 3,000-strong workforce opposing the privatisation move. The Electricity Engineers and Employees Privatisation Protest Committee has been in touch with all the employees since the privatisation decision was first announced by the Centre in May, an official said. Besides employees’s concerns about their service matters, the department believed that there was no urgent necessity to privatise the distribution network as “the Puducherry Electricity Department (PED) is comparatively better managed, though there is sufficient scope for tweaking it for higher levels of efficiency”. The experience in privatisation of power distribution in Odisha and Delhi was also not an encouraging sign, the note pointed out. “The transmission and distribution entities of Odisha have become financially insolvent. The private entities did not have adequate cash flow even to pay salaries. AES (a Fortune 500 company), the private partner of Central Electric Supply Company, has walked out of their agreement, leaving the management control back to the government of Odisha in 2001,” the note said. The All India Electricity Statistics for the year 2016-17, has pegged the transmission and distribution losses of Odisha at 39.10%. However, Delhi had a mixed experience. Initially there were “teething” troubles, leading to huge public protests on account of steep increase in tariff and “unreliable” power supply during the peak of summer. “At the end of two decades of privatisation in Delhi, we notice great improvement in the infrastructure and quality of power delivery, despite mounting regulatory assets of distribution companies,” the note stated. Pitching PED ahead of many other States, the note said as per the report of the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission, the transmission and distribution losses of the UT was 13.27% during 2018-19, 12.50% during 2019-20, and was likely to be 11.75% during 2020-21. In fact, the loss was reduced from 17.46% in 1991 to 15.23% in 1993-94. The audited accounts of the department showed that it had an accumulated loss of Rs. 47.92 crore as in March 2019 since its inception in 1954. The Aggregate Transmission and Commercial (AT&C) loss of the department has showed a steep decline in recent years. Up to the third quarter of the last financial year, it was 16.37 %. Puducherry was among the 14 States and Union Territories to have recorded less than 20% AT&C loss. The AT&C loss was mainly due to non-payment of bills. Various government departments and other entities owed to the government Rs. 442.58 crore of the total arrears of Rs. 605.19 crore. In 2019-20, the department incurred an expenditure of Rs. 1,526. 62 crore towards power purchase, while it earned a revenue of Rs. 1,608. 83 crore. “Moreover, the department had current assets to the tune of Rs. 1,118 crores, which was built up at the taxpayers’ expense over the last 65 years and that is something which cannot be sold for a song to a private player,” the note stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centres-move-to-privatise-power-distribution-referred-to-mha/article33147339.ece
21 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||HR Circle donates medical equipment||The Puducherry Human Resource Circle (PDYHRC), a non-profit voluntary group of HR professionals, held its fourth convention and Annual General Body meeting with strict adherence to COVID-19 norms on Friday. A team from Mahatma Gandhi Medical College and Research ensured compliance with norms such as usage of face masks, provision of hand sanitisers and maintaining of social distancing. PDYHRC representatives Duddley Douglas and Harihara Pandian donated medical equipment to S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health. Among guest speakers, Vikas Menon, Additional Professor, Department of Psychiatry, JIPMER gave a low-down on self help strategies on stress management. Pugazhendhi, life skills coach, Bashingam, Chairman of Alpha group of institutions, Sankaralingam, labour advocate and Bascarane, Superintendent of Police, also spoke. PDYHRC leaders P.D.Sekar, M.V.Kannan and S.Balamurali, S.Thirupathi and D.Rojy addressed the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hr-circle-donates-medical-equipment/article33147340.ece
21 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Attack on Cong. leader’s car: case filed||The Mudaliarpet police have registered a case against unknown persons for hurling stones at the car of Congress leader A.K.D. Arumugham near the railway gate at Reddiyarpalayam on Thursday night. Congress workers staged a protest at Mettupalayam on Friday, seeking the immediate arrest of the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attack-on-cong-leaders-car-case-filed/article33147344.ece
21 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Multi-vitamin strips seized||A special team of Indian Coast Guard Station, Mandapam, seized 1,200 multi-vitamin strips worth about Rs. 1.44 lakh here on Friday. According to the officials, a surveillance team spotted the bag at Thangachimadam seashore on Thursday night. A check on the bag revealed that it had 1,200 strips (6,000 ampule of 2 ml fluid each) weighing about 50 kg. The seized bag of illegal consignment was found hidden in bushes and planned for transhipment across the IMBL to Sri Lanka. Multi-vitamin injection, according to the officials, was in high demand in the island nation due to COVID-19 and the smugglers may have netted high profits. The seized illegal consignment was handed over to the Customs, Rameswaram. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/multi-vitamin-strips-seized/article33146521.ece
21 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Retrieve 19 country boats from Sri Lanka’||Demanding the Union government to immediately intervene with the Sri Lankan government and take steps to bring back the 19 country boats seized from the fishermen here by the naval personnel, the members affiliated to the CITU staged a demonstration on the Pamban seashore on Friday. Leading the agitation, CITU district secretary Karunamoorthy and president E Justin said that from 2013, the naval authorities from the island nation had seized 19 boats till 2019. Despite the courts in Sri Lanka ordering the release, the Indian government had not taken any tangible steps. As a result, the boats had either become wornout or the boat owners had to spend huge money to make them functional. Under such circumstances, the State government, though had promised to take it up with the Centre, had failed miserably. The Fisheries Department officials also assured in the past to take it up with the governments, but had not favoured the fishermen, Mr. Karunamoorthy charged and added that they would intensify the stir by organising similar agitations in Chennai very soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retrieve-19-country-boats-from-sri-lanka/article33146518.ece
21 November 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Sea ranching programme||The Mandapam Regional Centre of ICAR - Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) has been regularly conducting the sea ranching programme of green tiger shrimp Penaeus semisulcatus to replenish the natural stocks and enhance the shrimp productivity. This will also be helpful for improving the livelihood of the fishermen in this region. According to a press release, during 2017-20, a total of 8.745 million numbers of Penaeus semisulcatus shrimp seeds of PL 10-35 were released in the Gulf of Mannar and Palk Bay region. A total of two million seeds were sea ranched so far. In continuation, on Friday, a total of seven lakh shrimp seeds of PL 15-20 size were released at Pirappan Valasai sea grass beds (Palk Bay) in the presence of K. Muraleedharan, Member, Institute Management Committee ICAR-CMFRI, R. Jayakumar, Head-in-charge, scientists and staff of Mandapam Regional Centre of ICAR-CMFRI and fishermen, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sea-ranching-programme/article33146511.ece
21 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Number of patients discharged from Salem GH crosses 5,000-mark||The total number of patients affected by COVID-19 and discharged after treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital has crossed the 5,000-mark. According to hospital authorities, regular follow-ups to monitor the health of recovered persons are being conducted through the integrated follow-up centre and telemedicine. Being the tertiary centre and one of the important hospitals not just for Salem, but also for patients from neighbouring districts like Namakkal, Krishnagiri. Dharmapuri and Kalakuruchi, COVID-19 patients requiring to undergo surgeries, deliveries and other complicated conditions were treated here. R. Balajinathan, hospital dean said, “those discharged include 302 children and over 500 antenatal mothers. A total of 264 deliveries of COVID-19 positive mothers were handled here. Besides this, 362 surgeries were performed and haemodialysis was conducted for 300 patients.” He added that in the past 10 days one death was reported in the hospital and the patient had comorbid conditions. Dr. Balajinathan said that a decreasing trend is seen in terms of new positive cases in the district and there are only 117 patients in the hospital at present. He added that only 24 among them suffer from severe symptoms and of the 750 beds at the hospital, at present only 40% has been occupied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-patients-discharged-from-salem-gh-crosses-5000-mark/article33146531.ece
21 November 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||10-year jail term awarded to railway employee||A special court judge Babulal on Friday ordered Vipin Kumar (28), who was working in Southern Railway in Manamadurai, to undergo jail term for 10 years after he was found guilty of rape of a minor girl in 2016. According to the prosecution, Rajkumari, Additional Public Prosecutor, the victim was sexually abused by the accused while he was residing in the same locality in Manamadurai. The AWPS registered a case and arrested Vipin Kumar. The court, after hearing the case, awarded the sentence and imposed a fine of Rs. 1000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-year-jail-term-awarded-to-railway-employee/article33146499.ece
21 November 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievance day||Farmers from the district could participate in the monthly grievance day meeting to be held on November 27, said Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy here on Friday. After the covid-19 pandemic surfaced in March, the meetings were dispensed with by the officials. However, after the relaxation in the curfew, the officials have provided an online platform for the farmers to air their grievances. For this purpose, all the agricultural offices (Assistant Director/Block Development Offices) in the district have been given the connectivity through which farmers can participate. The Collector and senior officials would be participating in the live programme from the respective offices, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-grievance-day/article33146512.ece
21 November 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted money seized||In a check conducted at the office of Survey Section in Sivakasi Taluk office on Thursday, sleuths of Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption seized unaccounted money of Rs. 70,200. Acting on a tip-off that huge bribe money was being collected in the office, Deputy Inspection Cell Officer, Ponraj, along with sleuths of DVAC, led by Virudhunagar unit Deputy Superintendent of Police, P. Karuppaiah, conducted the check at around 6 p.m. The officials seized Rs. 57,000 from a private person Ponraj and another Rs. 12,500 from another private person Arumugam. The sleuths also found that a bundle of Rs. 700 thrown under a steal almirah of the Head Surveyor Balasubramanian. Investigation revealed that some of the records pertaining to patta transfer were found in the two-wheeler of Ponraj. Neither Ponraj nor the staff in the office could give a convincing reply as to how the office records were in a private individual’s possession. Inquiry revealed that Ponraj was acting as a broker for Balasubramanian to collect bribe money, a DVAC source said. A case has been booked against all the three persons. Further enquiry is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unaccounted-money-seized-in-taluk-office/article33146515.ece
21 November 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Bodies of 3 youths, who were washed away near Srivilliputtur, retrieved||The bodies of three young men, who were washed away in the Peiyanattru Odai near Shenbagathoppu on Thursday afternoon, were retrieved on Friday. Firemen pulled out the bodies of M. Muktheeswaran (23) and L. Palpandi (21) of Kottaipatti in the wild stream at around 7.30 a.m. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Srivilliputtur), Namasivayam, said that the two bodies were found with their hands clinging together. “Probably, one of them tried to help the other and both drowned,” he said. The bodies had been washed away for more than one km from where the two had got into the stream for bathing. The third body, that of M. Gopinath (22), was retrieved at around 11.15 a.m. a few metres away. “Since the current had reduced significantly, tracing of their bodies by our men was possible,” said Srivilliputtur Station Fire Officer, N. Sundara Gurusamy. The police said that a group of friends from Kottaipatti had gone to Shenbagathoppu to bathe. While Palpandi tried to gauge the depth of the water in the stream, he was carried away by the current and raised an alarm for help. The other two, along with P. Sathyaprakash, jumped into the stream to rescue them. C. Sasikumar (23), who was on the bank at the time, threw a towel and rescued Sathyaprakash. However, the other three were washed away. The bodies were taken to the government hospital for post-mortem examinations. Mamsapuram police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bodies-of-3-youths-who-were-washed-away-near-srivilliputtur-retrieved/article33146498.ece
21 November 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Sugar factory yet to disburse Rs. 21.70-cr. arrears to growers||Irked by the inordinate delay in disbursing Rs. 21.70 crore arrears to be paid to the farmers by a sugar factory in the district for the sugarcane procured from them, the district administration has sought clarification from the Tamil Nadu Government on the action to be taken against the erring company. As the Vasudevanallur-based Dharani Sugars had to reportedly pay Rs. 21.70 crore towards the sugarcane the company had procured from the farmers during the year 2018 – 2019, the growers were raising this issue at several farmers’ grievance day meetings. Since the arrears, which should have been settled by October 30 last, was yet to be paid, the farmers raised the issue again at the grievance day meeting held remotely on Friday. Collector G. S. Sameeran informed the aggrieved farmers that the district administration had written letters in this connection to the Secretaries for Industries and Agriculture seeking clarification and guidance on the action to be taken to ensure the early disbursal of the arrears to the sugarcane suppliers. A letter has also been sent to the management of Dharani Sugars. “Based on the guidance to be received from the government, appropriate action will be taken shortly,” Dr. Sameeran said. The Collector informed that the district, despite the recent downpour, had received only deficit rainfall during this year, as Tenkasi had recorded only 671 mm rainfall against the average rainfall of 738 mm till mid-November. Thanks to the recent rains, the district’s dams had 80% water while 84 irrigation tanks had water sufficient for a month-long irrigation. ‘Pisanam’ paddy cultivation had been taken-up on 5,044 hectares and cereals on 9,887 hectares, grams on 3,449 hectares, cotton on 843 hectare, sugarcane on 1612 hectares and oilseeds on 1,232 hectares have been cultivated. While chemical nutrients had been stocked adequately in the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies to meet the demand during this season, quality of agro inputs was being checked through random inspection. Of the 296 samples analysed, 16 were found to be of inferior quality and hence due action against the sellers would follow. Farmers who were yet to get insurance benefits between 2016 and 2018 would get the same before November-end, Dr. Sameeran informed while urging the farmers to insure their crops. Even as the farmers of Sivasailam in Kadayam union appealed to the Collector to lay roads to transport the farm produce from their ranches to nearby markets, a few others, who have to take their produce to Paavoorchathram, wanted to have a market with cold storage facility at Kadayam itself. The farmers’ decades-old demand for checking wild animal invasion into farms close to the Western Ghats, especially by wild boars, once again came up in the meeting, but in vain as the forest personnel had no reply for this question.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sugar-factory-yet-to-disburse-rs-2170-cr-arrears-to-growers/article33147384.ece
21 November 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Two die in road accident near Kandiyur||Two persons belonging to Pattukudi hamlet in Papanasam taluk died in a road accident near Kandiyur on Friday evening when a motorcycle they were riding was knocked down by a goods carrier lorry. The deceased were identified by police as Muruganandam (38) and Gunasekaran (35). They were proceeding towards Sirupuliyur near Thiruvaiyaru to attend a funeral when the accident took place. Thiruvaiyaru police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-in-road-accident-near-kandiyur/article33146475.ece
21 November 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Aged woman washed away in flash floods, dies||Subbulakshmi, (60), wife of Pitchai of Sengulam village Ammachiyapuram in the district, went missing on Thursday. Even as the police were looking out for the woman, residents informed the K Vilakku police about a body floating in the Moola Vaigai river. After identification, they established that it was Subbulakshmi. The body was sent to the Government Hospital. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aged-woman-washed-away-in-flash-floods-dies/article33146500.ece
21 November 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||16 tonnes of red sanders seized||The Customs official seized 16.31 tonnes of red sanders stuffed in a container even as it was about to be exported to a foreign destination along with coconut. Following information, the customs officials, who had gone to the container freight service provider’s premises near Fisheries College and Research Institute on the Harbour Road, checked a container in which coconut had been stuffed. After loading the red sanders logs inside the 40-feet-long-container, coconut had been stuffed at the entrance of the container as the edible oilseed was the actual consignment. The red sanders logs, weighing about 16.31 tonne and worth about Rs. 10 crore, were seized. Further investigations are on about the company that attempted to export the red sanders from here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-tonnes-of-red-sanders-seized-in-thoothukudi/article33146519.ece
21 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||144 fresh positive cases reported in central region||The central districts continues to record low number of COVID-19 cases with 144 patients testing positive for the viral infection on Friday. No COVID death was reported in the region for the second consecutive day, according to the health bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. All districts in the region reported infection cases below 30. A total of 29 patients tested positive in Nagapattinam, which reported the highest number of positive cases in the region on Friday. Among them were local index cases with no travel or contact history, or patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses and their immediate contacts. Tiruchi and Thanjavur reported 25 new cases, indicating a further dip in the number of patients testing positive. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. A total of 11 patients who were undergoing treatment at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Wednesday. Pudukottai reported a sharp drop with 23 fresh cases for the viral infection while Tiruvarur reported 22 new cases. Among them were primary contacts, local index cases and asymptomatic patients identified through fever camps. In Karur, 15 patients, including residents from Vennamalai, Vadakadu, Vengamedu and Puliyur, tested positive. Inter-district travellers, too, tested positive for COVID. Meanwhile, three patients were discharged from Government Medical College Hospital on Friday after recovering from the infection. Four patients tested positive in Ariyalur district, while in Perambalur, one tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/144-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article33146473.ece
21 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Women self-help groups awarded for sanitation upkeep in Tiruchi||Sixty sanitation hygiene education (SHE) teams consisting of women self-help groups that maintain toilet complexes across Tiruchi were felicitated by City Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian, on the occasion of World Toilet Day. The SHG women, who maintain toilet complexes constructed by Gramalaya, a Tiruchi-based non-governmental organisation, were awarded for quality maintenence of the toilets. Selection, training Representatives of various self-help groups were selected and trained by Gramalaya on public sanitation and management of public toilets. These women came together as a federation, known as Women's Action for Village Empowerment (WAVE). “This is the 21st World Toilet Day for us at Gramalaya,” observed S. Damodaran, founder, Gramalaya. “Thanks to the womens' efforts, villages in and around Tiruchi city have been declared open defecation free,” he said. The women manage financial records, collect Rs. 3 per user and utilise the amount collected to improve the quality of the toilet including purchasing cleaners and disinfectants, he added. In his inaugural address, the Corporation Commissioner appreciated Gramalaya for its grassroots level initiative. M. Yazhini, City Health Officer, applauded the work of the sanitation hygiene education teams and said that their work was the reason for Tiruchi receiving accolates for public sanitaion. Water conservation “The future of sanitation is in reusing grey water generated after bathing, and washing clothes and vessels. We need to work on conserving water for our future generations," she said. Sanitation hygiene education teamsteams of Devadanam, Karuvatu Pettai, Viragupettai were among the 60 teams that were felicitated at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-self-help-groups-awarded-for-sanitation-upkeep-in-tiruchi/article33147380.ece
21 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 4,000 relief camps have been set up in the State’||Though the State had not witnessed any monsoon-related damages this year, the Tamil Nadu Government has kept ready over 4,000 relief centres across the State to accommodate up to 2.50 lakh people to be evacuated from affected areas, Commissioner of Revenue Administration (CRA) and State Relief Commissioner K. Phanindra Reddy has said. However, the government has planned to accommodate only 50% of this strength in the relief camps in the wake of the pandemic, he added. Speaking to reporters here on Friday evening after visiting a few rainwater stagnant areas in the city, Mr. Reddy said the State Government’s disaster response force with 1,000 personnel was ready for relief and rescue operations besides the 4,000 police personnel trained by the SDRF, who are under the control of the Superintendents of Police concerned in all the districts. Apart from this, National Disaster Response Force was also there to chip in, if the situation demands. All the equipment required for relief and rescue operations had been procured with State Disaster Response Fund and positioned at vantage places. Departments such as public health, revenue, police, fire and rescue services, rural development and public works departments have been put on high alert to monitor the situation closely and act swiftly to meet any eventuality. The Department of Fisheries was being given weather forecast by the Indian Metrological Department regularly, based on which the fishermen on high-seas were being alerted with high-power communication gadgets. “We can alert the fishermen in deep seas up to 200 nautical miles as they have been provided with very high frequency sets,” Mr. Reddy said. The Commissioner of Revenue Administration lauded the efforts of the district administration and the Tirunelveli Corporation in draining the stagnant rainwater immediately. District Collectors V. Vishnu of Tirunelveli and G. S. Sameeran of Tenkasi, Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli, N. Manivannan participated in the meeting that discussed the preparations put in place during north-east monsoon.  Departments such as public health, revenue, police, fire and rescue services, rural development and public works have been put on high alert K. Phanindra Reddy Commissioner of Revenue Administration and State Relief Commissioner   Departments such as public health, revenue, police, fire and rescue services, rural development and public works departments had been put on high alert to monitor the situation closely K. Phanindra Reddy Commissioner of Revenue Administration and State Relief Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-4000-relief-camps-have-been-set-up-in-state-official/article33146507.ece
21 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Soorasamharam’ held at Tiruchendur temple||For the first time in the history, the ‘soorasamharam’ (annihilation of demon by Lord Muruga) was held at Lord Subramaniya Swami Temple in Tiruchendur on Friday without the participation of devotees, who would usually gather at the coastal town to witness the event every year as part of ‘kanda sashti’ celebrations. In the wake of the pandemic-induced restrictions, celebrations started with special ‘yagasala puja’ on November 15 without the devotees observing fast on temple premises as part of the annual event. However, 10,000 devotees a day were allowed just to have darshan in the temple. After the sanctum sanctorum was opened at 1 a.m. on Friday for viswaroopa deepaaraadhanai, other rituals were conducted as usual. The ‘soorasamharam’ was enacted at the entrance of the beach between 4.49 p.m. and 5.04 p.m., which was witnessed by Collector K. Senthil Raj, Inspector General of Police, South Zone Murugan, Thoothukudi Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range Praveen Kumar Abinapu, Additional Collector Vishnu Chandran, Sub-Collector, Thoothukudi, Simranjeet Singh, ASP, Tiruchendur, Harish Singh, Revenue Divisional Officer, Tiruchendur Dhanapriya, and temple authorities. ‘Thirukalyaanam’ will be held at 11 p.m. on Saturday. Since devotees were not allowed to witness the ‘kanda sashti’ events in the view of COVID-19 related restrictions, all rituals were aired live. Besides deploying over 2,000 policemen in and around Tiruchendur to check the entry of devotees, check-posts had been erected at seven places to prevent vehicles from coming to Tiruchendur from other areas. ‘Soorasamharam’ event was enacted in all Murugan temples in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soorasamhaaram-held-without-devotees-at-tiruchendur/article33146541.ece
21 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Farmers urged to install micro irrigation equipment with subsidy to save water||Collector V. Vishnu has urged small and the marginal farmers to install micro irrigation equipment in their fields with the subsidy being given by the Central Government as the district has received Rs. 10.68 crore as grant from the Union Government. Addressing the farmers’ grievance redressal meet held remotely on Friday, Mr. Vishnu said small and marginal farmers would get 100% subsidy for installing micro irrigation gadgets like dripper, sprinkler etc. while others would be given 75% grant for this purpose as it would save a lot of water while ensuring better yield. As the district had received Rs. 10.68 crore for installing micro irrigation equipment on 2,500 hectares during this fiscal, the farmers should make use of this opportunity to have better yield in sugarcane, coconut, oil palm, groundnut, grams, cotton etc. while saving a lot of water. Farmers could approach the Offices of Assistant Directors of Agriculture in their taluks to get more details about the scheme and avail the subsidy by submitting Aadhaar card, adangal, computer chitta, map and the certificate given by the tahsildar concerned (in case of small and marginal farmers) online on www.tnhorticulture.tn.gov.in/horti/mimis or submit the documents with the Assistant Director of Agriculture concerned, Mr. Vishnu said. The Collector informed that the farmers should pay the premium of Rs. 444 per acre to Agriculture Insurance Company of India before December 15 for insuring paddy for the insurance amount of Rs. 29,600 per acre. As per the agreement reached between Agriculture Insurance Company of India and the Government of India, this amount would be shared by both the parties. Farmers availing crop loan should insure the crop without fail, as mandated by the bank concerned. The insurance premium may be paid in the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies, nationalized commercial banks or common service centres by submitting the application along with copies of first page of the bank passbook, chitta / patta and the adangal issued by the village administrative officer concerned. Mr. Vishnu said 9.74 tonnes of uncertified inferior quality seeds, worth about Rs. 35.52 lakh, had been seized by the officials during the raids conducted in the shops across the district and due action had been initiated against the sellers. Average rainfall Though the district, having annual average rainfall of 814.80 mm, had received 570.84 mm rainfall till November 19 this year, it is 19% less than the average normal rainfall of 703.20 mm during the corresponding period. Hence, paddy had been cultivated on 6,340 hectare, grains on 330 hectare, grams on 1,048 hectare, cotton on 653 hectare, sugarcane on 29 hectare and oilseeds on 171 hectare, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-urged-to-install-micro-irrigation-equipment-with-subsidy-to-save-water/article33147385.ece
21 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Minister gives Rs. 5 lakh to widow of solider killed in Ladakh||Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju on Friday gave Rs. 5 lakh from his personal funds to the widow of Indian Army solider K. Karuppasamy, 34, of Thittankulam near Kovilpatti, who was killed in an ‘accident’ in Ladakh on Thursday. The Minister, along with Collector K. Senthil Raj visited the house of Karuppasamy at Therkku Thittankulam on Friday. He consoled the widow, a mother of three children, and handed over the assistance after paying floral tribute to the portrait of the soldier. “I met the bereaved family on the instructions of the Chief Minister. The Tamil Nadu Government, on getting detailed report from the Ministry of Defence, will announce about the assistance to be given to the family of Karuppasamy. Since his wife Dhamayanthi holds B.Ed. degree, I will speak to the Chief Minister on giving her employment besides the ex-gratia,” Mr. Raju assured. The Minister also promised to support the education of the children of the jawan, who had served in the Army for 14 years. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, condoling the death of the soldier, has announced that a family member of Karuppasamy would be given employment based on educational qualification. MP visits family Meanwhile, Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi also visited the family and gave Rs. 2 lakh to the children of Karuppasamy and assured that the DMK would take care of the children’s education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-gives-rs-5-lakh-to-widow-of-solider-killed-in-ladakh/article33146503.ece
21 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Friday stood at 125 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 2,598.96 cusecs and no water was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 93.15 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 1,493 cusecs and 25 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article33147387.ece
21 November 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Accused in bank robbery arrested in Haryana, brought to Palladam||Tiruppur District Police, in coordination with Haryana Police, brought the fifth accused in the robbery at Kallipalayam branch of State Bank of India (SBI) to Palladam on Friday. Gajaraj (33) from Rajasthan is believed to have planned the robbery and was arrested in Haryana recently, police sources said. He was brought to Palladam on Friday afternoon and produced at the Palladam Judicial Magistrate court, which granted 10 days’ police custody, the sources said. A five-member gang took away Rs. 18.97 lakh cash and 246 sovereigns of jewellery from the bank on February 22. Kamanaickenpalayam police registered a case. While four of the accused – Anil Kumar Panwar (38) from Haryana, Ramajanappa (44) from Karnataka, Rama Krishna Achariyar aka Balaraman Krishnan (35) from Karnataka and Mohammad Ishrar Khan from Rajasthan – were arrested in March, the search for Gajraj continued. The COVID-19 lockdown also slowed down the search, the police sources claimed. Gajraj is also suspected to have taken the major share of the jewellery and cash to his village in Rajasthan. The sources said a team from Tiruppur District Police would visit Rajasthan to retrieve the stolen jewellery and cash estimated to be worth around Rs. 50 lakh in total.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accused-in-bank-robbery-arrested-in-haryana-brought-to-palladam/article33147154.ece
21 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Entrepreneur hit by lockdown reaps profit from sale of home-made organic products||A Tiruppur-based entrepreneur, whose 23-year-long business was hit due to the COVID-19 lockdown, has found success through the sales of home-made organic products online. A. Alaguraja, a resident of S. Periyapalayam on Uthukuli Road, said that he was running a small-scale garment elastic tape business for nearly 23 years. After the lockdown was imposed, he did not receive any orders and he could not procure the raw materials since April. “For the past six to seven years, I was interested in organic products,” he said, although his primary focus was on elastic tape business. Following the lockdown, he decided to experiment with powders for herbal soups, herbal oils and kabasura kudineer using organic products. While his wife helped in the preparation, his two sons helped him to market the products online, he said. Mr. Alaguraja said that he has been receiving orders from across the State for his products in the last few months, noting that the awareness regarding health has increased among the public after the pandemic. “[COVID-19] has caused a lot of pain for many, but it has also shown a good way for me,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entrepreneur-hit-by-lockdown-reaps-profit-from-sale-of-home-made-organic-products/article33147166.ece
21 November 2020||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Karthigai Deepam’ festivities begin||The ‘Karthigai Deepam’ festival began in Tiruvannamalai with the flag hoisting on Friday morning, marking the first day of the two-week festivities. For outsiders, restrictions have been placed on entering the town on November 28 and 29. Sevoor S. Ramachandran, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE), Sandeep Nanduri, Tiruvannamalai Collector, K.S. Kandasamy, Special Officer for Grievance Redress, Tamil Nadu E-governance, and S. Aravind, Superintendent of Police, took part in the celebrations n Friday. On November 29, the ‘Bharani Deepam’ will be lit at 4 a.m. and at 6 p.m., the ‘Karthigai Deepam’ will be lit on top of the hill. “Every year, it is held as a grand event and lakhs of people take part, but this time the event will be held on a low-scale due to the COVID-19 pandemic. All the festivities will be conducted on the temple premises,” said R. Gnanasekhar, Temple Joint Commissioner, HR&CE. On November 29 alone, devotees would not be allowed inside the temple. “On other days, only 5,000 people, with e-passes obtained fromwww.arunachaleswarartemple. tnhrce.in, will be allowed inside the temple. All Standard Operating Procedures will be followed. We have made arrangements for toilet facilities at the exit for devotees,” he added. Mr. Nanduri inspected arrangements inside the temple premises on Friday afternoon. “He checked if all the SOPs are being followed. This year, the float festival will be conducted in the ‘Brahma Theertham’ and he inspected the tank too. This year, there will be no festivities on the street,” said an official. No ‘girivalam’ No one will be allowed to climb the hill or perform ‘girivalam’. “We will have 12 checkposts on November 28 and 29 on the roads leading to the temple town. Those who are living in Tiruvannamalai alone, carrying identity cards, will be allowed to enter. Those who have booked darshan on November 28 will be allowed,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karthigai-deepam-festivities-begin/article33147144.ece
21 November 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Burglars decamp with jewellery and cash||Gold jewellery weighing 27 sovereigns and Rs. 6 lakh in cash were reported stolen from a house in Kattimedu hamlet in Thiruthuraipoondi police station limits. Police sources said the complainant, Abdul Jaleel, 58, of Mela Theru had gone to his son’s house in Coimbatore when the house was burgled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglars-decamp-with-jewellery-and-cash/article33146496.ece
21 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Gaur found dead near farm in Udhagamandalam||A male gaur was found dead under suspicious circumstances near a fence surrounding a private farm land in Missionary Hill in Udhagamandalam on Friday. Forest Department officials said that the animal, aged around eight, was found dead by local residents. The fence near which the animal was found dead was erected by a farmer identified as Rajendran. He had raised crops on a portion of land that he had leased from the original landowner. K. Saravanakumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests (Nilgiris division), visited the spot, and said that a postmortem was performed on the carcass based on the instructions of District Forest Officer D. Guruswamy. He said that there was a suspicion that the animal could have died of electrocution, but said that only after further analysis of the animal’s internal organs could the department rule that to be the case. “The doctor also found a lot of plastic in the gaur’s stomach, which could have also resulted in the death,” said Mr. Saravanakumar. He added that there were also signs of electrocution along the animal’s skin. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gaur-found-dead-near-farm-in-udhagamandalam/article33147169.ece
21 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Moyar is the last stronghold for mahseer||Known to be among the “largest and hardest fighting freshwater fish in the world”, the majestic hump-backed mahseer ( Tor remadevii ), once a prize catch for anglers, is on the verge of extinction. In fact, the Moyar, flowing through the Mudumalai and Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserves, is one of the last strongholds for Tor remadevii , known as the “tiger of the Cauvery River”. Once seen in rivers across the Cauvery basin, the mahseer, also known as the orange-finned mahseer, is now restricted to a few protected stretches of rivers in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has listed it as being “critically endangered”. Recent surveys done by the Wildlife Association of South India (WASI) indicate that the population of the species in the Moyar is likely to be genetically pure owing to its isolation. “The chances of hybridisation of Tor remadevii is higher in the main Cauvery river where different species of the mahseer could interbreed,” said Naren Sreenivasan, a conservation biologist of WASI, which has been working on protecting the species for the last half-a-century. Mr. Sreenivasan estimates that Tor remadevii is functionally extinct along 90% of its home range. The hump-backed mahseer need to swim upstream during rains to spawn along rocky riverbeds. The construction of dams along many parts of their habitat could have played a part in their decline, conservationists said. While dams and reservoirs could have contributed to their decline elsewhere in the Cauvery basin, the isolation of the Moyar population, caused ironically by the Bhavani Sagar Dam on the one side and the Moyar falls on the other, could have helped to keep the other introduced fish species from competing with the mahseer. “The Moyar, between Thengumarahada, Mangalapatty and the power station, is one of the last pristine habitats for the mahseer. The absence of invasive and introduced fish species here could be another reason for its being a stronghold for the species,” WASI honorary secretary Sandeep Menon said.   Threats in the Moyar Threats to the mahseer need to be minimised along the Moyar, according to conservationists. “It is clear that non-protected areas cannot support mahseer populations,” said Mr. Sreenivasan. Conservation efforts should include sensitisation of local residents to the need for selective fishing, talking them into releasing the captured mahseer back in the river. The Tamil Nadu Forest Department is working with the WASI to study the hump-backed mahseer population to aid in their conservation. “The Tamil Nadu and Karnataka Forest Departments have been incredibly supportive in conservation efforts. The next step would be to get them to include the species in their conservation plans and ensure intervention strategies, based on research, to bolster the existing populations,” Mr. Menon said. As the species faces extinction, more direct intervention strategies, including captive breeding, may need to be formulated, conservation biologist A.J.T. Johnsingh said. “We need to look into whether there could be a breeding programme for this species in Thengumarahada village...,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/moyar-is-the-last-stronghold-for-mahseer/article33146491.ece
21 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against builders dumping construction debris inside Shola forest||Local activists have called for strict action against builders dumping construction debris into a stream and a native forest patch in Muthorai Palada near Udhagamandalam. They alleged that the waste was being dumped into the stream by local builders, despite complaints made by local residents to the Doddabetta village panchayat. “Construction wastes such as cement, mortar, brick and paint are being dumped into the stream for the last few months by people at night. It is blocking the water flow and could lead to localised flooding during spells of heavy rain,” said R. Ganesh, a resident of Muthorai Palada. G. Janardhanan, president of the Ooty Public Awareness Association, said that this was not the first time that construction waste was being dumped near Udhagamandalam town. “For many years, the area surrounding the Ooty Lake was being used as a dumping ground for construction waste. After a wall was built around the lake a few years ago, other areas near town are being used for dumping garbage,” alleged Mr. Janardhanan. “Construction waste can have hazardous substances, which when dumped in streams could lead to increased water toxicity, affecting wildlife,” added Mr. Janardhanan, who said that the area where the waste was being dumped also had one of the few remaining patches of native Shola forests close to Udhagamandalam town. “This area has quite a lot of biodiversity, which too can be affected,” he said. T. Mariappan, another resident, said that the forest department, the local body as well as the police need to work together to stop trucks transporting construction waste. “Offenders should be fined heavily, to act as a deterrent,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-sought-against-builders-dumping-construction-debris-inside-shola-forest/article33147157.ece
21 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||51 new cases reported in Vellore||The number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 18,979 with 51 new cases reported on Friday. While 18,371 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 284. The district's death toll is 324. In Ranipet district, 19 persons tested positive taking the tally to 15,461. In Tirupathur district, the tally stood at 7,129 with 21 new cases reported on Friday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 18 new cases were reported on Friday, taking the tally to 18,410. Out of this, 17,948 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 191.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/51-new-cases-reported-in-vellore/article33147391.ece
21 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 51 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district rose to 18,979, with 51 fresh cases reported on Friday. While 18,371 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases stands at 284. The death toll stands at 324. Ranipet count Ranipet district reported 19 fresh cases. The case tally has increased to 15,461. In Tirupathur district, the total number of cases stood at 7,129, with 21 fresh cases. In Tiruvannamalai district, 18 fresh cases were reported. The total number of cases has gone up to 18,410. Of them, 17,948 have been discharged from hospital and the number of active cases stands at 191.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-51-fresh-cases/article33147343.ece
21 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Copious inflow into dams||Heavy to very heavy rainfall reported in the last few days in the catchment areas has brought copious inflow to many of the minor dams of Virudhunagar district. Even as Sasthakoil dam has been overflowing for the couple of days, it continued to get 100 cusecs of inflow that was being let out. The level in the dam was 103.4 metres (103.4 metres). Pilavakkal Periyar dam was getting the highest inflow of the season – 930.4 cusecs. With the level touching 201.66 metres (204.50 metres), 1,200 cusecs was being released from the dam. Level in Vembakottai reservoir stood at 83.50 metres (87.50 metres) after the inflow rose to 527.7 cusecs with no discharge. Kovilar dam that was getting 236.19 cusecs of water had water up to 208.4 metres (212 metres). No water was being released from here. Anaikuttam was getting a mere 6.52 cusecs of inflow and its level stood at 89.3 metres as against its maximum sill level of 95 metres. Kullur Sandhai dam was getting 70.29 cusecs of water and its level rose up to 28.9 metres (30.2 metres). However, inflow to Irukkangudi dam abruptly stopped and its level stood at 48.5 metres (54.85 metres). Similarly, Golwarpatti dam also did not receive any inflow and it had nil storage. Rainfall (in mm) reported in various places in the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday: Sivakasi 38, Kariyapatti 22.40, Vembakottai 20.60, Srivilliputtur 20, Kovilankulam 11.80, Virudhunagar 11, Watrap 10.60, Rajapalayam 8 and Aruppukottai 2 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/copious-inflow-into-dams/article33146510.ece
21 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Sub-Court inaugurated at Sattur||The subordinate judiciary is the backbone of the justice delivery system. The Bar and the Bench together should ensure speedy justice to the litigant public who have utmost faith in the justice system, said Madras High Court Judge Justice V.M. Velumani at the inauguration of the Sub Court at Sattur in Virudhunagar district on Friday. Inaugurating the Sub Court via videoconferencing, Justice Velumani said that she was constrained to do so in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and hoped that the situation would get better in the coming days. She urged the judicial officers to ensure qualitative and quantitative disposal of cases. Justice Abdul Quddhose said that earlier the litigant public from Sattur had to travel to Aruppukottai. With the Sub-Court established in Sattur, it is a boon to the people. Courts are being opened for the benefit of the people and speedy justice must be ensured to build their confidence in the judiciary, he said. The Virudhunagar Principal District and Sessions Judge A. Muthusaratha welcomed the High Court judges, judicial officers and advocates to the inauguration of the Sattur Sub Court. Chief Judicial Magistrate C. Kathiravan proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sub-court-inaugurated-at-sattur/article33146516.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||147 new cases, two deaths in Coimbatore district||The 147 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Coimbatore on Friday took the district’s overall tally to 47,219. According to the media bulletin, two women aged 58 and 55 died. Of the 47,219 cases, 45,485 have recovered and 779 were active. The district has reported 595 deaths so far. On Friday, 152 persons were discharged upon recovery from the disease. Tiruppur district reported one death and 82 fresh cases. A 78-year-old man died at a private hospital. Of the total 14,690 cases, 13,809 have recovered and 677 were active. Tiruppur district has reported 204 deaths so far. As many as 99 patients were discharged on Friday. Salem district reported 78 new cases and one death. According to health officials, 67 cases were indigenous and 11 patients had returned from Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Karur and Krishnagiri. A 46-year-old man died of the disease. Namakkal district reported 21 cases, Krishnagiri 15 and Dharmapuri 12. Erode district reported 40 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 11,822. While 107 persons were discharged, 334 persons continued to be under treatment. The 18 fresh cases reported in the Nilgiris on Friday took the total number of confirmed cases in the district to 7,194. The district administration said that 145 people were under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-salem-district-reports-78-new-cases-one-death/article33146537.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Post-COVID-19 care centre set up at Salem GH sees steady footfall||The integrated post-COVID-19 care centre set up at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital is seeing a steady footfall and according to doctors here, common complaints of patients were respiratory ailments and psychiatric issues. The centre began functioning at the end of October and include doctors from various streams including Physical and Medical Rehabilitation, general medicine, yoga and naturopathy, nutrition and psychiatry. The centre offered treatment on various ailments, which were experienced by patients despite recovering or testing negative for COVID-19 disease. R. Balajinathan, hospital dean, said that the centre is seeing steady footfall and at least five to six patients are visiting the facility every day. “Most of the patients visiting the centre were found to be middle-aged and common complaints were respiratory difficulties and psychiatric depression. Experts from respective fields provide necessary treatment. While some departments advise regular visit by the patients for a certain period, others provide required medicines.” He added that diet advice is also given. A.M. Sudhakar, head, Yoga and Naturopathy, said yoga and pranayama sessions are conducted for recovered patients. Dr. Sudhakar said patients generally complained of breathlessness, fatigue and inability to concentrate on activities. “The mental strength of patients is boosted and we build confidence that they could recover from the ailments soon and it would not lead to any serious conditions. Patients also undergo steam inhalation and are advised to include more fruits and vegetables in their diet,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-covid-19-care-centre-set-up-at-salem-gh-sees-steady-footfall/article33146535.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Differently-abled petitioner gets job||A differently-abled man, who submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami here recently was offered a job with Kumarapalayam Municipality. Public health department Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani and District Collector K. Megraj handed over the appointment order to P. Saddiq Basha, who has been offered the position of system operator in the public health department under Kumarapalayam Municipality. Mr. Basha petitioned the Chief Minister while he was on his way to Salem on Wednesday. He said in the petition that he had typing knowledge in English and Tamil and requested the Chief Minister to offer him a job since there is no one to support him. Considering his plea, the State government handed over the appointment order on Friday.  Expresses gratitude Mr. Basha expressed his gratitude to the Chief Minister and the State government for offering him a job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-petitioner-gets-job/article33146532.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest at grievance meetings||Farmers on Friday staged walk-outs and raised slogans at grievance redressal meetings conducted through video-conferencing by Collector M. Govinda Rao. Alleging malpractices at direct purchase centres (DPCs), farmers at Kumbakonam and Thiruvaiyaru staged walk-outs before registering their grievances/views before the Collector, while those at Ammapettai registered their protest by raising slogans against what they described as irregularities in disbursal of crop loans. At Kumbakonam, a section of farmers led by Sundara Vimalanathan, secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, staged a walk-out protesting official inaction in curbing the demand for `bribes' from farmers to measure paddy at DPCs. Later participating in the meeting, a memorandum addressed to the Collector was submitted to the Assistant Director (Agriculture), Kumbakonam. At Thiruvaiyaru, farmers staged a walk-out protesting non-declaration of ‘special support package' for kuruvai and samba for the last two years and non-release of water into Thiruthangal and Konerirajapuram canals near Kudamuruti regulator. At Ammapettai, the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam raised slogans at the venue protesting the `partiality' exhibited by those involved in the disbursement of crop loan to members of Ammapettai Primary Agriculture Cooperative Credit Society. It also urged officials to ensure that adequate quantity of water for irrigation reached tail-end areas. At Budalur, participants claimed that several lakes and tanks in Agniyaru division remained barren despite flow of sufficient quantity of water into Grand Anicut Canal from June. They also complained that shortage of fertilizers affected agriculture operations in the egion. Addressing the farmers from the Collectorate, Mr. Govinda Rao and other senior officials said sufficient quantities of urea/fertilizers were available in the district. Around 670 tonnes of short-term paddy variety seeds were also in stock with Agriculture Extension Service centres. So far, 1,757 tonnes of paddy seeds had been distributed to farmers for taking up kuruvai and samba cultivation in the district. As on November 20, around 1.24 lakh hectares had been brought under samba and thaladi cultivation and nurseries had been raised for paddy cultivation in another 9,000 hectares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-protest-at-grievance-meetings/article33146474.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Inflow into Mettur dam decreases||The inflow to Mettur dam decreased to 10,134 cusecs on Friday. According to Public Works Department officials, the water level in the dam was 96.73 ft against a total scale of 120 ft. The stored capacity of water in the dam was 60,685 mcft. The inflow of water to the dam reduced from 11,361 cusecs to 10,134 cusecs. The discharge of water from the dam through Cauvery river was maintained at 1,000 cusecs while discharge through East-West Canal was increased to 700 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inflow-into-mettur-dam-decreases/article33146533.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A campaign for reservation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-campaign-for-reservation/article33147337.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Free online training in food processing on November 23||The Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT) will conduct a State-level free online training programme for stakeholders of food industry on November 23 under the Prime Minister Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PM-FME) scheme. The purpose of the programme is to brief stakeholders on the significance of the PM-FME scheme. The programme, which will start at 10 a.m., will be conducted through Webex online platform. Interested candidates can register their names through the website linkhttp://www.iifpt.edu.in/pmfme-registration.php. Further information can be had from the website linkhttp://www.iifpt.edu.in/ab-pmfme.php The objective of the Centrally-sponsored scheme is to provide financial, technical and business support for upgrading the existing micro-level food processing enterprises with an outlay of Rs. 10,000 crore. Around two lakh micro food processing units will get credit-linked subsidy with focus on supporting self-help groups, food processing outlets and cottage industries through the scheme implemented under Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, IIFPT Director C. Anandharamkrishnan said in a release. The Institute will act as the nodal agency for 19 States for capacity building and training of State and district officials; develop curricula and training modules and partner with State-level technical institutes for imparting further training to micro-enterprises and groups; prepare standard detailed project reports (DPRs) for products for micro-units; develop technologies/ machines for upgradation of micro-units; partner with other research and training institutions for the above activities; and provide technical support for the delivery of scheme requirements. The Institute will also facilitate access to credit-linked subsidy for setting up new food processing units and upgradation of existing units. Under the scheme, the units will get credit-linked grant of 35% of the project cost with maximum grant up to Rs. 10 lakh to existing unorganised food processing units for upgradation. A similar percentage of the project cost will be provided as credit-linked grant for SHGs/FPOs/cooperatives for capital expenditure with maximum limit as prescribed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-online-training-in-food-processing-on-november-23/article33147379.ece
21 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Courts to allow online filing of applications soon: C.M. Joshi||“The Supreme Court of India is considering putting in place a system where advocates can file applications online,” C.M. Joshi, Principal District and Sessions Judge, said in Belagavi on Friday. “Following the directions of the Supreme Court, courts in Belagavi will also allow filing of applications online in the near future,” he said. He was speaking at a programme to distribute awards to meritorious students of Raja Lakhamagouda Law College. “Thinkers like Richard Susskind have argued that at least 60% of disputes will be fought online in the coming years. This is an important observation as several times we keep hearing that the educational system and the legal fraternity does not keep pace with advances in modern technology. All young graduates should keep abreast of legal and technological developments,” he said. He quoted from Stephen Covey, the author of Seven Habits of Successful People, saying ‘One should always keep sharpening your saw’. He added that all classical texts should be reinvented in modern times. “We talk about alternative dispute resolution mechanisms like negotiation and mediation. We should remember that this is an ancient technique as Lord Krishna himself was engaged in negotiating and mediating in the Mahabharata. We also speak of gender justice now a days. We should realise that texts like Manu Smriti and Yajnyavalkya Smriti had given several principles that stood for gender justice and gender equality. We should go to the original texts to understand them properly. We have forgotten them under the light of new and modern laws brought during the British regime and independent India,” he said. “Young students of law should reinvent ourselves. They should refer to books like The Constitutional and Legal History of India by Justice Rama Jois,” he said. He also asked students to study the books on future of professions and future of law by Mr. Susskind. “Completing your degree should not mean an end to your education but a beginning,” he said. He presented the M.K. Nambyar Memorial gold medal to Vijay Kumar Budri, who got the highest marks in Constitutional Law. The medal and the prize money is instituted by Attorney General of India K.K. Venugopal, in memory of his father. Vivek Kulkarni, Governing Council member of the college, said Karnataka Law Society decided to start the L.L.M. course at R.L. Law College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/courts-to-allow-online-filing-of-applications-soon-cm-joshi/article33146555.ece
21 November 2020||Belagavi/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Don’t go back on decision, says Yatnal||Basanagouda Patil Yatnal , BJP MLA, has supported the State government’s decision to establish a development corporation for Maratha community. He asked Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa not to withdraw the decision, at an interaction with journalists in Vijayapura on Friday. “Maratha community has been the protector of Hindus... They are across the State and not just in the border districts. They should be given all the benefits that are legally due to them. I welcome the government decision. If the government withdraws it’s decision, there can be serious negative implications,” he said. Vishwanath’s opposition A.H. Vishwanath, MLC, has disapproved of the government’s decision to set up development boards on linguistic and caste lines. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Friday, he questioned the need for creating a Maratha Development Corporation when the States had been reorganised on linguistic grounds and when disputes between different States were continuing to brew over border and language issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-go-back-on-decision-says-yatnal/article33146562.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Smart city road work won’t be completed before March 2021||Pedestrians and motorists will have to put up with roads dug up under Smart Cities Mission in and around the Central Business District (CBD) up to February-March 2021. However, the government has promised that work on Commercial Street will be completed within the first week of December while Race Course road will be ready before December 15. Around 20 key roads in and around the CBD, including Raj Bhavan Road, had been dug up for the better part of the year much to the dismay and frustration of citizens. During an inspection on Friday, Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj acknowledged that coordination between agencies was one of the reasons for the delay, and directed Bengaluru Smart City Limited (BSCL) officials and contractors to pick up the pace of work. He said that work on Raj Bhavan Road will be completed before January 1, 2021. “Phase A, which has seven packages, will be completed by the end of March 2021. We have had coordination issues with various departments and we are sorting them out,” Mr. Basavaraj said and added that he would meet the Chief Minister, who also is in charge of the city, regarding this issue and submit a report to him. Mr. Basavaraj said that strict action will be taken against contractors and officials responsible if they fail to meet deadlines. “A total of Rs. 1,000 crore has been allotted for the Smart Cities Project in the city. We have over Rs. 340 crore left, and we will take up more projects soon. We have not been able to raise funds from the market, but we are working on it,” he said. Under the Smart Cities Mission, the selected city receives Rs. 500 crore from the Central government and a matching grant from the State. However, the Smart City Limited will also have to raise capital from the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-city-road-work-wont-be-completed-before-march-2021/article33147103.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private hospitals call for single nodal agency to handle COVID-19 issues||Anticipating what is largely being touted as a ‘second wave’ seen in many parts of the world, private hospitals and nursing homes are calling for a single nodal agency to streamline handling COVID-19 at the State level. At present, there are too many agencies and departments with little coordination among themselves, they allege. Prasanna H.M., president-elect, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said hospitals are being made answerable to many agencies. “They are unnecessarily troubling us. Different agencies ask us for different data – deaths, admissions, recoveries, number of tests. It has become a nuisance and some of our staff are doing only this through the day,” he said. He warned that this needs to be set right before the second wave hits the State. “It’s high time there is one nodal agency responsible because right now, there is no coordination among departments. Now there is a brief respite from a high case load. Before the second wave hits, practical issues should be set right,” he added. Recently, showcause notices were issued to seven hospitals by the BBMP under the KPME Act for suspension of licences allegedly for not complying with the direction of the civic body to reserve beds for BBMP-sponsored COVID-19 patients. According to the BBMP, hospitals are supposed to reserve 50% of beds in each category i.e., general ward, HDU, ICU and ICU with ventilators. PHANA president R. Ravindra said in the case of four of the hospitals, they had actually complied with the requirements but had been pulled up due to “communication gap”. In addition to this, hospitals said they have been receiving emails from suspicious looking IDs seeking data. “Usually, government agency mails come from domains such as .in. We are receiving mails from domains such as Gmail without mentioning designation or anything. We are afraid to share data, and when we try replying seeking identity, the response is invalid ID,” Dr. Ravindra said. Under these circumstances, a single-point authority would be ideal, he said. Pointing out that such committees were formed earlier into the pandemic too, he said they failed to bear fruition as they fizzled out after a meeting or two. The medical fraternity is under a lot of mental and physical stress. Too many people trying to boss over us. Data is with the Health Department, power is with the BBMP. Inter-department sharing of data is not happening. We are being called for meetings by the BBMP sometimes, the DC, the Health Department, and the Chief Secretary. Who is going to address our issues? In case the situation worsens, we need clear cut solutions,” Dr. Ravindra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-hospitals-call-for-single-nodal-agency-to-handle-covid-19-issues/article33147106.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State ropes in global partners to bring in next-gen growth||Under the Global Innovation Alliances (GIA), the Netherlands, Finland, Sweden, the UK and the US have expressed their interest in partnering with Karnataka in the areas such as skilling, R&D, life science and biotechnology, healthcare, aerospace and defence, education, sports economy and automotive. Eight MoUs were signed between the State government, and several organisations and industry bodies in these countries on Friday. Finland has expressed its interest to work with Karnataka in the areas of joint research programme for societal good and mutual student and faculty exchange initiative. The MoU signed between Karnataka and Swedish agencies is expected to facilitate innovative applications and domain capability across sectors such as smart city, smart health, smart manufacturing, smart agriculture, and others. It will also create an environment for product creation, testing and validation. The Center of Excellence of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, Karnataka, and UK Deputy High Commission, Bengaluru signed an agreement to focus on providing incubation and mentoring-related support. It will also facilitate creation of citizen-centric AI solutions by startups for Public Service, Education, Water, Energy and last-mile delivery, etc. Karnataka and Virginia signed the intent to collaborate in the areas of biotechnology and healthcare, and aerospace and defence. The MoU will attract and retain business investment for identified sectors. It will also cover skilling for Karnataka students in collaboration with institutions in Fairfax County, application of drone technology for agriculture, surveillance for military and medical assistance, setting up of an incubation centre in Fairfax County for providing Karnataka startups mentorship and market entry. Karnataka and the Netherlands have showed their intent to collaborate in the areas of cybersecurity and privacy domains. “This MoU will facilitate the building of best practices, standards and execute initiatives in the cybersecurity and privacy domain; address cybersecurity challenges to provide support to remote working model, and create awareness about cyber threats for students, professionals and MSMEs,” said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. Applied Materials of the US said it was interested to collaborate with the State government in the area of providing incubation and mentoring related to Semiconductor Fabless Accelerator Lab startups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-ropes-in-global-partners-to-bring-in-next-gen-growth/article33147109.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools withholding marks card if fees are not paid||Several private schools in the city are withholding the mid-semester marks cards of students whose parents have not paid the fees for the second term for the 2020-21 academic year. A mother of a class VIII student, who is enrolled in a private school in south Bengaluru, said only some children in the class have received marks cards for the online examinations conducted in October while the others were marked as absent for all the examinations. “The school management has circulated the marks of all the students to the entire class, and it is really embarrassing for those children whose parents have not paid the fees,” she said. ‘Hit by pandemic’ The father of a 13-year-old girl, who studies in a CBSE affiliated school in east Bengaluru, said that they are finding it difficult to pay fees due to the economic fallout of the pandemic. “I have lost my job and somehow managed to pay the fees for the first term. I will definitely not be able to pay the fees for the second term immediately,” he said. Many parents, whose students are enrolled in that school, have reportedly petitioned the management to give them some more time to pay the fees and release the marks cards. “But our request was refused,” said a parent. While parents are demanding leniency, school managements said they had no choice but to take such stringent action as they do not have the funds to pay teachers and other employees. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that a majority of families have not paid the tuition fees, leaving schools in the lurch. “We will not provide further learning process for the defaulters,” he said. Officials from the Department of Public Instruction said that parents can lodge complaints if school managements were resorting to such practices. “We will issue a show cause notice to such schools and seek an explanation before initiating action against them,” an official said.  The school management has circulated the marks of all the students to the entire class, and it is really embarrassing for those children whose parents have not paid the fees A parent   A majority of families have not paid the tuition fees, leaving schools in the lurch. We will not provide further learning process for the defaulters D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-withholding-marks-card-if-fees-are-not-paid/article33147102.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Air chief reviews helicopter programme||Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria undertook his maiden flight in HAL designed and developed Light Combat Helicopter (LCH) on Friday. The aircraft took to the sky at 11.45 hours and remained airborne for an hour. The CAS was accompanied by HAL’s Deputy Chief Test Pilot, Wg. Cdr. (retd.) S.P. John. While thanking all stakeholders of the project, the CAS said, “It was a very good sortie. I was able to look at the important flying characteristics and status of sensors. It is a potent platform due to excellent D&D efforts and well-supported flight test team. The IAF is keenly looking forward to the induction of this aircraft and I am sure HAL will give required focus on productionisation at a fast pace”. R. Madhavan, CMD, HAL, thanked the CAS. He said HAL is geared up for productionisation of the aircraft to meet all the requirements of the air force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/air-chief-reviews-helicopter-programme/article33147108.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Denial of promotion to NLSIU student draws High Court’s ire||Taking serious note of National Law School of India University’s (NLSIU) conduct of denying promotion to a law student on the allegation of plagiarism without holding even a preliminary inquiry, the Karnataka High Court has said that it is high time that the university of repute be reminded that it is dealing with children and not others’ chattel. “The entire episode of so called plagiarism is framed on the basis of a few notoriously cryptic mails exchanged between the course teacher and the Exam Department, detrimentally keeping the petitioner-student in darkness,” the court observed on the conduct of the university. “There is absolutely no justification for not holding even a preliminary inquiry,” observed Justice Krishna S. Dixit while allowing the plea of 21-year-old Hruday P.B, a 3rd year law student. The petitioner had sought promotion to 4th year law course while challenging the “F” grade given to him in the Child Rights Law examination held in March 2020 since he was not given any mark to the project work because of alleged plagiarism. Though the university’s regulations prescribe elaborate procedure to deal with allegations of plagiarism that requires a process to be followed involving the subject teacher, the chairperson of University Grants Commission, the Vice-Chancellor of the NLSIU, and a review and investigation committee, the court said that the university has “not adhered to the minimum of the fairness standard enacted in the regulations.” Though the university tried to defend its action citing that the petitioner had ‘admitted’ plagiarism in the two-email communication, the court pointed out that the petitioner has only explained why it is not plagiarism while denying allegations but the university, from the stray sentences of student’s emails tried to interpret it as “admission of plagiarism.” “In Biblical literature, even God is said to have given an opportunity of hearing to Adam & Eve before punishing them for consuming the proscribed fruit, in the Eden Garden. Which heavens would have fallen down, had a reasonable opportunity of personal hearing been afforded [to petitioner], remains as a mystery rapped in enigma,” the court observed. The petitioner claimed that he came to know of allegation of plagiarism only when he enquired with the university’s registry about non-declaration of his results. The court directed the varsity to award marks to petitioner’s project work.  Which heavens would have fallen down, had a reasonable opportunity of personal hearing been afforded [to petitioner], remains as a mystery rapped in enigma. Karnataka High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/denial-of-promotion-to-nlsiu-student-draws-high-courts-ire/article33146570.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, Jains seek development corporation||Now, it is the turn of the Karnataka Jain Association to request the State government to establish a Jain development corporation for the welfare of the community members in the State. In a press note, B. Prasannaiah, president of the association, has said that lakhs of Jains settled in north Karnataka and Belagavi depend on agricultural activities and farm labour. “There is an imminent need for constituting a Jain development corporation for welfare and uplift of Jains in Karnataka,” he said. The association demanded allocation of Rs. 100 crore for the corporation for taking up welfare activities for Jains The association has submitted an appeal to the Chief Minister seeking a grant of Rs. 500 crore for the welfare of Jains, the note stated. “We are still awaiting the outcome for this,” it stated. “We are now hopeful that our wish for establishment of a Jain development corporation will be expedited,” it said. The government recently established Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation and Maratha Development Corporation for the welfare of the respective communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-jains-seek-development-corporation/article33146565.ece
21 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bescom to credit interest on deposits||Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd. (Bescom) has decided to credit interest on consumer deposits at 6.50% per annum for the financial year 2019-20. According to an official release, interest amount will be credited to the consumer’s electricity bills. For HT consumers, the interest will be credited in November and for LT consumers, it will be credited during December 2020, the release said.. This is as per the RBI interest rate as on April 1, 2020, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bescom-to-credit-interest-on-deposits/article33147098.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Criminal case against contractor||Acting on a complaint lodged by the Bengaluru Smart City Limited, the Commercial Street police have filed a criminal case against the contractor overseeing work on Dickenson Road for failing to meet the deadline and coordinating with officials. “Similar action will be taken against other contractors who are not willing to work,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/criminal-case-against-contractor/article33147099.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Former mayor in judicial custody||Former mayor R. Sampath Raj was remanded in 14 days’ judicial custody by a city court on Friday. He was shifted to Parappana Agrahara Central Prison. The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police had recently arrested him in connection with the violence at D.J. Halli on August 11. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is also probing the case, is expected to seek his custody for interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-mayor-in-judicial-custody/article33147101.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police to revive monthly public interaction||Police Commissioner Kamal Pant will be holding a live Twitter session, ‘Let’s Discuss, Bengaluru!’, on Saturday from 11 a.m. to noon under the #AskCPBlr initiative. He said he is open to questions, concerns, complaints and ideas. Mr. Pant on Thursday had announced that the practice of interacting with the public every month, where citizens can meet police personnel, will be revived.  Grievances redressed Directing the police to arrange the meetings, Mr. Pant said the ‘Maasika Janasamparka Divasa’ (monthly public interaction day) will provide an opportunity for residents to visit stations in their jurisdiction and get to know police personnel. They will also be able to get their grievances redressed and get updates on complaints. Fourth Saturday These interactions will be held in all police stations between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. on the fourth Saturday of every month. “The interactive sessions were held regularly by the law & order and traffic police, but were stopped because of the pandemic,” said a police officer. Senior police officials hope that the exercise will help build trust between residents and the jurisdictional police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-to-revive-monthly-public-interaction/article33147113.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Okkoota threatens State bandh on Dec. 5||Kannada Okkoota, an umbrella organisation for Kannada organisations, on Friday set November 30 as the deadline for Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to scrap the recently set up Maratha Development Corporation. The okkoota resolved to go ahead with its call for a Karnataka bandh on December 5 if the demand is not met. Members of the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, a big force in the okkoota, were conspicuous by their absence in a meeting held on Friday. Chief Minister recently appealed to Kannada organisations “not to do a bandh” and also warned them that the government would take stringent action against those who go ahead with a “bandh by force”. He had clarified that the corporation pertained to the “Maratha community, who were also Kannadigas, and not Marathi speakers”. This, however, does not seem to have cut the ice with Kannada organisations. ‘CM is anti-Kannada’ Vatal Nagaraj, president of the okkoota, dubbed the Chief Minister “anti-Kannada” and demanded his resignation. “We give the State government time till November 30 and if they fail to scrap the Maratha Development Corporation by then, we will lay siege to the Chief Minister’s residence on December 1 and make the December 5 Karnataka bandh successful. There is no backtracking on this and we are not afraid of the threats by the Chief Minister,” he said. Sources in the vedike said they were undecided for now on supporting the bandh call and a final decision would be taken next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/okkoota-threatens-state-bandh-on-dec-5/article33146566.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,194 PU lecturers get appointment orders||The State government on Friday issued appointment orders to 1,194 candidates for recruiting them as lecturers in pre-university colleges. In a symbolic gesture, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa handed over appointment letters to 28 candidates in the presence of Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar. The recruitment of lecturers of junior colleges was initiated in 2015 and the matter was pending in court. The government appointed lecturers transparently and gave the place of posting by holding counselling, Mr. Kumar said. The newly appointed lecturers would take charge in the first week of December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1194-pu-lecturers-get-appointment-orders/article33146567.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Circle-level pension adalat||Office of the Chief Postmaster General, Karnataka Circle, will hold circle-level pension adalat through videoconferencing in December on its premises on Palace Road, Bengaluru. The Department of Posts, in a release, said that this adalat will be held for pensioners, family pensioners, who have retired from the Department of Posts, Karnataka Circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/circle-level-pension-adalat/article33146571.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Head constable arrested||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) has arrested Head Constable Prabhakar, attached to Sadashivanagar Police Station, who was under investigation for alleged collusion with the accused in a drug racket. He was suspended on November 13 after the probe revealed he was in touch with the accused who were on the run, helping them evade arrest. The CCB had recently arrested three men – Darshan Lamani, son of former minister Rudrappa Lamani, and two of his associates Suneesh and Hemanth from Goa – for allegedly procuring narcotics over the dark net. Their investigation had revealed that Prabhakar had been in constant touch with the accused updating them on the movement of CCB teams tracking them. The probe revealed that he was paid for this information. Sources say another police personnel, whose identity the CCB is yet to reveal, is also under the scanner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/head-constable-arrested/article33146745.ece
21 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Infrastructure will be improved in 86 govt. schools: KSE||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said that the State government will improve infrastructure facilities of 86 government schools at a cost of Rs. 15 crore. The amount has been released and work will be completed by the end of December. He spoke to media persons after visiting a few schools in Shivamogga on Friday. The amount would be utilised for repair of classrooms, construction of new rooms, toilets, compound walls, and purchasing furniture. The schools to be benefited include 10 high schools and 76 primary schools, the Minister said. The work in 36 schools had been completed and under progress in 30 schools. Contractors had to begin work in the remaining 20 schools. “I have instructed the officers to start the work immediately and complete it by December,” he said. During inspection, the Minister instructed the officers to take action against those contractors delaying to take up the works. He inspected work at Karnataka Public School on B.B. Road and schools at Doddapete, Bhupala and other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/infrastructure-will-be-improved-in-86-govt-schools-kse/article33146740.ece
21 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Complete house damage survey, expedite disbursement of relief’||The district-in-charge secretary for Gadag Mohammed Mohsin has asked officials to complete the survey on houses damaged by floods and downpours in Gadag district at the earliest and to expedite the process of disbursement of relief to beneficiaries. Chairing the review meeting at Zilla Panchayat Hall in Gadag on Friday, Mr. Mohsin emphasised the need for disbursing calamity relief as per NDRF guidelines to beneficiaries. Stating that the crop survey had been completed, he asked the officials to complete the online registration process at the earliest. He said that providing land for a graveyard was equally important and asked the authorities to take steps to provide basic amenities and infrastructure in all villages. He asked the officials to identify suitable government lands and allocate the same for development of graveyards in 111 villages in the district. Emphasising on the need for strictly adhering to the COVID-19 advisory, Mr. Mohsin said that while the pandemic was under control, the authorities should be prepared to face any eventuality. Referring to the reopening of colleges, he asked the Health Department staff to visit colleges and conduct COVID-19 Rapid Antigen Test on students. The district-in-charge secretary sought details on the Nagarotthana Yojane, 14th Finance Commission Projects, Swachh Bharat Mission, AMRUT and other projects and asked the officials to work towards completing the projects within deadlines. Apart from constructing toilets in rural areas, steps should also be taken to sensitise rural residents on usage of the toilets, he said. On the reduced passing percentage in SSLC examination in the last academic year, he directed the officials of Education Department to chalk out an action plan to improve the passing percentage. He also asked the officials to visit schools on a regular basis to facilitate educational progress. Taking exception to delay in completion of various works under Ambedkar Development Corporation, Devaraj Urs Development Corporation and Minority Development Commission in the last three years, he suggested monthly reviews of the works at the district level. Mr. Mohsin asked them to conduct a joint survey to check encroachments over forest lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complete-house-damage-survey-expedite-disbursement-of-relief/article33146553.ece
21 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Minister unhappy with construction work at college||Prabhu Chauhan, Minister for Animal Husbandry, Wakf and Haj, has expressed displeasure over the quality of construction of the main building of the Veterinary College in Gadag. The Minister who visited the college campus on Friday, did not hide his displeasure over the poor quality of construction and said that there was need for proper maintenance of the building. He also emphasised the need for improving the college administration. The campus is spread over 150 acres and has a veterinary hospital complex. The Minister also planted a sapling on campus. During his visit, R. Nagaraj, Dean, aired the grievances pertaining to the college and stressed on the need to provide basic infrastructure required for the college. He pointed out that as there was shortage of teachers of veterinary sciences and laboratories it was affecting the academic progress of the students and urged the Minister to take requisite measures at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-unhappy-with-construction-work-at-college/article33146557.ece
21 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Gulbarga University holds 38th annual convocation||Stressing upon the urgent need to balance the demand and supply of educated human-power through an optimal enrolment policy, S. Madheswaran, director, Institute for Social and Economic Change, said the disconnect between the higher education sector and the evolving employment market raises a question about the relevance of university degrees. Addressing the 38th annual convocation of Gulbarga University here on Friday via video conferencing, Prof. Madheswaran said that gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education drastically differs in developed and developing countries. The All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) data reveals that the GER in higher education has increased from 19.4 in 2010-11 to 26.3 in 2018-19. “In the last three decades, India has made significant progress in higher education. The increase in GER of India in the last decade is almost double. Though there seems to be a proportionate expansion in the number of universities that increased 3.87 times, colleges with 3.12 times and the number of students enrolment being 3.65 times, Indian GER for higher education remains lower than the current global average of 29. The difference between GER and eligible enrolment ratio (EER) is less than 10 percentage points for most developed countries, which indicates a relatively stable education system. For emerging countries, it is between 20 to 30 percentage points, but for India, the difference between the GER and EER is 37.5 percentage points for 2017, the highest of all 10 countries. This high difference between GER and EER indicates a huge gap between the ‘Population eligible’ and ‘eligible population’,” Prof.Madheswaran added. He said that over the last five years a slight improvement can be observed in the difference, and this could be attributed to the success of government programmes, which may have resulted in reducing drop-outs and retention at higher secondary levels. He opined that the gap in GER and EER can be further narrowed down only by strengthening the school system. Throwing light on the growth of higher education in India, Prof. Madheswaran said that with 51,649 higher education institutions, the Indian higher education system is one of the largest in the world. In terms of enrolment, India stood second only to China (41.8 million) with 35.7 million students currently enrolled in universities and colleges. In the 1980s, the government faced a growing demand for higher education but was unable to meet the demand through public institutions which led to the entry of private players in the sector. From 1990 to 2001, enrolment doubled from 4.4 million to 8.8 million. There was a drastic increase in the number of institutions and enrolment in higher education between 2001 and 2012. Enrolment tripled from 8.8 million to 28.5 million while the GER doubled from 8.1% to 19.4%. In the last five years, over 6000 institutions and six million students being added to the higher education system, he said. Under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan 2.0 (RUSA), the Ministry of Education has set a target of achieving 32% GER by 2022. Key challenges Prof. Madheswaran also spoke at length on the key challenges impeding the performance of the higher education sector, growing divergence between curriculum and market demands, quality research works, promoting interdisciplinary learning, and creating a broader education ecosystem. He also stressed on the need for expansion of online education, improve funding and cost-cutting Minister for Higher Education and Pro-Chancellor of the University C.N. Ashwath Narayana virtually attended the event. While congratulating all the graduating students and gold medal winners, Dr. Narayana said that the knowledge possessed should be utilised for the betterment of society. He lauded the role of the Gulbarga University in promoting education, especially for focusing on rural and backward areas in the Kalyana Karnataka region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gulbarga-university-holds-38th-annual-convocation/article33146561.ece
21 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Girl students steal the show||“I dedicate all these eleven gold medals to my illiterate parents who have been the guiding force for all my achievements, I also attribute my success to teachers and friends who guided and motivated me,” said Jayashree .S. Yelasangi, who won eleven gold medals for topping in MA Kannada, at the 38th annual convocation of Gulbarga University here on Friday. She is the second daughter of a small farmer owning six acres of dry land in Madiyal village of Aland taluk in Kalaburagi district. Jayashree did not let poverty come in the way of her aspirations. While her elder sister had a Masters degree, her younger sister and two brothers were also pursuing their higher education. Jayashree added that she had planned to enter the teaching profession and become a lecturer.  IAS dreams Shweta Doddamani, who also won nine gold medals and a cash prize for topping in Zoology, hails from a middle-class family. She lost her father when she was six. “Since then, my mother has been a pillar of support,” she said. Shweta adding that she wants to prepare for the civil services exam. “Becoming an IAS officer empowers you in a way few professions can, one can get an opportunity to serve society,” she said adding that she had already begun preparations for her next career milestone. As many as 82 persons from 16 departments were honoured with 179 gold medals for top ranks in their respective departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/girl-students-steal-the-show/article33146559.ece
21 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Belagavi, Karwar belong to Karnataka: Savadi||Condemning Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar’s remarks on the border dispute, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi reiterated that Belagavi and Karwar belong to Karnataka. He was speaking to presspersons at Kalaburagi airport before heading to Basavakalyan taluk in Bidar district on Friday. Mr. Savadi said that the Mahajan Commission Report of 1967 recommended that Belagavi should remain in Karnataka and added that members of the Maratha community here are like Kannadigas. He said that the Karnataka government has established a Maratha Development Corporation to benefit Marathas living in the border areas of Maharashtra. The aim of the corporation is to improve their socio-economic conditions and extend financial assistance to pursue their education. Mr. Savadi accused Mr. Pawar of dividing society and spreading hatred between communities to derive political mileage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-karwar-belong-to-karnataka-savadi/article33146551.ece
21 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Study finds chewing arecanut in traditional form not harmful to health||A joint survey has found that chewing arecanut in its traditional form is not harmful to human health. The survey was conducted by the Kasaragod-based Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI), under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, and the Mangaluru-based Arecanut Research and Development Foundation (ARDF). The survey concluded that the traditional chewing of arecanut without any additives or betel quid with or without tobacco is not harmful to humans. There was no significant difference between non-chewers and chewers with regard to health, except for tooth problems. The problems related to teeth were significantly more in non-chewers compared to the traditional chewers with or without tobacco, it said. The findings of the survey have been published in the Indian Journal of Arecanut, Spices and Medicinal Plants published by the Kozhikode-based Directorate of Arecanut and Spices Development. The survey said that though arecanut has beneficial properties, several researchers projected its chewing as dangerous. It said that almost all studies were mostly based on the data of several chewing products where arecanut is one of the components. However, arecanut was blamed for all the ill effects. The survey was conducted in 2018 in Kasaragod district of Kerala, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, and Uttara Kannada districts to study the effects of traditional chewing of arecanut/betel quid on human health. C.T. Jose, principal scientist, and Ananda Gowda, senior technical assistant from CPCRI’s regional station at Vittal in Dakshina Kannada, S. Jayasekhar, senior scientist of CPCRI, Kasaragod, and S. Keshav Bhat from the ARDF conducted the survey. It said that the adverse effects reported in association with arecanut chewing may be owing to several other factors such as small sample size, the role of other ingredients used in the preparations of chewing products (especially in packed products such as paan masala, gutkha, khaine, etc.), the cumulative effects of all the ingredients, unusual methods of application, the quality (including contaminations and adulterations) of arecanut used etc. Most of the research publications that projected arecanut chewing as dangerous did not check for these factors, it said.  112 families The survey collected data from 977 people from 112 families. They were classified into four age groups (15-39 years, 40-59 years, 60-79 years, and 80 and more years) and three chewing types (non-chewers, betel quid chewers without tobacco, and betel quid chewers with tobacco). Among the 917 respondents, 232 were non-chewers. Of the total sample, 292 chewed betel quid without tobacco, and 393 chewed it with tobacco. All those who chewed betel quid used to chew for 10-30 minutes and spit out the remaining quid. Of those who chewed betel quid without tobacco, 55.56% were chewing less than five times a day, and only 1.37% were chewing 25 or more times a day. Of those who chewed it with tobacco, 12.9% were chewing less than five times a day, and 14% were chewing 25 or more times in a day. The survey noted that 8% of people who chewed it without tobacco and 14% of people who did it with tobacco were doing so for more than 50 years or so. On the health status of betel quid-chewing and non-chewing people, it noted that 31.03% of non-chewers reported specific health problems. Among the betel quid chewers, 13.70% of people who chewed it without tobacco, and 18.07% of people who did it with tobacco reported health problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/study-finds-chewing-arecanut-in-traditional-form-not-harmful-to-health/article33147257.ece
21 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||A WhatsApp group to directly connect buyers and sellers||A local maker of sweets recently sent a parcel containing holige to Father Praveen Martis, Principal of St. Aloysius College. The reason: the college had created a WhatsApp group called ‘Aloysius Jalasanthe’ which helped the Puttur resident connect with his customers. “I shared the holige with our staff members. I am happy with the positive result of our initiative that has helped several entrepreneurs reach their customers especially during these times,” Fr. Martis told The Hindu . The college has been running the entrepreneurship and consultancy cell for the last six years. “We wanted to move forward and help entrepreneurs in rural areas that have been greatly hit by the restrictions following the COVID-19 pandemic. We also wanted create an avenue for small-time entrepreneurs to sell products they make at their houses,” Fr. Martis said. A discussion among members of the cell and other faculty members, he said, led to the creation of the group.  Two groups now The group was formed in July and it comprises faculty members, students, parents, farmers, and small-time home-product makers. With more members joining the group, another ‘Jalasanthe’ WhatsApp group was formed and now group has 250 members. Farmers and home-product makers post images of their goods and the people place their demand. “There is a direct contact with the buyer and the seller,” Fr. Martis said. Apart from Mangaluru, the sellers are from Puttur, Belthangady, and Kasaragod. Some of the products that are being sold include milk, ghee, honey, vegetables, grains and sweets. There are also people selling face masks, woodcraft products, and lamps made from cow dung. Dean of the cell, Mamatha, also said they are thinking of creating a website comprising buyers and sellers. The cell also proposes to start an incubation centre for budding entrepreneurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-whatsapp-group-to-directly-connect-buyers-and-sellers/article33147264.ece
21 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘No concrete steps taken to rename airport’||Rebutting the statement of district Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Sudershan Moodbidri that the Congress was indulging in caste politics, district Congress president K. Harish Kumar said on Friday that it was the BJP that was playing caste politics with regard to naming Mangaluru International Airport after Koti Chennayya, the revered twins of Tulu tradition. Talking to reporters, Mr. Harish Kumar said neither the State government nor the State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel took any constructive step towards naming the airport. The State government has so far not sent a proposal to the Centre on this issue. The MP has not spoken a word about the issue in the Lok Sabha, he said. Without taking any constructive steps about naming the airport, Mr. Moodbidri has falsely claimed that Mr. Kateel is pursuing the issue, he alleged. “Is this not caste politics by the BJP,” Mr. Harish Kumar asked, and alleged that the BJP rakes up communally sensitive issues just before elections. Mr. Harish Kumar said it was four years ago that the local Malavoor Gram Panchayat passed resolution to name the airport after Koti Chennayya. This proposal was forwarded to the Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat, which sent it to the State government. The State government rejected the proposal. On the allegation by Mr. Moodbidri that the United Progressive Alliance government privatised several airports in Delhi, Bengaluru, and Mumbai, Mr. Harish Kumar said the UPA government retained the names of these airports, not as has been done with Mangaluru airport. The Union government has violated norms in giving the Mangaluru airport on lease for 50 years to the Adani Group, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-concrete-steps-taken-to-rename-airport/article33147259.ece
21 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Success in life measured by acts of humanity’||Small acts of courage, kindness, and empathy will make a great difference to the people around us, said C. Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, OP Jindal Global, Institution of Eminence (Deemed to be University), here on Friday. In his virtual address on the opening day of the 28th convocation of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Mr. Raj Kumar said that success in one’s life is measured by acts of humanity and not by the conventional notions of status, titles, and wealth. The COVID-19 pandemic, he said, has shown the volatile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous nature of the world. In a place like MAHE, students have learnt to overcome challenges and grow into changemakers and become global leaders of the future, Mr. Raj Kumar said. MAHE Pro Chancellor H.S. Ballal said because of the COVID-19 situation, the university was forced to hold the convocation virtually. While there will be no personal interaction and exchange of greetings, the MAHE will wholeheartedly wish all students a glorious future, he said. MAHE Vice-Chancellor Lt. Gen (Dr.) M.D. Venkatesh said with over 28,000 students from 57 countries in 350 programmes, MAHE has opened a path to build India’s global footprint with regard to education. Pro-Vice Chancellor (HS) P.L.N.G. Rao and Registrar Narayana Sabhahit also spoke. Among the students who received gold medals on Friday included Keya Bakshi from Welcomgroup Graduate School of Hotel Administration, Manipal; Jesly Anna James from Manipal College of Nursing; Shambhavi S. Shetye from Manipal College of Health Professions; Nikita Jain from Manipal School of Architecture & Planning; Jane Mendonca from KMC Mangaluru, and Spoorthi from Prasanna School of Public Health, Manipal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/success-in-life-measured-by-acts-of-humanity/article33147261.ece
21 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vikas Khanna credits time at Manipal with helping him understand food||The experience gained at Manipal helped to understand the real meaning of cooking and food, said celebrated chef Vikas Khanna. Addressing a session at the alumni entrepreneurs’ summit, organised by the Welcomegroup School of Hotel Administration’s (WGSHA) entrepreneurship development cell in Manipal on Wednesday, Mr. Khanna, who joined from New York, said his time at WGSHA helped him reach greater heights in his profession. He said that it was from his teachers, friends, and the city of Udupi that he gained knowledge about the culture and food. Asking students to remain focused on their goals, Mr. Khanna said that people must take risks to grow as a chef and as an entrepreneur. By gaining knowledge, students should turn out into future leaders of the hospitality industry, he said. Another alumnus, Vikash Mahajan, Chief Executive Officer at River Cree Resort and Casino in Edmonton, Canada, asked students to be ready to explore the world. Stressing on having a positive attitude, Mr. Mahajan spoke at length on working hard and maintaining a fine balance between work and life. Managing Director of Alka Group Rishit Bhandari, Business head of Mr Brown Bakeries Vikas Malik, owner of The Bharat Hospitality Nitin Tondon, and co-founder of WOW Hotels and Resort Prasanna Vijayakumar, were among the other WGSHA alumni, who spoke.  Principal of WGSHA Thirugnanasambantham and MAHE Director (Alumni relations) Rohit Singh also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vikas-khanna-credits-time-at-manipal-with-helping-him-understand-food/article33147258.ece
21 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||1,548 students to receive degrees||The 18th convocation of the National Institute of Technology Karnataka (NITK), Surathkal, and the closing ceremony of the diamond jubilee celebrations of the institute will be held on November 23 at 11 a.m. Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Union Minister of State for Education Sanjay Dhotre, and Secretary to the Department of Defence R&D and Chairman of DRDO G. Satheesh Reddy will virtually take part in function As many as 1,548 students will receive degrees. While 762 will receive a B.Tech degree, 648 will receive their Masters, 17 will receive an M.Tech (Research) degree, and 121 students will receive their doctorates. As many as 38 students will be given endowment gold medals. Harshit Ranjan of Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering will get five gold medals, while Aditya Rangarajan of Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Sanjay Nayak, and K. Lasya Reddy of Department of Civil Engineering will get four gold medals each. The programme will be webcasted live atwww.nitk.ac.in/live. In a statement, NITK Director K. Umamaheshwar Rao said the institute has turned the challenges of COVID-19 into an opportunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1548-students-to-receive-degrees/article33147262.ece
21 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||One death, 54 new COVID-19 cases in DK, Udupi||A patient with co-morbidity died while 36 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Friday. With 69 persons discharged, the number of active cases stood at 631. A fine of Rs. 14.7 lakh has so far been collected in 13,602 cases of people not wearing masks, said a bulletin by the Dakshina Kannada district administration. With 18 new cases and 15 patients discharged in Udupi on Friday, the active cases stood at 211. A fine of Rs. 16.83 lakh has so far been collected from 15,245 cases of not wearing masks and violation of social distance norms, said the bulletin by the Udupi district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-death-54-new-covid-19-cases-in-dk-udupi/article33147265.ece
21 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hariram Shankar is DCP (Law and Order)||Hariram Shankar, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Kundapur sub division, has taken charge as the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Mangaluru city, as incumbent Arunangshu Giri has gone on leave. In an order dated November 18, Director-General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood said Mr. Giri’s application for leave from November 18 to December 2 on personal grounds has been approved. Till further orders, Mr. Shankar was asked to take over as DCP (Law and Order) on OOD basis. The Deputy Superintendent of Police, Karkala sub division, Udupi, has been asked to hold the additional charge of the post of ASP, Kundapur sub division, Udupi, the order stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hariram-shankar-is-dcp-law-and-order/article33147266.ece
21 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Digital outreach programme to train organic farmers in Mysuru||The Department of Agriculture is harnessing digital technology to reach out to the farmers to ensure that the learning processes and transfer of knowledge from lab to land is not hindered by the pandemic. Hence, it will launch a series of webinars along with the Krishi Samvahana Vedike, Mysuru, Naganahalli Agriculture Research Centre, Horticulture College and Krishi Vijnana Kendra, Sutur from Monday (November 23). Mahanteshappa, Joint Director, Agriculture, Mysuru, told media persons on Friday that digital media is becoming the new normal during the time of pandemic and the Department of Agriculture would use the medium to reach out to the farmers to promote sustainable agriculture and organic cultivation. He said the pandemic has created a gap between farmers and department and the authorities intend to bridge the gap by making the best use of the digital platforms and technology. The webinars will be screened at 33 Krishi Samparka Kendras and all taluk-level agricultural offices so that farmers without connectivity or similar issues could take part in it without any hassles. The webinar will be held from 11 a.m to 1 p.m. on Mondays and is organised into 14 episodes covering different topics related to sustainable agriculture and organic cultivation and the officials will harness social media sites including Facebook and YouTube besides online webhosting application Zoom to connect with the farmers, said Mr. Mahanteshappa. It is an unique series to connect farmers and agricultural scientists and ensure that the sharing of knowledge and experience is not hindered because of the pandemic, he added. Mysuru Zilla Panchayat president Parimala Shyam will inaugurate the series, ZP CEO D. Bharathi will be the guest and Hassan Agriculture College Dean Dr Devakumar will preside. In Mysuru, organic farming is on a path of progress and 8,000 hectares of land are under organic farming. We have also opened regional organic farming society for branding and marketing the produce, said Mr. Mahantheshappa. Given the reach and penetration of connectivity, the programme will help reach out to more number of farmers than it was possible under the conventional workshops where a limited number of people could be accommodated, said G.H. Yogesh, Deputy Director, District Agricultural Training Centre (DATC) at Naganahalli. He said the inspiration for the present initiative targeted at organic farmers stemmed from the DATC’s online classes for farmers which began in April during the lockdown period. The DATC has conducted 36 such training programmes and has reached over 3500 farmers and its model of online training is now being replicated across the State. The DATC was established to provide technical support to field officers and farmers across Karnataka and it is now providing online training to senior officials of the department of agriculture. They in turn conduct similar classes to farmers, said Mr. Yogesh. He said the recordings of the live programmes will be uploaded on social media sites so that farmers can watch it at leisure or as and when they need to reinforce their knowledge or learn something new.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/digital-outreach-programme-to-train-organic-farmers-in-mysuru/article33146742.ece
21 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath comes out against setting up of boards on caste lines||Former Minister and A.H. Vishwanath, MLC, has disapproved of the State Government’s decision to set up development boards on linguistic and caste lines. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, he questioned the need for creating a Maratha Development Authority when the States had been reorganised on linguistic grounds and when disputes between different States were continuing to brew over border and language issues. Similiarly, Mr. Vishwanath even decried the move to set up a Karnataka Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation, saying the creation of development corporations on caste lines would unnecessarily lead to differences among different castes and disturb peace in society. Pointing out that Karnataka was a land of all religions and castes like Kuvempu’s description of “Shantiya Thota”, Mr. Vishwanath urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to walk on the path shown by people like B.R. Ambedkar, Basaveshwara, and Mahatma Gandhi. He urged the Chief Minister, whom he described as “senior-most and experienced”, to review his decision on the constitution of the boards on linguistic and caste lines.   Batting for a full complement of State Ministry, Mr. Vishwanath indicated that his hopes of securing a berth in the Ministry were alive. “Let us see. It all depends on the situation and opportunity. Even they (party leadership) would like to give us an opportunity. We also want the opportunity. But, in between anything can happen,” he said. He said decision-making in national parties like the Congress and BJP takes time and added that only God, apart from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, knew whether the State Ministry would be expanded or reshuffled. Referring to Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda’s contention that the newcomers to the BJP had not built the party, Mr. Vishwanath said numbers were very valuable in politics and added that Mr. Gowda was missing the “political calculations”. When his attention was drawn to former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy justifying his party’s alliance with the BJP in the elections to different district cooperative banks, Mr. Vishwanath said the JD (S) leader was searching for stability of his political relevance. “He is search for such partners in politics,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vishwanath-comes-out-against-setting-up-of-boards-on-caste-lines/article33146739.ece
21 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kannada book on monuments||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Bengaluru circle, has published an inventory in Kannada of the centrally protected monuments in its jurisdiction. The book Kala Vaibhava was released by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Thursday. The publication provides information pertaining to 143 ASI-protected monuments. “The information was gleamed from research and published works, records in the ASI archives and an editorial board worked on the selection of text, which was submitted to scholars for translation,” said a senior ASI official. It will be made available to public shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-book-on-monuments/article33146743.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Stolen newborn reunited with her parents||A newborn who was stolen from Vani Vilas Hospital earlier in November, was rescued and reunited with her parents on Friday morning. Police have arrested four persons, including the woman who tried to sell the baby for Rs. 80,000 and the couple who ‘purchased’ her. The mother, Arshia, had given birth to a girl on the night of November 9. She was kept in the NICU ward as she was underweight, but went missing on the night of November 11. During the course of the investigation, the V.V. Puram Police discovered a woman in her early twenties taking the baby away from the NICU ward. “She had claimed to be the aunt of the newborn. She asked the staffers to give her the baby so that she could take her to Arshia to be given breast milk in the ward. A female security guard accompanied the woman to the general ward block, but there was some delay and the baby couldn’t be taken to the mother immediately. The woman used this opportunity to steal the baby,” said the police. The woman, identified as Ayesha, 23, was tracked down to Yarab Nagar and arrested on Thursday night. She claimed to have given the baby to a couple in Yarab Nagar. They were the business partners of her brother-in-law who runs a garage. The police rescued the baby, and after a medical examination, she was reunited with her parents. The police have arrested Ayesha, her brother-in-law Waseem, and Rehman and Saniya, the couple who had allegedly bought the baby for Rs. 80,000. Ayesha’s elder sister had been admitted to Vani Vilas Hospital. The accused used this opportunity to befriend the grandmother of the newborn, said the police. The staff would regularly see her with the elderly lady; she claimed to be the baby’s aunt. A senior police official said that there was a clear case of negligence by the hospital authorities. “Most of the CCTV cameras at the hospital were malfunctioning,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stolen-newborn-reunited-with-her-parents/article33147100.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/religious-fervour/article33147111.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Stagecraft||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stagecraft/article33147268.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Couple found dead in canal||A couple, who had been missing for four days, was found dead in Hemavati canal near Nonavinakere in Tumakur district on Friday. Ramesh, 19, of Mathighatta, and Sushmita, 18, of Hirisave in Channarayapatna taluk, were students. It is said they wanted to marry, and were worried about opposition from their families, as they belonged to different castes. They had tied their bodies with a rope before plunging into the canal. (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/couple-found-dead-in-canal/article33146737.ece
21 November 2020||Abdul Latheef Naha,KERALA||Posters are sold by weight here||New strategies are being experimented successfully to help candidates contain their electoral expenses within the limits stipulated by the State Election Commission. Electioneering posters are being sold by weight rather than by count as part of helping the candidates. Special packages of electioneering materials are also being offered, keeping a clear tab on the electoral expenses. For the first time in the State’s electoral history, bundles of posters carrying the symbols of different political parties are being sold by their weight. P.V.S. Shihab has introduced the new marketing strategy with the objective of not only helping the candidates but maintaining business during the COVID-19 crisis as well.  Reduced profit An A5 size (half of the A4 size) poster that used to cost up to 60 paise apiece will now cost only 37 paise. “It’s a revolutionary move by Mr. Shihab. Electioneering cost is a matter of great concern for most candidates,” said V.M. Molly, an academic from Chittur.  Mr. Shihab sells bundles of posters for Rs. 175 (glossy paper) and Rs. 215 (ordinary paper) a kg. A4, A5 and dummy 1/6 size posters are sold in large quantities. “I could sell by weight by reducing nearly 40% of the cost at the customer level because of the heavy compromise we made in our profit,” Mr. Shihab told The Hindu . He reduced the profit from 20% to a meager 2% after researching on the new marketing strategy in the last six months. “We slashed our profit and boosted the volume of business,” he explained the strategy. Applying more care in planning, he has saved on the printing and paper cost as well. Mr. Shihab has special packages for the candidates. His Rs. 9,999 combo offer looks very attractive for an average grama panchayat candidate having an expenditure ceiling of Rs. 25,000. This package includes 1,000 A5 posters, 200 long posters and 30 cloth boards. “It will be good enough for a grama panchayat ward. Candidates can spend the remaining Rs. 15,000 on other things. Thus we are proving to everyone that the expenditure ceiling set by the Election Commission can easily be maintained,” said Mr. Shihab. He does not insist on minimum quantity of sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/posters-are-sold-by-weight-here/article33146582.ece
21 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||3 nominations rejected, LDF set to win in ward||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate in the Cherukalikayal ward (ward 2) in the Kainakary grama panchayat is all set to be elected unopposed after nomination papers of three other candidates were rejected following scrutiny on Friday. The returning officer accepted the nominations of the CPI(M) candidate K.A. Pramod and his dummy candidate while rejecting the nominations of Kainakary Vikasana Samithi (KVS) candidate B.K. Vinod, Congress candidate Shibu and National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate Ajesh P. Reason for rejection The candidates whose nominations rejected hail from other wards in the grama panchayat. According to the officials, a candidate filing nomination paper in a ward other than his home ward should attach a copy of voters’ list attested by a gazetted officer. All the three candidates submitted a self-attested copy of the voters’ list resulting in rejection of their papers. Mr. Vinod had won from the Kuttamangalam ward in the local body in the previous election. He had filed complaints against former Transport Minister Thomas Chandy alleging land encroachments. Mr. Vinod said he would initiate legal action and challenge the rejection of his nomination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-nominations-rejected-ldf-set-to-win-in-ward/article33146686.ece
21 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Protecting public places from defacement||Notwithstanding the strict restrictions on the use of public properties and places for political advertisements during election period, full compliance has not yet been achieved. However, the efforts of the Vajra Social Society, a Kadakkarappally-based youth collective, is ensuring that bridges, public places, and so on are not defaced with political messages, posters, and graffiti in the run-up to the local body elections at least in the Vattakara ward of the Kadakkarappally grama panchayat. Members of the Vajra recently ‘secured’ the Mamparambu bridge by applying a new coat of paint and writing quotes of famous people. “We are not against elections, political parties, and candidates. Our sole intention is to protect public places from getting defaced and to create awareness on the need to maintain public places clean and tidy. The Mamparambu bridge is the beginning and we are planning more such initiatives in the coming days,” says Suresh Mamparambil, president, Vajra. As per the directive issued by the State Election Commission (SEC), government property, including buildings and walls, should not be used for displaying election campaign posters and graffiti. If public space is indeed used for putting up campaign materials, equal opportunity should be given to all candidates, the SEC noted. Members of the Vajra say that the political parties have responded positively to their initiative. “Our members are associated with various political parties. When we came up with the idea, all major political fronts and the public supported it,” Mr. Suresh adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protecting-public-places-from-defacement/article33146579.ece
21 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||395 cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 395 COVID-19 cases on Friday. Three deaths related to the infection were also recorded. Of the new cases, 392 contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another two persons remains unknown. One person who came from abroad was diagnosed with the disease. 7,797 active cases The 395 cases include 31 logged from Alappuzha and 29 from Pulinkunnu. Meanwhile, 824 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active disease caseload in the district stands at 7,797.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/395-cases-in-alappuzha/article33146687.ece
21 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||7,328 papers filed in Idukki||The Vandiperiyar grama panchayat has received 202 nomination papers, the most in the district. The total number of nomination papers received for local body elections was 7,328, including 134 to the district panchayat, 783 to block panchayats, 596 to municipalities, and 5,815 to grama panchayats. The Kattappana municipality received 301 papers while Thodupuzha got 295 nominations. The lowest number of nominations filed to the grama panchayat was in Kodikkulam (51). The block panchayats which received the nomination papers were Adimaly 99, Devikulam 107, Nedumkandam 106, Elamdesam 101, Idukki 97, Kattappana 94, Thodupuzha 96, and Azhutha 85. In a ward in the Vattavada grama panchayat only one candidate, from the Communist Party of India (Marxist), filed the papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7328-papers-filed-in-idukki/article33146688.ece
21 November 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Activists, kin of slain youth demand fresh investigation||A group of human activists and family of C.P. Jaleel, a suspected Maoist who was shot dead at a private resort at Vythiri in Wayanad district on March 6 last year in a police encounter, staged a dharna in front of the collectorate here raising a slew of demands including a comprehensive probe by a government agency into the encounter. “According to the recent forensic and ballistic reports, all cartridges used for firing were from service rifles and not from a smooth-bore breech loading (SBBL) gun allegedly found on the body of Jaleel,” C.P. Rasheed, Jaleel’s brother said. The reports said that signs of firing could not be detected in the gun barrel. The police had claimed that commandos killed him in retaliatory fire but the new findings pointed to a fake encounter, Mr. Rasheed said. Gunshot residues could not be detected in swabs collected from Jaleel’s hands and a wall near the north-western corner of the resort, he said. All the findings had shown that Jaleel was killed in a fake encounter, he added.   Adv. Thushar Nirmal Saradhi, State committee member, Janakeeya Manushyavakasa Prasthanam, inaugurated the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/activists-kin-of-slain-youth-demand-fresh-probe/article33146599.ece
21 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||89 papers rejected in Wayanad||Of the 4,866 nominations filed for the upcoming civic body polls in the district, 89 were rejected in the final scrutiny held here on Friday. Five of the 136 nominations filed for the district panchayat; nine of the 808 papers for three municipalities; four of the 411 for the four block panchayats, and 71 of the 3,511 nominations for 23 grama panchayats were rejected. Of the total 4,866 candidates, 1,960 are from the general category, 1,933 are women, 360 members of Scheduled Tribes, 155 members of Scheduled Castes and 432 candidates are from ST (women) category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/89-papers-rejected-in-wayanad/article33146605.ece
21 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Meet the candidate, from far-off Assam||Much ahead of launching an active campaign, the BJP candidate for Ward 11 of the Iritty municipality had garnered voters’ attention. Munmi Shaji, the 24-year-old candidate in this ward reserved for women, is an Assam native. She arrived here seven years ago after her marriage to Shaji K.N. (Sajesh), who hails from Kovapally in Iritty. They got acquainted when Mr. Shaji tried to call a worker in Assam and ended up dialling her number. The conversation did not end there. They fell in love and got married. Loyalty shift A native of Lakhimpur district in Assam, Munmi was earlier a strong supporter of the Congress. However, a visit to their village a year after her marriage changed her perception and she decided to join the BJP, which was then ruling Assam. “After the BJP government came to power, there is a visible change,” she said. Her husband, a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh worker, too played a part in the allegiance shift. She is now the unit secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morch at Payanchery and a keen participant of activities undertaken by the Kudumbashree. Though she cannot read and write the language, she can surprise voters with her fluent Malayalam. When asked about her future prospects in the ‘violence-tinged’ Kannur politics, she said: “More than anything else, the people want development.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-the-candidate-from-far-off-assam/article33146586.ece
21 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Posters are the head-turners at Bedadka||Until a few days ago, Bedadka grama panchayat may not be a known place for those outside Kasaragod. However, with local body elections approaching, not only the place but also candidates of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) are grabbing attention. Simple and innovatively designed posters that highlight candidates in real-life settings seem to have done the trick for them, with many going viral on social media. Chembakkad Narayanan, contesting from Ward 3, says he is being identified by many after he put the posters on Facebook. One of the posters captures him, perched on the bonnet of a jeep, with his name in bold letters in the background. “These new posters were unlike the past, which portrayed candidates standing with folded hands, smiling faces, and party symbols in the background,” he says. “However, after the posters went viral, I need no introduction and people recognise me immediately when I reach out to them seeking votes,” he said.  The same is the case of candidates in 16 other wards, like D. Vathsala, who come from various fields and professions. Contesting from Ward 5, posters show her working on a sewing machine at her workplace. Easy connect “Earlier, posters had a disconnection with the masses. But with these posters coming out, people are connecting to us,” Ms. Vathsala observed. Similarly, M. Gopalkrishnan, contesting from Ward 7, is shown talking to an old woman. Likewise, P. Vasantha Kumari, who represented the nation at the Asian Masters Athletics Championship, is shown running on a riverbank in tracksuit and H. Shankaran, an artisan, busy at his unit. The campaign is the brainchild of a group of youngsters, part of a youth coordination committee, given the task of election campaign. They decided to come up with something which voters will remember for long. “The idea to show the candidates in real-life setting and to connect them with the people was mooted by the youngsters,” says D. Suresh, convener of the committee.  Interestingly, none of those who worked behind the poster campaign are professionals. For instance, the photographs were taken by an amateur photographer, Vipin Churikode, who borrowed the camera from his friend. Adarsh, who knew Photoshop, worked on the background of the posters. It was a joint effort that helped to bring out such posters, Mr. Suresh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/posters-are-the-head-turners-at-bedadka/article33146707.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KSRTC finalising plan to shift bus stand to Karikkamuri||Faced with public outrage over the deplorable condition of the Ernakulam bus stand and its precincts, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is in the process of finalising a plan to relocate the stand to its plot at Karikkamuri, following which dilapidated buildings at the existing stand will be demolished to pave the way for a multi-storied commercial structure. The deteriorating condition of the stand has been a topic of discussion on social media and other platforms. Little maintenance was done at the bus stand during the past two decades, even though the building housing the KSRTC office and waiting area for passengers and the adjacent restroom for bus crew were in a pathetic condition. A Rs. 2-crore modern garage that was readied a couple of years ago on the southern side developed severe cracks and fell into disuse even before it was commissioned. Comprehensive plan “The premises and buildings getting flooded during the rains and the inflow of water from the adjacent Mullassery Canal during high tide almost every day have been a bane for employees and passengers. Only a comprehensive master plan and its prompt execution can improve the situation,” said a senior KSRTC official. KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar attributed the flooding to the premises being at a lower level than the surroundings. “The KSRTC alone cannot be blamed for this. Plans are afoot to ready a commercial complex that will replace the existing buildings on the 4.70-acre premises, while the stand will be relocated to Karikkamuri,” he said. A panel of experts, including architects, is working on finalising plans to lease out the space for commercial use. The funds obtained from the leased land will be used to build the new bus stand building and related infrastructure, it is learnt. The Human Rights Commission has repeatedly pulled up the KSRTC for the condition of its restroom. The agency had readied a pair of AC sleeper buses, each capable of accommodating 16 crew members, to ensure that employees get proper rest in between trips. A sum of Rs. 1.50 lakh was allotted to improve the condition of the existing restroom, said Najibudeen K.A., district president of KSRTC Employees Association. “Work is under way using this money. KIIFB funds could come in handy to relocate the stand,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-finalising-plan-to-shift-bus-stand-to-karikkamuri/article33147232.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Factional feud mars BJP State executive meeting||Wrangling within the BJP over State president K. Surendran’s ‘Stalinist’ style of functioning and sidelining of long-time party workers in favour of upstarts came to the fore at a State executive meeting here on Friday. Party core committee members O. Rajagopal and C.K. Padmanabhan and vice president Shobha Surendran remained absent from the meeting held in the presence of the newly appointed party Kerala in-charge C.P. Radhakrishnan to discuss the party’s strategies for the current local body polls. A section of the leaders asked if it was prudent to press ahead with the campaigning paying scant regard to a group of leaders, including Ms. Surendran painting them in public as “power hungry”. The BJP desires to secure 8,000 wards in the local body polls — a quantum leap from its present tally of 1,500 — which a senior leader told The Hindu would be impossible to attain with rival factions at loggerheads. Peace bid Meanwhile, some senior leaders, speaking on conditions of anonymity, said the executive meeting, held on the heels of a virtual meeting last week, signalled the central leadership’s desire to quell infighting. “The prabhari (in-charge) is sure to intimate the central leadership of the state of affairs and try to broker peace,” the source said. Those opposing Mr. Surendran for ignoring a number of State-level leaders and over 1,500 district, panchayat and constituency-level leaders, said the process of consultative decision-making had become a thing of the past. “The core committee doesn’t meet nor does the election committee, but decisions are taken at factional meetings,” a leader said. With the party machinery having taken a back seat, senior Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leaders spoke to Ms. Surendran two days ago seeking ways to bring her around. ‘Collective issue’ A leader said that the protest raised by her was not just an individual’s. “That a large group of committed, long-term workers got a raw deal was a ‘collective’ issue.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/factional-feud-mars-bjp-state-executive-meeting/article33146705.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Pollution assessment of Periyar in 3 phases||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has assured the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that it will inspect the Periyar and monitor river pollution through a three-phased project. The first phase of the monitoring will be held along the river stretch in Idukki district. The committee responsible for the work will oversee the preparation of an inspection plan. The second phase will cover the river stretch from Idukki-Ernakulam border (Neriamangalam) to Aluva and Mangalapuzha branch in Thrissur district. The third phase will focus on the Periyar river stretch from Aluva to Eloor ferry, covering the industrial areas in Eloor, Edayar and Kalamassery. Three districts The pollution load assessment in all impact zones will be carried out by the district offices concerned in Idukki, Ernakulam and Thrissur. A schedule will be prepared based on the preliminary assessment, primary data, mapping and district environmental plan already prepared by the board. The work plan consisting of day-wise inspection details for individual teams will be made available prior to the actual schedule of inspections in the three districts. Sample collection The teams will inspect all industries, hospitals, other establishments, waste dumping grounds and drains in the impact zones. The officials will collect samples from all applicable sources. Nearly 10% of the samples will be duplicated for cross verification by either the Central Pollution Control Board or the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute. The inspection teams will submit the sample analysis reports to the committee or the team leader within 15 days of collecting it from various sources. The analysis can be carried out in recognised government labs at the district-level. The interim report will be submitted for review by the committee appointed by the tribunal in the case related to Periyar river pollution by December while the final report is expected to be ready by January 15. The action plan showed that the final report on the river pollution covering Idukki, Thrissur and Ernakulam districts will be submitted before the tribunal by January 31. The Southern Bench of the tribunal had asked the government to speed up rejuvenation of the Periyar river by making it pollution-free along with cleaning up the subsidiary streams and canals. It had asked the authorities to probe whether there was any clandestine method of discharging untreated effluents by industries into the river by conducting surprise inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pollution-assessment-of-periyar-in-three-phases/article33146590.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Extra precaution for twin flyovers||Jolted by the Palarivattom flyover fiasco, the Public Works Department has been doubly cautious while executing the flyover projects at Vyttila and Kundannoor on the National Highway Bypass. Precautions were taken from the design stage to include modern construction methods rather than use conventional methods even though it would have lessened the cost of the twin flyover projects. Pre-stressed girders The four-lane Palarivattom flyover readied by the RBDCK was built using RCC girders (except the pre-stressed central girders), while pre-stressed girders were used all through for the six-lane twin flyovers which are slated for commissioning in December. Pre-stressing them would make them less susceptible to cracks while also ensuring the structure’s longevity, sources associated with their construction said. In addition, care was taken to use the girder connectivity method rather than the deck-slab continuity method that had been adopted for the Palarivattom flyover. This would enable smoother ride over the twin flyovers, which have expansion joints only at the entry and exit points and also a pair of joints on the top. This also does away with the need for bearings to support the girders. The twin flyovers have fewer pillars as well since girders having lengths of 30 m to 40 m have been used instead of 20 m and 30 m girders as used in Palarivattom. This provides more open space beneath the structures, apart from adding to their aesthetics. Further, aimed at ensuring the durability of the surface, a layer of mastic asphalt was applied atop the twin flyovers to improve binding between the concrete and tarred surfaces, the sources said. Same firm Interestingly, the Palarivattom and Vyttila flyovers were designed by the same Bengaluru-based consulting firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twin-flyovers-built-with-extra-precaution/article33147234.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Injured migrant waits for hand of help||Hope was the last straw that Sheikh Mukhtar Ali, a 42-year-old migrant worker from Murshidabad in West Bengal, had clutched at all through his life of penury and hard labour. But, after losing his right palm while working in a scrap godown in Perumbavoor on August 20, he is left to stare at a dark future. Though Ali was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital at Kottayam, the severed palm could not be stitched back, leaving him handicapped. He now lives in a dingy rented room at Perumbavoor, at the mercy of his fellow workers. ‘Unpaid loan’ “I have no idea how to feed my family or educate my children now that I am unlikely to get work. Then there is the unpaid loan I had taken for building a small house that is far from complete,” said Ali. The desperation haunts him daily as he listens silently over phone to the wails of his wife Kohinoor, left with their three children back home. Ali, who came to Perumbavoor in 2011, had been working in the scrap godown for eight months when he met with the accident. He did not go home even during the lockdown since there was only misery and hunger to return to. “Three months after the incident, Ali has not yet received a single penny as compensation, which he is legally entitled to as per the Workmen’s Compensation Act. In fact, there were even attempts to send him packing soon thereafter,” said George Mathew, coordinator of Progressive Workers Organisation, who got abducted and assaulted allegedly for taking up the cause. Inquiry report Labour Department sources said they had submitted an inquiry report to the Industrial Tribunal of Alappuzha, which is the notified Employee Compensation Commissioner for Ernakulam. “We visited the work site and recorded the statements of the worker concerned and his co-workers and are convinced of his situation,” said a senior Labour Department official. The department, however, did not receive the employer’s statement before filing the report, but merely got an objection after the mandatory seven days’ time. “Ali has stayed back hoping that he may get his rightful compensation and it is for the government to ensure that,” said Mr. Mathew.  Three months after the incident, Ali has not yet received a single penny as compensation, which he is legally entitled to as per the Workmen’s Compensation Act George Mathew Coordinator, Progressive Workers Organisation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/injured-migrant-waits-for-hand-of-help/article33147237.ece
21 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||When fate played dice with candidates||N.C. Cherian had wrapped up multiple rounds of door-to-door campaign and was just waiting to file his nomination as the candidate from division 17 of the Kothamangalam Municipality when cold water was poured over his months-long efforts. Fresh allocation A judicial intervention with regard to successive reservation of wards meant that a draw of lot had to be held afresh for the allocation of reservation in all but three out of the 31 divisions of the municipality. It saw division 17, which was originally a general division getting reserved for Scheduled Caste, leaving Mr. Cherian, State Committee member of the Jose K. Mani faction of Kerala Congress, out in the cold. “I had started work four months ago, painstakingly got the voters’ list updated, and had even completed four rounds of door-to-door campaigning. I was all but assured of a victory with a big majority as in 2010 when the reshuffle forced me to shift to division 18 where I will have to start work from scratch,” he said. Not having an eligible SC candidate for division 17, the party had to bring in a replacement for Mr. Cherian from outside. The original allocation had to be quashed following a High Court verdict in favour of Jose Varghese, a lawyer and another member of the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress, on a petition filed against the reservation of division 2, from where he had unsuccessfully contested in the past, for three successive terms — twice for women and then for SC. ‘Denial of justice’ “My contention was that back-to-back reservation of the division amounted to a denial of natural justice to members of the general category by depriving them of their right to contest,” said Mr. Varghese who is now set to contest from the division. Following this, division 2 was brought under the general category so as divisions 18 and 25, which were reserved twice leaving them out of the fresh draw of lot. The reallocation of divisions had similarly thrown a spanner in the works of numerous candidates and created a headache for party honchos. “It beset party leaderships with the unenviable task of dealing with disgruntled candidates and reworking a balanced seat allocation among alliance partners besides mollycoddling rebel candidates left in its wake,” said A.G. George, Congress district general secretary and former municipal chairman who himself had to shift from division 20 to 19. Prince Varkey, a Congress candidate originally from division 7, had to swap seats with party colleague Sindhu Jijo after division 4, originally reserved for women, fell under the general category in the reallocation. “Fortunately, I was yet to start the campaign and hence, the shift was painless,” said Mr. Varkey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-fate-played-dice-with-candidates/article33147229.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||554 COVID-19 cases in district||Eighteen health workers were among the 554 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. Cases of the infection were reported from areas including Mazhuvannoor, Kavalangad, Palluruthy, Kalamassery, and Aluva. The district recorded 545 recoveries on Friday. A total of 26,793 people remain in quarantine and the active case load is 9,251 patients. As many as 7,164 people are recovering at home. The number of COVID-19 patients being treated at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, has dropped to 106, from over 200 patients a month ago. For testing, 5,615 samples were sent from private and government facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/554-covid-19-cases-in-district/article33147230.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Former panchayat chief in search of a job||Even at the end of her term, Salini Babu, outgoing president of the Kadamakkudy panchayat, has yet to move into a home of her own, though she may have assisted others in the panchayat with their housing woes. She lives in a rented house in Kothad where several of her home appliances were destroyed in the 2018 floods that had nearly swallowed the Kadamakkudy islands whole, she said. She had received Rs. 15,000 as flood relief, but some of these appliances were yet to be replaced. A few months ago, a church group allotted 2.5 cents of land to her in the neighbouring Alangad panchayat, and a private foundation that had been helping rebuild flood-affected homes will construct one for Ms. Babu too. The solution to her problem of having to foot rent every month arrived by chance, she says, while she was trying to secure help to construct a house for another resident in her ward, Kandanad. She hopes to move in by December. “While I had been conscious of the fact that I did not have a home of my own, it was always pushed aside since there were other problems to attend to,” says Ms. Babu, who lives with her son, a first-year college student. When applications were invited for the LIFE Mission housing scheme, she did not have a ration card then and was not eligible, she said. She had been apprehensive about standing for the election in 2015, since she had a job as a housekeeping supervisor at PVS Hospital and did not want to give up the salary she had been drawing, she said. She stood for the elections in 2005 and became a ward member, learning the ropes with the help of her husband, a CPI(M) worker, who passed away seven years ago. Bolstered by the work she had done as a ward member, she contested again when the seat was reserved for women in 2015, and went on bag the post of panchayat president. Free from her duties as panchayat president, and not contesting this time since she is all set to move to the neighbouring panchayat, Ms. Babu is now eager to find another job.  While I had been conscious of the fact that I did not have a home of my own, it was always pushed aside since there were other problems to attend to||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-panchayat-chief-in-search-of-a-job/article33147228.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Congress grappling with rebel menace in Aluva||The Congress seems to be grappling with rebel menace in the Aluva municipality following the rivalry between the ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions over seat sharing for the civic body elections. The finalisation of candidates was caught in inner-party tussle after both the ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions stepped up claims for various wards. The ‘I’ faction staked claim to 13 seats, but the ‘A’ group was in no mood to relent. The District Congress Committee was approached to resolve the deadlock. However, the district Congress leadership refused to intervene and suggested a solution at the local-level itself. But the situation turned worse after the list of candidates was finalised. Initial estimates by a senior ‘I’ group leader revealed that the party was facing rebel menace in several wards. “We had asked for 13 seats but ended up with only seven. This led to widespread discontent among the local leaders and most of them threatened to file nominations against the official candidates,” he said. ‘Winnability’ factor The ‘A’ faction claimed that they had taken into account the ‘winnability’ of the candidates after taking into account their local connect and other factors. In some wards, the official Congress candidate is facing opposition from two rebels. ‘Cong. confident’ However, the Congress leadership in Aluva exuded confidence that the rebel menace would not dent its chances of retaining the municipality. Interestingly, they claimed that the increase in rebel candidates was a reflection of the the party’s overall safe position in the civic body. The Congress is also trying to exploit the rebel voices in the Left camp. A local committee member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] had resigned following differences over the Left Democratic Front candidate in ward 24. The party is trying to rope him in for the campaign. However, the local CPI(M) leadership said that his resignation would not have any impact on its candidate. The person had resigned stating that the party did not give the seat to his wife. But he had never expressed any such wish to the leadership, they said.  We had asked for 13 seats but ended up with only seven. This led to widespread discontent among the local leaders ‘I’ group leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-grappling-with-rebel-menace-in-aluva/article33147239.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Find ways to transfer funds, HC tells DPC||The Kerala High Court has asked the District Planning Committee (DPC), which is headed by the Ernakulam District Collector, to find ways to transfer Rs. 4.88 crore from the Plan Fund of the Kochi Corporation to the Operation Breakthrough project. The court found that the Corporation was only left with Rs. 3 crore as its own funds and it could not transfer any amount to the Operation Breakthrough team as its minimum monthly administrative expense would run over Rs. 11 crore. The government pleader submitted that the funds required for completing the project could come only from the Plan Fund of the civic body, which could be drawn only on the recommendation of the DPC. As the model code of conduct had come into force, the DPC was not meeting, he submitted. The court posted the case for December 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/find-ways-to-transfer-funds-hc-tells-dpc/article33147235.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Medical board to be formed to assess Kunju||A medical board comprising doctors from the Ernakulam General Hospital will be constituted on Saturday to assess the health condition of V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, MLA, who was arraigned as fifth accused in the Palarivattom flyover case. The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) had recorded his arrest on Wednesday even as he was admitted in a private hospital in the city. A Vigilance court had subsequently directed the District Medical Officer to form a medical board to provide feedback on his health status. Court order We got the court order on Friday and a team of doctors for the board would be finalised on Saturday, N.K. Kuttappan, DMO, said. The VACB had demanded his custody citing that Mr. Kunju was not cooperating with the probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-board-to-be-formed-to-assess-kunju/article33146717.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Woman gets life term for killing son||Teena of Mookkannur was sentenced to life imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 10,000 for murdering her 8-year-old son following a marital discord with her husband. She had also attempted to commit suicide after killing her son. The arguments of the woman that she was innocent didn’t find favour with P. J. Vincent, Additional District and Sessions Court judge for the trial of cases relating to atrocities and sexual violences against women and children. After analysing the oral and documentary evidences coupled with the circumstances of the case, the court found that the prosecution had succeeded in proving the case against the accused beyond any reasonable doubt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-gets-life-term-for-killing-son/article33146689.ece
21 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Firing case: one more held||The Perumbavoor police arrested one more accused in connection with the case in which a man was hacked multiple times and shot at, at Thendakkad, near Perumbavoor, earlier this month. The arrested was identified as Leo, 25, of Vengoor. He was the sixth accused in the case and had allegedly participated in the attack directly. So far, the police have arrested nine accused in the case on various charges, including conspiracy, direct participation in the attack and helping other accused to flee. The victim was identified as Adhil S., 24, of Okkal. The police said the victim was summoned to the first accused Nizar’s house reportedly to settle some personal dispute between the two. But it ended up with the victim being knocked down using an SUV, hacked with a sword and then fired on the chest. The police had also recovered the firearm a few days after the incident. Leo had run away to Bengaluru shortly after the incident. He was nabbed from Pulluvazhi near Perumbavoor on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/perumbavoor-firing-case-one-more-arrested/article33146587.ece
21 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Special health cells for polls in Kollam||With candidates and political fronts entering a phase of intense campaigning, the Health Department has set up special cells in the district to ensure safety. The cells will be spreading awareness about COVID-19 preventive measures and enforcing the protocol. The district, sub-district and local body level cells will monitor the election-related activities and conduct inspections across the district. Deputy District Medical Officer Manikandan will be in charge of the district-level cell while Vishnu, deputy mass media officer Sreekumar and technical assistant Narayanan are the other members. Nodal officer Health supervisor will be the nodal officer and public health nursing supervisor will be a member of block-level cell. In panchayat and ward level, public health nurse, junior public health nurse and junior health inspector will be the members of the cell. Doctors in Primary Health Centres and Community Health Centres will be in charge of coordinating activities. Meanwhile, COVID-19 care units will be functioning in Punalur, Kottarakara, Kollam, and Karunagapally taluk hospitals, said District Medical Officer R. Sreelatha here on Friday. Guidelines The department has also issued guidelines for candidates, political parties, and the public. Maximum number of members in groups that conduct door-to-door campaign should not exceed five. Two-metre physical distance should be maintained while communicating with the voters. Candidates and all members of the group have been instructed to wear masks all the time and carry hand sanitisers. Visiting persons above the age of 65 years, patients and people with other health issues should be avoided.  Caution for candidates Candidates should not shake hands with people while seeking votes and the public have been directed to sanitise their hands immediately after receiving campaign materials like statements and pamphlets. Flower and currency garlands, shawls and hugs are also not allowed during electioneering.  Deputy District Medical Officer Manikandan will be in charge of the district-level cell||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-health-cells-for-polls-in-kollam/article33146690.ece
21 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Artist campaigning for himself||Raju started his career as a graffiti artist nearly four decades back. In the past, he had spent several nights in the yellow florescence of lamps inscribing names and symbols. A Leftist, today he is busy painting his own name Raju D. Poothakulam on the walls of Mavila ward in the Poothakulam grama panchayat as he is the LDF candidate there. “Election times are always hectic and at first it used to be lime wash works on kayyalas (mud walls). I still remember working day and night for 13 days straight when Kollam MP N.K. Premachandran first contested the elections. He was with the LDF then.” Raju says he had worked as a graffiti artist for almost all Left candidates from his ward during the previous polls. “For me only the name has changed, the electoral scene and the spirit remains the same.” It is not the first contest for Raju as he was elected from the same ward in 2005. “I will be continuing what I started 15 years back and all the voters here are aware of my interventions. I think an elected member is an intermediary between the government and the public, so I was keen to ensure that government projects, including housing schemes, reached the right beneficences.” Raju has no qualms about the electoral outcome and he calls his ward ‘a traditional Left bastion’. “In my ward, majority of the people belong to economically backward working class families. Since I also come from a similar background, I share a special bond with the residents.” A Communist Party of India activist, Raju attends party programmes, events and marches barefoot. “I have never used footwear in my life and I don’t consider it a necessary accessory,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/artist-campaigning-for-himself/article33146693.ece
21 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||509 more test positive in Kollam||The district reported 509 new COVID-19 cases, four deaths, and 664 recoveries on Friday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 505 contact cases, two persons with no known source and two health workers. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 65-year-old Ayoor resident, a 60-year-old Klappana resident, a 56-year-old Ambanad resident, and a 72-year-old Thevalakkara resident are due to COVID-19. Cases with no known source have been reported from Neduvathur and Pattazhy. The health workers who tested positive include a 22-year-old Kulasekharapuram resident and a 30-year-old Thattamala resident. The district currently has 19,240 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,25,537. While 2,523 people completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 1,06,699 primary and 8,622 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Kollam has 4,507 active cases at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/509-more-test-positive-in-kollam/article33146695.ece
21 November 2020||Kollam,KERALA||School holds youth fete online||Manager D. George Kattootharayil inaugurated Sargolsav, the three-day online school youth festival for 2020-2021, of St.Gregorios Central School, Karunagapally, on Friday. Divya S. Iyer was the chief guest of the event. Principal Shobhana Kumari and director Gigo George spoke on the occasion. A total of 650 participants will compete in 65 items under six categories at the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-holds-youth-fete-online/article33146692.ece
21 November 2020||Kollam,KERALA||ADMS holds march||N.K. Premachandran, MP, inaugurated a collectorate march and dharna organised by the Adivasi Dalit Munnetta Samiti (ADMS) here on Friday demanding immediate redressal of the Arippa land struggle. ‘Arippa bhoosamaram’ has families from seven districts, including Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, and Kannur, residing at the protest site for the past eight years. Sreeraman Koyyon, president, ADMS, presided over the function while Adivasi Gothra Maha Sabha leader M.Geethanandan, V.Rameshan, Sulekha Beevi, and B.Varadarajan spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adms-holds-march/article33146691.ece
21 November 2020||Kottayam,KERALA||Jose K. Mani says it’s first sign of victory||The Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) sees the Kerala High Court verdict upholding an order of the Central Election Commission (CEC) allocating the party’s election symbol ‘two leaves’ to it as the first sign of victory for the faction and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the coming local body elections. The order comes close on the heels of the State Election Commission (SEC) freezing the symbol ahead of the polls and allotting the P.J. Joseph and the Mani factions `chenda' (drum) and table fan as their respective symbols. Mr. Mani said here on Friday that the KC(M) and `two leaves' were indeed inextricable. ‘Two leaves' holds a special place in the minds of voters. ‘‘By claiming the symbol, their [Joseph faction] attempt was to rob us of the legacy of K.M. Mani,'' he added. Asked if the party would be able to use the symbol in the present elections, Mr. Mani hoped the SEC would be receiving the court order by November 23, the last day for withdrawal of nominations. ‘‘The SEC has already made it clear that the decision to freeze the symbol would be subject to the court order'', he said, warning the rival faction against ‘misusing’ the name Kerala Congress (M). Joseph to move court Meanwhile, Mr. Joseph said an appeal would be filed before a Division Bench of the High Court against the order. ‘‘This order will have no impact on the local body elections. We hope to obtain a stay from the Division Bench by then,’’ he added. The SEC earlier this week had asked candidates of both factions to submit two sets of nominations, one with the symbol ‘two leaves’ and the other with the new symbol allotted, as it was anticipating the court judgment before November 23. In August, the CEC, in an order passed with a 2:1 majority, had allotted the symbol to the Mani faction as it ‘‘enjoyed majority support, both among the legislative as well as the organisational wing of the party’’. Mr. Joseph, however, challenged the decision in the High Court and obtained a stay on it. The dispute over the symbol had its origin in the byelection for the Pala Assembly seat in September 2019. Mr. Joseph had then refused to allocate the symbol to Jose Tom Pulikkunnel, a nominee of the Mani group. Following this, Mr. Pulikkunnel had to contest as an Independent candidate of the United Democratic Front with the symbol ‘pineapple’. The Mani and Joseph factions were in the UDF then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jose-k-mani-says-its-first-sign-of-victory/article33146719.ece
21 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||423 more in Kottayam||As many as 423 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Friday. Of the new cases, all but two contracted the virus through local contact. The new cases also included 73 children and 71 people aged above 60. Among local bodies, Kottayam municipality reported 54 cases, followed by Erumeli with 26 cases. With 301 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 3,699 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/423-more-in-kottayam/article33146696.ece
21 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||11,968 nominations accepted||The majority of the nomination papers filed by candidates of mainstream political parties in Kozhikode district were accepted after scrutiny on Friday. Officials said that the majority of the papers were found to be intact and valid in accordance with the guidelines of the State Election Commission. Those rejected were mostly filed by dummy and namesake candidates. A total of 11,968 out of the 12,207 nominations filed at the 75 divisions of the Kozhikode Corporation, 27 divisions of the Kozhikode District Panchayat, Koduvally, Feroke, Koyilandy, Mukkom, Payyoli, Ramanattukara and Vadakara municipalities and respective wards of the 12 block panchayats and 70 grama panchayats in the district have been accepted. As many as 225 nominations have been rejected while 14 persons, all of them filed papers at Perambra grama panchayat, have withdrawn their nominations. The nominations of all 808 contestants of the Kozhikode Corporation have been accepted. Likewise, 238 nominations have been accepted at Koyilandy, Payyoli, Ramanattukkara, Koduvally, Mukkom and Feroke. However, two nominations were rejected at Vadakara Municipality. The last day to withdraw nominations is Monday. The elections will be held in Kozhikode, Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod districts on December 14 and the counting of votes will be held on December 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11968-nominations-accepted/article33146596.ece
21 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Muslim League intensifies efforts to pacify rebels||With just three days left for the formal withdrawal of nomination papers, the district leadership of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has started its last-minute efforts to pacify rebel candidates and settle internal disputes. A few Muslim Youth League (MYL) and Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre (KMCC) functionaries have questioned the official candidate list claiming that the party’s guidelines with regard to the selection of candidates have been violated. Rebel candidates in panchayats like Kunnamangalam, Meladi and Nadapuram allege that the official list of candidates comprises people who have already contested the elections many times. This is an open violation of the party’s policy that those who have contested thrice in the local body elections need not step in again, they claim. As some of the rebels are district-level or national-level functionaries of the MYL, many of the local activists are also in support of their candidature challenging the IUML leadership and the official list. Even a small split is likely to cause trouble for the League in areas where there is close competition between the United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front. One of the rebel candidates now spearheads his campaign in Kunnamgalam block panchayat with a call to voters that they should not support candidates who are in the fray because of money power. Though some of the local IUML leaders are in touch with rebels prompting them to withdraw papers, many are yet to yield to the pressure. One of them in Nadapuram panchayat has even come up with a separate local front to challenge the official candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/muslim-league-intensifies-efforts-to-pacify-rebels/article33146597.ece
21 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Veterans back in fray in corpn.||More than two dozen experienced hands are trying their luck once again in the civic body polls. Though the candidate list of most political parties is full of fresh faces, there are a few old horses, who could play a prominent role in the next corporation council. The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) is in the forefront of fielding veterans from both the recent council as well as the previous one. They include standing committee chairpersons of the last council Anitha Rajan of the NCP, P.C. Rajan and M.C. Anil Kumar of the CPI(M) besides K.T. Sushaj, M.P. Suresh, M. Girija, and M. Bijulal of the CPI(M), Asha Sasankan of the CPI and Thomas Mathew of the LJD. Among the former councillors from the Left are N.C. Moinkutty of the LJD, former mayor O. Rajagopal, and C.P. Mussafir Ahammed and O. Sadasivan of the CPI(M). The Congress has fielded only three of its 11 sitting councillors, all women. They are M.C. Sudhamani, K.C. Shobhitha and Usha Devi. Meanwhile, the IUML has fielded two of its sitting councillors, Soufiya Aneesh and Ayishabi Pandikasala, besides Nirmala, an Independent candidate, once again. Former councillors Brazilia Shamsudheen, Zakariya.P. Hussain and C.P. Salim are also back in the fray. The BJP is fielding once again five of its seven sitting councillors — E. Prashanth Kumar, Nambidi Narayanan, N. Satheesh Kumar, Shyma Ponnath and Navya Haridas. Former Congress councillor C.S. Sathyabhama has also joined the BJP fold this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/veterans-back-in-fray-in-corpn/article33146601.ece
21 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records 691 fresh cases||Kozhikode district recorded 691 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, of which 644 were local transmission of the infection. Three health workers were among the infected. The source of infection of 25 persons could not be traced. The test positivity rate was 10.08%. Meanwhile, 634 patients, who recovered from the disease, were discharged from various treatment centres on Friday. At present, there are 7,588 COVID patients in the district. As many as 1,235 people were put under observation on Friday. There are now a total of 24,824 people under observation. In Wayanad A total of 135 people, including three health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Friday, taking the total number of active cases to 983. Of the new cases,132 were infected through local contact and three persons came from other States. The district also reported 152 recoveries. Wayanad has so far reported 9,315 COVID-19 cases, while 8,270 people recovered. As many as 11,265 persons are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-records-691-fresh-cases/article33146594.ece
21 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Woman entrepreneur ends protest at mall||Fasna Asharaf, who had been on a day-night strike at the Mahila Mall in the city, living there for three days, temporarily put an end to her protest on Thursday after District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao intervened to find a solution to her issues. In a meeting on Thursday, Mr. Rao asked the management of the Mahila Mall to reinstate the power connection to Ms. Fasna’s shop room “Nilave” and to solve her issues within the month. Also, Ms. Fasna decided to move out of the mall into a relative’s house upon the Collector’s request. Inquiry sought Ms. Fasna was accompanied by a few other entrepreneurs at the mall who too have been part of the recent protest to reopen it. “We have asked the Collector to conduct an impartial inquiry to verify if our claims are right and then take some action,” Ms. Fasna said. The management of the mall, Unity Group of Kudumbashree, has been asked to convene a meeting of the entrepreneurs at the earliest to solve the several issues they have raised. Kudumbashree District Mission Coordinator Kavitha P.C. has been made in-charge of the procedure. Ms. Fasna had moved into the Mahila Mall with her two daughters on Monday after she was evicted from her rented accommodation. She claimed that the shop room in Mahila Mall had been her downfall as she had invested everything she had into it. With the mall being a failure, and she unable to go ahead with her business due to various reasons, she could not pay back her debts, which amounted to Rs. 10 lakh. The Mahila Mall management had claimed that she had no claim on the shop room as she had not paid the rent for even a month or renewed her contract. The entrepreneurs in Mahila Mall had been on a week-long strike a month ago, demanding reopening of the mall after the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-entrepreneur-ends-protest-at-mall/article33146591.ece
21 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Candidate alleges malicious campaign||The police have started investigation into the complaint by a Welfare Party of India candidate from Mukkom that her campaign poster was edited and circulated online with ‘anti-national and communal slogans’ by some of her political opponents. Screenshots of the posters submitted by the complainant along with her petition were sent to the cyber cell on Thursday. An officer attached to the investigation squad said the petition was filed by Sarah Koodaram who contests the election with the United Democratic Front support from division 18 of the Mukkom Municipality. “A case has already been registered under section 153 (punishment for wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) of the IPC and 120 (O) (punishment for causing nuisance using various means of communications) of the Kerala Police Act,” he said. The complainant also named two suspected persons and submitted details of a Facebook page allegedly involved in the circulation of the fabricated content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/candidate-alleges-malicious-campaign/article33146600.ece
21 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||16,700 candidates in Malappuram||As many as 16,700 candidates were in the fray when the scrutiny of nominations for the civic body elections in Malappuram district was completed here on Friday. However, the picture will be clear only after Monday, the deadline for withdrawal of the nominations. District officials said that 128 nominations were rejected in the scrutiny. As many as 12,388 candidates are in the fray for 94 grama panchayats, 2,684 for 12 municipalities, 1,424 for 15 block panchayats, and 204 for the District Panchayat. The scrutiny of nominations to the District Panchayat took place under District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan. Eligibility was the main criterion considered during the scrutiny. Technical and typographical errors were ignored in accordance with the guidelines of the Election Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/16700-candidates-in-malappuram/article33146603.ece
21 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||A demand to print ballot papers in Tamil too||Tamil speaking people in the district have demanded that ballot papers for local body elections in Chittur and Palakkad taluks and Attappady region be printed in Tamil also in compliance with the government rules. The district administration has limited the use of ballot in Tamil language to only 127 wards in eight panchayats bordering Tamil Nadu. But Tamil linguistic minorities are widely spread across Palakkad and Chittur taluks and in Attappady. Although the government has recognised Chittur and Palakkad taluks and Attappady as special linguistic minority areas where electoral notices, rules and electoral rolls should be published in Tamil language too, Tamil speaking people there are denied this right. M. Pechimuthu, general secretary of the Kerala State Tamil Protection Council, said that Tamil had not been considered for the electoral rolls. “At least, the government should consider the large number of Tamil-speaking people in Palakkad and Chittur taluks when printing ballots,” he said. Mr. Pechimuthu said that Tamil minorities were not just confined to the border panchayats of Eruthempathy, Kozhinjampara, Muthalamada, Perumatty, Vadakarapathy, Agali, Sholayur and Pudur. “Even in Palakkad municipality, a majority of people are Tamil speaking,” he said. ‘Constitutional right’ According to Mr. Pechimuthu, although the Constitution assures equal consideration for linguistic and religious minorities, the linguistic minorities are denied their rights. The authorities too often ignore their demands. The district-level Linguistic Minority Safeguard Committee under the chairmanship of District Collector holds nominal meetings in four months. The committee has not met this year so far. MPs and MLAs from Palakkad and Chittur taluks are members of this committee, but they rarely attend a meeting. Palakkad district panchayat president, who is also a member, has never attended a meeting. Backward communities Chittur and Palakkad taluks and Attappady regions have a predominant presence of Tamil linguistic minorities. Several backward communities belonging to Tamil linguistic minorities such as Malakoravan, Pooluva Gounter, Padayachi, Vettuva Gounter, Thotti Naikar, Mukkulathor and Akamudayar are living in extremely poor conditions in the eastern belt of Palakkad district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-demand-to-print-ballot-papers-in-tamil-too/article33146604.ece
21 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||13,733 nominations in Palakkad||Nominations for the local body elections were scrutinised in the district on Friday. As many as 13,733 nominations were filed for the three-tier local civic bodies in the district on Thursday. When 178 nominations were filed for the district panchayat, 1,749 nominations were filed for the seven municipalities. As many as 1,225 nominations were filed for the block panchayats. District officials said that 10,581 nominations were filed for the grama panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/13733-nominations-in-palakkad-district/article33146589.ece
21 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Expedite digitisation work of school: panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has asked the authorities concerned to complete the digitisation work of Government Moyan Model Girls Higher Secondary School here. The delay in the completion of the multi-crore digitisation project introduced by Shafi Parambil, MLA, had evoked protests from various quarters. The protests took political colour as both sides started blaming each other for the delay. Child Rights Commission Chairman K.V. Manoj Kumar visited the school and examined the progress of the project on Thursday. He said a meeting of all officers concerned should be held soon to expedite the work. PTA version The school parent-teacher association (PTA) had alleged that neither the PTA nor the Principal had been given any role in the digitisation work. “We could not include our school in the KITE’s (Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education) digitisation programme as we had already launched the MLA’s digitisation scheme,” PTA functionaries said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expedite-digitisation-work/article33146588.ece
21 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||573 cases in Palakkad||As many as 573 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Friday. When 351 of them contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, the health authorities could not track the source of infection in 208 cases. Eight cases had come from across the borders, and there were six health workers among the newly reported cases in Palakkad. According to the district administration, there were 497 recoveries on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/573-cases-in-palakkad/article33147329.ece
21 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||174 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 174 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Friday. Of the new cases, 153 contracted the virus through local contact. With 17 cases, Thiruvalla municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Ezhamkulam and Konni, which reported 12 cases eash. With 156 recoveries during the day, the district at present has 1,893 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/174-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article33146697.ece
21 November 2020||S. Anil RadhakrishnanTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railway bid to improve patronage||While ensuring the safety of passengers and the railway staff, the Thiruvananthapuram Railway Division will give top priority to improving the patronage of trains, including long-distance ones, that still hovers around 35% and to increasing goods traffic. “The continuing poor patronage for inter-city trains and the long-distance express trains to places such as New Delhi is a concern as the revenue had been hit badly by the pandemic-induced lockdown. The priority is to increase the traffic and patronage while ensuring the safety of passengers and railway personnel,” R. Mukund, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), told The Hindu . Railways are maintaining vigil as SARS-CoV-2 cases are being reported among its personnel in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam. “The decision to operate more long-distance trains, unlock measures and relaxations are expected to fetch us more traffic in the coming days,” Mr. Mukund said.  The divisional railway is yet to regain the lost ground in the shipment of parcel cargo. “Of late, there has been an improvement in the movement of parcel goods and essential commodities from here through the railway network. But it is nowhere near the figures during the corresponding period last year,” the DRM said. Reaching out To enhance goods train traffic and enhance earnings, Railways have already reached out to logistic service providers to transport fruits, rubber and other products, Kerala Automobiles for ferrying e-autos, FACT, and DP World, the operators of the Vallarpadam container transshipment terminal. “We have approached Adani Vizhinjam Port Private Ltd. to make use of Kochuveli to transport boulders needed for the 3.1-km breakwater of the deepwater terminal at Vizhinjam,” Mr. Mukund said. RoRo service The Divisional Railway Manager said there was huge potential for the ‘roll on, roll off’ (RoRo) service for trucks from West Hill in Kozhikode to Ernakulam. Already Southern Railway, in collaboration with Konkan Railway Corporation, had conducted a trial run of the RoRo service for trucks between Surathkal in Karnataka and Kozhikode. Technical feasibility of operating RoRo services up to Ernakulam was being explored. Besides fetching revenue for Railways, this would help decongest the road corridors, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railway-bid-to-improve-patronage/article33146710.ece
21 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Over 3,000 papers rejected||More than 3,000 nominations filed for the upcoming local body elections were rejected during the scrutiny held across the State, the State Election Commission said, citing data uploaded from the districts till 9 p.m. on Friday. Of the rejected papers, 2,215 nominations were filed for elections to grama panchayats, 305 for block panchayats and 133 for district panchayats. The commission said 477 nominations filed in municipalities and 121 in the six municipal Corporations also were rejected. The scrutiny of nomination papers began at 9 a.m. Given the COVID-19 scenario, the exercise was carried out in accordance with strict disease containment measures. The number of persons allowed entry into scrutiny halls had been strictly regulated. The commission made the use of sanitiser and mask compulsory for all officers and visitors to the scrutiny halls. According to an update from the commission on Friday, approximately 1.7 lakh candidates had filed their nominations for the elections. A clear picture on the total number of candidates will emerge on November 23, the deadline for withdrawal of nominations. Addition to names The commission is giving candidates an opportunity to incorporate additions to their names. This is meant to enable voters to distinguish between candidates with similar names. The changes, if any, can be affixed before or after the names given on the nomination papers. The titles ‘Adv’ or ‘Dr.’ also can be added. Candidates should apply to the returning officer concerned before November 23. If the application is accepted, their names will appear on the ballot papers and labels on the electronic voting machines with the additions. Political parties and candidates should obtain prior permission from the police before organising public meetings and rallies, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said. Public meetings, rallies, and use of loudspeakers are not permitted between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. Government offices and government guest houses should not be used as election offices. The commission has allotted ‘almirah’ as symbol for the Samajwadi Forward Bloc and ‘gas stove’ for the Indian Christian Secular Party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-3000-papers-rejected/article33146713.ece
21 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District panchayat bursts into limelight||Election scene in the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat has traditionally got lesser limelight, compared to the more heated battles in the city Corporation. However, this time, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s decision to field their former district president S. Suresh in one of the divisions for the upcoming local body polls created quite a splash, signalling their serious intentions in a local body where they have just one seat as of now. Both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and United Democratic Front (UDF) were quick to dismiss this as a stunt aimed at retaining the sole division in their possession. The history of elections in the district panchayat lends some kind of credence to their stand, for the BJP has never really figured seriously in what has always been a direct fight between the LDF and the UDF, with the LDF having more wins to its credit. The LDF currently holds 19 out of the 26 divisions in the local body.  Consistent performance “We expect to win even the divisions we lost out last time around. Our candidates have all begun their campaign well in advance. Venganoor is the sole division won by the BJP last time. Given their strength, it is doubtful whether they will retain that division, leave alone win more to gain power in the district panchayat. As for the UDF, they won power here in the previous term by just one division. Otherwise, the LDF has been winning consistently here,” says district panchayat president V.K. Madhu.   Ansajitha Russel, Congress member and district panchayat president in the 2010-15 term, says that she as well as the other UDF candidates have been getting positive vibes from the ground during their first round of campaigning in the various divisions.  Tighter contest “Last time, the BJP managed to win Venganoor because both the LDF and the UDF had given that seat to its allies. This time, the contest will be tighter in that division, and it is unlikely that they will win any other. We are confident of recapturing power in the district panchayat this time,” she says. Mr. Suresh has been concentrating his campaign in the Venganoor division, spread over 56 wards of around four panchayats, even as the BJP has launched its campaigns in the other divisions to try and upset the prevailing record. “We are also seeing this as a campaign to create confidence ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections and energise our party machinery. The candidature of district and State-level leaders will motivate the cadres. It is a huge challenge for us in the district panchayat, but we are confident that the Centre’s developmental projects and the recent controversies that have hit the State government will aid us,” says Mr. Suresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-panchayat-bursts-into-limelight/article33147365.ece
21 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 393 new cases, 611 recoveries||The district has reported 393 new COVID-19 cases when 5,151 tests were performed during the past 24 hours. As many as 611 patients recovered from the infection. The active case pool stands at 5,525 at present, the district administration and health officials said on Friday. Local transmission accounted for 285 of the new cases, while the source of infection could not be ascertained immediately in 101 cases. Friday’s caseload also included seven healthcare workers. The death toll in the district, meanwhile, has climbed to 513 with three more recent deaths being attributed to COVID-19. The deceased included a 64-year-old woman from Varkala, a 76-year-old woman from Nagaroor, and a 53-year-old man from Kadakkavur. In the meantime, 1,872 more persons who displayed symptoms were newly quarantined, taking the total number to 25,796 as on Friday. Of this, 25,664 persons are in home isolation while 132 others are in institutional quarantine. According to health officials, 1,639 persons completed the observation period without developing symptoms. On Friday, action was initiated against 84 persons for violation of the COVID-19 containment protocol, the City police said. Cases were registered against 14 persons under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. A total Rs. 31,500 was imposed as fine on 61 persons for not wearing masks and two persons for not maintaining proper physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-reports-393-new-cases-611-recoveries/article33147369.ece
21 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) to mobilise opinion against ‘bid to implicate CM’||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] on Friday issued a clarion call to its supporters to mobilise popular opinion against what it termed a bid by Central agencies to ensnare Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in a false case. The next Left Democratic Front (LDF) meeting will decide the mode and manner of the Statewide agitation. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said instead of pursuing the truth, the Central agencies seemed on a political mission to destabilise the State government and target those at its helm. The averments of suspects in various cases under investigation by the Central agencies pointed to the political motive behind their actions. Illustratively, a court, while considering a bail plea by M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, had ominously observed that the Central agencies relied on legally dubious methods to secure “false statements” from suspects. Mr. Vijayan had invited the agencies in good faith to probe an international crime with national security ramifications. However, the agencies had overstepped their brief and constitutional bounds, he said. ‘Helping BJP’ They had attempted to upend the government and its development programmes to prepare the ground for the pro-corporate Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to make inroads into Kerala. The BJP knew it could not purchase legislators to cut the ground from under the feet of the LDF. Hence, it had employed Central agencies to undermine the State government. Mr. Vijayaraghavan said the BJP should not forget that Kerala was home to a sizeable population of minority communities. The State’s secular roots ran strong and deep. It had collectively protested against the patently anti-minority Citizen Amendment Act (CAA) and other wantonly discriminatory laws. ‘Against State’s interests’ The development and social-welfare achievements of the LDF government had buoyed up its chances for a second innings in power. The BJP and the United Democratic Front (UDF), staring at defeat, had harnessed the heft of the office of the Comptroller and Auditor General to scuttle the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIFFB), the vehicle for Kerala’s development. “They have plotted against the interests of the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-to-mobilise-opinion-against-bid-to-implicate-cm/article33146724.ece
21 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||First Bell: new classes to be telecast over weekend||New classes will be telecast by KITE VICTERS as part of the First Bell digital classes on Saturday and Sunday. On Saturday, Kerala Padhavali, Arabic, Sanskrit, Urdu, and ICT classes for Classes 5,6,7 will be telecast. ‘Hello English’ classes will be held at 10.30 a.m. on both days.  On fake news At 11 a.m. on Saturday, Mir Mohammed Ali, bureaucrat, will lead a class on fake news in cyberspace as part of the Little KITEs experts’ class, and on Sunday, a Scratch programming class will be held. On Sunday, Sociology, Communicative English, Geography, Jouralism, Social Work, Psychology, Geology, and Philosphy classes will be held for Plus One and Plus Two students. The Kilikonchal classes for pre-primary students will be telecast at 10 a.m. on both days. As new classes, instead of repeats (owing to time constraints) will be telecast on these days, students must exercise care to look up the timetable and attend the classes accordingly, KITE CEO K. Anvar Sadath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-bell-info-on-new-classes/article33146699.ece
21 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF does not go easy at Attingal||Attingal municipality has been a left bastion for years, but even as the campaigning progresses here, the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) is not leaving anything to chance. At least some of those campaigning on the ground have bitter memories of an unexpected defeat in the Lok Sabha elections last year, even though the concerns of the voting population are starkly different in local body elections. In a local body that has always witnessed a direct fight between the LDF and the United Democratic Front (UDF), the story was a bit different in 2015 as the Bharatiya Janata Party gave a stiff fight for second place. In the 31-member municipal council, the LDF currently holds 22 seats, while the UDF has five and the BJP, four. First to start The LDF had to sit in opposition only once since 1979, but this was no reason for it to go easy, as their candidates were the first to start campaigning in most wards. “Our candidates have completed at least one round of campaigning in their respective wards. The LDF squads began their round of request for votes in door-to-door campaigns on Friday, and are expected to complete it by November 23. The candidates will also be running multiple rounds of campaigns highlighting the achievements of the municipality in the past few terms under the LDF. The BJP won a few seats last time because the UDF had fielded weak candidates in some of these seats, for instance in a ward like Pachamkulam, they could not cross even three-digit votes,” says M. Pradeep, the current municipal chairman, and one of the key campaign managers. For the UDF, which ruled the municipality in the term ending 2005, the previous election was a kind of shock, as it retained the opposition party status by just a whisker. Hopes up M. Anilkumar, the UDF’s council leader, feels that things would be better this time. The UDF camp had begun its work quite early under Adoor Prakash, MP, who had met the party workers from all wards over six months and micromanaged the candidate selection. “We feel that the wind is favourable to us this time. That is the feeling we got after completing one round of campaigning. Until now, we have only one rebel candidate. The BJP is in a sorry state, especially after the resignation of one of their councillors towards the end of the term. There is also strong anti-incumbency,” says Mr. Anilkumar.  Online and offline The BJP has fielded three out of the four councillors who won the elections in 2015. Mandalam president and the BJP’s leader in the council S. Santosh, who has been managing the campaign, says that the party has managed to mount a robust campaign both offline and online. “We have gained some early advantage in campaigning. The fight clearly is between the LDF and the BJP,” says Mr. Santosh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-does-not-go-easy-at-attingal/article33147367.ece
21 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Trains to be diverted for a month||Six express special trains from the State to New Delhi and Hazrat Nizamuddin and back will be diverted to facilitate yard remodelling at Kosi Kalan station as part of the commissioning of fourth line in Agra Division. Train 02625 Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi Kerala Express Daily Special leaving Thiruvananthapuram Central from November 26 to December 27 will be diverted via Agra Cantonment-Mitawali-Ghaziabad Junction, according to Railways. Train 02626 New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central Kerala Express Daily Special leaving New Delhi from November 28 to December 29 will be diverted via Ghaziabad Junction-Mitawali-Agra Cantonment. Train 02617 Ernakulam Junciton-Hazrat Nizamuddin Mangala Express Daily Special leaving Ernakulam Junction from November 26 to December 27 will be diverted via Agra Cantonment-Mitawali-Ghaziabad Junction. Train 02618 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Junction Mangala Express Daily Special leaving Hazrat Nizamuddin from November 28 to December 29 will be diverted via Ghaziabad Junction-Mitawali-Agra Cantonment. Train 02431 Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi Rajdhani AC Tri-Weekly Special Service leaving Thiruvananthapuram Central on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays from November 26 to December 27 will be diverted to run via Kota Junction-Jaipur Junction-Alwar Junction-Rewari Junction, Railways said.  Rajdhani special Train 02432 New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central Rajdhani AC Tri-Weekly Special Service leaving New Delhi on Sundays, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays from November 28 to December 29 will be diverted to run via Rewari Junction-Alwar Junction-Jaipur Junction and Kota Junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trains-to-be-diverted-for-a-month/article33146703.ece
21 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Recoveries continue to remain high||Kerala registered 6,028 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 60,365 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 9.9% The State also reported more recoveries than new cases on Friday also, with 6,398 patients testing negative for COVID-19 and leaving hospitals. 67,831 active cases While the State’s cumulative case burden rose to 5,51,669 cases, the active case pool in the State, which has registered a steady decline these past few days, went down further to 67,831 cases. Till date, 4,81,718 persons who contracted COVID-19 have since recovered from the disease. The State’s official COVID-19 toll till date inched closer to 2,000 and touched 1,997 deaths when the Health Department added 28 more deaths to the list of COVID deaths in the State. Seven of these deaths were reported from Thrissur, four from Kollam, three each from Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Kozhikode and Kannur, two from Ernakulam and one each from Kottayam, Palakkad and Malappuram.  852 critically ill Of the patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals across the State, 852 are critically ill and being treated in ICUs with 211 patients requiring ventilator support. Of the 6,028 new cases reported on Friday, 5,923 cases are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining unknown in 654 cases. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 56. Among districts, Malappuram topped the list for the second consecutive day with 1,054 cases being reported on Friday, followed by Kozhikode 691, Thrissur 653, Palakkad 573, Ernakulam 554, Kollam 509, Kottayam 423, Alappuzha 395, Thiruvananthapuram 393, Kannur 251, Pathanamthitta 174, Kasaragod 138, Wayanad 135, and Idukki 85.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recoveries-continue-to-remain-high/article33146721.ece
21 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Train extended up to Thiruvananthapuram||Train 02627/02628 Tiruchchirappalli Junction-Nagercoil Junction-Tiruchchirappalli Junction daily special service operating between Tiruchchirappalli Junction and Nagercoil Junction will be extended to Thiruvananthapuram Central from November 30. The train will have stop at Nagercoil Town instead of Nagercoil Junction in both directions as per the revised schedule. Train 02627 Tiruchchirappalli Junction–Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily Special will depart from Tiruchchirappalli Junction at 7 a.m., reach Dindigul Junction at 8.10 a.m, Madurai Junction (9.10 a.m.), Tirunelveli Junction (12.10 p.m.), Nagercoil Town (1.49 p.m.), and Kuzhithurai (2.19 p.m.) to reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 3.20 p.m.  Return direction In the return direction, Train 02628 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Tiruchchirappalli Junction Daily Special will depart from Thiruvananthapuram Central at 11.35 a.m. to reach Kuzhithurai (12.14 p.m), Nagercoil Town (12.40p.m.), Tirunelveli Junction (2.20 p.m.), Madurai Junction (5.10 p.m.), and Dindigul Junction (6.12 p.m.) to arrive at Tircuchirappalli Junction at 7.55 p.m, a railway release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-extended-up-to-capital/article33146698.ece
21 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Drop move to shut shelter homes, says Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has written to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking to drop the move to close down shelter homes (women and children home) under the State Nirbhaya Cell where survivors of abuse are housed. A press release here on Friday said Nirbhaya homes functioning under the Women and Child Development Department in Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Palakkad, Malappuram, and Kannur were set to be closed down. The release said there were 12 such homes in 10 districts with 400-odd residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drop-move-to-shut-shelter-homes-says-chennithala/article33146725.ece
21 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Visa fraud: absconder held||The City police have arrested a Tamil Nadu native on the charges of visa fraud. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said Sudhish Christudas, 49, of Kanyakumari district in Tamil Nadu was arrested by the Fort police. He had been absconding for the past two years after allegedly cheating people in many parts of the State of lakhs of rupees after promising them jobs at the Dubai airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/visa-fraud-absconder-held/article33147362.ece
21 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Amnesty scheme to end this month||The last date for submitting the option for the Amnesty Scheme, 2020 to settle outstanding tax dues before the introduction of the Goods and Service Tax (GST) will end on November 30. The scheme will be applicable for all tax arrears, including cases in appeals (except arrears under KGST from 2005 onwards). It would apply to traders who have outstanding dues under the Kerala Value Added Tax Act, Central Sales Tax Act, Tax on Luxuries Act, Kerala Surcharges Act, Kerala Agriculture Income Tax Act and Kerala General Sales Tax Act, an official release on Friday said. Waiver of interest The highlights of the scheme include 100% waiver of interest and penalties, 60% waiver of the balance tax arrears if outstanding dues paid in a lump sum and 50% waiver of the balance tax arrear if outstanding dues are paid in instalments. The taxpayer who has failed to settle arrears under the previous scheme can also opt for this scheme. Any amount paid under the earlier scheme shall be given due credit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amnesty-scheme-to-end-this-month/article33146708.ece
21 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Parties told to avoid jamboree||District Collector Navjot Khosa has directed political parties to avoid large gatherings of people, including the jamboree — kottikalasham which traditionally marks the end of the campaign — during their election campaigns, given the COVID-19 scenario in the district. The Collector has appealed to the parties to avoid public gatherings and rallies in their campaign. She urged the candidates to closely follow the COVID-19-related guidelines issued by the State Election Commission. Only five persons, including the candidate, should be part of house-to-house campaigns. The commission has banned the use of garlands, bouquets, and currency-note garlands during receptions to candidates. A maximum of three vehicles may be used for road shows and vehicle rallies. Prior permission of the police is required for organising public meetings. Awarness messages Ms. Khosa urged the parties and candidates to include COVID-19 awareness messages a part of their election campaigns. Candidates should encourage the voters to use masks and sanitiser. A training session for block-level trainers for the upcoming local body polls will be held at the Collectorate on Saturday, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parties-told-to-avoid-jamboree/article33147370.ece
21 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BTech evening course admission||The preliminary rank list for admission to the BTech evening course for the 2020-21 academic year has been published onwww.dtekerala.gov.in. The interim allotment list will be published on November 23 and the final allotment list, the next day. Candidates will have to report in person to the College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, on November 25 and 27 for admission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/btech-evening-course-admission/article33146716.ece
21 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Youth held on theft charge||The Nemom police have arrested a 24-year-old youth on charge of theft in the Naruvamoodu police station limits. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay identified the accused as Prakash of Edakkode, Pallichal. He had given a lift to Shyam Raj of Vellayani on his motorcycle. Near Naruvamoodu, he snatched Shyam Raj’s chain and fled. A police team led by Nemom SHO Anoop Krishna arrested the accused from his hideout and handed him over to the Naruvamoodu police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-on-theft-charge/article33147363.ece
21 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Adhere to COVID-19 norms, parties told||Thrissur Collector S. Shanavas has urged the political parties to maintain COVID-19 guidelines strictly during election campaigning. “The guidelines should be strictly adhered to during door-to-door campaigns and in public meetings. Political parties should maintain discipline while using social media. Strict action will be taken in case of defamatory campaigns, especially against women,” he said here during a meeting of political parties on Friday. Strict action will be taken against those who misuse official systems for political use in elections. Name and address of the printing press is mandatory in election materials, he said. Nomination withdrawal The offices of the election wing and local bodies will function on November 21 and 22. Applications for withdrawal of nominations will be received during these days. Meanwhile, mock polls on electronic voting machines meant for the elections in Thrissur Corporation and municipalities were conducted on Friday. Representatives of various political parties were present. In all 14 ballot units and 14 control units were used in the mock poll, which was held in two phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adhere-to-covid-19-norms-parties-told/article33147328.ece
21 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||653 persons test positive in Thrissur||Thrissur reported 653 COVID-19 cases on Friday and 806 people recovered from the disease. There are 7,452 active cases in the district while 91 people are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 54,050 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 46,198 people have recovered from it. Local contact As per official statistics, 639 people contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. They include 95 people above the age of 60 and 54 children below the age of 10. In all, 4,976 people are under home observation. As many as 264 people were hospitalised. A total of 5,730 samples were collected for testing on Friday. So far 4,19,829 samples have been tested in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/653-persons-test-positive-in-thrissur/article33147326.ece
21 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||T.N. Prathapan tests positive||Thrissur MP T.N. Prathapan tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. The District Medical Officer had earlier suggested that candidates and political leaders on poll campaigning undergo COVID-9 screening test. Mr. Prathapan tested positive during such a screening test. As he does not have any symptoms he is under home observation. His wife and son are also under quarantine. The MP asked the workers who had contacted him recently to be under quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-prathapan-tests-positive/article33147327.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Raising a demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raising-a-demand/article33146702.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Symbols of democracy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/symbols-of-democracy/article33147332.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The myriad political scene||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-myriad-political-scene/article33146584.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Board game||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/board-game/article33147372.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Livestock concerns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/livestock-concerns/article33147374.ece
21 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP going back on its promise of free houses’||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) polit bureau member and its Anantapur district president Kalava Srinivasulu on Friday questioned the YSR Congress government’s alleged false propaganda against the TDP about court cases on proposed distribution of house sites. At a press conference here on Friday afternoon, Mr. Srinivasulu said the YSRCP must find out the political allegiance of Satti Bhagawan Reddy, former ZPTC, whose court case delayed the process and the distribution was put off five times. He said while most of the work on constructions of houses by the Township and Infrastructure Development Corporation(TIDCO) was done, the YSRCP government was trying to change the name of the project from PMEY-NTR Colony to PMEY-YSR Jagan Colony, without spending a paise on them. “Why did the government take so long to complete the remaining works and woke up only after the beneficiaries were asked to pay interest on the loan component they had taken from banks?” he said. The YSRCP in its Navaratnalu had promised ‘free’ houses for all, but it is going back on its word now asking the beneficiaries to pay their share, he pointed out. In the State, 7.78 lakh houses were proposed during the TDP regime, land was acquired for 4.62 lakh houses construction also started for three lakh units. Out of those houses, 70,000 were ready for gruha pravesham (house warming), another 1.98 lakh houses were in various stages of construction, and in all, 1.2 lakh houses were ready for occupation when the TDP went out of power, he added. In Anantapur district alone, 16,272 units were grounded against the sanction of 61,556 houses in 7 urban areas, but only 700 of them are partially finished and allotment letters were being given to the beneficiaries from Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-going-back-on-its-promise-of-free-houses/article33147282.ece
21 November 2020||CHATRAI (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers in border areas seek ban on spurious farm products||Farmers living along the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border have urged the Agriculture, Revenue, Police and Revenue Departments to ban sub-standard agriculture products from flooding the markets and save them from losses. As many as 312 farmers of Krishna district purchased paddy seeds (1224 variety) from a private seed company located in Karimnagar district of Telangana State. The company sold 663 bags of seeds to farmers in Chatrai mandal during the Kharif season, but farmers suffered huge losses, Collector A. Md. Imtiaz said. Low yield Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu said farmers of Burugurudem, Arugolanupeta, Chatrai and Jagannadhavaram villages undertook paddy cultivation in 900 acres by procuring seed stocks from Huzurabad. “As the yield was only 20 bags instead of 35 to 40 bags, they approached the agriculture officer, Tahsildar and the police seeking justice,” the SP said. Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinivasulu, who conducted an investigation into the spurious seed case, said the police, revenue and agriculture department personnel summoned the seed company representatives and the dealers, and held several rounds of discussions with them. “Tiruvuru Circle Inspector Shekar Babu and Mylavaram CI C. Srinu, along with SIs Siva Narayana, V. Satish, Lakshman and Subramanyam, convinced the company management to pay compensation to all the farmers who suffered losses,” the DSP said. Farmers hail move Mr. Imtiaz, along with Nuzvid Sub-Collector Prathista Mangine, SP, DSP, Joint Director (Agriculture) P. Mohan Rao, MRO Suresh and other officers distributed cheques for Rs. 38.45 lakh to the farmers at Chatai on Friday. “It is a memorable day for us. Many farmers are suffering due to spurious seeds, fertilizers and pesticides every year. For the first time, officials of various departments joined hands and paid compensation to us,” said a paddy farmer Sriramula Rama Rao. “The government should set up a system to prevent poor quality seeds, pesticide and fertilizer, and take criminal action against the spurious seed manufacturers,” said a woman farmer S. Mythili. “We appreciate the joint efforts of the revenue, police and agriculture officials in getting compensation for us,” said a farmer Vangapali Venugopal Reddy. Mr. Ravindranath Babu warned the seed, fertilizer and pesticide traders that criminal cases would be booked against those who sell spurious seeds to farmers. When the farmers urged to set up a paddy procurement centre in Chatrai, the Collector directed the Agriculture department officials to set up the centre immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-in-border-areas-seek-ban-on-spurious-farm-products/article33146434.ece
21 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘All jumbos in Chittoor safe’||The arrest of three youth, hailing from the forest fringe villages of Seshachalam reserve in Chittoor district, in possession of three tusks of wild elephants by the Bengaluru North division police this week led to a big flutter among officials in Chittoor West and Tirupati wildlife divisions, which are home to about 85 wild elephants. Amid speculation that the tusks had clandestinely reached Bengaluru from Chittoor region, senior forest officials on Friday confirmed to The Hindu that the seized tusks had originated from the Western Ghats in Tamil Nadu. The Karnataka police nabbed the three youth at Hebbal on Monday, when they were allegedly on the way to dispose of the contraband for a hefty commission, after reportedly procuring it from an unidentified agent, who is said to be at large. Police and forest officials of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Chittoor district investigated for four days to trace the origins of the tusks. “We got clarification on Thursday that the tusks were from Tamil Nadu,” Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar said. The Koundinya Wildlife Sanctuary, flanked by Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, is currently home to about 45 resident elephants, in addition to several migrant jumbos from border forests, which keep raiding the crops during some seasons. Between March 2019 and July 2020, seven elephants were killed due to electrocution in the fields, while one died due to internal fight among herds in Palamaner forests. In all the incidents, the forest officials had secured the tusks before burying the pachyderms. Ever since the Koundinya sanctuary was formed three decades ago, not a single incident of “poaching” was reported in the area. “Compared to Tamil Nadu, with hundreds of wild elephants in sanctuaries spread over vast forest stretches, Koundinya project is a cosy one with a small number of elephants, quite unsuitable for poaching. Our personnel are well accustomed to the terrain here,” Mr. Shankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-jumbos-in-chittoor-safe/article33147316.ece
21 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former Chittoor MLA dead||D.A. Satyaprabha (70), former legislator of Chittoor, died after a prolonged illness post COVID-19 treatment at Vaidehi Institute of Medical Sciences in Bengaluru on Thursday. She is survived by son and two daughters. Satyaprabha had tested positive for the virus in October, and her condition turned critical on November 3. Born at Sadum in Chittoor district, Satyaprabha did her matriculation in Bengaluru. She was an ardent devotee of Sri Sathya Sai Baba of Puttaparthi since childhood. Satyaprabha had married industrialist D.K. Audikesavulu Naidu, who was TDP MP from Chittoor in 2004. He had also worked as TTD chairman. After the demise of Audikesavulu Naidu in 2013, Satyaprabha forayed into politics and won as TDP MLA from Chittoor in 2014. Besides, Satyaprabha continued the activities of the Srinivasa Trust her family had founded, focusing on solving the problems of drinking water in the rural areas of Rayalaseema. In 2019, she had contested on TDP ticket from Rajampeta Lok Sabha constituency, but lost to the YSRCP. Satyaprabha was recently reappointed as the national vice-president of the TDP. Her last rites were performed at Whitefield in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-chittoor-mla-dead/article33147294.ece
21 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ubbalamadugu, Talakona reopen to tourists||After an eight-month-long closure due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the popular tourist spots of Talakona and Ubbalamadugu waterfalls in Chittoor district were reopened to the public on Friday, with the strict implementation of rules in place. In full cascade Keeping in view of the ongoing Karthika month, which commenced on November 16, the officials had made arrangements for reopening of these attractions to tourists. With heavy rain in Chittoor district, both in the southwest and northeast monsoons, the waterfalls have been in full cascade for a couple of months. Ever since the unlock series were initiated, a large number of tourists from not only the district but also from the neighbouring States kept tickling in to the two premier waterfalls from August onward, but were forced to return disappointed due to the closure. Forest Range Officer (Satyavedu) J. Prasada Rao said the weekend rush of tourists to Ubbalamadugu would be close to 10,000, mostly from Tamil Nadu. “The COVID rules would be under strict implementation. Visitors should compulsorily wear facemasks, carry hand sanitizers. They will not be allowed to enter the water bodies and take bath. Guards would be posted at all vulnerable points to prevent the unauthorized entry of visitors into the reserve forest zone,” the official said. List of dos and don’ts The officials at Talakona have released a pamphlet listing out dos and don’ts for the tourists. The accommodation and canteen facilities are being spruced up to suit the guidelines. Talakona with round-the-clock presence of forest personnel is known for its safety to the tourists. The temple of Lord Siddeswara Swami at the foothills is visited by hundreds of devotees everyday during the Karthika month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ubbalamadugu-talakona-reopen-to-tourists/article33147284.ece
21 November 2020||DEVARAPALLI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal farmers of East Godavari script success story in State’s only rubber hub||The tribal people of the Rampachodavaram Agency have scripted an exemplary story of co-operative farming by cultivating rubber in their fields in the Maredumilli forest cover, and emerging as the sole rubber production hub in Andhra Pradesh. The plantations in more than 500 acres in the three most suitable blocks – Devarapalli, Poorajipakala and Pandirimaamidikota – have already attained the stage of ‘producing latex’. In 1990, the Rubber Board of India (RBI) had explored the climatic conditions of the forest area and roped in members of the Konda Reddy tribe to raise rubber plantations in the three blocks under the cooperative farming method. Under the method, while the tribal families owned the land, the RBI offered scientific support and technical guidance in the conservation of the nurseries and training in the collection of latex by importing equipment for post harvesting process. Here, the rubber tree is attaining harvesting stage at the age of seven, whereas it is five in Kerala owing to climatic conditions. Decent earnings “My family has 400 trees in the 155-acre rubber plantation block that is under the ownership of 32 families. Every family collects latex from the plants grown in their respective land in the block and process it at the common facility centre being run by our society. My family earns more than Rs. 1 lakh per year from rubber plantations,” says Kondla Laksmi, a 20-year-old farmer in the Devarapalli block. The latex from the trees is collected between June and January. By November 2020, as many as 139 tribal families are engaged in rubber production by forming into three cooperative societies — Devarapalli Society (155 acres owned by 32 farmers), Poojaripakala (125 acres owned by 32 farmers) and Pandirimaamidi (247 acres owned by 72 farmers). “We work on the plantations barely for six months but earn more than Rs. 1 lakh per season. In the remaining part of the year, we engage ourselves in agriculture and NREGA works. When the tree turns 40, it can also be sold as timber as it has commercial value,” says Kadabala Rajareddy, a farmer owing 300 trees. Annual turnover “The annual turnover in the Maredumilli forest is more than Rs. 70 lakh. The annual production is more than 100 tonnes,” says RBI Assistant Development Officer (Rampachodavaram) P. Jaganmohan Reddy. “The success of the cooperative farming is an exemplary story of the tribal people in Andhra Pradesh. The Maredumilli forest is the only suitable area for rubber cultivation in the State,” Mr. Jaganmohan Reddy said. “The RBI licensed agent visits us to procure rubber sheets from our societies. The entire production is sold only after consulting the RBI on the price in the market. The production is sold thrice in a year. We have never encountered any problem in marketing,” says Pallala Venkata Reddy, president, Devarapalli Rubber Farmers’ Cooperative Society. The rubber sheets can be stored for any number of years, he adds. ITDA effort falls flat Inspired by the success of cooperative farming, the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA - Rampachodavaram) encouraged 2,853 individual tribal farmers to grow rubber in their fields under the NREGA. Rubber stems were brought from Kerala. However, a few ITDA officials involved in the project were suspended after financial irregularities were unearthed during an inquiry by the government. “At present, rubber plantations are surviving only in 446 acres against the total extent of more than 5,800 acres, in which 2,853 farmers are funded to raise the plantations under the Rubber Project between 2008 and 2010. The survival rate is below 15%,” according to ITDA Assistant Project Officer (Rubber Project) T. Nagaraju. Till date, the ITDA has not shown any interest to rescue the farmers who have taken up rubber plantations and has left them in the lurch in aspects such as management of plantations or getting access to technical assistance for collection of latex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-farmers-of-east-godavari-script-success-story-in-states-only-rubber-hub/article33147312.ece
21 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to lay stone for fishing harbour today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will lay foundation stone virtually for the commencement of the construction of a fishing harbour at Ameenabad village on the Uppada coast in East Godavari district at 11 a.m. on Saturday. In June, the government had announced to speed up the project by spending Rs. 350.44 crore to be mobilised from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). NABARD funds The government had entered into an agreement with NABARD to mobilise the funds under the Fisheries and Agriculture Infrastructure Development Fund (FAIDF) and NABARD Infrastructure Development Assistance (NIRA). The fishing harbour is proposed to be construct at Ameenabad (Survey No. 74-82) with an annual handling capacity of 1.10 lakh tonne fish by constructing 1.5-km training wall. It will have an anchoring facility for 2,500 boats being operated in East Godavari and neighbouring coastal districts. The topographical and subsoil surveys were carried out by the consulting agency, WAPCOS. The High Tide Line survey was carried out by the Madras University. All public representatives and officials concerned would attend the foundation stone-laying programme at the Collectorate, said district Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-lay-stone-for-fishing-harbour-today/article33147296.ece
21 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exports set to get a boost||The East Godavari District Industries Promotion Committee has set a target of promoting export of five commodities, including rice, sugar, processed shrimp and coconut coir, from the district. Experts discussed the possibilities to boost the export of the five identified goods in coming years and preparation of ground for encouraging entrepreneurs in the identified areas of exports. The committee has granted Rs. 1.82-crore incentive for 43 industries under the District Industrial Development Policy 2015-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exports-set-to-get-a-boost/article33147285.ece
21 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health Dept. urged to fill up vacancies||Social Welfare Minister P. Viswarup has asked the Health Department to fill up the four vacancies of gynaecologists in the Amalapuram Area Hospital in East Godavari district. Presently, the hospital has barely two gynaecologists, offering their services round the clock apart from attending the institutional deliveries, for which people from across the Konaseema region admit to the hospital. Addressing the doctors and members of the Hospital Development Committee, Mr. Viswarup said that more infrastructure facilities were being provided by spending Rs. 5.76 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-dept-urged-to-fill-up-vacancies/article33147286.ece
21 November 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two shepherds run over in Panyam||Two shepherds died and 21 sheep were killed when an unidentified vehicle ran over them at Panyam in the district in the early hours of Friday. According to the Panyam police, Chimatam Narayana, 60, and Subbaiah, 38, of Ramateertham village in Banagnapalle mandal had started from the village with a herd of 600 sheep on Thursday and slept at Panyam, and began their journey to Yelerupadu in Bandi Atmakur mandal at 5 a.m. when a vehicle knocked them down. 12 injured in accident In another incident in Anantapur district, 12 persons, including the driver, were seriously injured when a lorry knocked down the autorickshaw in which they were travelling, at Dondapadu in Gooty mandal in the early hours of Friday. Five women labourers among the injured are being treated in Anantapur government general hospital and are stated to be in a serious condition.  In the third incident, one died and two were injured when their motorcycles collided at Jagaraju Palli on Puttaparthi-Gorantla State Highway on Friday night. According to police, C. Narayana(55) died on the spot while those travelling on another bike suffered injuries and were taken to Puttaparthi hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-shepherds-run-over-in-panyam/article33147280.ece
21 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trial run of milk procurement from RBKs begins in Prakasam||Ongole dairy, which was left in a shambles following termination of a tie-up with Delhi-based Mother Dairy, is hoping to see a revival of fortunes with the understanding between the Gujarat-based Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers’ Union (Amul) and the Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation. The trial run of milk procurement from more than 140 Rythu Bharosa Kendras(RBKs) started on Friday. The dairy products from Ongole, which has one of the largest milk powder units in Asia, fetch a premium price in view of its high Total Soluble Solids(TSS) content. Milk procurement will start on a regular basis from November 26, the National Milk Day, which is celebrated with the birth anniversary of Verghese Kurien, Father of the White Revolution in the country. Efforts on to arrange loans It will be an all-women affair as the milk procurement at the grassroots level will be fully handled by them, explained District Water Management Agency Project Director K. Seena Reddy. More than 6,000 women are actively taking part in its activities. With a view to empower women, the State government was making efforts to arrange for loan from banks for over 70,000 women for purchase of milch cattle. Each of the Women Empowerment Societies would be provided 3% of the price of milk procured for maintenance. Bank accounts have been opened and members enrolled under auto billing system by Amul for the purpose. Assurance of fair price A remunerative price for milk has been eluding the dairy farmers, most of them women, as private dairies formed themselves into a syndicate. Now they can be assured of a fair price for milk. The best practices adopted in Kaira would be replicated here, he said in a conversation with The Hindu. Over a period, milk procurement would be started from 259 RBKs. The Prakasam District administration released Rs. 7 lakh to renovate the Chilling plant at the Ongole dairy as per Amul standards. Once milk procurement stabilizes, efforts will be made to get enough orders for the milk-powder making units, sources in Ongole Dairy said. Amul would be using the existing infrastructure at the Ongole dairy. However, Ongole Dairy Employees Union leader K.Sriramamurthy sought clarification from the State Government on the use of the infrastructure worth more than Rs. 500 crore created in the district with a major contribution from farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trial-run-of-milk-procurement-from-rbks-begins-in-prakasam/article33147289.ece
21 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake social media profiles of policemen unearthed||Prakasam police have unearthed fictitious social media accounts opened in the names of some police officers with a view to collect money from gullible netizens. Cases were booked against cyber criminals for impersonating Darsi Assistant Sub-Inspector, Pullalacheruvu Sub-Inspector, Addanki Sub-Inspector and Kandukur Rural Sub-Inspector. Warning issued Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal warned of stern legal action against those indulging in such activities and cautioned the public that no police officer would ask for money under any circumstances and not to get misled by any messages received through app. Cautionary note People should also not disclose to anyone one time passwords(OTPs) received for their United Payments Interface(UPI) accounts or debit or credit cards as they could be misused to commit online frauds, he said. The SP advised the public to immediately lodge a complaint at the nearest police station in case they received any fraudulent call or message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fake-social-media-profiles-of-policemen-unearthed/article33147287.ece
21 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two fatalities take toll to 1,070 in South Coastal A.P.||Two persons, one each in Prakasam and Nellore districts, succumbed to coronavirus taking the death toll due to the pandemic to 1,070 in south coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours. While Prakasam district accounted for 577 deaths so far, Nellore district accounted for 493, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Friday night. The positive trend of the number of recoveries outnumbering fresh cases continued in the region as the relentless efforts of the health professionals paid dividends. With little less than 100 new cases, the cumulative confirmed cases went up to 1,23,756 in the last 24 hours. However the caseload declined further to 1,684 as 171 persons were cured of the disease during the period. The recovery rate improved further to 98.17% as 1,21,495 persons were recuperated so far in the two districts. In Nellore district, 47 persons tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. But 109 patients got cured during the period. As a result, the number of active cases dipped to 1,103. As many as 61,518 persons have so far been cured in the district so far. As many as 50 persons tested positive in Prakasam to take the total number of positive cases to 61,135. With 62 patients recovering from the illness, the caseload declined to 581. While about 250 patients were treated at the nine designated hospitals, the rest were provided treatment from their home in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-fatalities-take-toll-to-1070-in-south-coastal-ap/article33147291.ece
21 November 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Labourer dies at Polavaram||A labourer, Murtaz (23) of Bihar, who was engaged for work at Polavaram project site fell from a height at the spillway and died on Friday. Murtaz accidentally slipped from the site and fell into the waters. Police, revenue and the workers are trying to retrieve the body, said Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik. “About 700 workers from Bihar are engaged for work at the site. The accident occurred around 8 p.m,” said a worker. Angry workers allegedly burnt a two-wheeler and damaged a mini bus and a car at the site. They raised slogans demanding suitable compensation to the victim’s family. Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana said the workers stayed away from work soon after the accident. The issue was taken to the notice of the higher officials and the situation is under control, he claimed. Polavaram Tahsildar Swathi, CI Murthy and officials rushed to the spot, said the Sub-Collector. “We explained about the accident to the District Collector. The officers spoke to the management over paying compensation. The situation is peaceful,” Mr. Naik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/labourer-falls-at-polavaram-project-site-dies/article33147350.ece
21 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resume admissions at MR College, say activists||The Aam Aadmi Party and Students Federation of India (SFI) separately staged protests at Maharaja College insisting that the government continue the admission process for the 2020-21 academic year. AAP district convener K. Dayanand submitted a memorandum to Regional Joint Director Devid Kumara Swamy to protect the interests of the students from poorer sections. ‘Unilateral move’ SFI leaders Rammohan and Venkatesh alleged that the MANSAS Trust had unilaterally stopped the admission process to convert the college into a private institution. The activists urged officials to take up the admission process at MR College immediately as thousands of students were affected by the decision of the MANSAS Trust to stop the admission process. Mr.Devid assured the protesters that the issue would be brought to the notice of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/resume-admissions-at-mr-college-say-activists/article33147318.ece
21 November 2020||Staff ReporterVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students ‘addicted to ganja’ held, counselled||In a decoy operation, sleuths of the Commissioners Task Force (CTF) arrested about 55 youth, including 45 students, who were allegedly addicted to ganja. The students were studying in different institutions in Krishna, West Godavari and Guntur districts, while the others were into small-time jobs. “On information, that some youth were addicted to ganja and some suppliers were getting ganja in small quantities from Araku, Paderu, Narsipatnam and other areas in Visakhapatnam Agency areas and from the tribal hamlets in East Godavari, the Task Force police swung into action and took the suspected youth into custody,” said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. The youth were sent to a de-addiction centre, and counselling was provided to the students, their parents as well as the college managements, on Friday. “We wrote letters to the college principals concerned and asked them to keep a vigil on the movements of the suspects in the institutions,” the Police Commissioner said. “Police identified a pan shop owner, located near Benz Circle, who was allegedly selling paper pipes, in which the youth were packing ganja and smoking it. We also arrested three ganja suppliers and a case has been registered in Bhavanipuram police station,” Mr. Srinivas Rao said. Police will act tough against the students, if they did not mend their ways, the Task Force police warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-addicted-to-ganja-held-counselled/article33146431.ece
21 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu daydreaming on winning local polls: Roja||APIIC Chairman and Nagari YSRCP legislator R.K. Roja said on Friday that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu was under an illusion of winning the local body elections “with the support of those belonging to his community.” Addressing the media here, Ms. Roja said though Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had primed the State for the local body elections so as not to forego the Central funds, which, if not claimed, would hamper the developmental works in the State, hurdles had been created on the pretext of COVID-19. “Ironically, the same people who created hurdles then are now demanding elections by proclaiming that there is no threat of virus in the State,” she observed. In an indirect reference to State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar, the YSRCP leader said that Mr. Naidu was dreaming to win the elections before the official’s retirement in March.  Tirupati bypoll The haste with which Mr. Naidu declared the name of party candidate for Tirupati LS seat showed that he was more concerned about politics rather than the lives of people. On the other hand, Mr. Jagan always stood for high ethics of not fielding the candidate in the event of the death of any sitting leader irrespective of his party affiliation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-daydreaming-on-winning-local-polls-roja/article33147298.ece
21 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister donates van to TTD||Karnataka Minister for Social Welfare B. Sriramulu on Friday donated a Digital satellite news gathering(DSNG) van worth Rs. 1.20 crore to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD). At a brief ceremony in front of the temple, the Minister’s representative Mr. Manjunath handed over the keys of the vehicle to Additional Executive Officer and MD of SVBC A.V. Dharma reddy. Mr. Reddy said the vehicle equipped with the state-of-art technology would be used in the live telecast of spiritual and devotional programmes on SVBC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-donates-van-to-ttd/article33147292.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Housing: govt. plans campaign to counter TDP propaganda||The State government has chalked out plans to launch a campaign, apparently, to counter the criticism from the Opposition parties, more particularly the TDP, on implementation of housing for the shelterless. According to information, The Department of Municipal Administration and Urban Development plans to dash letters off to the beneficiaries in the name of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The identified beneficiaries will be given two options to choose between the housing scheme launched by the previous government (NTR Nagar) and present government (Jagananna Colony). The move is to highlight that the beneficiaries will have to pay only Re. 1 to own the house if they choose the present government scheme. The department, in the letter, plans to 'highlight' the major differences between both options. Of this, financial burden on the beneficiary will be prominently emphasised. The beneficiary will have to shell out Rs. 7.20 lakh as his/her share to own 300 sft house. The beneficiary will have to avail a bank loan of Rs. 2.65 lakh to meet his share in the total cost of Rs. 6.65 lakh. The beneficiary will end up paying Rs. 7.20 lakh if they pay Rs. 3,000 per month for 240 months. In comparison, the beneficiary need to pay mere Re. 1 if they opted for Jagananna Colony. The beneficiary portion will also be borne by the government, sources say. Types of houses This option, however, applicable only to the beneficiaries identified for 300 sft houses. The beneficiaries of other types of houses -- 365 sft and 430 sft will have to pay Rs. 3.15 lakh and Rs. 3.65 lakh respectively as their contribution, says a senior official. In all, the government plans to construct 2.65 lakh houses through TIDCO. Of this, as many 1.43 lakh houses are 300 sft type under YSR Jagananna Nagar (PMAY(U) - AHP) – Pedalandariki Illu Scheme in G plus 3 pattern. These houses will come up in 88 ULBs across the State. The government will incur an expenditure of Rs. 9,550 crore. Registration of sale agreements will be done for these 1,43,600 houses free of cost to the BPL families on December 25. Already 1,18,616 allotment letters are being distributed among the beneficiaries of 365 sft (44,304) and 430 sft (74,312) type of houses, the official adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/housing-govt-plans-campaign-to-counter-tdp-propaganda/article33147301.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A drive to ‘engage’ students to ‘enrich’ learning by reading||The outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic has changed the lives of people like never before. Almost all are at their wits’ end, struggling to balance working at home and children, schooling at home. There is a strategy to help. Just read! Read to soothe your soul and to comfort, nourish and expand the world of your cooped-up lives. The Hindu FIC, in collaboration with KL Deemed to be University, has launched ‘Engage and Enrich’, a programme that envisages strengthening of the college libraries in the region and getting students interested in reading books and thereby empowering the young minds. Every individual, especially students, ought to read voluminously and develop a reading habit that will sustain them for a lifetime of productive learning. Besides the daily newspaper, The Hindu Group of Publications has been offering insights into various other key sectors through special publications in both English and Tamil languages, that include books on culture and heritage, information technology, management, education, religion, values, music and much more. The rich and diverse collection includes works of prominent personalities.  Books donated Former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam wrote his last article En Vazhvil Thirukkurai in Hindu Tamil Thisai, which was eventually made a book. Currently, the publication has a collection of 110 titles touching upon various subjects. At a programme organised at Sri Durga Malleswara Siddhartha Mahila Kalasala to launch the new initiative, The Hindu representatives donated sets of 54 books that would now find place in the book shelves of libraries belonging to 20 different colleges. College Director T. Vijayalakshmi appreciated the gesture and assured that the books would be put to the best use by the staff and students. Director (admissions) of KL Deemed to be University J. Srinivasa Rao said the initiative taken by The Hindu was "the need of the hour" as book-reading habit was on the wane among children and youth.  Siddhartha Mahila Kalasala Degree College Principal K. Sudha Rani and Junior College Principal S. Padmaja were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-drive-to-engage-students-to-enrich-learning/article33146430.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Launch of dairy development project on Nov. 26: Minister||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the dairy development project for which an MoU has been signed with Amul, on November 26. “A major component of it is the construction of 7,125 bulk milk collection and cooling centres in three phases at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,362 crore,” S. Appala Raju, Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry, told the media at the Secretariat on Friday. Mr. Appala Raju said milk production in the State was approximately four crore litres, of which only 1.60 lakh litres were being procured by the government and private dairies. The government intended to buy milk directly from the farmers, and the bulk milk cooling centres would be operated by the Rythu Bharosa Kendras under the aegis of the Self-Help Groups (SHGs). Milk procurement would begin on a pilot basis in Chittoor, Kadapa and Prakasam districts on November 20. Steps were taken for the establishment of units for rearing milch cattle, sheep and goats at a cost of Rs. 5,386 crore under the YSR Cheyutha scheme. In addition to creating infrastructure, financial assistance would be given for buying Murrah buffaloes. The superior variety cattle could be purchased from Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab and Telangana also, whereas sheep and goats had to be purchased from within the State. Fishing harbours The Minister said the government planned to build eight fishing harbours. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would lay foundation stone for four of them virtually on November 21. The Chief Minister would also inaugurate 25 aqua hubs the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/launch-of-dairy-development-project-on-nov-26-minister/article33147097.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two women thieves arrested||The Central Crime Station police on Friday arrested two alleged women thieves B. Dhanalakshmi and her daughter-in-law B. Swathika, and recovered 235 gm of gold ornaments and silver jewellery, weighing about one kg, worth about Rs. 6 lakh, from their possession. The two accused were wanted in four theft cases in Patamata, Ajit Singh Nagar and Machavaram areas, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-women-thieves-arrested/article33147399.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC does not need government consent for polls, says Yanamala||TDP Polit Bureau member and Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Friday demanded that the local body elections, which had been stopped midway due to the outbreak of COVID-19 in March, be conducted immediately. Also, the elections should be conducted afresh, he said in a statement on Friday. Mr. Ramakrishnudu said the State Election Commission (SEC) was an independent constitutional institution, whose authority and decision-making could not be questioned. The State government was undermining the election-related laws as well as the Constitution by challenging the autonomy of the State Election Commissioner. The government’s non-cooperation was tantamount to violating the Article 243 K and 243 Z (A) of the Constitution. The arguments being put forth by the government were unacceptable he said. The SEC was required to consult the government, but that did not mean he should take consent before holding the elections, he added. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the Chief Secretary had no moral right to interfere with the decisions of the SEC. “The Chief Secretary has no locus standi to tell the SEC that elections cannot be held,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is afraid of his party’s certain defeat if the elections are held in a free and fair manner,” the TDP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-does-not-need-government-consent-for-polls-says-yanamala/article33147299.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MPEDA plans to boost seafood exports||The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA), which is exporting seafood products to many countries across the globe, is planning to boost its exports by promoting young entrepreneurs in the trade. During the financial year 2019-20, 12,89,651 metric tonnes of seafood products worth Rs. 46,662.85 crore (USD 6.68 billion) was exported. India is shipping seafood products to the U.S.A., China, European Union, South East Asia and the Middle East. Frozen shrimp, which earned about Rs. 34,152.03 crore, retained its first position in seafood exports accounting its share of 50.58%, said MPEDA Chairman K. S. Srinivas. The U.S.A. continued to be the major importer of Indian seafood followed by China. Frozen fish was the second largest export item from India, he said. The MPEDA is planning to encourage fresh entrepreneurs to improve the exports, as the demand for Indian seafood is high in the international market.  Training and tech share Private hatcheries and growers have been requested to come into aquaculture and the MPEDA was ready to share the technology and give necessary training to the farmers. Already, training was being given to the farmers in various centres across the country, he said. The MPEDA is also planning to take up diversified activities, including inland and hinterland culture, in association with the State and Central government departments. As part of it, potential areas away from the coast and river banks are being identified. “We entered into an MoU with A.P., Kerala, Tamil Nadu and other States to improve the aquaculture and thereby enhance the exports,” the Chairman said. He appealed to the public to stop juvenile fishing (catching small fish), use square mesh nets, protect water bodies and mangroves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mpeda-plans-to-boost-seafood-exports/article33147396.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fund sanctioned for registering project||The government has accorded administrative sanction for nearly Rs. 5,82,750 towards filing the application for registration of AP Rayalaseema Drought Mitigation Projects Development Corporation Limited (RDMPDC) with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MoCA). According to a G.O. issued by the Water Resources Department, the amount will be paid for fee to be paid on filing the Articles of Association and Memorandum of Association with MoCA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fund-sanctioned-for-registering-project/article33147397.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last date for payment of NTSE fee extended||The last date for payment of the examination fee for National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) and submission of Nominal Roll (NR) and other documents, if any, by the headmasters for State-level NTSE first level test for students of Class 10 has been extended. According to a statement released by the Director of Government Examinations, the last date for uploading the candidate’s application by the headmasters and payment of examination fee is December 20 and the last date for submission of printed NRs at the office of the District Education Officers by the school headmasters is December 22. The application will have to be approved at the DEO level by December 23. Applications should be uploaded in the websitewww.bseap.organd printed application forms should be submitted at the DEO's office. For any further details, candidates can contact either their DEO or at the office of the Director of Government Examinations, in Vijayawada. Counselling Counselling for the candidates who qualified the Diploma in Elementary Education Common Entrance Test (DEECET-2020) will be conducted from November 24 to December 7. Submission of web options by the candidates can be done from November 24 to November 29, allotment of seats will be made from November 30 to December 1, provisional letter of admission will be issued on December 2 and verification of certificates and issue of final admission letter will take place from December 3 to December 7 and classes will commence on December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-date-for-payment-of-ntse-fee-extended/article33146427.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI planning portal to market MSME products||The Confederation of Indian Industry - Andhra Pradesh (CII - AP) organised ‘Integrate 2020’, a virtual conference-cum-exhibition with the theme ‘'Connect with the World of Opportunities’ on Friday. Addressing the inaugural session, State Bank of India (SBI) MD C.S. Setty said industries need to adopt the right strategy, governance and technologies to mitigate the problems of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). He suggested to the industry to use the funds in the right direction by having proper business modules and stated that the SBI was working on setting up an e-commerce portal called Bharat Craft for the marketing of products manufactured by MSMEs. AP MSME Corporation CEO R. Pavana Murthy said the MSME sector had emerged as a vibrant sector of the Indian economy. Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone Commissioner A. Rama Mohan Reddy, and CII - AP chairman D. Ramakrishna took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sbi-planning-portal-to-market-msme-products/article33147398.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decision to shift capital is mindless: HC Judge||Justice Rakesh Kumar of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday observed that the State government’s decision to shift capitals was “mindless” considering the money already spent on Amaravati and the construction activity that was brought to a halt. During the course of the hearing on a batch of habeas corpus petitions along with Justice J. Uma Devi on Friday, Justice Rakesh Kumar expressed concern over the likely wastage of public money on shifting the capital, while suggesting that it was his “personal opinion”. The Division Bench indicated that it was to go into the question whether there had been a breakdown of constitutional machinery having regard to the circumstances of the cases being heard by them. Responding, State counsel S.S. Prasad said nowadays courts were forgetting their role and overstepping their jurisdiction and it was entirely for the State to take policy decisions, which were beyond the courts’ purview. He insisted that the capital issue was to be sorted out by the government, which needed to look at the money required for continuing the capital in Amaravati and the expenditure involved in relocation. The crux of the matter was a PIL which used the language of “mindless” action of the police on former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu. Advocate-General S. Sriram said the State was moving an application in HC on the question of constitutional breakdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decision-to-shift-capital-is-mindless-hc-judge/article33147305.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagananna Vidya Kanuka week to begin on Nov. 23||The Department of School Education will observe ‘Jagananna Vidya Kanuka’ week from November 23 to 28 for effective implementation of the programme and also to plug the loopholes, if any. In a statement on Friday, Eeucation Minister ADimulapu Suresh said the idea was to identify the loopholes if any and work on them to implement the scheme in a better way in the next academic year by plugging them. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy launched the programme at Punadipadu Zilla Parishad High School in Krishna district on October 8. Under this programme, school kits were distributed to 42,34,322 students in 46,593 government and aided schools in the State. Each kit has three pairs of uniform, one set of notebooks, textbooks, a pair of shoes, two pairs of socks, a belt, three masks and a school bag. Besides explaining to the students and their parents about proper use of the material supplied in the kits, the school authorities would rectify mistakes, if any, during the week.  Schedule On Nov.23, the officials would check if every student from Classes 1 to 10 had received the kit, on November 24, the focus would be on stitching of the uniforms and educating the parents on the need to give the right measurements for the clothes to be stitched. On Nov.25, students would be taught how to wear shoes and their parents would be told to wash the socks regularly. On Nov.26 students would get lessons on how to maintain their textbooks and notebooks and cover them with brown sheets, on Nov.27, the focus would be on teaching the children on how to use their school bags and ways to keep them light while on Nov.28 an overall review of the programme would be taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-vidya-kanuka-week-to-begin-on-nov-23/article33146426.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu mourns Satyaprabha||TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Friday condoled the death of former MLA and TDP vice-president D.K. Satyaprabha. “The departed leader had rendered praiseworthy service to the people in her capacity as Chittoor MLA. She had strived hard to solve the drinking water problem,” Mr. Naidu said in a statement on Friday. He further recalled how Satyaprabha and her family had been contributing to industrial development and creation of job opportunities for the youth. Her family had also set up many educational institutions. Mr. Naidu conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-mourns-satyaprabha/article33147302.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||G.O. issued for raising DIDF loan for Amul Project||The government on Friday issued a G.O. (RT No.195) facilitating the raising of Rs. 1,089.77 crore for the dairy sector project (Amul Project) to be jointly implemented by the AP Dairy Development Cooperative Federation (APDDCF) and the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Limited. The amount will be raised as a Dairy Infrastructure Development Fund (DIDF) loan through the National Cooperative Development Corporation. The APDDCF and Amul Project special officer have been permitted to obtain 20% (Rs. .272.44 crore) share of end-implementing agency in the total project outlay as a grant from the State government with its counter guarantee for 80% loan (Rs. 1089.77 crore) for revival of the dairy cooperatives in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/go-issued-for-raising-didf-loan-for-amul-project/article33147304.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Draft voter rolls: last date for objections is December 15||Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) K. Vijayanand has stated that claims and objections regarding draft electoral rolls can be made till December 15. The claims and objections will be resolved before January 5, 2021. Special campaign days will be conducted on November 28 and 29 and December 12 and 13. Booth-level officials will be available on those days with draft rolls. The claims and objections will be addressed to on the spot. The final rolls will be published on January 15, he said. Mr. Vijayanand, who held a meeting with representatives of political parties on Friday, said political parties played a key role in the correction of the draft electoral rolls. “Despite many requests, the political parties have not appointed booth-level agents. Error-free voter lists are possible only if the booth-level agents are appointed by all parties,” he said. “The political parties are requested to appoint booth-level agents and get the draft voters list verified by their booth-level agents,” he added. “Instead of making a hue and cry when elections are round the corner, it would be better if corrections in the draft rolls are made now. It would benefit all parties,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/draft-voter-rolls-last-date-for-objections-is-december-15/article33147319.ece
21 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASC opened on VIT-AP campus||Founder and Chancellor of VIT University G. Viswanathan inaugurated Academic Staff College (ASC) on the AP campus. Mr. Viswanathan said the idea was to motivate teachers to impart quality education. The new facility would help the faculty enhance their skills and knowledge through systematic orientation in specific subjects, techniques and methodologies, thereby inculcating in them the right values that would in turn encourage them to take initiatives for innovative and creative work. Vice-president G.V. Selvam said the ASC would be a source of providing continuous education through faculty development programmes and skill enhancement initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asc-opened-on-vit-ap-campus/article33147320.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lumbini Park a big draw for visitors||With its picturesque location and greenery, Lumbini Park at Appughar has become a good attraction in the city. The park has been drawing a large amount of visitors, especially in the weekends. The park welcomes its visitors with a large statue of Lord Buddha surrounded by eight pillars right in the centre of the park. The GVMC officials have designed a large amount of space for landscape works, walking path and developed greenery on the premises. The park also has a children’s play arena and an open gym for visitors. It has a roofed shelter with seating arrangements, where elderly persons are seen taking a break after their evening walk. “Many MVP Colony residents are now thronging this park. It also has a canteen. The walking tracks are really good in terms of length and cleanliness,” said S. Sailaja, a resident of MVP Colony. Another visitor P. Krishna of Venkojipalem said that though their region has a number of parks, the speciality of Lumbini Park is that it has a beach view from the backyard. He said that there were just five to six chairs arranged there and hope the officials would add some more. Visitors to the park said security personnel should be posted inside the park. Some youth are celebrating birthdays and creating problem for others, they said. Security personnel should keep a watch, said N. Pawan Kumar, a resident of Visalakshi Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lumbini-park-a-big-draw-for-visitors/article33147407.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Letter to Union Minister: MP lashes out at opposition parties||YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Friday said he had written a letter to Civil Aviation Minister (in-charge) Hardeep Singh Puri with an intention of ensuring the development of the upcoming greenfield international airport at Bhogapuram. Addressing the media here, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said every greenfield airport needed financial viability for sustenance, and if commercial traffic was not diverted from the existing airport in the city, the Bhogapuram facility would not be viable. “It is unfortunate that a section of the media and the opposition parties are giving it a political colour and attributing motives. The present airport neither belongs to the State government nor to the Civil Aviation Ministry. It is under the control of the Ministry of Defence, and the Navy needs it to run its fighter squadron,” he said. “I have only asked the Union Minister to divert the commercial flights to the new airport only after it is built and ready for operation,” Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy clarified. Coming down heavily on TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, he said the former Chief Minister was filled with negative ideas and that was why he had been opposing all development activity in the State. He also said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would soon lay the foundation stone for the Bhogapuram airport. Snipe at SEC Referring to the local body elections, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy alleged that State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar was working at the behest of the TDP. Earlier, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu said the YSRCP was not afraid of facing the local body elections as it had come to power with absolute majority. “What is not understood is the motive of the SEC. Why is he keen on holding elections now, when the pandemic is raging?” he questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/letter-to-union-minister-mp-lashes-out-at-opposition-parties/article33147307.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Autorickshaw unions demand withdrawal of G.O. no. 21||Representatives of all autorickshaw unions, affiliated to CITU, AITUC, INTUC and AIFTU, demanded withdrawal of G.O. no. 21, brought out by the State government, which will result in a hefty hike in the fee for services offered by the AP Transport Department and steep penalties for violation of the Motor Vehicle (MV) Act. A poster on the transport bandh and general strike on November 26 was released outside the Collectorate on Friday. Addressing the gathering, auto union leaders D. Appala Raju and K.V. Ramana said that the transport sector was contributing lakhs of rupees to the government in the form of taxes and FC (Fitness Certificate). They appealed to the workers to participate in the general strike, being organised to oppose the ‘anti-worker’ and ‘anti-people’ policies of the Central and the State governments. Welfare board They demanded setting up of a welfare board for transport workers, bringing petrol and diesel prices under GST and extension of subsidies for purchase of new vehicles. The transport workers would take out a rally from the DRM’s office at Dondaparthy to Gandhi statue, near the GVMC, on November 26, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/autorickshaw-unions-demand-withdrawal-of-go-no-21/article33147409.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Together all the way: how urban families endured the lockdown||While the 55-day lockdown that was clamped across the country earlier this year in order to curb COVID-19 cases brought a lot of hardships to many, it resulted in a unique experience for urban families. Shared responsibilities and improved interpersonal communication became the order of the day, as families bonded at home, relishing each other’s company. Though there were some instances of family conflicts and domestic violence, the good outweighed the bad, according to B. Devi Prasad, former professor of Social Work, School of Social Work at Tata Institute of Social Sciences in Mumbai, who conducted an online survey of middle-class Indian households during the lockdown. The lockdown and subsequent closure of schools, colleges, and workplaces, resulted in many young people returning to live their parents and grandparents, with several generations living under one roof for the first time in many years. “The lockdown predominantly fostered better family relations. Despite online ordering of food gaining popularity during the last five years, the lockdown saw an increased yearning for home-cooked food with a majority of the respondents extolling the virtues of home food,” says Prof. Devi Prasad, who was also a former professor at Andhra University. The lockdown also saw family members spending time together in activities like playing traditional games, watching movies, and having their meals together. The pandemic also brought about a change in the mindset of elders towards mobile phones, with many increasingly seeing it as an essential means of communication with the outside world and to avoid isolation-related anxiety. Those who were concerned only about the negative impact of screen time, came to see it as a useful tool to effectively spend their time during the lockdown. Around 25% of the 388 respondents reported loss of jobs, income and feelings of anxiety. They too, however, agreed that the lockdown helped improve family relations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/together-all-the-way-how-urban-families-endured-the-lockdown/article33147314.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) faults Vijaya Sai for seeking closure of airport||CPI(M) Greater Visakha City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao has strongly condemned the letter reportedly written by Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy to Union Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri that Visakhapatnam Airport should be closed for 30 years. He said it was wrong on the part of Mr. Reddy to link the development of the proposed airport at Bhogapuram with the existing one in the city. He said that this move was detrimental to the development of north Andhra and the sole beneficiary of such a move would be the GMR Group.The MP should realise that many big cities in the country like Mumbai and Delhi have two airports and measures were being taken to develop second airports in cities like Chennai, Kolkata and Pune, Mr. Ganga Rao said. Already Rs. 60 crore was spent on expansion of the airport in Visakhapatnam. The airport, which was providing livelihood to hundreds of permanent and contract employees, has a capacity to accommodate 12 aircraft at a time, he said. Mr. Ganga Rao wondered what was the reason for YSR Congress Party Parliamentary Party leader to come out in favour of closing the existing airport. The work on the Bhogapuram Airport is yet to begin and when it would be completed is not known, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-faults-vijaya-sai-for-seeking-closure-of-vizag-airport/article33147345.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja worth Rs. 2.5 crore seized in two cases||In a huge catch, the district police seized around 2,400 kg dry ganja in two cases in the district on Friday. Value of the recovered ganja in both the cases is estimated to be around Rs. 2.5 crore. In one case, the Paderu police recovered about 2,000 kg ganja from a van, while the two smugglers reportedly fled from the area leaving the vehicle. According to the police, based on credible information, their team had conducted vehicle checkings at Paderu-Araku road. Noticing the checking, the two smugglers who came in a van left their vehicle at a distance from checking spot and fled from the spot. “When we opened the van, we found bags of cattle feed. When we checked thoroughly, there were about 50 gunny bags stuffed with 40 kg ganja each in it,” the police said. The vehicle in which ganja was found had Andhra Pradesh registration. A case has been booked and investigation is on. In another case, the city police arrested two youth who were allegedly shifting about 400 kg ganja in a container lorry, here at Chodavaram area on Friday. The estimated value of the seized ganja is more than Rs. 40 lakh. According to police, the two youth had come to Paderu from Uttar Pradesh in a lorry. The smugglers procured the ganja from interior parts of the Paderu and were trying to shift the weed to Uttar Pradesh. Based on credible information, Chodavaram police intercepted the container lorry and seized the ganja. The accused reportedly prepared a cabin in between the driver seat, where they stored the ganja packets. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-worth-rs-25-crore-seized-at-paderu-and-chodavaram-two-held/article33147348.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need to clear draft Bill to regulate social work practice, says expert||The need of the hour is to clear the National Council for Social Work (Education and Practice) Bill, 2020, say experts who have been working in the field of social work education. They say that professional social workers have been facing several problems such as mushrooming of social work educational programmes with low standards and quality, poor salary structure and lack of recognition in the field. “Social work educators and practitioners are seeking creation of a national statutory body to improve the standards of the programmes imparting social work training and regulate social work practice,” said B. Devi Prasad, a former Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. He also worked as a professor in the Department of Social Work, Andhra University. At present, social work is taught in colleges and universities in more than 125 countries. According Prof. Devi Prasad, the need to have a draft Bill was first proposed sometime in the early part of 1960s. Around 1980s, the Second Review Committee on Social Work Education (UGC, 1980) had recommended that a National Council for Social Work Education may be established. Later, in 1993, an expert group prepared the first draft Bill under the direction of the Ministry of Welfare. Now, seeing the urgent need for the council, a few eminent social workers in the country formed a Voluntary Working Group and prepared a draft based on the earlier drafts of the Bill , he said. Consulation process The working group is now ensuring consultation on the draft Bill with different social work academic institutions, associations and practitioners. Based on feedback, it will be revised and submitted to the government, Prof. Devi Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-to-clear-draft-bill-to-regulate-social-work-practice-says-expert/article33147404.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kannababu: govt. keen on development of city||Minister for Agriculture and District in-charge Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said that the State government is making all out efforts to ensure all-round development of Visakhapatnam city. At a meeting at the Collectorate here on Friday, Mr. Kannababu said that the State government was according top priority to industrial development and the district was a key destination in this regard. He said that another meeting would be held with industrialists and entrepreneurs of all sectors, PSU managements, representatives of industry associations to discuss the post-COVID scenario at the industries, in the city, on Saturday. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that the city has all the natural resources and the advantages of rail, road, air and sea connectivity. Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy expressed happiness on Visakhapatnam being recognised as one among the Smart Cities of the world and Andhra University on being identified as the IPR Chair. Establishment of a special museum, Buddhist tourism and Visakhapatnam-Bheemunipatnam beach corridor were among the plans to develop the city. He said that the Chief Minister would soon lay the foundation for startup and incubation centres in Andhra University and for the Bhogapuram Airport. District Collector V. Vinay Chand spoke. MPs M.V.V. Satyanarayana (Visakhapatnam) and B.V. Satyavathi(Anakapalle), MLAs Kannababu Raju, Tippala Nagi Reddy, Gudivada Amarnath and Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar, and Fishermen Corporation chairman Kola Guruvulu were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kannababu-govt-keen-on-development-of-city/article33147410.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With one more death, toll touches the 500-mark||The COVID-19 death toll touched the 500-mark in Visakhapatnam district after one more person succumbed to the coronavirus on Friday. The district had reported first COVID-19 death on May 1, when a 62-year-old man from Chengalraopeta succumbed to the virus. The 500 deaths due to COVID-19 were reported in a span of over six-and-a-half-months. However, compared to the past few months, the death rate has come down gradually, according to the statistics. The last 100 deaths (401-500) were reported in 51 days, while the earlier 100 deaths (301 to 400) occurred in a span of 21 days. Statistics indicate that the last 50 deaths (451 to 500) were reported in a span of 36 days. While the earlier 50 deaths (401 to 450) occurred in just 14 days. Consecutively for the 12th day, the district has reported fewer than 100 cases. According to the bulletin released by the district administration on Friday afternoon, 69 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Seventy persons, who were infected with COVID-19, have been discharged during the time. With the new cases and discharges, the number of active cases was reduced to 1,284 and recoveries increased to 56,292.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-one-more-death-toll-touches-the-500-mark/article33147413.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quiz contest organised for students of law schools||The Centre for Intellectual Property Rights (CIPR) of Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University, Visakhapatnam, organised the second edition of National A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Quiz Competition virtually here on Friday. Over 25 law schools, including NLSIU, Bangalore, HNLU, Raipur, and OP Jindal law school, took part in the competition. In the inaugural session, DSNLU Vice-Chancellor S. Surya Prakash explained about the importance of Intellectual Property Rights and said that the young generation should take research relating to Artificial Intelligence and in the fields of patent law forward. Guest speaker Uday Shankar, Assistant Professor, Rajiv Gandhi School of Intellectual Property Law, detailed the students about the TRIPS agreement and discussed about the balanced IP rights during the pandemic situation. The Academic Director Dayananda Murthy and other faculty members have also participated in the event. The winner of the quiz competition was Venkata Harika from Sri Padmavati Mahila Visvavidyalayam and the runners-up were Aditya Wakhlu and Hash Srivastava from NLSIU Bangalore. All the IPR-related events like seminars, quiz and webinars are conducted by the CIPR team in DSNLU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quiz-contest-organised-for-students-of-law-schools/article33147405.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Cultural exchanges help in promoting handlooms’||‘Ek Bharat Shresht Bharat,’ the brainchild of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is an initiative to unite different States/Union Territories and ensure exchange of culture and heritage of different people, D. Murali Mohan, Additional Director General, PIB and Regional Outreach Bureau, Vijayawada, has said. Speaking at a national webinar on ‘Ek Bharat Shresht Bharat - Role of Handlooms and Handicrafts Vocal for local,’ jointly organised by ROB, Vijayawada, Regional News Unit, Visakhapatnam, and ROB, Chandigarh, Mr. Murali Mohan said that these cultural exchanges help in promoting handlooms and handicrafts. Community artisan C.V. Raju said that Etikoppaka was a gifted village, which dates back to 500 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cultural-exchanges-help-in-promoting-handlooms/article33147402.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jana Sena flays Vijaya Sai||The JSP has criticised YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy for writing a letter to Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri, requesting issuance of a confirmation letter for closure of the Civil Enclave of the Visakhapatnam Airport for a period of 30 years from the date of commencement of the Bhogapuram International Airport. Addressing the media here on Friday, JSP general secretary Siva Sankar Rao said the letter was “highly regrettable and deplorable.” “Why should the MP write the letter when the construction of the Bhogapuram airport is yet to take off?” he questioned. “Mr. Reddy did not even care to discuss the matter with the stakeholders before shooting off the letter,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jana-sena-flays-vijaya-sai/article33147308.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Physiotherapy equipment presented to special school||The Youth and Sevadal volunteers of Ukkunagaram Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samiti presented special physiotherapy equipment like ultrasound machine and muscle stimulator to Bhavitha Specially-abled Children School as part of the 95th birth anniversary celebrations of Sri Sathya Sai Baba, at Paravada, near here, on Friday. P. Santosh, coordinator, district Samagra Siksha Abhiyan, lauded the efforts of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation in helping the needy. The physiotherapist of Bhavitha School Archana thanked the samithi for helping the needy children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/physiotherapy-equipment-presented-to-special-school/article33147403.ece
21 November 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth held for ‘harassing’ former classmate||The Cyber Crime Police on Thursday night arrested a 20-year-old youth for allegedly harassing a 19-year-old girl from the city on social media by creating fake accounts. The police found that the accused was a former classmate of the girl. The arrested was identified as Ch. Bala Vinay Reddy (20), a degree student and resident of Bheemili. According to Cyber Crime Inspector, R.V.R.K .Chowdhary, the victim had lodged a complaint with the police that a person allegedly has been sending abusive messages, obscene videos and pictures to her on social media accounts.  Fake accounts Based on the complaint, the police arrested the accused. They arrested Vinay Reddy on November 19 and produced him before the court on Friday. Judicial custody He was remanded in judicial custody till December 2. “The youth was a classmate of the girl during her schooling. He created fake accounts on social media and targeted her,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-held-for-harassing-former-classmate/article33147414.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online discourse on Bhagavad Gita||The city-based registered charitable trust, Vedanta Institute, is organising public discourses on Bhagavad Gita Chapter - VI, The Yoga of Meditation (Dhyana Yoga), online from November 20 to November 24. The timing for the programme is 7 p.m. to 8.15 p.m. Interested can register by clicking on the link bit.ly/visakhapatnam-yoga-of-meditation-2020 for participation. For details, log on to www.vedantaworld.org /www.vedantavisakhapatnam. org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-discourse-on-bhagavad-gita/article33147408.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man sent to three-year imprisonment for bootlegging||Special Judicial First Class Magistrate (JFCM), Excise Court, Visakhapatnam, Srikanth Meenan, on Thursday sentenced M. Yusufuddin (54) of Hyderabad to three-year simple imprisonment and slapped a Rs. 10,000 fine on him for bootlegging. Inspector of Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Visakhapatnam-III, Ch Rajeswari, said Yusufuddin was caught with 54 non-duty paid liquor bottles and the case was proved against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-jailed-for-bootlegging/article33147346.ece
21 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga Village to conduct course on obesity and weight management||The Department of Yoga & Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University, is conducting online and offline one-month programme on advanced obesity and weight management through yoga. The classes will be organised from November 23 from 9 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. Interested can contact Lakshman 7993241701, said G. Ramesh Babu, Head of the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yoga-village-to-conduct-course-on-obesity-and-weight-management/article33147184.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Allow devotees to take holy dip in Tungabhadra’||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Friday appealed to the State government to allow devotees to take a holy dip in the Tungabhadra during the Pushkaralu that began on Friday. Mr. Veerraju said there was no purpose of spending Rs. 200 crore on developing the ghats if the devotees were not allowed to take a dip. ‘Hold polls afresh’ “The BJP has already submitted a memorandum to the government urging it to examine the possibility of supplying the river water through pipelines to enable the devotees to take bath with it during the Pushkarams,” he said. Referring to the stand-off between the government and SEC on the local body elections, Mr. Veerraju demanded that the SEC issue a fresh election notification by scrapping the unanimous seats won by the YSRCP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allow-devotees-to-take-holy-dip-in-tungabhadra/article33147394.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||With high hopes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-high-hopes/article33147401.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lending an ear||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lending-an-ear/article33147310.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed thrills but kills||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speed-thrills-but-kills/article33147416.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pensive mood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pensive-mood/article33147322.ece
21 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Delay in opening women police station decried||Women’s organisations are up in arms against the alleged delay in inauguration of the much-awaited women police station in the temple town of Bhadrachalam. There has been a long-standing demand for setting up of a women police station in Bhadrachalam, the tribal heartland of the State and a famous pilgrimage centre, to effectively curb crimes against women, mainly domestic violence. The proposal to set up a women police station in the pilgrimage centre took a concrete shape earlier this year with the construction of a spacious building for the proposed facility in the core area of the temple town. The delay in inauguration of the women police station has evoked sharp criticism from the All India Democratic Women’s Organisation (AIDWA). “We have organised a relay hunger strike and submitted several memoranda to the authorities concerned seeking immediate opening of the women police station a couple of months ago, but to no avail,” says AIDWA district president M. Renuka. “The new building has been remaining idle,” she said, pointing out that several distressed women continue to suffer domestic violence mainly dowry harassment in silence due to reluctance to discuss the sensitive nature of their complaints with male police officers. “It is imperative to allot the requisite female police personnel and start the women police station at the earliest to counsel distressed women and ensure speedy investigation into cases of crimes against women and justice to the aggrieved,” she noted. Complaint boxes should be arranged and CCTV surveillance enhanced at public places in the temple town for better safety and security of women, she suggested. The building is yet to get administrative approval for sanction of requisite staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/delay-in-opening-women-police-station-decried/article33147222.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A day of frenetic political activity||Political parties plunged into hectic activity on Friday, the last day for filing of nominations for the GHMC elections on December 1. The activity was two-fold — finalising candidates on one hand and organising rallies on the other, with select ones going up to premises of returning officers to submit papers well before deadline. Ministers and senior leaders of TRS were seen in open-top jeeps of party candidates amid fanfare. Animal Husbandry Minister T. Srinivas Yadav, who represents Sanatnagar constituency, joined TRS candidate from Begum Bazar as she took out a procession to Abids. Police made arrangements to prevent crowding within 100 metres from GHMC offices even as rival parties vied with each other to enter the premises. Since filing of nominations was limited only to three days this time, it was a rush job for all parties to finalise candidates. The parties kept releasing lists in phases. Congress announced its candidates in six lists, yet its candidates in 34 divisions were not finalised. It has said it will decide candidature from among aspirants who filed nominations on Sunday when deadline for withdrawals expires. TRS also kept its final list pending till Friday in respect of divisions where competition for ticket was high.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-day-of-frenetic-political-activity/article33147192.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘KCR is using religion to win GHMC elections’||It was Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and not the BJP who was using religion to win GHMC elections, said BJP State president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay on Friday. Speaking with media persons at Bhagyalaxmi temple abutting historic Charminar in the Old City, Mr. Sanjay charged KCR with attempting to win Baldia polls with votes of a section of people by joining hands with “religious fundamentalist party like MIM”. This was like the pot calling the kettle black, he said. He said that he came to Bhagyalaxmi temple swearing that he did not write any letter to the State Election Commission to stop disbursal of Rs. 10,000 to flood affected families in the State capital. “I asked Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao, who accused me of writing that letter, to come here and stand by his statement. Let him inquire who forged my signature and ascertain the facts,” Mr. Sanjay said. He said that people no longer believed ruling TRS party’s election planks of ‘development, service and Telangana sentiment’. Hence, KCR indulged in false campaign of holding BJP responsible for stalling money disbursal to flood victims. “There is no money in the State Treasury. TRS leaders siphoned off part of whatever amount was disbursed. And now, they are resorting to the gimmicks of levelling false allegations,” he charged. Ridiculing KCR’s claims of ‘developing Hyderabad’, Mr. Sanjay sought to know where was the so-called development. “Don’t trust this CM of lies. If you make BJP candidate Hyderabad Mayor, we will give Rs. 25,000 to each flood affected family and assess all losses,” the BJP State chief said. He sought to know why the Chief Minister was silent on LRS rules. Even the government’s ban on registration of private properties turned out to be a curse to many people, he said. Massive security arrangements were made in the vicinity of Charminar in the backdrop of the BJP chief’s visit to the temple. Contingents of Rapid Action Force, Quick Response Teams and scores of local police teams were deployed in the area as Mr. Sanjay visit to the temple was scheduled an hour ahead of Friday noon prayers at Mecca masjid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-is-using-religion-to-win-ghmc-elections-says-sanjay/article33147199.ece
21 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kavitha: CM’s national platform is to revolutionise agriculture||Influential farmers’ organisations in the country and the intelligentsia working for farmers’ welfare are looking at Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao realising no one understands farmers and agriculture better than him, MLC and KCR’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha argued. When Mr. KCR talks about bringing political parties on a platform to fight against the Centre, it is not just a new political alignment but a platform where farmers and the workforce of the country will get their issues discussed and debated seriously, she said in an interaction with a select group of journalists here on Friday. “What KCR has done is unprecedented in the agriculture history of the country whether its Rythu Bandhu (financial assistance to farmers twice every year), regulated farming to reduce losses, buying the produce at farmers’ doorsteps or the irrigation projects constructed in record time. They are noticed by the farmers’ associations and the intelligentsia, who can trigger a huge debate in the country and force political parties to change their strategies for farmers and the agriculture sector,” she said. “Influential farmers’ associations across the country are evincing keen interest and want Mr. KCR to create the platform. We are getting invites to address their meetings as they see a new dynamic approach taken by the Telangana government to redress farmers issues,” Ms. Kavitha, who is in touch with national level farmers’ associations, said. “They have realised the positive impact of KCR’s revolutionary idea of hand-holding the farmers at various levels and that the solutions he has shown to the decades-long problems can be implemented across the country.” Ms. Kavitha argued that people were tired of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and have seen through their ‘sinister designs’ and are looking at fresh perspective, which she feels KCR can provide. Congress is dying a natural death and its presence is barely felt in the country. So the country needs a leader with fresh ideas and approach to take the country forward as the BJP has failed to deliver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kavitha-cms-national-platform-is-to-revolutionise-agriculture/article33147213.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tungabhadra Pushkaralu off to a spiritual start at Alampur||Tungabhadra Pushkaralu, the spiritual event that recurs every 12 years, was off to a cautious start at Alampur in Jogulamba-Gadwal district on Friday with several precautions in place in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The event commenced at the auspicious time of 1.23 p.m., the time fixed by the spiritual leaders coinciding the entry of Brihaspathi (planet Jupiter) into Capricorn zodiacal sign as per the Hindu almanac with seers -Madhavananda Swamy of Thoguta Peetham and Kamalananda Bharati Swamy of Hindu Devalay Pratishthan offering prayers and ‘harathi’ and performing puja to the river goddess. Ministers A. Indrakaran Reddy (Endowments), S. Niranjan Reddy (Agriculture) and V. Srinivas Goud (Cultural Affairs) were present on the occasion. The Ministers also offered prayers at Jogulamba temple, considered the fifth of the 18 Shakti Peethas in the country. Later, the Ministers along with their family members had a holy dip in the river waters at the Pushkara Ghat near Jogulamba temple in Alampur. The State government has arranged four other pushakara ghats at Veni Sompur, Rajoli, Pullur and Kalugotla – all in the Gadwal district. According to officials, the government placed professional swimmers at all the pushkara ghats to attend to any emergency condition of drowning of devotees. Alampur MLA V.M. Abraham, Endowments Commissioner V. Anil Kumar, District Collector Shruthi Ojha, Superintendent of Police Ranjan Ratan Kumar and others also attended the inaugural event. Speaking later, Mr. Indrakaran Reddy said the State government had made all arrangements with COVID precautions so that visiting pilgrims and devotees feel safe and comfortable. Apart from thermal screening for temperature of all visitors to the pushkara ghats, the government has also kept ample of number of test kits (rapid antigen) for screening the visitors for COVID-19. The officials at pushkara ghats have been instructed to accept test reports got conducted by visitors during the last couple of days elsewhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tungabhadra-pushkaralu-off-to-a-spiritual-start-at-alampur/article33147358.ece
21 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Let’s score a century this time: KTR||TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao is keen that the party aim for 100 seats in the GHMC elections, stating that the century-mark was missed by just one during the 2016 polls. “Let’s get to the century this time as people have faith in us,” he said while addressing the TRS candidates for 150 divisions. The team was well-balanced taking into account all social equations with all castes being accommodated to ensure social justice, which was one of the planks of the Telangana movement. KTR asked the candidates to go to the homes of those party aspirants who failed to get nomination and seek their support. “Don’t be headstrong; convince them to work for the party and their services will be recognised,” he advised them in an apparent bid to address dissidence in the party. The Municipal Administration Minister also asked the cadre to reach out to the people and apprise them of the development carried out by the TRS government in the past six years. “Talk about how Hyderabad is attracting the attention of world’s top companies and remind people that all the good work done will be negated if law and order is disturbed,” he said indirectly accusing the BJP of trying to foment communal tension. Discussion and debate in the GHMC elections should be about development and not communalism and India-Pakistan issues, he said while alleging that the BJP is interested to rake up only those issues. “Why did the BJP president go to Bhagyalakshmi temple in Charminar and why not other temples in the city? It is just with the intention to create trouble in Old City,” Mr Rama Rao claimed. The Minister released a book on the development work done by the party in the past six years. “Take the book along and tell people in your division how Hyderabad has emerged as a safe business destination in the country. Remind people not to make the mistake of voting for parties that want to benefit by dividing people, as it would cost the city and its future,” he said. More women in list Mr.Rama Rao said out of the 150 seats, 75 were given to backward castes, that too covering various sub-castes within them, apart from giving 17 to minorities. Though 10 seats were reserved for SCs, the party gave them 13 seats while three ST candidates were given ticket though only two seats were reserved for them. As per the new GHMC Act, 75 seats were to be given to women across the general and reserved categories but the party accommodated 85 women. “It shows the commitment of KCR towards society,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lets-score-a-century-this-time-ktr/article33147196.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jana Sena withdraws its candidates, supports BJP||Pawan Kalyan’s Jana Sena Party on Friday announced withdrawal of its candidates from the GHMC polls and extended full support to the BJP candidates. Earlier, the BJP had denied any such pact even after the Jana Sena issued a public statement that an alliance was being discussed. The decision was made public after Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy and National OBC president K. Laxman called on Mr. Kalyan and his chief aide Nadendla Manohar with a request to support the BJP. “I have supported the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi right from 2014 elections and this belief only got strengthened with the recent Bihar elections and the Dubbak byboll,” said the matinee idol-cum-politician at Mr Manohar’s residence in Jubilee Hills. COVID-19 pandemic resulted in “confusion and communication gap” which led to his party allowing nominations to be filed by its members. However, “the candidates will now withdraw from the race and strive to get the mayor elected from the BJP. We need Mr. Modi’s leadership to make Hyderabad a world-class city keeping aside our polarising politics with regard to region, caste or community. Political stability and strong leadership is the need of hour, so our cadre should not be disheartened,” he said. The recent devastation due to floods was because of “human errors” but more due to the TRS government’s “apathy” and “neglect”, alleged Mr. Kishan Reddy. The government has been making tall promises with little action on the ground, he said and questioned where the Rs. 67,000 crore was spent. “People are seeking answers about the funds. Where are the two-bedroom houses? People are seeking change,” he said. Mr. Laxman expressed happiness over Jana Sena’s gesture and said partnership between both parties will continue in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jana-sena-withdraws-its-candidates-supports-bjp/article33147189.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS complains against BJP State chief||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has lodged a complaint with the State Election Commission against State president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Bandi Sanjay Kumar for his “deliberate violation of the model code of conduct by making objectionable comments against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and also hate speeches”. General secretaries of TRS Palla Rajeshwar Reddy and S. Bharat Kumar met State Election Commissioner C. Parathasarathi and submitted a five-page complaint against Mr. Sanjay Kumar who also represents Parliament from Karimnagar Lok Sabha seat. They explained to the SEC that Mr. Sanjay Kumar’s utterances were not only indecent but were also criminal in nature and amount to serious offence under the provisions of the Representation of People’s Act, Indian Penal Code and GHMC Act. They alleged that the BJP leader had made “extremely disagreeable, communal, anti-national and hate statements inciting hatred”. They pointed out that on November 17 Mr. Sanjay Kumar made some serious attributions against Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao with an intention to demean and defame the latter for electoral gains in the GHMC elections. Stating that comments made by the BJP leaders were intentional and deliberate, the TRS leaders said the remarks amounted to serious criminal offences which require immediate action from the election authority. Further, they pointed out that Mr. Sanjay Kumar had also termed TRS and MIM candidates as descendants of terrorist leaders and Mughal emperors. The TRS leaders sought action against Mr. Sanjay Kumar, including ordering his arrest, barring him from participating in the election campaign in GHMC area and restraining him from making hatred speeches, comments and statements henceforth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-complains-against-bjp-state-chief/article33147197.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chhath Puja performed in Hyderabad||Chief Secretary to the State Government Somesh Kumar and Principal Secretary (Municipal Administration) Aravind Kumar performed ‘Chhath Puja’ at Sanjeevaiah Park, in the backwaters of Hussainsagar lake, here on Friday. Chhath Puja is an important religious festival for people of Bihar, Jharkhand and Eastern UP and the festival is celebrated on the sixth day after Deepavali festival. People from those origins living in Hyderabad also celebrate the festival with fervour and enthusiasm every year. During Chhath Puja people worship the Sun god and seek his blessings for the prosperity of the family. The puja is marked by offering prayers to the Sun god, fasting and taking dips in the holy waters of a nearby water bodies, ponds, lakes and rivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chhath-puja-performed-in-hyderabad/article33147354.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AIMIM rewards g har wapsi with ticket||A day after All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) rebel Mohammed Ghouse returned to the party fold, his wife Parveen Sultana, filed her nomination from the Ghansibazaar division on the party ticket. Mrs. Parveen filed the nomination with the returning officer in the presence of Charminar Legislator Mumtaz Khan, and sitting corporator Mohammed Mustafa Ali Muzaffar. Mr. Ghouse had jumped ship to the Congress in 2014, ahead of the Assembly elections. He is a two-time corporator — once from Charminar elected in 2002, and then from Shalibanda in 2009. After joining the Congress, Mr. Ghouse, who is known as a businessman, campaigned against the AIMIM. Later, his wife and son Mohammed Sohail joined the Congress and contested from the Puranapul division. After re-joining the AIMIM, in the presence of Chandrayagutta Legislator Akbaruddin Owaisi, and Yakutpura Legislator Ahmed Pasha Quadri, and other senior leaders, and peers, Mr. Ghouse said that his return was on account of Congress leaders joining the Bharatiya Janata Party. He also apologised for speaking against the AIMIM in the past, adding that he would work harder upon his return to the party fold. “Congress leaders are joining the BJP. I am coming back to my own party. Our fight is against the BJP. If I have said something wrong in the past, then I apologise,” Mr Ghouse had said after re-joining the AIMIM.  Paidal daura  All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president and Hyderabad Member of Parliament Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday kicked of his election campaign for his party in the elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. The Hyderabad parliamentarian began his paidal daura (canvassing on foot) from Sultan Nagar area in Jubilee Hills assembly constituency. Mr. Owaisi interacted with locals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aimim-rewards-rebels-g-har-wapsi-with-a-ticket/article33147207.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS ministers plunge into campaign in assigned divisions||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi meant business straight away as its ministers and senior leaders plunged into campaign for GHMC elections as soon as the deadline for filing of nominations expired at 3 p.m. on Friday. Half-a-dozen ministers in divisions where they were appointed as party in-charges lost no time in targeting the Bharatiya Janata Party at meetings with cadre and voters. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao criticised the BJP at Patancheru for not fulfilling its promise of creating one crore jobs every year. He also highlighted that the Centre took up de-staffing in BSNL, railways, Air India, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited and Oil and Natural Gas Commission. Women and Child Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod who was not known for her anti-BJP slant criticised the party for taking up privatisation of 23 Central public sector undertakings. Calls on Gadar Other ministers like Errabelli Dayakar Rao, Eatala Rajender, V. Srinivas Goud and Koppula Easwar also fired salvos against the BJP in their respective divisions. Mr. Easwar also visited the house of balladeer Gadar at Venkatapuram to introduce to him the local TRS candidate. The TRS was expected to up the ante against BJP with its working president K.T. Rama Rao’s road shows starting from Kukatpally on Saturday. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao might deliver the final punches towards the end of the campaign at the public meeting at Lal Bahadur stadium on November 28. On the other hand, the BJP was the most sought after by aspiring candidates who wanted to contest but did not get tickets in their respective constituencies. Two present corporators of Mailardevpalli, the largest division in GHMC, and Vengalraonagar were given tickets by BJP as soon as they joined the party on Friday. All other parties also resorted to wooing corporators who did not get tickets. The parties adopted wait and watch strategy hoping to rope them in time for closure of nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-ministers-plunge-into-campaign-in-assigned-divisions/article33147203.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AIMIM-Inquilab to contest GHMC elections||It is a case of two parties and similar abbreviations, the commonality being ‘AIMIM’. But, before All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen invariably comes to mind, this one is different. It is the All India Majlis-e-Inquilab-e-Millat Party, or, ‘AIMIM – Inquilab’, a new political outfit. After the Telangana State Election Commission on Wednesday issued an order registering the party, its treasurer M. A. Qavi Abbasi on Friday said that its candidates will would contest in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. “We are going to contest in 12 divisions, including Dabeerpura, Kanchanbagh, Mailardevpally, Pathergatti, Jambagh and Akberbagh. There are lot of issues we see around us in terms of inadequate infrastructure such as bad roads and there is corruption. The other issue is that of poor levels of education and unemployment,” Mr. Abbasi said. It was on Tuesday that the High Court set aside the TSEC order, which rejected the registration application of the party, even as it direct the election panel to consider afresh its registration application given a willingness to add ‘Inquilab’ to the abbreviation AIMIM. On Wednesday, the TSEC cleared the decks for its registration as a political party without a reserved symbol, based on the condition that it shall open its bank account within seven days from the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aimim-inquilab-to-contest-ghmc-polls/article33147204.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Around 50 file nominations||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen is likely to contest in upwards of 50 seats in the ensuing elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, a senior party functionary said. “So far, around 50 candidates have filed their nominations. An official list of candidates is yet to be released,” the functionary said. While on the one hand, the party is yet to officially release its list of candidates, on the other, several AIMIM workers, including sitting corporators, have filed their candidature for the upcoming polls. Sitting corporators  From divisions under the Chandrayangutta Assembly constituency — Fahad bin Samad Abdat from Uppuguda, Abdul Rahman from Jangammet, Abdul Wahab from Chandrayangutta, Shabana Begum from Barkas, Reshma Fatima from Kanchanbagh, Ali Shareef Azam from Lalith Bagh, Mirza Saleem Baig from Riyasat Nagar — have filed their nominations. Meanwhile, from the Bahadurpura Assembly segment Hussaini Pasha filed his nomination for Kishanbagh division. Also, from same segment — the Kishanbagh division Mohammed Saleem from Doodhbowli division, Mohammed Khadar from Ramsatpura division, Tara Bai Moti Lal from Falaknuma division, and Shireen Khatoon from Nawabsaheb Kunta division — filed their nominations as Friday was the last day for filing of nominations for the GHMC elections. Former Mayor and Mehdipatnam sitting corporator Mohammed Majid Hussain too filed his nomination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/around-50-aimim-candidates-file-nominations/article33147205.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bharat Darshan special tourist train on Dec. 12||The Ministry of Railways’ IRCTC has announced the launch of “Bharat Darshan Special Tourist Trains” - an affordable tourist train, of which one originates from Hyderabad/Secunderabad on Dec.12/2020 morning and covers Tiruchirappalli, Thanjavur, Rameswaram, Madurai, Kanyakumari and return over a period of six nights and seven days. The special tourist train will halt at Secunderabad, Warangal, Khammam, Vijayawada, Ongole, Nellore and Renigunta. It will have 12 sleeper coaches and one AC three tier coach plus a pantry car. The ticket price per head for sleeper is Rs. 7,140 and for AC Rs. 8,610. Government employees too can avail the LTC facility. The important religious destinations covered are: Sri Rangam - home of Ranganathaswamy Temple, a major pilgrimage destination and the largest temple complex in India, Brihadeeswara Temple, which is dedicated to Lord Shiva, located in Thanjavur, and a part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site known as the “Great Living Cholas Temples.” Rameswaram: Ramanathaswamy Temple is a temple dedicated to God Shiva located on Rameswaram island. It is also one of the twelve Jyotirlinga temples. Madurai Meenakshi: The temple is a major pilgrimage destination within the Shaivism tradition, dedicated to Meenakshi Devi and Shiva. The temple forms the heart and lifeline of the 2,500 year-old city of Madurai. Kanyakumari: Kumari Amman Temple, dedicated to a consort of Lord Shiva, and Vivekananda Rock Memorial is also a popular tourist monument. Tour package includes: train travel, night stay at dharmashalas/halls/dormitories on multi- sharing basis, breakfast with tea/coffee, lunch, dinner & one litre drinking water per day. Non-AC bus transportation on sharing basis and tour escort and security on train will be provided, said joint general manager/tourism N. Sanjeevaiah in a press release. For more information contact: 040-27702407 9701360701, 8287932227, 8287932229, 8287932230 or checkwww.irctctourism.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bharat-darshan-special-tourist-train-on-dec-12/article33147361.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP complaint against CM for comments on PM||The Telangana State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded that the State Election Commission (SEC) take “necessary and appropriate action” against Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for making “abusive and unwarranted comments against Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi” during his recent party meeting on Friday.  ‘In bad taste’ BJP Telangana general secretary G. Premander Reddy in a letter to the SEC, which was released to the media, charged that the “entire comments are totally in bad taste and unbecoming of a Chief Minister against the Prime Minister”. The Chief Minister had “falsely” accused the Central government of mismanaging the economy with its policies and alleged that the public sector units are being destroyed. ‘Without basis’ “Without any basis he charged that the BJP focusing on creating communal tensions in the country for political gains,” he said. The other comments of the president of the ruling party in the State on “damage” to farmers, mocking at Mr. Modi for being a “chai wala” but selling the railways and being “helpless” in tackling China were “totally unwarranted” when the elections were being held for the GHMC which is a local body. “All the said utterances of the Telangana Chief Minister are highly objectionable, unfounded and baseless. The personal attacks against the Prime Minister are made with a malafide intention to influence the voters in the elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation,” he charged in his communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-complaint-against-cm-for-comments-on-pm/article33147202.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Feisty and kind: the first woman mayor of Hyderabad||Rani Kumudini Devi was the first woman Mayor of Hyderabad, unanimously elected in 1962. She represented the Wanaparthi Assembly constituency from 1962 to 1972. Ms. Devi was born in Vaddepally in Warangal district on January 23, 1911. Her father, Pingle Venkatrama Reddy, was the deputy prime minister in the Nizam’s government. She was married to J. Rajaramdev Rao of Wanaparthi and was noted for being the first woman vehicle driver, according to records available with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. She had set up the Sivananda Rehabilitation Centre for leprosy patients. She died at the age of 98 on August 6, 2009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/feisty-and-kind-the-first-woman-mayor-of-hyderabad/article33147186.ece
21 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS denies ticket to 26 sitting members||In the high-stake GHMC elections, TRS is not taking any risks as far as candidates are concerned, despite denying tickets to 26 sitting corporators while changing candidates in a few divisions where it had lost in 2016. Repeated requests of TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao to the selected candidates to reach out to those who were denied ticket in their respective divisions indicate that the party doesn’t want to take any chances with them as every vote will be crucial, especially given BJP’s aggression. While there are 33 new faces among the 99 sitting corporators in the final list, TRS denied ticket to 26 corporators and in other cases, changes were made for other reasons. For example, in Cherlapally, Mayor Bonthu Rammohan’s wife was given ticket. In two divisions, candidates had joined BJP much earlier. In another division, the corporator died while in one more, the sitting corporator decided to stay away from politics. It did not nominate 26 sitting corporators based on several parameters, including a series of survey results it conducted. Some were denied ticket due to corruption charges while some were shown the door as they failed to live up to the aspirations of voters. Requests for change by the MLAs concerned and caste equations were also taken into consideration. To nip dissent in the bud, Mr. Rama Rao advised candidates to visit the homes of those who were denied ticket and seek their blessings first. He stressed that several times, indicating there were apprehensions that the sulking leaders may mar chances of officially-named candidates. TRS also played smart by withholding many names till last minute with the hope of convincing them not to fight as rebels or switch loyalty. In several divisions, more than one candidate were asked to file the nominations to stop them from getting lured by other parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-denies-ticket-to-26-sitting-members-bets-on-33-new-faces/article33147193.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PIL petition challenges SEC order to stop flood relief||A PIL petition challenging the directive issued by the Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) to stop registration of flood affected families and disbursal of Rs. 10,000 each to them was filed in the Telangana High Court. Lawyer’s plea Petitioner S. Sharath Kumar, a lawyer, sought to declare the SEC’s letter, issued three days ago to government to put on hold disbursal of the financial assistance to flood affected families in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, as illegal and arbitrary. He also requested the court to call for records from the SEC to examine what prompted it to issue the direction and at whose instance. He requested the court to instruct the State Election Commission to keep the direction of stopping disbursal in abeyance till adjudication of the matter. The lawyer contended that the SEC failed to act in public interest through the directive. Citing Election Commission of India’s model code of conduct vis-a-vis relief operations during natural calamities, the petitioner said that ex gratia payments and gratuitous relief can be given directly to citizens. However, no change in the prescribed scale of payments should be made, he stated. ‘Exempt from code’ The lawyer stated that on the day of issuing GHMC poll notification, the SEC said at a press conference that disbursal of financial assistance would not be hampered due to the election. It then said the distribution of calamity relief was exempted from model code of conduct. However, within 24 hours, the SEC sent the directive to government to stop disbursal of money, he stated. The plea is likely to come up for hearing on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pil-petition-challenges-sec-order-to-stop-flood-relief/article33147210.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pennar Industries bags orders worth Rs. 517 cr.||Value-added engineering products and solutions company Pennar Industries on Friday said it has bagged orders worth Rs. 517 crore across its business verticals during the quarter ended September 30. “In spite of lockdown and challenging conditions due to COVID-19, it is heartening to note that the company has across all its verticals received good order inflow,” vice president corporate strategy K.M. Sunil said. Orders A release said the pre-engineered building vertical received orders for construction of manufacturing facilities, warehouses, solar PV modules and power plant structures from various companies like Kaizen Industries, Asian Fabtec, Ambuja Cements and Azure. The Railways vertical received orders from BEML, Rites, Integrated Coach Factory, Universal Engineering among others. The Steel vertical received orders from Thermax, Sterling LGB, IFB, Toshiba, Adani Green Energy, L&T Solar and India Cements, while the Industrial Components vertical received orders for Hydraulic cylinders from Bailey. The Tubes vertical received orders from Thermax, Forbes, Alf Engg, TVS ancillaries, LMW, Bajaj ancillaries and others, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pennar-industries-bags-orders-worth-rs-517-cr/article33147359.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP asks citizens to call and share civic problems||The State unit of BJP has appealed to the citizens to call up on 040-71432229 and talk about civic problems they are facing and offer solutions too. “Your issues are our agenda and your suggestions are our manifesto. Unlike others we work on real issues that concern the people,” said a message on the official Twitter handle of Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-asks-citizens-to-call-and-share-civic-problems/article33147187.ece
21 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Not joining BJP; Vishweshwer Reddy Sarve to join soon||Former MP and senior Congress leader Vishweshwer Reddy dismissed rumours that he was leaving the Congress in the wake of reports that BJP in-charge for GHMC polls Devendra Pradhan had met him. “Yes, he met me as he is an old friend of mine. He neither invited me to join the party nor I have any intentions of joining BJP,” the former Chevella MP told The Hindu . Meanwhile, suspended Congress leader Sarve Satyanarayana said that he would join the BJP soon. Earlier, BJP president Bandi Sanjay and Vivek Venkataswamy met him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/not-joining-bjp-vishweshwer-reddy-sarve-to-join-soon/article33147214.ece
21 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||BRF||Collector R.V. Karnan has called for collective efforts to protect children’s rights and encourage them to realise their full potential for excelling in all walks of life. He was speaking at an interactive session on “Children’s rights” organised by Childline India Foundation in association with NGOs SCOPE-RD and Girls Advocacy Alliance in connection with the “Childline Se Dosti” awareness campaign here on Friday. He gave away prizes to winners of a drawing competition earlier organised by the School Education department in connection with ‘Child Rights Week’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33147223.ece
21 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Cotton price reduced, farmers in debt trap||The unprecedented rains in October this year adversely impacted cotton cultivation. Not only was the crop damaged but the staple size got reduced, thereby forcing officials to reduce the price promised to farmers. The Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has been offering Rs. 5,825 per quintal if Bunny Brahma Mode staple size is between 29.5 and 30.5 mm. However, due to heavy rains, the staple size remained below 29.5 mm, the standard size preferred by officials. And as majority of farmers produced cotton with staple size less than 29.5 mm, the officials have written to higher authorities for an offer price of Rs. 5,775 per quintal, a cut of Rs. 50. Cotton is being procured at Rs. 5,825 per quintal for 8% moisture followed by reducing it by Rs. 57.75 for each percentage of more moisture content from 9 to 12%. Officials will not purchase cotton if the produce has more than 12% moisture. Farmers are being advised to dry the cotton before bringing it to ginning mills or procurement centres. “Due to the rains, we are getting incomplete cotton balls and yellow coloured cotton, which are being rejected, but otherwise the CCI officials are liberally accepting cotton as the farmers had already incurred huge losses. Now, the cotton grown has become normal and the moisture content has been reduced,” said K. Amaralingeswara Rao, a marketing official. However, some farmers said that their produce was not being taken immediately and they are being forced to wait for several hours. In some cases, traders, who had already invested in the cotton crop in the form of seed, fertilizers and pesticides, are offering less price to farmers. “Those who need money immediately, are selling cotton at a low price. As a result, several farmers are in debt trap,” said T. Prauthvi Raj, president, Manjeera Rythu Sangham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cotton-price-reduced-farmers-in-debt-trap/article33147216.ece
21 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Vemulaghat oustees resume fight for rights||As the Dubbak Assembly by-poll got over, Vemulaghat oustees are gearing up to renew the fight for their rights and compensations again. On Friday, a few women and a man from Vemulaghat in Toguta mandal presented a memorandum to the Joint Collector and Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Officer urging them to extend the R&R package to them like in the case of Erravalli in Kondapaka mandal. Both these villages will get submerged under the Mallannasagar reservoir. A few weeks ago, the district authorities had handed over cheques of Rs. 7.5 lakh to single men and women of Erravalli. “We are waiting for the past few days with a hope that the same benefits, extended to single women of Erravalli under writ petition number 15073/ 2020, will be extended to us as well. We are single men and women from Vemulaghat and there is no one to take care of us. Even coming to your office has become a difficult task for us as there was no proper road facility. It will be very difficult to come to your office again. For the past three years, we were without any work. We request you to extend the package to us,” they appealed to the authorities in the memorandum. Vanjari Antaiah, Salendra Venkavva, Jadala Rajavva, Kalakuntla Narsavva, Medamaina Mallavva and Chintakindi Bhagyavva came to the Joint Collector’s office. Another woman Mangari Balavva stated that a cheque (number 003861 dated May 14, 2019), in the name of ICICI bounced and bank officials issued a letter on May 27, stating that “Payment stopped by drawer”. She also alleged that her repeated visits to the district administration office had failed to yield any result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vemulaghat-oustees-resume-fight-for-rights/article33147219.ece
21 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Work on Kaleshwaram 3rd tmcft sans permission’||Bhoomi puja and movement of heavy machinery in the outskirts of Tukkapur village in Toguta mandal have created tension among residents. They alleged that the puja was done for the work on the delivery channel of Kaleshwaram 3rd tmcft, on which there was a stay by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). According to sarpanch Ch. Chandram, the delivery channel works were started adjacent to the village by the construction agency and he was not informed. He wondered how could the work be started in a village without informing the locally-elected public representatives. Questioning the rationale behind commencing the works despite problems being faced by villagers, Mr. Chandram alleged that the government has failed to provide Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) packages to farmers, who lost their land due to the Mallannasagar project, even after court directions. He has warned to launch an agitation if the works were not stopped immediately. According to sources, Tukkapur will have two delivery channels — one is from Ranganaiksagar and the other is directly from Mid Manair — which is the third tmcft of Kaleshwaram. Now, villagers are alleging that works for Kaleshwaram 3rd tmcft are being commenced on land acquired for Mallannasagar. Meanwhile, the Congress has given a call to protest against performing the bhoomi puja alleging that the works were being commenced without proper permissions. “The work for Kaleshwaram second tmcft has not started yet, where is the question of third tmcft work? Whatever works are taken up at Tukkapur are part of Mallannasagar project only,” said an irrigation official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/work-on-kaleshwaram-3rd-tmcft-sans-permission-allege-villagers/article33147221.ece
21 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BRF||Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy promised to develop women’s college in the district headquarters. Along with municipal commissioner Srinivas Reddy, the Collector visited the college on Friday and examined the facilities. He asked the staff to see that the attendance increased. He also directed SC Corporation in-charge executive director Jayachandra Reddy to visit the college and address the problems immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33147218.ece
21 November 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Protection of child rights a priority: Collector||District Collector Anita Ramachandran on Friday instructed officials to strengthen all mandal-level child protection committees, and conduct monthly reviews on the needs to support vulnerable children. She told officials of the child development programme, Sakhi centre and welfare department to work out a strategy to identify such children, and check violation of their rights. Ms. Ramachandran, along with officials, observed International Children’s Day on Friday and released a wall poster. She said that coordination of all departments in the district and stake-holding by voluntary groups and the civil society were necessary to arrest crimes against children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protection-of-child-rights-a-priority-collector/article33147209.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||A charming film that rings real||Middle Class Melodies, streaming on Amazon Prime Video,  is the directorial debut of Vinod Anantoju in Telugu cinema, which is mostly perceived to be glamorous and larger than life. We hear conversations at a housewarming function as the titles roll. The point of discussion is why the cow hasn’t yet taken a dump, which is considered an auspicious beginning. The first visual we see is the cow doing its act. Not exactly glamorous, is it? Soon, we also see an elderly lady being hoisted up on a chair with harnesses to the first floor, just like other pieces of furniture. The scene isn’t meant to poke fun at her plight. Everyone wants her to go upstairs safely, and cannot think of a better solution since she cannot take the steep stairs and they don’t have the luxury of a ramp. Vinod sets the tone for a close-to-reality portrayal of the many facets that make up middle class families in Kolakaluru near Tenali and Guntur, where someone discusses Trump’s antics at a tiffin centre or a group of people gleefully go to witness a brawl. The hero of this tale is Raghava (Anand Deverakonda) who plays a guy whom you are unlikely to notice in a crowd. He thinks he makes the most delicious ‘Bambai chutney’ and that it is under-appreciated in Kolakaluru where his father Kondal Rao (an excellent Goparaju Ramana) runs a tiffin centre. Raghava wants to open a tiffin centre of his own in an urban space. Not Hyderabad, but the nearby Guntur. Vinod and writer Janardhan Pasumarthi make us take a closer look at Guntur. Sunny Kurapati’s camera lovingly hovers over the city’s specials, from ‘ pulihora dosa’ to Laxmipuram idli and coolants laced with sabja seeds. Raghava’s days are incomplete without run-ins with his father, who feels the son is chasing a utopian dream given the family’s financial constraints. Middle Class Melodies is a lot more than one man’s dreams coming to fruition. In a place like Kolakaluru, it takes a few families to make someone’s dream come true. We are also introduced to the love story of Raghava and Sandhya (an expressive Varsha Bollamma). There’s enough room to show the complexities of both their parents, without making them look like caricatures. There’s a lot of warmth with which Middle Class Melodies is narrated, and even those characters with limited screen time are allowed to bloom. Anand plays the small town guy with an effortless charm, mirroring the vulnerabilities effectively. He isn’t a hero, cinematically speaking. The hurdles in his path to success are also not cinematic. Varsha is impressive, yet again. Chaitanya, Goparaju Ramana, Surabhi Prabhavati and a host of others deserve a mention.  (For the longer review, check www.thehindu.com)    Middle Class Melodies  Cast: Anand Deverakonda, Varsha Bollamma Direction: Vinod Anantoju Music: Sweekar Agasthi Streaming on: Amazon Prime Video||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-charming-film-that-rings-real/article33147225.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||CM meets market associations, allays fear of another shutdown||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday met representatives of market associations from across the Capital to seek their cooperation in controlling rising COVID-19 cases. On their part, the government said the market associations had assured the Chief Minister that they would support the government in preventing infection at market places. Mr. Kejriwal clarified that the government does not want to shut markets and requested the associations to provide masks to shoppers, who are without masks. At the same time, he also appealed to all political parties to send volunteers to distribute masks. He also called on Aam Aadmi Party MPs, MLAs, councillors and volunteers to distribute masks free of cost to the people. After meeting the market associations, Mr. Kejriwal tweeted: “Met representatives of market associations. I removed their anxieties, government does not wish to shut any market. They assured anyone not wearing a mask in the market will be provided free by market associations. All shops will also be asked to keep spare masks and hand sanitizers [sic].” “Our Aam Aadmi Party MLAs, MPs, councillors and volunteers, all of you also go to public places and distribute free masks to those who are not wearing masks. This is the greatest patriotic and human service. I also want to request all political parties to tell their volunteers to go out on the road and distribute free masks. Let us stop the spread of corona by joint effort [sic],” he stated in another tweet. Commendable effort The Chief Minister said that despite the rapid spread of COVID-19 in Delhi, doctors, nurses, and medical staffers had done commendable work and were constantly treating patients without tiring, for which they needed to be appreciated. The Delhi government stated it was taking “all measures” to control the spread of the pandemic and provide better treatment to patients. Constant efforts were being made to ensure that Delhi residents do not suffer due to the shortage of ICU beds in hospitals, it said. While 663 additional ICU beds will be increased in Delhi government hospitals within the next few days, 750 ICU beds have been provided by the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-meets-market-associations-allays-fear-of-another-shutdown/article33146756.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi reports 6,608 cases, virus tally reaches 5,17,238||The national capital recorded 6,608 new COVID-19 cases and 118 new deaths on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 5,17,238 and total deaths to 8,159. The health bulletin released by the Delhi government said that 62,425 tests were conducted over the past 24 hours with a positivity rate of 10.59%. Of the total tests, 23,507 were RT-PCR tests and 38,918 were rapid antigen. It added that 8,775 people have recovered, taking the total recoveries to 4,68,143. There are currently 40,936 active cases in the city. Earlier in the day, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that gradual reduction in the number of new COVID-19 cases and the positivity rate is a “clear indicator” that the spread of the virus is decreasing in the Capital. “The positivity rate was 15.26% on November 7. It is less than 11% now. The maximum number of cases [8,593] were reported on November 10,” Mr. Jain said. He announced that government rates would apply for the normal, non-ICU beds reserved in private hospitals by the Delhi government for COVID-19 patients and that additional 2,644 normal beds and 260 ICU beds have been made available for COVID-19 patients after the government issued directions on Thursday to reserve 80% ICU beds in private hospitals and increase the percentage of non-ICU COVID-19 beds to 60%. A day after the government announced an increase in the fine for not wearing a mask to Rs. 2,000, Mr. Jain asked people to not step out of their houses without a mask. Out of a total of 17,083 beds in the city, the bulletin said, 7,592 were vacant, adding that 24,042 people are under home quarantine. The number of containment zones in Delhi now stands at 4,560.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-reports-6608-cases-virus-tally-reaches-517238/article33146752.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Case filed against Pitampura hotel for flouting COVID-19 guidelines||The Delhi police have registered a case against a hotel in north-west Delhi’s Pitampura for allegedly organising a marriage function by violating the pandemic norms, said a senior police officer on Friday. On Wednesday, the Delhi government had reverted the order of the Central government’s Unlock guidelines that allowed 200 guests at weddings. In the fresh order issued by the Delhi government, the limit of guests who can attend an event has been scaled down to just 50. Complaint by visitor According to the police, a visitor to the City Park Hotel at K.P. Block, Pitampura, on Thursday informed the police about the alleged violation of COVID-19 norms at the hotel. A marriage party was organised at the hotel and more than 50 people were present at a time in the hall, the visitor said. The complainant submitted a complaint and also a video of the event as proof. “A police team reached the hotel and found that more than 150 people were attending the function and most of the guests were not even wearing mask and not following the COVID-19 guidelines,” an official said. Thereafter, a case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Maurya Enclave police station, a senior police officer said, adding that further investigation into the matter is under way. The hotel management refused to comment on the matter. A police officer said that the organiser of the marriage party told the police personnel, who had gone to the hotel after receiving the complaint, that the marriage was scheduled on Thursday. After the government issued COVID-19 guidelines that allow invitation of 50 people for an event instead of the earlier limit of 200, the invitation cards had already been distributed and it was impossible to cancel the invitations, the organiser said.  A police team reached the hotel and found that more than 150 people were attending the function and most of the guests were not even wearing mask and were not following pandemic norms Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/case-filed-against-pitampura-hotel-for-flouting-covid-19-guidelines/article33146761.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man killed after intervening in fight over public urination||A 30-year-old man was stabbed to death when he intervened in a fight between two people over urinating in public in north-east Delhi’s Sundar Nagri on Thursday evening, police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North East) Ved Prakash Surya said that the victim has been identified as Prem Pal. Three persons identified as Shahrukh (27), Guddu and Riyazuddin, all residents of Sundar Nagri, were arrested. Police said that a PCR call was received regarding the quarrel. When the police reached the spot, they were informed that Shahrukh was urinating in public near a grocery store and one Rahul objected to it. “Following this a quarrel broke out between him and Shahrukh after which Shahrukh left and returned with a few more men and started attacking Rahul,” said a senior police officer. Meanwhile, Prem Pal and a few others intervened to stop the fight but Prem Pal was stabbed in the melee. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead, police said. The DCP said that a case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and further investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-killed-after-intervening-in-fight-over-public-urination/article33146749.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Riot-affected students get 3 months to submit documents||The Delhi government has provided a relaxation of three months to students from riot-affected north-east parts of the city for submission of original documents, such as marksheets and certificates, for admission to colleges and universities under the government. The admissions will be done following verification of original documents and provisional admission may be given on the basis of marksheet/certificate available on Digi Locker, a circular said. It added that it took the step as “there are chances that many students may have lost their marksheets and certificates during the north-east Delhi riots and they may not be allowed admissions on non-availability of original documents. The process for issuance of duplicate marksheet/certificate is cumbersome and time-taking.” It added that students are unable to get time to get duplicate certificates as they are busy rebuilding their homes and lives. The circular instructed all education institutions, including Delhi universities to give at least three months’ time to the affected students to submit original documents. “Additionally, the students may be asked to submit an undertaking that they will show the original documents within three months’, failing which their admission may be cancelled,” the circular said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/riot-affected-students-get-3-months-to-submit-documents/article33146754.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three arrested for killing rickshaw-puller in Delhi||A 40-year-old man and his two accomplices were arrested for allegedly killing a rickshaw-puller here, the police said on Friday. The accused also tried to make it look like a suicide in order to falsely implicate another man whom the 40-year-old suspected to be having an affair with his wife, the police said. The accused have been identified as Ajimuddin, a resident of Bihar, Nandan Kumar (22) and Habib (48), both residents of Loni in Ghaziabad, they said. The police received an information on Tuesday that a person had fallen from the roof of a house. The injured was admitted in BJRM Hospital where he died during treatment. The deceased was later identified as Aalam, a resident of Geeta Colony. He was a rickshaw-puller, the police said, adding that a post-mortem was also conducted. The police also recovered a note from the spot. However, on the basis of names written in the letter, the police investigated the matter and found that the incident was not a suicide. A case under Section 302 (murder) was registered at Mahendra Park police station, a senior police officer said. “Ajimuddin and Nandan were arrested on Thursday and Habib on Friday,” DCP (North West) Vijayanta Arya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-arrested-for-killing-rickshaw-puller-in-delhi/article33146762.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Girl shot at by minor brother for chatting||A minor girl was shot at by her elder brother for chatting with her friend on WhatsApp in Welcome area, said a senior police officer on Friday. Police said that around 11.46 a.m. on Thursday, a PCR call was received regarding admission of a 16-year-old with gunshot injury in Jag Parvesh Chandra Hospital. A police team was sent to the hospital. “The victim stated that she was in contact with one Amir for some time by using the mobile of her father. Amir is a resident of Babarpur and brother-in-law of her elder sister. Her younger brother had objection over her friendship,” said the officer. On Thursday morning, her brother, who is a minor, got into an argument with the victim over the issue. During the argument, her brother fired at her with a countrymade weapon and injured her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/girl-shot-at-by-minor-brother-for-chatting/article33146760.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||Hemani- Ganja brief||Three men have been arrested and a total of 313 kg of ganja worth Rs. 30 lakh recovered from them, the police said on Friday. DCP (Crime Branch) Bhisham Singh said that the accused have been identified as Dharmender Yadav (30), Rahul Behera (22) and Naveen Mishra (44), who used to procure marijuana from Odisha and brought to Delhi in truck. The police said that the accused were arrested on Thursday morning from near Indraprastha Park following a tip-off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hemani-ganja-brief/article33146748.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- masks||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri termed the Delhi government’s decision to impose a fine of Rs. 2,000 on those not wearing masks “anti-poor” and demanded its withdrawal. This happened after party workers led by Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta distributed masks to shoppers at the busy Gaffar Market.“A large number of poor live in Delhi and the fine of Rs. 2000 is too much for them,” Mr. Bidhuri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jatin-masks/article33146757.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Mirror image||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mirror-image/article33146759.ece
21 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Night curfew imposed in Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot||After imposing a weekend curfew in Ahmedabad, the Gujarat government on Friday decided to impose night curfew from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. in Surat, Vadodara and Rajko as authorities intensified efforts to contain the surge in COVID-19 cases. Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who also holds the Health portfolio, told mediapersons that all four major cities would observe night curfew. The State saw its highest single-day surge of 1,420 cases on Friday. In Ahmedabad, complete curfew has been enforced from Friday 9 p.m. to Monday 6 a.m. There will not be any public transport service in the city on Saturday and Sunday, while all exams scheduled by the Gujarat Public Service Commission and other bodies have been postponed. Over 300 bus routes to and from Ahmedabad have been cancelled. Except pharmacies, fuel stations and milk parlours, all other commercial establishments will remain shut over the weekend in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/night-curfew-imposed-in-surat-vadodara-rajkot/article33146656.ece
21 November 2020||Ambala,||Haryana Minister gets trial dose of COVID vaccine||Haryana’s Health Minister Anil Vij was on Friday administered a trial dose of potential coronavirus vaccine Covaxin here, becoming the first volunteer for the phase three trial of the vaccine across the country. The trial of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin began in the State on Friday and the 67-year-old senior BJP leader was administered the dose at the Civil Hospital at Ambala Cantt. First volunteer Mr. Vij said he is the first volunteer in the country to take the dose in phase three trial of the vaccine. He is stated to be the first Cabinet Minister of any State government who has volunteered to take the trial dose of a potential vaccine against COVID-19. The MLA from Ambala Cantt. had on Wednesday said the third phase of trial of Covaxin will begin in the State on November 20 and had offered to get vaccinated. Covaxin is being developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research. Human trials of Covaxin had begun at Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in July. A team of doctors from PGIMS, Rohtak, was present here, including Vice-Chancellor O.P. Kalra and Dhruv Chaudhary. Civil Surgeon (Ambala) Kuldeep Singh told reporters that the Covaxin dose was administrated to Mr. Vij successfully. Earlier, the Minister underwent some tests at the hospital where he was kept under observation for some time after being administered the vaccine. He later also attended his office in Chandigarh. Mr. Vij said 1,000 volunteers will be registered for COVID-19 vaccine testing in Haryana. He said that a team of doctors will periodically examine the volunteers on which the vaccine will be tested. On Bharat Biotech developing the vaccine, Mr. Vij said, “It is a matter of pride that the Indian company is making this vaccine against the disease which has hit the whole world.” Doctors said they will now be monitoring Mr. Vij over the next few months. Last month, the vaccine maker said it had successfully completed interim analysis of Phase 1 and 2 trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-minister-gets-trial-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine/article33147174.ece
21 November 2020||Gurugram,||Haryana shuts schools again after over 100 kids, teachers test positive||In the wake of an increasing number of students testing positive for COVID-19, the Haryana government on Friday decided to shut all private and government schools in the State till the end of this month. The Director of Haryana Secondary Education, in a letter to all District and Block Education Officers, said the government had decided that all schools in the State will remain closed till November 30 due to a rise in cases and keeping in mind the well-being of the students. All the school premises will be sanitised during this period to disinfect them, the letter stated. The officers concerned have been asked to ensure the implementation of the directions in their respective districts. The school heads and managers would be responsible for the violation of the direction, said the letter. The directions came in the wake of media reports suggesting that more than 100 students and teachers across three districts of Haryana had tested positive for COVID-19 since the schools were reopened two months ago. Around 50 students in Rewari and Jhajjar have tested positive in the last fortnight. School for Class IX-XII The Haryana government had allowed the government and private schools to hold guidance classes for Class IX to XII students in the last week of September. The students were allowed to attend school only with the written consent of the parents. In October last week, the State Education Department directed holding of regular classes for three hours daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-shuts-schools-again-after-over-100-kids-teachers-test-positive/article33146638.ece
21 November 2020||Mumbai,||HC grants custody of child to father||The Bombay High Court has set aside the family court’s order and granted custody of a 13-year-old boy to his father “in the interest of the child’s health, development and future”. A Division Bench of Justices A.A. Sayed and P.D. Naik said, “There is nothing to arrive at the conclusion that the father is unfit to look after the child. The child has medical issues and has undergone surgeries. The father being a highly qualified doctor would be in a better position to understand the health condition of the child and take corrective measures in that regard.” The boy’s parents are doctors and British nationals and got married in 2002. After the boy was born in 2007 with one kidney and undescended testicles, his mother went through post-natal depression and underwent treatment in the U.K. till 2011. The next year, she came to India to stay with her parents. In 2015, she left for the U.K., leaving her son behind with her mother, who was the headmistress of a school for 35 years. The boy’s mother soon faced mental health problems and was placed in a mental institution. When the father came to India to take the boy back to the U.K., the grandmother refused to part with him. The father then filed a petition in the family court seeking the boy’s custody. The father and his family members were then restrained by a permanent order of injunction from removing the child from the jurisdiction of the court. Granting the child’s custody to the grandmother, the family court said, “The child is with her since January 2013 and since January 2015 she is looking after the child. It is in the interest of the child to stay with the respondent. There is nothing on record to show that she is unfit or the child’s welfare is at stake in her hands acting like a de-facto guardian of the child by dedicating her time for welfare of the child.” Setting aside the family court’s order, the Bench recorded, “In our view, the overall health, development and better future of the child would lie in the custody of his father who is the natural guardian. The interest and welfare of the child would be best served in the custody of his father.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-grants-custody-of-child-to-father/article33146655.ece
21 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai Police’s gesture wins praise||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has appreciated the Navi Mumbai Police for distributing food to the residents of the Bal Ashram in Vashi on the occasion of Deepavali. Mr. Deshmukh tweeted, “The Vashi police personnel from @Navimumpolice showed a nice gesture by carrying an initiative along with Smile Foundation, a social organization to distribute food among the children of the Bal Ashram in Vashi on the occasion of the Diwali festival.” Deputy Commissioner of Police Suresh Mengade, Assistant Commissioner of Police Vinayak Vast and senior police inspector Sanjeev Dhumal from Vashi had led the initiative. Mr. Mengade said, “The police department has been involved in social causes amid the pandemic and even before it. While the whole country is celebrating the festival, such kids also need our support to celebrate and each one of us should come forward to help them. The Minister’s tweet is a motivation for us to keep up our good work.” The Bal Ashram at Sector 28 is run by Desire Society for children living with HIV and has been registered in Hyderabad. “Of the children in the ashram, 19 are living with HIV, while six others were found abandoned. The smiles on their faces brightened our day too,” Mr. Mengade said. There are children who study from LKG to Class XII. Whatever help that can be extended from our department will be done, Mr. Dhumal said. Mr. Vast said, “I hope our gesture motivates others too to work for the unprivileged.” This was the fourth time the Smile Foundation extended the help to the children during the pandemic. “With the prime motive of bringing smiles to children’s faces, we donated supplies like rice and dal, drinking chocolate powder, biscuits, chocolates and stationery items,” Dheeraj Ahuja, founder member of the foundation, said. “We have extended our help every year, but this year due to the pandemic, we visited them often,” Uma Ahuja, founder president of the foundation, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/navi-mumbai-polices-gesture-wins-praise/article33146649.ece
21 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Pedestrian killed in accident in Vashi||A pedestrian was killed when a dumper rammed into a minibus ferrying employees of Glenmark Pharmaceuticals at Vashi at 4 p.m. on Friday. The bus toppled and Gourav Subhash Dhal (44), who worked with Indiabulls and was heading to Vashi railway station to board a train to his house in Kamothe, came under the vehicles. Senior police inspector Sanjeev Dhumal said, “It is unclear if it was the dumper or the bus that hit him. We will verify using CCTV footage. He was rushed to MGM Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. Four passengers of the bus sustained minor injuries and were admitted to MGM Hospital.” The dumper was on contract with the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation and the driver, who is the accused in the case, fled the scene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pedestrian-killed-in-accident-in-vashi/article33146650.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||The road less travelled||“I still don’t feel safe walking on that road alone,” recalled a 30-year-old entrepreneur living in Sector 11, Dwarka . It has been six months since the alleged abduction attempt on her but she is still struggling to come out of the trauma. After a Delhi police sub-inspector was arrested for allegedly molesting four women, including a minor, on a stretch connecting Sectors 11, 12, 5 and 6 of Dwarka, women have come out to share how unsafe they feel in and around that road and the adjoining areas. No police action Recalling the April incident, the entrepreneur said she was walking with her mother in the service lane around 5.30 p.m. when some men in a white van followed them. “When the car came close to us, my mother sensed something amiss. We ran as the car stopped and they started shouting ‘bhag gai… bhag gai [she ran]’,” she said. The mother-daughter duo approached a police officer whom they found a few metres ahead. “We asked him to send an alert on the wireless system but his attitude was casual. He just asked us to safely reach home.” A 43-year-old woman shared how she was flashed at in Sector 12 when she was in her car on a February evening. A resident of the same area, she said she was getting into the car while talking on her mobile phone when an e-rickshaw driver stopped his vehicle in front of her and started masturbating. “When I shouted, he left,” she said, adding that she didn’t approach the police because she “didn’t think they would take it seriously because I couldn’t catch him or identify him”. Traumatic experience Another traumatic experience was shared by a 40-year-old IT professional and resident of Sector 10. She was being followed by a group of five men who were making lewd comments looking at her. “I pretended I was calling the cops and noting numbers of their motorbike. When they realised this, they fled. I was sure they were going to assault me,” she said, adding that the incident happened in August. “That was the last day I went out alone for a walk. Now, I only visit public parks for walks where senior citizens and children are also present,” she said. On October 17 and 20, four women were molested allegedly by a sub-inspector posted in Delhi Police Special Cell. He was driving around in a car without number plate, flashing at women and making lewd comments. One of the four victims, a 28-year-old MNC employee who was molested when she had gone out for a run, said she hasn’t gathered the courage to step out since. “I never used to run in Dwarka earlier. It was only during the lockdown that I started running here and this happened. It feels extremely unsafe here and I don’t have any other option but to go to the parks now,” she said. DCW help The woman also said that she felt fortunate to get help from the Delhi Commission for Women, which arranged a counsellor for her. “I shared the incident on social media. Because of that post and the DCW counsellor I was taken seriously. I am not sure if a person who is unaware of the procedure would get any help,” she said.Repeated criminal incidents have prompted a group of women – all residents of Dwarka – to come together and form a collective and ask other women about their horrid past experiences – reported or not – to be able to chart out the shortcomings for the authorities to work on. “Obscene behaviour has normalised enormously and that’s why we need to raise this issue and know the crime pattern in such areas. It’s ironic that Dwarka has the widest roads and there’s no safe space to move,” said Anuradha G.R., 46, former defence officer and a resident of Sector 3. ‘Lack of trust’ The lack of response from the police is another “roadblock”, the women said. The collective said women are discouraged from reporting a crime and approaching the police. “The lack of trust has increased to the point that women are not even trying to report such incidents. This needs to change,” said another member, Shillpi Singh (42), a journalist and a resident of Sector 9. She added that there are innumerable desolate spots where vehicles are parked and people drink inside, which is another cause for concern. Seema Joshi, a member of the group, said they had organised a programme in October, right after a spate of molestation incidents, and invited several senior police officers. “Instead of joining, they cancelled our programme in the wake of the pandemic and sent force to ensure the event did not take place. All we wanted was for them to come and tell women that they are safe,” Ms. Joshi said. The police, on the other hand, said they have taken several measures for the safety of women in the area. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said that emergency response vehicle and motorbike patrolling has been increased on routes taken by women while coming back from malls and work. “Dark stretches where light is required have been identified and beat patrolling has also been increased in crowded areas. Officers have been asked to draw a list of habitual stalkers and keep a check on the list,” he said, adding that other necessary measures have also been taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/the-road-less-travelled/article33146643.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||CBI gets HC notice on plea by Maneka Gandhi||The Delhi High Court on Friday issued notice to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on a petition by BJP MP Maneka Gandhi, challenging a trial court’s order rejecting the closure report and directing the agency to further probe a graft case against her. Justice Yogesh Khanna also stayed the trial court’s February 4, 2020 order to the extent it directs the CBI to place the material it has before the Sanctioning Authority for her prosecution. The case relates to a complaint filed against Ms. Gandhi and two others over an alleged sanction of Rs. 50 lakh to Gandhi Rural Welfare Trust (GWRT) for construction of a Nursing College Building at Pilibhit, when she was Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Social Justice and Empowerment from 1998 to 2001. Ms. Gandhi, represented through advocates Tanveer Ahmed Mir and Prateek Som, said she has been targeted by a political opponent who has indulged in making false and frivolous allegations against her. The trial court, in its order, had rejected the closure report filed by the agency in the case noting that “on the basis of the record which is before the court, it appears that there was a conspiracy amongst the accused”. The trial court had also asked the investigating agency to, during the course of probe, place before the Sanctioning Authority the record of the present case to consider the issue whether to grant sanction or not for the prosecution of the public servant under the Prevention of Corruption Act. In her petition, Ms. Gandhi contended that the trial court has directed the investigating agency to place the matter before the Sanctioning Authority, despite the fact that the CBI investigators themselves have come to a categorical conclusion that there is no criminal culpability on her part in two consecutive and successive closure reports — one in 2010 and last one in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cbi-gets-hc-notice-on-plea-by-maneka-gandhi/article33146636.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||City sees coldest Nov. night in 14 yrs||It was the coldest November night in over a decade on Friday with the minimum temperature settling at 7.5 degrees Celsius, which is five degrees cooler than the normal for the season. In the past 15 years, the temperature has fallen below 8 degrees Celsius only thrice in — 2017, 2009 and 2006 — when it was 7.6, 7.9 and 7.3 degrees Celsius respectively. The Met department has forecast clear skies and cold wave-like conditions till November 22 after which a fresh western disturbance is expected that may help in increasing the temperature on November 23. The Met said in the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is also 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days. If the criteria is met on November 21 as well, a cold wave will be declared in the Capital. This November has been colder with the minimum temperature settling constantly below average apart from on November 16. The all-time record for the lowest minimum temperature in November is 3.9 degrees Celsius recorded on November 28, 1938. The maximum temperature was recorded at 25.4 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees below normal. The air quality continued to be in the “poor category” and is likely to improve further due to an increased wind speed. The city’s 24-hour average air quality index was 296. It was 283 on Thursday, 211 on Wednesday and 171 on Tuesday, said Central Pollution Control Board. Stubble burning An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. According to government-run body SAFAR, stubble burning accounted for 15% of Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution on Friday. It added that “energetic” surface winds are likely to influence AQI positively in the next two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/city-sees-coldest-nov-night-in-14-yrs/article33146646.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||North-east riots: court extends custody of Umar and Sharjeel till November 23||A Delhi court on Friday extended the judicial custody of former JNU student Umar Khalid and JNU student Sharjeel Imam, who were arrested under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the north-east riots here, till November 23. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat gave the direction on the request made by the Special Public Prosecutor in the case. Special Public Prosecutor, Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, said the mandatory time period of 90 days to complete the probe in the case will be completed on November 23 and also, the chargesheet has to be filed. When Judge Rawat asked if he was facing any problems as he had mentioned in earlier hearings, Mr. Khalid replied that besides “curbing my liberties and a malicious investigation, I am not facing any other issues”. On previous hearings, Mr. Khalid had complained that he was not allowed to step out of his cell similar to “solitary confinement”. Advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Mr. Khalid, opposed the remand application. Mr. Khalid was arrested on September 13, 2020 in an FIR registered at Crime Branch and remanded to police custody for 10 days. Thereafter, he has been remanded to judicial custody which is being extended from time to time. During this judicial custody period, Mr. Khalid was arrested again in another FIR registered at Khajuri Khas police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/north-east-riots-court-extends-custody-of-umar-and-sharjeel-till-november-23/article33146634.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea seeking review of order on cigarette butts dismissed||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has dismissed a plea moved by the Federation of All India Farmers’ Associations seeking a review of an earlier order that directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to issue guidelines on the disposal of cigarette and beedi butts. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson said: “By way of the present review application, the applicant seeks rehearing of the matter, which is not possible. The review application will accordingly stand disposed of.” Earlier, following a plea seeking regulation on the disposal of cigarette and beedi butts, the Tribunal had sought responses from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change and the Ministry of Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/plea-seeking-review-of-order-on-cigarette-butts-dismissed/article33146647.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea against temple demolition||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined a plea by Shri Manokamna Siddh Shri Hanuman Seva Samiti challenging North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s decision to demolish a Hanuman Temple in Chandni Chowk here, saying such request has to come from the Delhi government.  “Once such a liberty was granted to the GNCTD, and so far, the GNCTD has not approached this court for any relief. We see no reason to entertain that application for intervention which is nothing but an attempt to re-agitate the same issue that has been considered and rejected by an earlier order dated November 14, 2019,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-rejects-plea-against-temple-demolition/article33146635.ece
21 November 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records 5,640 new cases, 6,945 recoveries||Maharashtra reported 6,945 more COVID-19 recoveries on Friday as opposed to 5,640 new cases as the active cases dipped to 78,272. The total case tally stands at 17,68,695, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 16,42,916, with the State’s recovery rate incrementally rising to 92.89%. With 155 fatalities, the total death toll has climbed to 46,511. “Of a total of 10,035,665 laboratory samples tested thus far, 17,68,695 (case positivity rate of 17.62%) have returned positive with nearly 70,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate currently stands at 2.63%. Pune district reported 711 new cases to take its tally to 3,44,750, while 60 deaths, of which 50 are from an earlier period, saw its toll climb to 7,266. According to district administration figures, the active cases have risen to 9,593, while the recovery rate has dipped to 94.69%. Mumbai recorded 1,031 cases to take its tally to 2,73,486, of which 11,822 are active. Twelve fatalities saw the city’s toll rise to 10,639. Nagpur district reported 463 new cases, taking the tally to 1,10,094, of which 2,707 are active. Thirteen deaths saw the toll reach 2,909. Satara reported 15 deaths to take its death toll to 1,593. As many as 130 cases saw the tally rise to 50,813, of which 2,399 are active. Neighbouring Sangli, however, reported 61 cases and two deaths as the district’s case load reached 48,079, of which 1,159 are active. Its death toll has risen to 1,713. Kolhapur recorded 41 cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 48,316. Its active case tally stands at 336. The total death toll has reached 1,668. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported 379 cases as its total case tally reached 101,792, of which only 1,848 are active. With eight more deaths, the district’s total death toll has now touched 1,673. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported just 50 cases and two deaths as its total case tally reached 54,439, of which only 936 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,380. Dr. Awate said a total of 5,58,090 people across the State are in home quarantine and 4,883 are in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-records-5640-new-cases-6945-recoveries/article33146652.ece
21 November 2020||Pune,||‘Power arrears rose during BJP regime’||Holding the erstwhile Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government responsible for Maharashtra’s mounting electricity arrears, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) State president Jayant Patil claimed that the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL)’s arrears had snowballed to a whopping Rs. 67,000 crore during the tenure of the BJP government led by Devendra Fadnavis. During a review of the upcoming Maharashtra Legislative Council polls in Pune on Friday, Mr. Patil, who is also the State Water Resources Minister, said the Uddhav Thackeray has ordered an inquiry to ascertain how power arrears soared during the BJP’s rule. “To determine this, time must be given to our Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to understand just how the MSEDCL has plunged into this crisis. We want to enable the power board to provide relief to the people and our government will try to alleviate the arrears’ problem,” Mr. Patil said, adding that the MVA government was capable of providing relief to people with inflated power bills. Expressing confidence that the ruling government would sweep all five graduates’ and teachers’ constituency seats in the Maharashtra Legislative Council polls on December 1, Mr. Patil said the three parties would commence their joint campaign from 11 talukas in Pune district from Saturday. The NCP has fielded sugar baron Arun Lad from the Pune graduate constituency seat, while the Congress has nominated Jayant Asgaonkar from the Pune teachers’ constituency seat. Mr. Patil said the BJP’s statements alleging that the Congress was being bullied by the other MVA allies must be firmly ignored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/power-arrears-rose-during-bjp-regime/article33146654.ece
21 November 2020||Washington,||Trump is sending ‘damaging messages’||President-elect Joe Biden said incumbentDonald Trump’s refusal to concede the electionand cooperate with the Biden-Harris transition team was sending a very wrong message to the world. “I think they’re [Americans] witnessing incredible irresponsibility. Incredibly damaging messages being sent to the rest of the world about how democracy functions,” Mr. Biden told reporters after aCOVID-19response meeting he and Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris held with a bipartisan group of State Governors. Coordinated response Mr. Biden and his team are seeking access to the current administration’s pandemic and vaccination plans (titled, ‘Operation Warp Speed’) so they are prepared on day 1 (January 20) of the new administration tocoordinate a national response to the pandemic. However, the General Services Administration (GSA) of the Federal Government needs to provide an “ascertainment” that Mr. Biden won the elections and this has not happened. Mr. Biden said that for now, he preferred to work with Republican Governors and those in the House and Senate directly instead of taking legal action — but had not ruled out taking the Trump administration and GSA to court. Mr. Trump has reportedly invited leading State lawmakers from Michigan to the White House on Friday to discuss ways tooverturn the certification processthat is progressing in the State which Mr. Biden won by over 1,50,000 votes. Mr. Biden was confident the results would not be overturned. “We won Michigan. It’s going to be certified,” Mr. Biden said. “It’s hard to fathom how this man [Mr. Trump] thinks.” Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris’ discussion with 10 State Governors included the implementation of a national mask mandate, federal government financial assistance and the distribution of the vaccine. Mr. Biden also said categorically that while there may be constraints to the degree to which business can be open depending on the prevailing viral conditions, he was not planning a nationwide economic shutdown. “I’ll say it again. No national shutdown. No national shutdown... so there’s no circumstances that I can see that would require total national shutdown,” he said. The President-elect, who has announcedseveral Cabinet picks, said he had made a decision on who would be his Treasury Secretary and that it was a choice which progressive and moderate Democrats would accept. He planned to announce the name before or after Thanksgiving (next Thursday). On China In response to a question on whether, after becoming President, he would want to “punish” China with tariffs or economic sanctions, Mr. Biden said, “It’s not so much about punishing China. It’s about making sure China understands that they got to play by the rules. It’s a simple proposition.” He said this was one of the reasons the U.S. was going to rejoin the World Health Organisation (WHO) on the first day of his administration. Mr. Biden also reiterated thatthe U.S. would rejoin the Paris Climate Accord. The coronavirus death toll in the country has just crossed the quarter of a million mark. The White House held its first coronavirus briefing in months on Thursday and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) urged Americans not to travel and gather with their families over the Thanksgiving holiday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-is-sending-damaging-messages/article33146344.ece
21 November 2020||Beijing,||‘Almost a million inoculated in China’||Nearly a million people have taken an experimental coronavirus vaccine developed by Chinese company Sinopharm, the firm said, although it has not yet provided any clear clinical evidence of efficacy. China has been giving experimental COVID-19 vaccines to people including state employees, international students and essential workers heading abroad since July. Sinopharm’s chairman told media this week that nearly a million people have now received their vaccine for emergency use, though he did not provide a specific figure. “We have not received a single report of severe adverse reaction, and only a few had some mild symptoms,” Liu Jingzhen said in an interview re-published by the state-owned firm on Wednesday. China has been bullish about the development of its vaccine for the new virus — which first emerged in the centre of the country late last year — with four vaccines now in late-stage testing. Many of the trials are taking place overseas, as China has largely brought the virus under control within its borders. Sinopharm is testing two vaccines in late-stage trials in countries, including the UAE, Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Peru and Argentina.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/almost-a-million-inoculated-in-china/article33146331.ece
21 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Trump bid to overturn poll unparalleled in U.S. history||President Donald Trump’s attempts to overturn the 2020 election are unprecedented in American history and an even more audacious use of brute political force to gain the White House than when Congress gave Rutherford B. Hayes the presidency during Reconstruction. Mr. Trump’s chances of succeeding are somewhere between remote and impossible, and a sign of his desperation after President-elect Joe Biden won by nearly 6 million popular votes and counting, as well as a clear Electoral College margin. Yet, the fact that Mr. Trump is even trying has set off widespread alarms, not least in Mr. Biden’s camp. “I’m confident he knows he hasn’t won,” Mr. Biden said at a news conference in Wilmington, Delaware, on Thursday, before adding, “It’s just outrageous what he’s doing.” Mr. Trump has only weeks to make his last-ditch effort work: most of the States he needs to strip Mr. Biden of votes are scheduled to certify their electors by the beginning of next week. The electors cast their ballots on December 14, and Congress opens them in a joint session on January 6. Even if Mr. Trump somehow pulled off his electoral vote switch, there are other safeguards in place, assuming people in power do not simply bend to the President’s will. The first test will be Michigan, where Mr. Trump is trying to get the State Legislature to overturn Mr. Biden’s 1,57,000-vote margin of victory. He has taken the extraordinary step of inviting a delegation of state Republican leaders to the White House, hoping to persuade them to ignore the popular vote outcome. Uncharted territory “That’s not going to happen,” Mike Shirkey, the Republican leader of the Michigan state Senate, said on Tuesday. “We are going to follow the law and follow the process.” Beyond that, Michigan’s Democratic Governor, Gretchen Whitmer, could send Congress a competing electoral slate, based on the election vote, arguing that the proper procedures were ignored. That dispute would create just enough confusion, in Mr. Trump’s Hail Mary calculus, that the House and Senate together would have to resolve it in ways untested in modern times. Federal law dating to 1887, passed in reaction to the Mr. Hayes election, provides the framework, but not specifics, of how it would be done. Edward B. Foley, a constitutional law and election law expert at Ohio State University, noted that the law only required Congress to consider all submissions “purporting to be the valid electoral votes.” But Michigan alone would not be enough for Mr. Trump. He would also need at least two other States to fold to his pressure. The most likely candidates are Georgia and Arizona, which both went for Trump in 2016 and have Republican-controlled legislatures and Republican Governors. Governor Doug Ducey of Arizona has said he will accept the State election results, although only after all the campaign lawsuits are resolved. Governor Brian Kemp of Georgia, where a hand recount reaffirmed Mr. Biden’s victory on Thursday, has not publicly said one way or another who won his State. Mr. Trump has said little in public apart from tweets endorsing wild conspiracy theories about how he was denied victory. Yet his strategy, if it can be called that, has become clear over two days of increasingly frenetic action by a President 62 days from losing power. In just that time, Mr. Trump has fired the federal election official who has challenged his false claims of fraud, tried to halt the vote-certification process in Detroit.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-bid-to-overturn-poll-unparalleled-in-us-history/article33146342.ece
21 November 2020||WILMINGTON,||Sanders, Warren may be left out of top posts||Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, leaders of the Democratic Party’s left wing, are at risk of being excluded from the senior ranks of President-elect Joe Biden’s administration as the incoming President balances the demands of his party’s progressive base against the political realities of a narrowly divided Senate. The liberal New England Senators remain interested in serving in Mr. Biden’s Cabinet, but even some of their allies recognise they face major political hurdles getting there. Sensing disappointment, progressive leaders have reluctantly begun to express support for less-controversial alternatives. Ms. Warren, whose political career has been defined by efforts to diminish the power of big banks, is the progressive movement’s top choice for Treasury secretary. Mr. Sanders, a self-described democratic socialist, reiterated his desire to serve as Mr. Biden’s Labor secretary on Thursday, describing himself as particularly well-suited “to focus on the many crises facing working families in this country.” Whether he is included in Mr. Biden’s Cabinet or not, Mr. Sanders warned Mr. Biden not to freeze out progressives as he shapes his government. "It seems to me pretty clear that progressive views need to be expressed within a Biden administration,” Mr. Sanders said. “It would be... enormously insulting if Biden put together a ‘team of rivals’ - and there’s some discussion that that’s what he intends to do - which might include Republicans and conservative Democrats — but which ignored the progressive community. I think that would be very, very unfortunate.” In a nod to the left wing, Mr. Biden’s transition team has hired Analilia Mejia, a Sanders adviser who served as his presidential campaign’s political director, to work on progressive outreach. It’s unlikely, however, that mid-level hires will be enough to satisfy progressives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sanders-warren-may-be-left-out-of-top-posts/article33146334.ece
21 November 2020||London,||Debutant Douglas Stuart wins 2020 Booker Prize||Scottish author Douglas Stuart on Thursday was awarded the 2020 Booker Prize for his acclaimed debut novel Shuggie Bain , set in his home city of Glasgow. “I always wanted to be a writer so this is fulfilling a dream,” said Mr. Stuart, whose novel about a working-class family in the 1980s was inspired by his own childhood. “This has changed my entire life,” he said in his acceptance speech. Like the other finalists, the 44-year-old writer, who now lives in New York, was watching the socially distanced ceremony via video link due to the anti-virus lockdown in place in Britain. Mr. Stuart’s book reflects his own experiences growing up with a mother who was an alcoholic and died from her addiction. He described the book as a “love story” looking at the kind of “unconditional, often-tested love” that children can have for flawed parents. In an emotional speech, the 44-year-old, who now lives in New York, said: “My mother would be thrilled, she would be absolutely thrilled and I think she would be proud.” He said that he had carried “a lot of love and pain” and writing the book was “incredibly healing for me.” He also paid tribute to his native city, saying that “growing up in Glasgow I think is one of the greatest inspirations of my life.” Mr. Stuart was one of four debut novelists among the six finalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/debutant-douglas-stuart-wins-2020-booker-prize/article33146336.ece
21 November 2020||Kampala,||Toll rises to 28 in Uganda clashes: police||Twenty-eight people died in violent clashes between Ugandan security forces and supporters of detained Opposition leader Bobi Wine this week, police said on Friday. Mr. Enanga added that 375 people had been arrested with some suspects due to appear in court Friday, among them popstar-turned-presidential candidate Bobi Wine, whose real name is Robert Kyagulanyi. Protests were sparked by the arrest on Wednesday of Mr. Wine ahead of a rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/toll-rises-to-28-after-uganda-clashes-police/article33146333.ece
21 November 2020||Washington,||U.S. pushes ahead with executions||A convicted murderer was put to death on Thursday as President Donald Trump’s administration pushes ahead with executions of criminals, despite a tradition of outgoing governments refraining from the practice. Orlando Hall, whose trial was tainted by racism according to his lawyers, was killed at an Indiana jail. Mr. Hall, an African American, was convicted in 1995 of participating in the kidnapping, rape and murder of a 16-year-old girl, Lisa Rene, and received a death sentence. He was executed on Thursday night by an injection of pentobarbital in a federal jail after the Supreme Court rejected his last-minute appeal for a stay. The decision was the first by Trump-appointee Justice Amy Coney Barrett, who sided with her five conservative colleagues on the nine-judge bench to greenlight the execution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-pushes-ahead-with-executions/article33146338.ece
21 November 2020||London,||London, Nov 20, 2020 (AFP) -||A top Cabinet ally of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, in charge of executing major planks of his post-Brexit agenda, apologised on Friday after an official inquiry into bullying allegations. “I am sorry that my behaviour in the past has upset people. It has never been my intention to cause upset to anyone,” Home Secretary Priti Patel said in a statement. “I care deeply about delivering on the commitments we have made to the people of this country and I acknowledge that I am direct and have at times got frustrated,” the statement added. A long-awaited report by Mr. Johnson’s adviser on ministerial standards, Alex Allan, found Ms. Patel’s approach on occasions had “not consistently met the high standards expected of her”.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-nov-20-2020-afp/article33146337.ece
21 November 2020||Washington,||Washington, Nov 20, 2020 (AFP) -||U.S. President Donald Trump’s daughter-in-law is considering a Senate run in her home state of North Carolina in 2022, U.S. media reported on Thursday. Lara Trump, who is married to the President’s second-eldest son Eric, “has been telling associates she is considering a run for Senate in 2022,” the New York Times said, citing three unnamed “allies.” The reports come as President Donald Trump continues seeking to reverse his November 3 election loss to Joe Biden. North Carolina Republican senator Richard Burr has said he will not seek reelection that year. North Carolina is historically Republican, and voted for Donald Trump on November 3 — but by a smaller margin than in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/washington-nov-20-2020-afp/article33146340.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||A fragile peace amid persisting conflict||On the afternoon of July 8, 2020, Sadaqat Hussain, 23, and Zameer Ahmed, 26, were hit by sniper fire from the Pakistani side of the Line of Control (LoC) in Simari Panchayat, Tangdhar sector of Kupwara district in Jammu and Kashmir, while they were helping construct a community bunker. Ceasefire violations along the LoC and the International Border (IB) have increased in the last few years; this year, they have reached a new high. This increased exchange of fire, involving small arms, mortars and medium artillery, and causing injuries and deaths, has led to a scramble to build bunkers for villages along the border. The incident in Tangdhar occurred during one such construction effort. Army officials said the workers were probably mistaken for military personnel. Hussain and Ahmed received some assistance from the Army but are still sometime away from full recovery. One has been injured in the leg and the other in the stomach. According to official data, in 2018, there were 1,629 ceasefire violations along the LoC and IB. This number increased to 3,168 in 2019 and has touched a new high of 4,052 so far this year, including major exchange of fire just before Deepavali. There have been over 128 incidents already this month and 396 in October. Ceasefire violations have resulted in 20 civilian deaths this year; 47 people have sustained injuries. A bulk of the ceasefire violations were in the Jammu region. “Shelling had reduced after 2012, but it increased again from last year,” a local villager said during an interaction with a small group of journalists who visited the place in mid-October. The Tithwal border crossing point on the LoC, which was open till November 2018, has remained shut since. With recent developments, there is no scope of it being opened for the public again. Originally built in 1931 and destroyed and rebuilt since, the bridge is open only during emergencies now. Dogs squeeze through the barbed wire and cross freely under the watchful gaze of the guards and surveillance cameras. “Who will stop them?” said one jawan laughing. Possibility of escalation of tensions Tithwal has a population of about 1,100 people, while Simari has a smaller population of 750 people. Villagers reminisced about their visits across the border to see their relatives during better times. “Shelling began in and around Tithwal in 2018,” said Izaz Ahmed, a teacher, and chairman of the Chinar Youth Committee. Ahmed has relatives on his father’s side across the border and has been to Pakistan several times. He said those who wished to travel used to obtain a permit from Srinagar. “It took about one or two months to get the permit. They would let us travel up to 15 days and would extend that by up to two months on a case-by-case basis,” he explained. Several villagers complained that not only could they no longer go across the border, but even mobile connectivity had stopped 50 to 100 metres short of their village. “Tangdhar was active last year,” said an officer talking of ceasefire violations after the Balakot airstrike in February that heightened tensions between India and Pakistan. In Tangdhar sector, 60 old bunkers which had fallen into disuse over time are now being converted into 120 community bunkers, according to government specifications. These bunkers are spread across 32 panchayats consisting of 42 revenue villages with a population of over 70,000 people. Work on 75 bunkers is complete; the rest are at an advanced stage of completion.  Each bunker costs around Rs. 20 lakh and can accommodate 50-60 people. Lolab Valley in Kupwara district, once a hotbed of terrorist activity, is now largely quiet. “There is a possibility of escalation of tensions here, so we are keeping watch,” said an officer. At the Army Goodwill School, Chandigam, in Lolab Valley, located a few kilometres from the LoC, the number of students has increased over the years. “Most of them come from poor backgrounds. There is a growing awareness about educating children,” said Zahida Maqbool Shah, the school principal. Except for a few threats in the past to shut down the school, the situation has been peaceful. The fee is subsidised by the Army. During the pandemic, however, payment has been deferred as many have not been able to afford even the subsidised fee. The school was established in 2000 under the Army’s Sadbhavana initiative. It has 697 students: 472 boys and 225 girls. The school admits students up to Class XII and was recognised by the Jammu and Kashmir Board of Education in 2015-16. This is one of the 28 Army Goodwill Schools set up by the Army in Kashmir Valley. Talking about the school, Lieutenant General B.S. Raju, 15 Corps Commander, said, “What people here want is just a good quality of life, a decent life, like everyone else in the world. This is the common man’s aspiration in the Valley.” Preventing infiltration attempts Lt Gen Raju said the first tier of the anti-infiltration grid has been strengthened. “If the first grid is strong, it will help in stopping infiltration. This also gives us a chance to detect infiltration of terrorists,” he said. “We have been able to stop infiltration substantially. We have given troops on the ground additional surveillance and technology,” he said in Srinagar. “The scale of ceasefire violations went up and then came down slightly. We have managed to limit calibre escalation.” Data show that infiltration has been effectively curtailed. Twenty-seven terrorists infiltrated the border this year till mid-October, compared to 130 in 2019 and 129 in 2018. There are an estimated 22 terror launch pads active along the LoC with around 300 terrorists waiting to infiltrate the border. While infiltration remains low, there are innovative attempts being made to smuggle in weapons. Even drones have been used on a few occasions in Jammu. There has also been an increase in the recovery of arms and ammunition including U.S.-origin M4 rifles and Chinese rifles. This year, over 143 of the AK series, five M4s and two M16s were recovered, among other weapons. The Army is also in the process of upgrading the border fence. The existing fence, called the anti-infiltration obstacle system, is located about 700 m from the LoC. It is a double row fence consisting of concertina wire and was constructed between 2003 and 2005. Keeping in view the annual wear and tear of the fence due to snowfall, the Army has decided to adopt a hybrid model which will cost around Rs. 10 lakh per km. The Army is attempting to construct 60 km this year, an officer on the LoC said. There is heavy snowfall in many areas which makes the metal brittle. As a result, the fence has to be repaired every year. The Corps Commander has suggested that the sensors installed should be modular with a plug and play option to prevent their damage, another officer said. Charging and maintenance facilities will be available at the local posts. Since he took over command of 15 Corps in March, Lt Gen Raju has also decided to do away with the point system for recovery of weapons in the Valley (a system by which Units earn citations and rewards in an attempt to discourage deviations). He said the system has seen too many discrepancies and also gives the wrong message. Pitch for connectivity While the Army is busy at the border, the residents in Tanghdar have their own woes. They have been appealing for a tunnel, as the region gets cut off during winters. This has been promised but hasn’t been approved yet, they said. “A tunnel will ensure connectivity all year and bring development. In February, a representation was made to the Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways, Nitin Gadkari,” said Wali Ahmed, chairman of the tunnel coordination committee. “In winter, it is a challenge to stock up essential supplies and prices go up,” said Mansor Ahmed, principal of the local school. A local official said a feasibility study was supposed to have been taken up in February but has been delayed due to COVID-19. It is not yet clear when the study will take place. A senior Army officer said the duration for which the Sadhna Pass, earlier called the Nastachun Pass, on the Kupwara-Tangdhar highway is cut off has been significantly reduced in the last few years. However, the risk of avalanches and hazards remains significantly high. In April this year, the sub-divisional magistrate, Bilal M. Bhat, and two of his staff had a narrow escape after their vehicle was hit by a big avalanche as they were returning after monitoring the COVID-19 situation. Timely rescue by the Army saved their lives. The tunnel is one option but given the high cost, other options like a ropeway should also be explored, the officer said. Many residents also raised the issue of 4G Internet service, which has not been restored after being suspended in August last year. Since the COVID-19 lockdown, this problem has caused a lot of displeasure as professionals and students have been working and studying from home. A year since the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and the conversion of the State into two Union Territories, cross-border firings have increased and infiltration and incidents of stone throwing have decreased. An eerie silence has descended on the Valley, said an official who did not wish to be identified. “Despite restrictions, some flare-up was expected, but all indices point to normalcy. There is an uneasy calm here,” he said. People around Srinagar and up to Tangdhar sector identified 4G, roads and connectivity as the main issues affecting the people. After the abrogation of special status, people want to see tangible changes on the ground, said Army and government officials. An uneasy calm on the ground Though strong counter-infiltration measures are in place, local recruitment remains a concern. The activity has shifted from north Kashmir to south Kashmir. According to data from the Army, 219 terrorists were locally recruited in 2018, 119 in 2019, and 135 as of October 6 this year. An estimated 207 terrorists are active in the Valley of which 90 are Pakistanis. Data show that recruitment of people for terrorist activities, which was 24 in 2011 and 19 in 2012, has steadily gone up. In 2017, a year after the Army’s ‘surgical strikes’ on terror camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (POK) and the killing of Burhan Wani, recruitment went up to 128 from 88 the previous year. Given this trend, the Army’s focus has shifted to promoting surrenders by involving families, said both Lt Gen Raju and Major General Rashim Bali, General Officer Commanding of the Victor Force covering South Kashmir. “We are advocating minimum use of force and minimum collateral damage so that loss of lives and damage to property are avoided,” they said. There has been an increase in surrenders too, they said. “We will be doing more work on the issue of surrenders because for us, getting a man back is more important than neutralising him. And that is a work in progress,” said Lt Gen Raju. The Army wants to reach out to people in such a manner that “there will be little reason for people to take up arms,” he said. It is important to stop recruitment, he emphasised. Lt Gen Raju said that they want to break the barrier between the Army and the people. “It is important for us. We need to do more. We have intensified our youth outreach programme,” he said. Early this year, security forces decided not to allow public funerals for terrorists killed in encounters in order to avoid major congregations and recruitment. “We told them that it is essential to avoid collateral damage and also peer pressure,” said Maj Gen Bali. Family members are taken along and the burial is held elsewhere, not in the native village. Impact of the pandemic As restrictions imposed after the August 5, 2019 were eased and a semblance of normalcy returned to the Valley, there was expectation that tourism would pick up. But the situation once again went into a tailspin due to COVID-19 and the resulting lockdown. Both last year and this year, tourism was affected due to lockdowns, said a local vendor. As a result, tourism, a major revenue generator for the summer months, as well as apple cultivation, the biggest revenue generator, were both badly hit. Dal Lake in Srinagar, a major draw for tourists, remained largely devoid of crowds. Boat operators could be seen offering discounted rides for people walking on the pavements along the lake. Several pleaded with tourists to take a ride at Rs. 200. “It has been a very tough season,” one operator said. Mir Junaid, president of the Jammu and Kashmir Workers Party and a Sarpanch in Kupwara district, said Kashmir is going through a paradigm shift. With the “political confusion of the past one year” erased, people now want to lead a normal and happy life, but the speed of Internet bothers them, he said. “The job of the government is to work on easing tensions and finding a solution to the problem of terrorism. If that is sorted, we will be able to conclude that Kashmir’s renaissance or makeover is complete,” he said to The Hindu . The social isolation caused post the exodus of Kashmiri Pandits is another important point that needs resolution for the re-colouring of the faded cultural fabric of Kashmir, he added. Kashmiri apples, known for their quality and taste, suffered a twin blow this year. While yield remained much lower than normal due to the pandemic and the lockdown, fewer quality control checks led to fake pesticides flooding the market, endangering the crop. The result is that a majority of the produce has been marked ‘lower grade’ and is being sold at a lower price. Normally 80% of the produce is categorised as ‘Grade A’, said Ashraf Wani, president of the fruit mandi in Shopian district of South Kashmir. “Last year, half the lot got spoiled due to the unrest. This year, due to the lockdown, there were spurious pesticides in the market. Those spoiled the apples. There was also fungal infection caused by Venturia inaequalis ,” Wani said. “About 60-70% of the produce got spoilt and was given a lower grade.” This problem persists throughout the Valley and the Departments of Horticulture and Enforcement should act, he said. There is only one laboratory in Jammu and Kashmir to check pesticides, and it is located in Srinagar, he said. Testing in the lab takes six months. There is demand for two more labs. As we stopped at an orchard near the mandi, damaged apples could be seen in significant numbers hanging from trees all around the small orchard. The apples are spoilt, there are no tourists and the people of the Valley are hunkering down for a long, bitterly cold winter. The hope is that there will at least be peace.  We will be doing more work on the issue of surrenders because for us, getting a man back is more important than neutralising him. And that is a work in progress. Lieutenant General B.S. Raju 15 Corps Commander   The job of the government is to work on easing tensions and finding a solution to the problem of terrorism. If that is sorted, we will be able to conclude that Kashmir’s renaissance or makeover is complete. Mir Junaid President of the Jammu and Kashmir Workers Party||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-fragile-peace-amid-persisting-conflict/article33146329.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s no to RCEP could still be a no||Last week, 15 East Asian countries agreed to take their economic integration several notches higher by forging the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), the largest free trade agreement (FTA) ever. In 2019, RCEP members accounted for about 30% of world output and population and 28% of world trade. But more importantly, about 44% of their total trade was intra-RCEP, which is a major incentive for the members of this agreement to agree to the deal for this could contribute to the strengthening of the regional value chains. This may well prove propitious for the RCEP member countries in their efforts to recover from the downturn. The objectives The initiative to establish RCEP was taken by the member-states of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in 2011. These countries had adopted a resolution “to establish an ASEAN-led process by setting out principles” that would allow ASEAN members to “engage interested ASEAN FTA partners in establishing a regional comprehensive economic partnership agreement”. The “Guiding Principles and Objectives” (https://bit.ly/2UGGOdq), the de facto negotiating mandate for RCEP, spoke of “progressively eliminating tariff and non-tariff barriers on substantially all trade in goods” and achieving “high level of tariff liberalization, through building upon the existing liberalization levels between RCEP participating countries and through tariff elimination on a high percentage of both tariff lines and trade value”. As regards services, RPCs agreed to conclude a comprehensive and high quality agreement that would “substantially eliminate restrictions and/or discriminatory measures”. And, finally, RCEP negotiations on a framework for investment “to cover the four pillars of promotion, protection, facilitation and liberalization”. It was, therefore, quite clear that the RCEP participating countries (RPCs) had given themselves an ambitious agenda of trade and investment liberalisation. A comparison with the TPP Several commentators have observed that RCEP is not likely to usher in comprehensive economic integration in East Asia. It appears that this view has arisen by comparing RCEP with the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), which would have been the world’s most extensive FTA in terms of market opening had the Trump Administration decided not to abandon it. But there have always been doubts whether the TPP was promoting “free trade” or a highly discriminatory “managed trade”. This was because the TPP included several regulatory issues including the controversial labour and environmental standards and issues such as “anti-corruption”, all of which could raise regulatory barriers and severely impede trade flows. In contrast, RCEP includes traditional market access issues, following the template provided by the World Trade Organization (WTO). However, it also includes issues that are currently being discussed by several groups of WTO members as a part of their agenda to “reform the multilateral trading system”. These issues are electronic commerce, investment facilitation, which seems to be the first step towards a multilateral agreement on investment and creating an enabling environment for the participation of small and medium enterprises in global trade. While India has been opposed to the inclusion of all these issues in the WTO, the formation of RCEP could provide serious momentum to the discussions in Geneva, especially after the Organization convenes under its new Director General. Progress made and problems The question is, would RCEP be able to realise its primary objectives of trade and investment liberalisation? In case of trade in goods, RCEP members have taken big strides towards lowering their tariffs. For instance, China has agreed to cut its average tariffs from 9.4% in 2014 (adopted as the “base year” for tariff cuts”) to 1.2% for Australia and all ASEAN members, by the 10th year of implementation of RCEP, and has also committed to reduce tariffs on almost 90% of its imports from these two RCEP members  to 5% or less. Further, less than 4% of its products figure in the exclusion list, implying that their tariffs will not be reduced. Vietnam’s tariff offers to China look similar: average tariffs would drop from 10% in 2014 to 2% by the 10th year, and nearly 90% of its imports from China will be tariff-free. Moreover, Vietnam does not have an exclusion list. Among the major economies in the region, Malaysia has had the lowest levels of protection and this will be reduced as it implements its commitments under RCEP. In contrast to their market access commitments under goods, commitments made by RCEP members for services trade liberalisation do look shallow in terms of the coverage of the sectors. Movement of natural persons, an area in which India had had considerable interest, is considerably restricted. RCEP members have allowed relatively limited market access only to individuals in managerial positions or those having high levels of skills. The areas of investment and electronic commerce, in both of which India had expressed its reservations on the template adopted during RCEP negotiations, the outcomes are varied. The text on investment rules shows that it is a work-in-progress. The rules on dispute settlement procedures are yet to be written in, and, therefore, it will be interesting to see whether the controversial investor-state-dispute-settlement (ISDS) mechanism is included. In case of electronic commerce, RCEP members have agreed not to “prevent cross-border transfer of information by electronic means where such activity is for the conduct of the business of a covered person”. However, a member can deny transfer of information if it is necessary to “achieve a legitimate public policy objective, provided that the measure is not applied in a manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination or a disguised restriction on trade”. In addition, members are free to adopt a “legal framework which ensures the protection of personal information of the users of electronic commerce”. Re-engaging India In the months following India’s disengagement from RCEP negotiations, several RPCs had expressed their strong desire to get India re-engaged. These efforts are now “official”: prior to the signing of the deal, RCEP Ministers adopted a Declaration on India’s Participation in the agreement through which the door has been left open to India to join RCEP Agreement as an original signatory. Further, India has been invited to participate in RCEP meetings as an observer and in economic cooperation activities undertaken by RCEP members. And, finally, RCEP members have agreed to commence negotiations with India once India submits a request in writing of its intention to accede to the agreement The question is, have the circumstances under which India had distanced itself from the RCEP negotiations become any better for it to join the agreement in the near future? The answer seems to be unambiguously in the negative on two counts. The first is that during the RCEP negotiations, India had raised a number of concerns, two of which, namely, the levels of market access it was expected to provide, especially the deep cuts in tariffs on imports from China, and provisions relating to the investment chapter, have become even more significant over the past several months. Since the border clashes, India has imposed a number of import restrictions on Chinese products and has also subjected investment flows from its northern neighbour to greater scrutiny. Both these measures would have been infructuous if India were a party to the RCEP. Second, India’s initiative for its economic turnaround, the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, is primarily focused on strengthening domestic value chains, while RCEP, like any other FTA is solely focused on promoting regional value chains. Biswajit Dhar is Professor, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, School of Social Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indias-no-to-rcep-could-still-be-a-no/article33146323.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The ‘Time Use Survey’ as an opportunity lost||The all India Time Use Survey, 2019 has just been published by the Government of India. As a survey that has covered the entire country for the first time, the National Statistical Office needs to be complimented for accomplishing the task. The “Time Use Survey, or TUS, provides a framework for measuring time dispositions by the population on different activities. Its primary objective is to measure participation of men and women in paid and unpaid activities... TUS is an important source of information on the time spent in unpaid care-giving activities, volunteer work, unpaid domestic service producing activities of the household members. It also provides information on time spent on learning, socializing, leisure activities, self-care activities, etc., by the household members” (https://bit.ly/36T8elZ). The data collection was done for one day — normal or other day in a 24-hour time diary, beginning at 4 a.m. and till 4 a.m. the next day. In developed countries where literacy is high, time use is recorded in a 24-hour time diary by the respondents themselves, using 10-15 minute time slots. In India, where literacy is low, the time diary was filled in by interviewers in 30 minute time slots through face-to-face interviews. The International Classification of Activities for Time-Use Statistics of the United Nations Statistics Division, was used for classification of activities. Key developments Two recent developments which have pushed up the demand for TUS globally are the commitment to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) by 2030, and the path-breaking Resolution of the 19th International Conference on Labour Statistics, on “Statistics of Work, Employment and Labour Underutilization — International Labour Organization 2013”;https://bit.ly/35PklkW. The Government of India is fully committed to the SDGs and has also indicated its inclination to implementing the second. TUS data are also required for understanding and monitoring major socioeconomic concerns of countries. Somehow, both these developments have not been incorporated in this first time use survey. Time use data are needed for implementing not only the SDG 5.4 on unpaid work, but also for implementing the SDG-1 to the SDG-10. Even for the SDG 5.4 — considered to be the most important SDG for measuring and valuing unpaid domestic services and unpaid care by women and men, and reducing unpaid work through public services and infrastructure — the Indian TUS data are not adequate. Unpaid work is usually valued using the input method, i.e. valuing the labour input in unpaid work using suitable prices (minimum wages of workers, housekeeper’s wages, opportunity costs or specialised wages). However, this valuation is not adequate, because it values only the labour input and leaves out the capital and technology used. Satellite accounts of unpaid work, however, takes into consideration capital/technology while computing the accounts. Satellite accounts of unpaid work use the principal functions concept, which can be compared with the national accounts functions. Under this approach, unpaid work is presented in terms of this classification of the functions, similar to the classification of the functions under the national-accounts. These accounts would be comparable with the national income accounts, and measure the correct contribution of unpaid work to the GDP. This accounting requires information on the assets of a household that includes assets used in domestic services, vehicles used in travel and commuting, and consumer durables, etc. The accounting also requires wage rates prevailing in different locations. Unfortunately, this information is not collected by this TUS in the background questionnaire. In the absence of this information, valuation will not be feasible in satellite accounts. Since there is no data collected on the ownership of the assets by gender, valuation by gender will not be feasible. Defining work The ILO’s Resolution — referred to above — presents a new definition of work, new forms of work and a new labour force status classification. It defines “work” as “any activity performed by persons of any sex and age to produce goods or provide services for use by others or own use”. “Work” is divided into five categories: employment (production of goods and services for pay, profit or barter); own use production of goods and services by households; unpaid trainee work, volunteer work; and other work (compulsory work performed without pay to produce goods/services for others). Unpaid domestic services and unpaid care are now formally recognised as “work” for the first time. Clearly, the Resolution cannot be implemented without time use data. Several countries have initiated its implementation, and the ILO has also undertaken pilot studies in several countries. It was a good opportunity for India to implement the Resolution. However, the Standing Committee on Labour Force Statistics that designed the time use survey decided to keep the Resolution out and conducted an independent TUS. The TUS does not even have employment as one of the objectives of the TUS. Breaks in Indian surveys Experts have always argued that Indian Employment/Unemployment Surveys, or EUS, tend to under-report informal workers, due to the nature of informal employment. Being frequently intermittent, scattered, temporary, short term or unstable, it is frequently not reported accurately by the EUS. Again, women frequently view work as a part of household work and under-report it. Also, the EUS are not equipped to collect data on multiple jobs performed by people, the time spent on work (i.e. intensity of work), the scattered nature of work, subsistence work, and work performed under simultaneous activities. The TUS, which collects comprehensive information on all human activities, provides improved estimates of the workforce as well as shed light on important characteristics of the workforce. The TUS can thus provide critical information to add the richness of the EUS. The Expert Committee on the 62nd Round of the NSSO on EUS therefore recommended that a national TUS should follow an EUS. A TUS collects data only for one or two days per person in a week, while according to the ILO, “a person is a worker if she/he has spent at least one hour on work in the reference week”. As informal work is frequently intermittent and irregular, the TUS information on one day’s work (for less than one hour) or non-work cannot qualify the person to be a worker or non-worker. It is quite likely that the person reporting as a non-worker on one day may be working on other days, or one reporting work may not work for one hour totally in the week. Thus, the TUS cannot provide information on the workforce/employment status of persons. It is necessary, therefore, to draw the TUS sample (which is always smaller) from the same sampling framework that is used by the labour force survey (EUS), with some common units. The TUS can complement the labour force survey (LFS) information. The independent TUS cannot provide estimates of the workforce/labour force. In short, the Indian TUS has missed two important opportunities — of implementing the SDG 5.4 and the ILO’s important resolution. Indira Hirway is Director and Professor of Economics, Center For Development Alternatives, Ahmedabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-time-use-survey-as-an-opportunity-lost/article33146325.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Digital nation||Affordable smartphones and Internet access have made India a digital nation with an estimated 750 million connections and a thriving financial technology sector. Citizens inured to queues at dingy utility offices even to pay routine bills find this a major leap, thanks to fintech. Digital platforms providing goods and services, including online education and telemedicine, have grown vigorously during the COVID-19 pandemic, while many professionals have maintained productivity by working from home. Yet, it would be premature to declare digital as a way of life in India, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi put it at the Bengaluru Tech Summit. The true measure of digital nations is the readiness of governments to use technology to create open, participatory public systems that citizens consider trustworthy. What governance must achieve is a reliable system of digital welfare. A beginning has, no doubt, been made through government-to-citizen services using Common Service Centres, advice to agriculturists, digital payments of welfare benefits through bank accounts and, even legal advice online to four lakh people under the Tele-Law scheme. These represent a welcome advance, but if digital methods were applied to other sectors, such as road safety, the results could be dramatic — potentially reducing the accident mortality rate of about 1,50,000 deaths a year. In the ongoing pandemic, Mr. Modi’s forecast for enhanced adoption of technology in health and education will have resonance, although this was always a priority. In fact, successive governments failed to grasp the promise of achieving universal health coverage (UHC) by 2022, for which the erstwhile Planning Commission presented a road map a decade ago. Now, the nucleus plan is Ayushman Bharat, with a digital health identity for all. With the emphasis on digitalisation, it should be possible to achieve measurable progress early on at least on one UHC component — access to free, essential prescription drugs. A digital health ID would help prescribe and dispense essential medicines free. The Planning Commission estimated that the public procurement cost for this, in 2011, would be 0.1% to 0.5% of GDP. If this is a medium-term goal, the more immediate task of distributing COVID-19 vaccines looms as a test for the government. At a broader level, efficient digital government depends on transforming internal processes, and fixing deadlines for service delivery. The UPA could not see its electronic delivery of services legislation through, and it remains forgotten. If digital has to become a way of life, redefining the labyrinthine functioning of citizen-centric services would be a good place to start, with deadlines for government departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/digital-nation/article33146318.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Scorched earth politics||The ferment in U.S. politics appears unabated weeks after one of the most controversial election campaigns, with outgoing President Donald Trump refusing to concede to his victorious rival, Democratic President-elect Joe Biden. The irony is that this outcome, which is inflicting damage on the fabric of U.S. democratic systems, was all but a foregone conclusion, given the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on mail-in voting, and Mr. Trump’s repeated and ominous warnings that he would not accept such votes as legitimate. The tectonic shift toward mail-in voting in the 2020 election presumably stemmed from voters’ desire to abide by social distancing norms through the pandemic, which has had a far worse impact in the U.S. than elsewhere. Yet apparently the same world view that led Mr. Trump and his supporters to deride mask-wearing, social distancing and a ban on large gatherings has led them to dismiss the pandemic as a Democratic conspiracy to “steal the election” from the incumbent, allegedly through massive voting fraud. The truth is that even before this election, the rate of voting fraud was statistically insignificant, according to non-partisan studies. It is therefore unsurprising that despite Mr. Trump and his supporters firing off a string of election-related lawsuits, most legal manoeuvres of this sort have failed, leaving ever fewer avenues for the Trump team to finagle the result from certification. However, even if all legal challenges foisted by Mr. Trump peter out, the losers of this election may sabotage the transition process to such an extent that it hobbles the Biden administration taking charge on January 20, 2021, an act of calculated vindictiveness aimed at throwing cold water on a democratically elected successor. It appears that the Biden transition team is not taking this possibility lightly, and is expediently seeking a critical sign-off from the head of the General Services Administration, the so-called “ascertainment” that is required, recognising the “apparent successful candidate” in a presidential election as a precursor to disbursing critical funds and infrastructural resources to the next administration. To date, GSA chief Emily Murphy has not officially recognised Mr. Biden’s win, potentially denying his team up to $6.3 million that Congress has appropriated for the transition process. Even if this barrier is somehow transcended, Mr. Biden has a tough road ahead because if Republicans hold the Senate, it is only through tireless cat-and-mouse negotiations with Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell that Mr. Biden will be able to get his legislative agenda and Cabinet and other government nominees passed in the Upper House. Mr. Trump is doubtless emboldened by the 10 million-vote increase in his tally over 2016, but his final act of intransigence is scorching the landscape of the incoming administration, and thus harming the recovery prospects of the country he claims to love.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/scorched-earth-politics/article33146319.ece
21 November 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Raise private bank promoter cap to 26%’||An Internal Working Group (IWG) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has recommended raising the cap on promoters’ stake in private sector banks to 26% in the long run (15 years). The holding is currently mandated at 15% of the paid-up voting equity share capital of the bank. The IWG, set up in June, has also suggested that large corporate or industrial houses be allowed as promoters of banks only after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (to prevent connected lending and exposures between the banks and other financial and non-financial group entities); and strengthening of the supervisory mechanism for large conglomerates, including consolidated supervision. Also, well-run non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), with an asset size of Rs. 50,000 crore and above, including those owned by a corporate house, may be considered for conversion into banks subject to completion of 10 years of operations, meeting due diligence criteria and compliance with additional specified conditions, the panel said. As regards non-promoter shareholding, it has suggested a uniform cap of 15% of the paid-up voting equity share capital of the bank for all types of shareholders. The IWG was constituted to review the extant ownership guidelines and corporate structure for private sector banks in India. The terms of reference of included review of the eligibility criteria for individuals/ entities to apply for banking license; examination of preferred corporate structure for banks and harmonisation of norms; review of norms for long-term shareholding in banks by the promoters and other shareholders. Conversion to SFB The panel also recommended that for Payments Banks intending to convert to a Small Finance Bank (SFB), their track record of three years should be considered sufficient and Small Finance Banks and Payments Banks may be listed within ‘6 years from the date of reaching net worth equivalent to prevalent entry capital requirement prescribed for universal banks’ or ‘10 years from the date of commencement of operations’, whichever is earlier. The IWG also suggested that the minimum initial capital requirement for licensing new banks be enhanced from Rs. 500 crore to Rs. 1,000 crore for universal banks, and be raised to Rs. 300 crore from Rs. 200 crore for SFBs. It said non-operative financial holding company (NOFHC) should continue to be the preferred structure for all new licenses to be issued for universal banks. However, it should be mandatory only in cases where the individual promoters, promoting entities or converting entities have other group entities, the panel added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/raise-private-bank-promoter-cap-to-26/article33146302.ece
21 November 2020||Chennai,||‘Borrowers have started repaying, post moratorium’||With the moratorium winding down, almost all the borrowers have started repaying loans, according to a senior official of the Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Company (Chola). “More than 95% of our customers have started servicing loans, post moratorium,” said Arulselvan D., executive VP and CFO. “Other NBFCs also seem to have seen the trend. So, the industry hit rate is about 80-90%.” For the quarter ended June, Chola’s assets under management had grown 13% to Rs. 67,182 crore from a year earlier, of which vehicle finance accounted for 73% Mr. Arulselvan explained that since the company’s borrowers used loan funds to earn a livelihood, it was critical for them to retain the asset against which they had taken the loan, as well as maintain good credit profile for future loans. “Credit behaviour has improved considerably,” he said. However, from a cash-flow perspective, borrowers’ businesses were still not back to pre-pandemic levels. “Our customers are still facing challenges, running at 60-70% capacity. Only if they cross 70-75% capacity, would they have something left after they pay their EMIs,” said Mr. Arulselvan. On disbursements, the Chola CFO said the second quarter saw improvement but they were still slower than the year-earlier period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/borrowers-have-started-repaying-post-moratorium/article33146307.ece
21 November 2020||Bengaluru,||E-com ushering in faster digitisation: Amazon India||India’s e-commerce currently accounts for a mere 3% of its total retail transactions but is ushering in faster digitisation across the consumption value chain, said Amit Agarwal, global senior vice-president and country head, Amazon India. Addressing the Bengaluru Tech Summit, Mr. Agarwal said technology and mobile Internet had transformed daily life globally and they were likely to have profound impact on India. “E-commerce is blurring the line between online and offline and between local and global,” he said. According to him, the pandemic had particularly highlighted the resilience and optimism of the Indian entrepreneur, as more small businesses and shops were embracing technology to set up online presence and reinvent themselves. Expanding reach Tens of thousands of neighbourhood stores across the country are expanding their reach by adding more pick-up points, logistics partners, and experience centres, for e-commerce and truly becoming digital entrepreneurs, he pointed out. “India must grab this rare opportunity with both hands, by focussing on enabling policies that accelerate this shift,” he said. Stable framework “It is important we ensure a stable and predictable policy framework that attracts long-term investment, and proactively remove paper-cuts impacting ease of doing business online,” he added. Amazon India recently launched a service allowing local shops to establish a digital presence on Amazon to serve customers in their locality online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/e-com-ushering-in-faster-digitisation-amazon-india/article33146300.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Fosun-backed Gland surges 23% on debut||Gland Pharma, a drugmaker backed by China’s Fosun Pharma, jumped as much as 23% on its market debut on Friday reflecting the strong investor interest in pharmaceutical companies. The stock, which was priced at Rs. 1,500 in the country’s largest pharma IPO, rose to an intraday high of Rs. 1,850 on the BSE before closing at Rs. 1,820.45. The Hyderabad-based injectables firm had opened its share sale earlier this month with a price band of Rs. 1,490-Rs. 1,500 per share to raise almost Rs. 6,500 crore through a combination of fresh issue of equity and offer for sale of shares by existing shareholders. The Nifty Pharma Index has gained more than 43% so far this year, outpacing the 5.7% rise in the benchmark NSE Nifty 50 index. “(Gland) has never received a negative USFDA report,” Reuters cited Hemang Jani, equity strategy head, broking and distribution, at Motilal Oswal Financial Services Ltd. as saying. “The future prospects are bright as it has 267 ANDA filings of which 215 are approved.” Gland’s customers include Novo Nordisk and Viatris, John Christopher, practice head of business intelligence, pharma, at GlobalData told Reuters .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fosun-backed-gland-surges-23-on-debut/article33146298.ece
21 November 2020||Mumbai,||‘RBI spurned DBS offer to buy 50% of LVB in 2018’||K.R. Pradeep, the single largest promoter of the crippled Lakshmi Vilas Bank with a 4.8% shareholding, said that Singapore’s DBS had been keen to acquire 50% stake in the lender for a high valuation in 2018 but that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) did not allow the deal to go through. With RBI superseding Lakshmi Vilas Bank’s board and mooting its merger with DBS Bank India earlier this week, Mr. Pradeep also said he was confident that the central bank would be ‘kind enough to listen to all the shareholders and promoters, and will not let them go empty-handed’. Currently, Mr. Pradeep’s holding in the lender — as well as that of the rest of the promoters and other shareholders, including retail shareholders who own about 45% of equity — has no value. Apart from Mr. Pradeep, there are three other promoter families — N. Ramamritham, N.T. Shah and S.B. Prabhakaran — who collectively own 2%. The promoters were also looking at approaching markets watchdog SEBI but would wait for the final merger scheme, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-spurned-dbs-offer-to-buy-50-of-lvb-in-2018/article33146312.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||SEBI moots easier dilution norms for large IPO issues||Markets regulator SEBI on Friday proposed to reduce the minimum offer size in an initial share sale, whereby companies with a post-issue capital of above Rs. 10,000 crore would be required to offer at least 5% stake in IPO. At present, all companies with a post-issue capital above Rs. 4,000 crore are compulsorily required to dilute at least 10% shareholding in an initial public offering (IPO). In view of the proposal, SEBI said there could be a scenario where large issuers may not be compliant with 10% minimum public shareholding (MPS) at the time of listing. Accordingly, the regulator recommended that MPS of 10% should be achieved in 18 months by such issuers and 25% within 3 years from the date of listing. Further, the regulator has suggested to provide additional time to comply with MPS of 25% in case of very large issuers with post issue market capitalization (MCap) of Rs. 1 lakh crore and above. For such issuers, it has been proposed that minimum of 10% should be achieved in two years and 25% within five years from the date of listing, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) said in a consultation paper. Currently, companies need to achieve MPS of 25% within three years of listing. SEBI noted that securities market, including the market for IPOs, is dynamic and needs to keep pace with the evolving market condition. “It is proposed to reduce minimum offer to public for large issuers to 5% of post issue market capital exceeding Rs. 10,000 crore,” the regulator noted. SEBI has sought comments from public till December 7 on the proposals. Seen as constraint The regulator said that market participants have provided feedback that the compliance with minimum offer to public requirement — at least 10% of post issue paid up — is cumbersome for large issuers. It has been represented that such large issuers already have investments by private equity or other strategic investors, who are classified as public shareholders. Moreover, mandating minimum 10% of post issue MCap at the time of IPO leads to unnecessary dilution of holding of the promoter or existing shareholder and is therefore a constraining factor for listing, market participants said. According to an analysis carried out in respect of public issuances since 2010, it has been observed that the average issue size of IPO or OFS on main board has increased in the last decade, while the number of issuers coming for initial share-sale or offer-for-sale on the main board has declined, SEBI said. This trend of larger issuances is expected to continue, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-moots-easier-dilution-norms-for-large-ipo-issues/article33146314.ece
21 November 2020||Chennai,||TMB first-half net rose 60% to Rs. 241.5 crore||Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Ltd. (TMB) reported net profit for the six months ended September jumped almost 60% to Rs. 241.5 crore. Non-interest income at the unlisted private lender rose to Rs. 294.3 crore (Rs. 229.2 crore) and net interest income increased to Rs. 733.6 crore (Rs. 634.7 crore). Gross NPAs, as a percentage of total advances, declined to 3.4%, from 4.9%, while net NPAs halved to 1.2%, the bank said. Total business rose 9.7% to Rs. 66,765 crore with deposits accounting for Rs. 37,161.4 crore and advances Rs. 29,603.9 crore. For the full fiscal year ending in March, TMB aims to cross Rs. 72,500 crore in total business and register a net profit of Rs. 480 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tmb-first-half-net-rose-60-to-rs-2415-crore/article33146305.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||Vodafone Idea, Bharti Infratel shares soar||Shares of Vodafone Idea Ltd. (VIL) and Bharti Infratel surged on Friday on completion of the Bharti Infratel and Indus Towers merger deal. The scrip of debt-ridden VIL jumped over 8% while that of Bharti Infratel soared 19%. Bharti Infratel closed 17.73% higher at Rs. 218.50 on the BSE, while VIL shares gained 8.31% to close at Rs. 10.04.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vodafone-idea-bharti-infratel-shares-soar/article33146308.ece
21 November 2020||New Delh,||EPFO records 14.9 lakh net new enrolments in September||Net new enrolments with retirement fund body EPFO rose to 14.9 lakh in September from 8.8 lakh in August 2020, according to its latest payroll data. Provisional data released last month had shown that net new enrolments stood at 10.05 lakh in August this year. The figure has now been revised down to 8.8 lakh. The net enrolments had dropped to 5.72 lakh in March from 10.21 lakh in February.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/epfo-records-149-lakh-net-new-enrolments-in-september/article33146309.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||Competition Comm clears Reliance-Future Group deal||The Competition Commission has approved Reliance’s proposed acquisition of retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing businesses of Future Group. In a tweet, the regulator said it has approved “acquisition of retail, wholesale, logistics & warehousing businesses of Future Group by Reliance Retail Ventures Limited and Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Limited.”PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/competition-comm-clears-reliance-future-group-deal/article33146310.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Krishna swings it ATKMB’s way||Roy Krishna was a clinical finisher and the joint top-scorer of the Indian Super League with 15 goals last season. On Friday night, he looked a different player early on as he wasted three good chances. But the 33-year-old from Fiji had the last laugh, scoring the match-winner shortly after the hour-mark, as ATK Mohun Bagan defeated Kerala Blasters 1-0 in the ISL opener at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim. Krishna, who had shot over the bar once and was denied by a fine slide by the Blasters defender Costa Nhamoinesu in the first half, produced the one moment of magic that sealed the tie in the Kolkata outfit’s favour. Perfect cross Manvir Singh, playing on the left, appeared to be searching for Krishna and when he spotted the Fijian just outside the box, he sent a cross in. Krishna raced into the box and slotted the ball into the bottom corner with a cool finish, giving goalkeeper Albino Gomes no chance. Blasters, who finished seventh last season, had superior ball possession in the opening half but could not create enough opportunities. The Kerala team’s star striker Gary Hooper failed to connect a header properly from close range in the 37th minute. Shortly after the break, young Sahal Samad missed a golden chance. He was well placed as he met a Jessel Carneiro cross from the left but messed up the finish. Hit by the global pandemic, the teams had short pre-seasons this time and it showed early in the second half as the game slowed down. Both sides struggled to keep the ball, but ATKMB edged the contest to start its campaign on the right note.  The result: Kerala Blasters 0 lost to ATK Mohun Bagan 1 (Roy Krishna 67) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/krishna-swings-it-atkmbs-way/article33146409.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Australia a different kettle of fish with Smith and Warner back: Gavaskar||India great Sunil Gavaskar feels Steve Smith and David Warner will be key to Australia’s chances in the upcoming four-Test series against India. In an interview with Sportstar , Gavaskar also praised India’s pace attack, adding that he expects the Border-Gavaskar Trophy to be a thrilling face-off. On his expectations from the Test series Australia will be a different kettle of fish with the return of Steve Smith and David Warner. Marnus Labuschagne, having made the progress that he has in the last one year, will be a big challenge, too. So, the Australian batting this series will be much stronger compared to 2018-19 when not one Australian batsman scored a hundred. But our bowlers have got the capability of getting these top batsmen out also. It should be a thrilling face-off. On Smith daring India’s pacers to bowl short No one is ever ready for the short ball! A good short ball will trouble the best of batsmen. Nobody can say, “I’m ready.” Mohammed Shami in particular has a fabulous bouncer. If he gets it right on target, then you can be pretty certain that not too many batsmen will be able to negotiate him. He is not very tall and his short ball will come skidding at you around your shoulder and head, and that’s the most difficult delivery to play. On which pace attack has the edge I would think Australia, with the left-right combination in the pace department, offers a lot more variety. India, on the other hand, has four right-arm pacers. So, that’s a big plus for the host. On whether the lack of game time will hinder Pujara Ideally, the Indian team plays two-three First Class games before the first Test, [which] helps everybody get into the groove. Cheteshwar hasn’t played competitive cricket since March. So for him to get ready for the series, those two or three matches would have been a big plus. But he is the kind of player who doesn’t get affected by anything... He would’ve done everything to prepare for these four Tests. On Rohit’s significance in the Tests He will be very important because he is going to open the batting. For the Indian team to get off to a good start, he is going to be crucial. If he gets going and if Mayank [Agarwal] ... can bat the way he did against the South Africans at home last year, then it makes the job that much easier for the batsmen to follow.  (India's first One-Day International against Australia will be telecast live from November 27 at 8 a.m. on Sony Ten 1, Sony Ten 3 and Sony Six channels)   With the return of Smith and Warner, and the presence of Labuschagne, the Australian batting this series will be much stronger compared to 2018-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-a-different-kettle-of-fish-with-smith-and-warner-back-gavaskar/article33146405.ece
21 November 2020||Chennai,||Sandeep a welcome addition for TN||The Tamil Nadu probables for the pre-season conditioning camp, which began here on Friday, had an important addition. The State’s prized signing from Kerala, Sandeep Warrier, was out there. The tall and lithe paceman was a significant catch for a side seeking Ranji Trophy triumph after three decades. The 28-year-old Sandeep brings a lot to the table. He has eight years of First Class experience and 186 scalps at 24.43. Versatile, he can bowl across formats. Rapid strides Sandeep, in fact, made rapid strides in the last couple of seasons — he claimed 44 wickets as Kerala reached the semifinals in 2018-19 — and last season broke into the India ‘A’ team, played against Sri Lanka at home, and then visited West Indies and New Zealand. In five matches for India ‘A’, Warrier picked up a creditable 17 wickets. To put it mildly, he has a lot going for him. Then, what prompted Sandeep to move from Kerala to Tamil Nadu? Sandeep, in a chat with The Hindu , said, “All my training and technical stuff have been in Chennai under M. Senthilnathan sir at the MRF Pace Foundation.” The paceman elaborated. “I got married last year, my wife is doing PG in SRMC College at Porur and I wanted to be with her.” Familiar place He added, “Then, Chennai is a familiar place for me. I have played for various clubs in the TNCA league including MRF, IOB, Take Solutions, Chemplast and India Cements. Now I have got employment with India Cements.” Sandeep stressed, “I wanted to play for a team like Tamil Nadu with so many internationals, lift my game and do well.” Someone with a semi-side on action, Sandeep bowls in the high 130s and possesses a lovely, natural outswinger. “Two seasons back, I learnt to bowl the inswinger and it made me a more potent bowler since I could move the sphere both ways.” He can bowl long spells, combine in partnerships to build pressure and reverse the old ball. Tamil Nadu’s Assistant coach R. Prasanna said, “We had been looking for a tall bowler like him with good pace and can move the ball around. He has a deceptive bouncer.” Sandeep’s stint with Tamil Nadu appears promising.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sandeep-a-welcome-addition-for-tn/article33146460.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Humpy to skip Gibraltar leg of Grand Prix series||World rapid chess champion Koneru Humpy has decided to skip the FIDE Women’s Grand Prix Series’ fourth and final legs to be held in Gibraltar from January 17 to 29 next year. “In view of the prevailing pandemic, I thought it not worth taking the risk to travel. “Hence I will not be playing in what is actually a very important event,” World No. 3 Humpy told The Hindu on Friday from her home in Vijayawada. The equation “The equation is pretty simple. Having played two legs — winning one and finishing joint-winner in the other — to win the Grand Prix series I needed to finish in the top three of the Gibraltar leg. “And, to make it to the Candidates, for which this series is a qualifying event, I have to finish in the top two in the final standings,” explains the Humpy (Elo 2586). “Right now, Russian Aleksandra Goryachkina is ahead of me, having played three. “I am aware that this is a very significant event, but these kinds of things (pandemic) are not in our control,” Humpy said. “Honestly, except staying in touch with the game at home on the computer, there is not much serious training as not many events are scheduled right now,” she said. Humpy is continuing to work on her opening and middle-games as she believes no one can be a complete player at any given point of time. On her ‘own’ “I am not thinking too far ahead right now, like winning a World championship, given that the pandemic has thrown the entire schedule of sporting events and normal life out of gear,” Humpy said. The one big change in Humpy’s preparations now is that she is on her own with her father-cum-coach Koneru Ashok being more of an ‘advisor’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/humpy-to-skip-gibraltar-leg-of-grand-prix-series/article33146456.ece
21 November 2020||LONDON,||Spurs face tough test against City||Tottenham’s title credentials face a thorough examination when it hosts Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City as the Premier League returns on Saturday after the international break. Spurs are just a point behind early pace-setter Leicester, but only three points separate the top six, with Chelsea and Aston Villa also having the chance to claim top spot for a few hours at least when they face Newcastle and Brighton respectively. Packed winter schedule With the international fixtures of the year done, a gruelling winter schedule of club football awaits for England’s top-flight with nine rounds of league matches before January 2. Defending champion Liverpool is already bearing the brunt of the hectic schedule as Jurgen Klopp’s squad has been ravaged by injury, along with Mohamed Salah testing positive, ahead of Leicester’s trip to Anfield. Jose Mourinho’s Spurs are are unbeaten in seven league games, with the form of Harry Kane and Son Heung-min raising hope they could win the league for the first time in 60 years. Guardiola could have both Gabriel Jesus and Sergio Aguero to choose from for the first time this season, while Ferran Torres is full of confidence after a hat-trick against Germany in Spain’s big win. Manchester United, which has not won at home for six matches, takes on West Brom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spurs-face-tough-test-against-city/article33146439.ece
21 November 2020||LONDON,||Djokovic sets up Thiem clash||London’s farewell edition of the ATP Finals could still have its dream climax after World No.1 Novak Djokovic easily beat Alexander Zverev 6-3, 7-6(4) to seal a last-four spot on Friday. Djokovic will finish second in the Tokyo Group, and with Spanish World No. 2 Rafael Nadal finishing second in the London Group, they have avoided a semifinal clash. Nadal had kept alive his hopes of winning the year-ending event for the first time as he beat Greek defending champion Stefanos Tsitsipas 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 on Thursday. Djokovic was quickly into game-mode and when World No. 7 Zverev double-faulted to drop serve in his first service game, he seized control. Zverev dug in his heels and Djokovic looked frustrated at times and twice had to hold serve to stay in the second set. Raising his game The 17-time Grad Slam champion raised the intensity level in the tiebreak, edging 5-3 ahead with a fizzing backhand pass. He brought up two match points with a hefty first serve before pressurising Zverev into an error to complete victory. Meanwhile on Thursday, Nadal always appeared the likely winner despite a lapse which allowed Tsitsipas to extend the contest into a decider. After a flurry of service breaks at the start of the third set, the 34-year-old Nadal pulled away to reach the semifinals for the first time in five years.  Semifinal line-up: Novak Djokovic v Dominic Thiem and Rafael Nadal v Daniil Medvedev   The results:   Group Japan 1970: 1-Novak Djokovic (Srb) bt 5-Alexander Zverev (Ger) 6-3, 7-6(4).   Group London 2020: 2-Rafael Nadal (Esp) bt 6-Stefanos Tsitsipas (Gre) 6-4, 4-6, 6-2.   Doubles: Group Bob Bryan: 1-Mate Pavic (Cro) & Bruno Soares (Bra) bt 6-John Peers (Aus) & Michael Venus (NZ) 6-7(2), 6-3, [10-8].   Group Mike Bryan: 2-Rajeev Ram (USA) & Joe Salisbury (GBr) bt 3-Kevin Krawietz (Ger) & Andreas Mies (Ger) 7-6(5), 6-7 (4), [10-4] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-makes-it-to-last-four/article33146410.ece
21 November 2020||MADRID,||Atletico primed to end drought at Barcelona||Atletico Madrid’s LaLiga challenge will not succeed or fail on Saturday but end a decade-long drought by beating Barcelona and it could justifiably become a favourite for the title. A first league victory over Barca since 2010 would put Atletico nine points clear of its opponents and extend an impressive unbeaten run in the league to 24 matches. A convincing start, spearheaded by a flourishing Joao Felix and the invigorated Luis Suarez, has generated optimism but a real sense of opportunity has sprouted from the imperfections of its rivals. It is a great pity that Suarez, infected by coronavirus, will not face Barcelona, the club that so clumsily cast him aside in the summer. Lionel Messi would be the thorn in Diego Simeone’s side but the 33-year-old has not been his scintillating self in recent weeks, still weighed down perhaps by his blocked attempt to leave last summer.  Barca will also be missing Ansu Fati and Sergio Busquets, both of them injured. Real in trouble Defending champion Real Madrid’s defensive problems will not be helped by injuries to Sergio Ramos and Raphael Varane against second-placed Villarreal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atletico-primed-to-end-drought-at-barcelona/article33146658.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gujrathi thrilled to be part of Skilling Open||With the inclusion of Hikaru Nakamura and teenage sensation Alireza Firouzja on Friday, the line-up for the 16-man Skilling Open online chess tournament is ready. To be played from November 22 to 30, the inaugural event of the $1.5 million Champions Chess Tour has attracted the cream of world chess. Vidit Gujrathi, who will provide the Indian interest, said “I am excited to be playing with the best in the business. I am happy to represent the Indian chess community at the International level.”  The line-up: 1. Magnus Carlsen (Nor), 2. Ding Liren (Chn), 3. Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus), 4. Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra), 5. Levon Aronian (Arm).   6. Wesley So (USA), 7. Teimour Radjabov (Aze), 8. Anish Giri (Ned), 9. Sergey Karjakin (Rus), 10. Alireza Firouzja (FIDE).   11. Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol), 12. Hikaru Nakamura (USA), 13. Vidit Gujrathi (Ind).   14. Peter Svidler (Rus), 15. Liem Quang Li (Vie), and 16. David Anton (Esp).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gujrathi-thrilled-to-be-part-of-skilling-open/article33146437.ece
21 November 2020||CHENNAI:,||My Opinion claims Chief Minister’s Trophy||My Opinion (Brisson up) won the Chief Minister’s Trophy, the feature event of the races held here on Friday (Nov. 20). The winner is owned by M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust and trained by Saddam Iqbal. Trainer Sebastian saddled four winners, while jockey Yash Narredu scored a treble on the day.  GOLDILOCKS PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): SHALEM (Yash) 1, Senora Bianca (M. Bhaskar) 2, Royal Dreams (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Lady Zean (Kiran Naidu) 4. 1-1/4, nk and 9-1/2. 1m,17.98s. Owner: Mr. Vazhaparmbil J. Joseph. Trainer: Sebastian.  GOLDILOCKS PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): ANGEL HEART (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Naomi (C. Umesh) 2, Carnoustie (Brisson) 3 and Supreme Excelsior (Nakhat Singh) 4. 6-1/2, 5-1/2 and 4-1/2. 1m, 17.41s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah and M/s. United Racing & Blood Stock Breeders Ltd. Trainer R. Ramanathan.  ADMIRALTY PLATE (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: BRANKA (Yash) 1, Daring Dancer (Azfar Syeed) 2, Parrys Glory (P. Surya) 3 and Fort St. George (Shahar Babu) 4. Hd, 3-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 18.75s. Owner: Mr. Vazhaparambil J. Joseph. Trainer: Sebastian.  P.T. RAJAN MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), rated 60 to 85: EMISSARY (Akshay Kumar) 1, Storm Flag (Yash) 2, Cher Amie (Zervan) 3 and Star Twist (C. Umesh) 4. Nk, 6-1/2 and 1-3/4. 1m, 16.19s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Saddam Iqbal.  CHIEF MINISTER’S TROPHY (1,200m), rated 80 & above: MY OPINION (Brisson) 1, Apalis (Zervan) 2, Tudor Treasure (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Bernardini (C. Umesh) 4. 1, 3-1/4 and 1. 1m,15.08s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Saddam Iqbal.  MAN OF THE MATCH PLATE (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65: QUEEN OF VENICE (A.M. Alam) 1, Knight In Armour (Yash) 2, Star Ranking (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Chaitanya (S. Shareef) 4. Nk, 1 and 8-1/4. 1m, 30.69s. Owners: Mr. V. Sathish Kumar & Mrs. Jiby Joji. Trainer: Sebastian.  PETRONELLA PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: BEETHOVAN (Yash) 1, Penang (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Royal Commander (Rajendra Singh) 3 and Cape Cod (Antony Raj) 4. Not run: Shield Maiden. 5-1/2, snk and 3-3/4. 1m, 30.77s. Owner: Mr. Vazhaparambil J. Joseph. Trainer: Sebastain.  BOLD RUNNER PLATE (1,400m), 4-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25: MOONLIGHT NIGHT (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Kasi Masi (S. Shareef) 2, Beforethedawn (Yash) 3 and Gardiner (C. Umesh) 4. 3/4, 1-1/4 and nose. 1m, 32.76s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/my-opinion-claims-chief-ministers-trophy/article33146450.ece
21 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘I have plans on what I need to work on’||Divij Sharan was one of the players to venture out early, post the lockdown. By competing in tournaments in the United Kingdom and later in a Challenger in Prague in August, he was well prepared to salvage whatever was left in the tennis season. However, the best preparations did not bring matching results as Divij struggled to win matches on the Tour. Odd wins Reaching the final of the Challenger in Prostejov with Sriram Balaji was his best fare in four months, even though he did manage to win the odd ones in the ATP Tour. Back home in the Capital after spending the lockdown with his wife Samantha in Manchester, the 34-year-old Divij put things in perspective, in his inimitable calm manner. “It has been a tough time for me post the lockdown. It is great to be competing, but I have not had much success in my tournaments,” admitted Divij, who won the Asian Games gold with Rohan Bopanna, and was conferred the Arjuna award this year. “I was super excited to hear about the Arjuna award for me. I was away in the US when the award was given,” said Divij. Managing on his own It wasn’t easy for Divij, managing everything on his own on the Tour for four months, without a coach or trainer, and competing with eight partners in 10 tournaments. “I lost all my matches against seeded teams in all the ATP Tour events and Grand Slams. I didn’t much luck with the draws also,” said Divij. “I really enjoyed playing with Bala. We had some good practice sessions that week. I felt very comfortable with him on court,” said Divij, about making the final of the big Challenger with Sriram Balaji. For the moment, Divij plans to rest and get ready for the season ahead. “I will take a short break, and start training again. I have plans and ideas on what I need to work on and am motivated to start stronger in January. I am also excited about the Olympic year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-have-plans-on-what-i-need-to-work-on/article33146453.ece
21 November 2020||LONDON,||Children should be banned from heading the ball: Wayne Rooney||England’s record goalscorer Wayne Rooney says children should be banned from heading the ball, following the example of the United States, to reduce the chances of getting dementia later in life. Former Barcelona and England star Gary Lineker and 1966 World Cup winner Geoff Hurst are among leading names who have called for new regulations to prevent children heading balls. Dementia threat A study carried out in Scotland concluded professional footballers are around three and a half times more likely to die of dementia than the general population. Rooney told the Daily Telegraph he witnessed the US rules first hand with his son Kai when he played for MLS franchise D.C. United. “When we lived in the States, my eldest boy was in a football team and heading was banned in training and in games,” said Rooney. “If the ball was coming to their head, they moved away from it and let it run through, so maybe that’s something that could happen on a more regular basis over here. “Clearly, something needs to change to make sure this doesn’t happen to the next generation of players when young men are dying of this disease.” Chelsea manager Frank Lampard has also says minimising heading could become part of training sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/children-should-be-banned-from-heading-the-ball-wayne-rooney/article33146661.ece
21 November 2020||Colombo,||Zoysa denies wrongdoing||Former Sri Lanka cricketer Nuwan Zoysa, on Friday, denied any wrongdoing after being found guilty of corruption by an independent tribunal of the ICC. Already serving suspension on match-fixing charges, Zoysa was charged under the ICC anti-corruption code in November 2018 and was found guilty on all charges on Thursday after the former Sri Lanka bowling coach exercised his right to a hearing before an independent anti-corruption tribunal. To remain suspended Zoysa will remain suspended and sanctions will follow in due course. “It was shock for me when I was made aware that ICC had gone onto release a press statement saying that I have been found guilty of the charges that I have never committed,” the 42-year-old told reporters. Making his claim on technicalities of the process, Zoysa said that the ICC, which concluded its hearing on September 18, should have announced its decision within 30 days but when it didn’t happen, he instructed his counsel to write to ICC. Zoysa said that the ICC investigators had spoken to him in English which he failed to understand and claimed that he was not allowed to answer in his native Sinhala language. Zoysa was provisionally suspended in May 2019 on charges of indulging in corruption during a T20 league in the UAE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zoysa-denies-wrongdoing/article33146674.ece
21 November 2020||BENGALURU:,||Multifaceted for Bangalore Turf Club Trophy||Multifaceted, who failed as a favourite in his last run, may make amends in the Bangalore Turf Club Trophy (1,200m), the feature event of the races to be held here on Saturday (Nov 21). False rails (width about 7.5m from 1,600m to the winning post) will in position.  MANIPAL PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms), 2-00 p.m.: 1. First Impression (1) B. Harish 57, 2. Jokshan (2) Neeraj 57, 3. Morganite (5) Ashhad Asbar 57, 4. Ocean Dunes (3) Antony 57, 5. Phoenix Surprise (9) R. Marshall 57, 6. Altamonte (4) Jagadeesh 55.5, 7. Bloom Buddy (7) Anjar Alam 55.5, 8. Carmine (8) Trevor 55.5, 9. Celestial Cloud (10) Zervan 55.5, 10. Exaltation (12) Suraj 55.5, 11. Top News (6) Rayan 55.5 and 12. Zee Zee Top (11) R. Pradeep 55.5.  1. JOKSHAN, 2. CARMINE, 3. EXALTATION   NOVEMBER PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 2-30: 1. Mariachi (5) S. Shareef 60, 2. Dream Chaser (8) R. Manish 57.5, 3. Amalfi Sunrise (11) P.P. Dhebe 57, 4. Jan Zizka (7) Srinath 57, 5. Marvellous Maggi (12) Rayan 57, 6. Star Hopper (1) Zervan 57, 7. Diamantissimo (3) Tauseef 56, 8. Special Stone (2) Afsar Khan 55, 9. Sadaqat (9) Ashhad Asbar 54.5, 10. Aerospeed (6) S. Imran 54, 11. Country’s Jewel (10) P. Surya 54 and 12. Fortuneer (4) N.B. Kuldeep 54.  1. AMALFI SUNRISE, 2. JAN ZIZKA, 3. STAR HOPPER   WORLD TELEVISION DAY PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms), 3-00: 1. Arabian Phoenix (1) Trevor 57, 2. Cinco De Mayo (9) Chetan K 57, 3. Decorum (10) R. Pradeep 57, 4. Dynamical (7) Darshan 57, 5. Garamond (—) (—) 57, 6. Rainbow Rising (4) Sai Vamshi 57, 7. Realia (8) M. Naveen 57, 8. Secret Source (2) Suraj 57, 9. Shivalic Gold (5) R. Shelar 57, 10. Thunder Point (6) Irvan 57, 11. Canotina (3) Antony 55.5 and 12. In A Breeze (11) Vaibhav 55.5.  1. SECRET SOURCE, 2. ARABIAN PHOENIX, 3. CANOTINA   CHIKKABALLAPUR PLATE (1,200m), rated 45 to 65, 3-30: 1. Abira (1) S. John 60, 2. Corona Del Corsa (10) M. Naveen 59, 3. Regal Music (3) Kiran Rai 58.5, 4. Fire Glow (2) Arshad 57, 5. Cuban Pete (12) Zervan 56, 6. Harbour Sunrise (8) Akshay K 55, 7. Land Of Liberty (5) B. Harish 55, 8. The Strength (6) Afsar Khan 55, 9. Golden Oaks (4) Trevor 53.5, 10. Salvador Dali (11) Rayan 53.5, 11. Silver Dew (8) Darshan 53 and 12. Benediction (7) Jagadeesh 51.  1. ABIRA, 2. GOLDEN OAKS, 3. HARBOUR SUNRISE   HOYSALA SALVER (1,600m), rated 60 & above, 4-00: 1. Tenno Sho (1) A. Imran 60, 2. Southern Ruler (4) Sandesh 59.5, 3. Roma Victor (7) Akshay K 58.5, 4. Velocidad (6) J.H. Arul 58, 5. Well Connected (5) Trevor 58, 6. Mystic Flame (2) Irvan 54, 7. Commodus (3) Jagadeesh 53.5 and 8. Electra (8) P.P. Dhebe 52.5.  1. TENNO SHO, 2. WELL CONNECTED, 3. ROMA VICTOR   BANGALORE TURF CLUB TROPHY (1,200m), 3-y-o & over, (Terms), 4-30: 1. Knotty Ash (6) Antony 60, 2. Multifaceted (5) Suraj 60, 3. Areca Legend (2) Akshay K 58, 4. Augustus Caesar (4) Neeraj 57, 5. Dream Catcher (3) P.P. Dhebe 57, 6. Psychic Warrior (7) Kiran Rai 57 and 7. Saint Petersburg (1) Trevor 57.  1. MULTIFACETED, 2. SAINT PETERSBURG, 3. KNOTTY ASH   LAL BAGH PLATE (1,600m), rated 30 to 50, 4-y-o & over, 5-00: 1. Whizzo (4) Srinath 60, 2. Show Girl (8) Vaibhav 58.5, 3. Mighty Red (1) Sandesh 57, 4. Astral Force (3) Antony 55.5, 5. Agnar (12) J.H. Arul 54.5, 6. Kalyan (11) Jagadeesh 54, 7. Rivers Of Babylon (2) Afsar Khan 54, 8. Sea Of Cortez (5) P.P. Dhebe 54, 9. Dreams United (6) N.B. Kuldeep 53.5, 10. Star Sapphire (7) S. Mubarak 53.5, 11. High Priestess (9) Trevor 52.5 and 12. Chantelle (10) Zervan 51.  1. HIGH PRIESTESS, 2. SEA OF CORTEZ, 3. MIGHTY RED   NOVEMBER PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 5-30: 1. Black Whizz (10) Arvind K 60, 2. Striking Memory (7) Darshan 60, 3. Eco Friendly (2) M. Naveen 56.5, 4. Sun Splash (8) S. Shareef 56.5, 5. Bellator (4) Trevor 56, 6. Revan Star (3) R. Pradeep 56, 7. Kimetto (6) Akshay K 55.5, 8. Little Joe (12) Antony 55.5, 9. Sizzler (11) Ashok Kumar 55.5, 10. Girl With Pearl (5) R. Manish 55, 11. Lady Nectar (9) N.B. Kuldeep 54 and 12. Happy Dancing (1) B. Harish 52.5.  1. BELLATOR, 2. KIMETTO, 3. SUN SPLASH  Day’s best: MULTIFACETED  Double: ABIRA — BELLATOR  Jky: 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8; Tr (i): 3, 4 and 5; (ii): 6, 7 and 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/multifaceted-for-bangalore-turf-club-trophy/article33146435.ece
21 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Mohammed Siraj’s father passes away||Mohammed Ghaus, father of India pacer Mohammed Siraj, passed away here on Friday. He was 53 and was suffering from a lung ailment. Siraj, who is now in Australia with the Indian team, lost his elder brother when he was just seven and now has only his mother, Shabana, as next of kin. With quarantine rules in place, Siraj will not be able to attend the funeral. Siraj, who was training with the team in Sydney, was given the sad news on return from practice. Lasting wish “My dad always used to say ‘ mere beta, desh ka naam roshan karna’ (my son, make the country proud). And, I will, for sure!” said an emotional Siraj. “The last time I spoke to him was before I left for Australia,” he said. “I am aware of the hardships my dad faced, driving an autorickshaw so that I could pursue my passion,” said the lad who rose from the by-lanes of Toli Chowki to don the National colours. Biggest support “I have lost the biggest support of my life. It was his dream to see me play for the country and I am glad I could realise that and bring him joy,” a distraught Siraj said. “Coach (Ravi) Shastri Sir and captain Virat Kohli were informed about the news. “They told me to be brave and are lending all support,” Siraj added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohammed-sirajs-father-passes-away/article33146457.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘If Australia can bowl us out, so can we’||Harbhajan Singh feels that the Indian team has the potential to retain the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. In 2018-19, when India toured Down Under, it created history by clinching the Test series for the first time. The competition will be intense this time around, according to the off-spinner. “The last time the team went to Australia, they played some outstanding cricket and made us all proud by winning the Test series. “I hope that they play similar cricket and hope that Virat Kohli — who enjoys batting in Australia — and (Cheteshwar) Pujara score lots of runs,” Harbhajan said on the Tissot Presents Sportstar Extras T20 Time show. “Last time he (Pujara) was brilliant with the bat. I just hope that apart from these two, even the others step up so that the pressure is off their shoulders,” said Harbhajan. Harbhajan is also impressed with the way the fast bowling department has evolved over the years. Revelation “Our fast bowling has been a revelation of sorts. We never had the luxury of having four fast bowlers who could bowl at 140kmph/150kmph all the time. That was (one of the) reasons we won last time. “If Australia can bowl us out, so can we — that was the belief. This series will be intense, and hope they win,” Harbhajan said. A member of the Chennai Super Kings, Harbhajan missed this year’s Indian Premier League due to personal reasons. “I think I took the right decision by staying with the family in the times of COVID since I am the only support,” he said. The full interview can be watched on www.youtube.com/watch?v=vnc--GnaJ50||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/if-australia-can-bowl-us-out-so-can-we/article33147117.ece
21 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Gokulam signs Ghana’s Awal||Gokulam Kerala has signed Ghanaian defender Mohammed Awal for the new season. The 32-year-old is the third foreign signing for Gokulam this year. Awal has represented Ghana in the Africa Cup of Nations and World Cup qualifiers and has played for clubs in Nigeria, South Africa, Saudi Arabia and Morocco besides Ghana. “I have heard a lot about football in India and am happy that I will be able to play there,” said Awal. “We want to win the I-League this season. I know that Gokulam have started training. I am waiting to join them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-signs-ghanas-awal/article33146659.ece
21 November 2020||New Delhi,||Gavaskar foundation’s gesture to M.P. Singh||Sunil Gavaskar’s ‘The CHAMPS Foundation’, which has been helping a lot of sports personalities under financial distress for more than two decades, has come to the aid of ailing hockey Olympian Mohinder Pal Singh. M.P. Singh has been suffering from kidney ailment and the 58-year-old is on dialysis, waiting for a donor for transplant. “I had been reading in the media about the hard times that our earlier Olympians and (international) medallists were facing in their later years,” Gavaskar said. “The information about Shri M.P. Singh’s health also came out, thanks to the print media,” Gavaskar said. “Since there are many Foundations for Education, Health, Child and Senior citizens, but none for former international sportspersons, I thought of setting up a Foundation with a personal contribution,” Gavaskar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gavaskar-foundations-gesture-to-mp-singh/article33146440.ece
21 November 2020||HYDERABAD:,||HCA’s AGM postponed||The Annual General Meeting of the Hyderabad Cricket Association, scheduled to be held on November 29, has been postponed, according to R. Vijayanand, HCA secretary. The HCA official informed The Hindu that the decision was taken in the wake of the announcement of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections on December 1 and ‘fresh schedule would be intimated later’. It may be mentioned that HCA had written to the authorities to grant permission for conducting the meeting as per the COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hcas-agm-postponed/article33147175.ece
21 November 2020||Sharm El Sheikh (Egypt),||Siddhant in doubles final||Siddhant Banthia and Aidan Mchugh of Britain beat fourth seeds Kelsey Stevenson of Canada and Sidharth Rawat 6-3, 6-4 in the doubles semifinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here on Friday. Siddhant and Mchugh, who had earlier beaten the top seeds Vladyslav Orlov and Arjun Kadhe, will play the final against Aldin Setkic of Bosnia & Herzegovina and Yaraslav Shyla of Belarus.  The results: $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Doubles (semifinals): Aidan Mchugh (GBR) & Siddhant Banthia bt Kelsey Stevenson (Can) & Sidharth Rawat 6-3, 6-4. Quarterfinals: Aidan Mchugh (GBR) & Siddhant Banthia bt Vladyslav Orlov (Ukr) & Arjun Kadhe 6-2, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Doubles (semifinals): Elina Avnaesyan (Rus) & Iryna Shymanovich (Blr) bt Laris aBekmetova (Uzb) & Saumya Vig 6-2, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siddhant-in-doubles-final/article33146451.ece
21 November 2020||Mumbai,||‘IPL 2020: TV viewership rises 23%’||Star India, the official broadcasters of Indian Premier League, claimed that there has been a 23% rise in TV viewership with a staggering 31.57 million average impressions during the marquee T20 event. The data has been sourced from Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) India and the coverage in five regional languages — Hindi, Bengali, Telugu, Tamil and Kannada — has only helped the rise in viewership. According to the channel, the recently-concluded edition saw an impressive viewership growth of 24% among women and 20% among children respectively. Fantastic work  “This wouldn’t have been possible without the fantastic work done by the team at BCCI in staging the tournament under extenuating circumstances and seamless functioning from our teams inside the bio-secure bubbles in India and UAE.”  Season 13 witnessed innovative programming, world-class production — both remote and on-ground Sanjog Gupta Head - Sports, Star India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-2020-23-rise-in-tv-viewership/article33146406.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Freedom from poverty||In the concluding verse of Deivamani Malai, Vallalar refers to Lord Muruga of Kanda Kottam as a ‘vallal — a generous one. In his introduction to Ozhivil Odukkam, Vallalar defines who a generous person is, said M.A. Manickavelu, in a discourse. One whose grace is unending, who is impartial, who never tires of giving, who has no desires, who never loses his temper, who is full of love for others, who gives to those who come to him for help even before they ask him for succour — such a person alone qualifies to be called generous. God is forgiving of our faults, and offers His protection to those who seek His feet. Sundaramurthy Nayanar, singing of the God of Thiruvottriyur, says he himself does not know what his shortcomings are. He says he will not think of any God but Lord Siva, for the Lord is sure to get rid of his bondage to samsara and will liberate him. There is a verse about Thirumurugatrupadai, where the poet says he will worship none but Lord Muruga of Thiruchendur, who destroys sorrows of the devas. In Deivamanimalai, in the last verse, Vallalar says he has undertaken a vrata. His vrata is to seek the feet of Lord Muruga and to seek no one else. Vallalar likens the vrata to a mango, but he says it has been snatched away by a dog. And this dog is poverty. He is unable to drive the dog away with a stick. Poverty makes it difficult for a person to have uplifting thoughts, because the person is preoccupied with making a living. When a man suffers due to poverty, how can his mind focus on anything but making ends meet? Thiruvalluvar refers to poverty as a sinner. Thirugnanasambandar, while worshipping the Lord of Thiruvamathur, prays that His devotees should never suffer for want of food, thus indicating the importance of freedom from poverty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/freedom-from-poverty/article33146399.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 08:44 IST,||Sudoku - November 21, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-21-2020/article33147438.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||At home||Twenty-three years ago, when Anjaleka Kriplani decided to enter the interior design space, after graduating from New York’s Fashion Institute of Technology with a degree in Interior Architecture, there were hardly any women setting up businesses. Entrepreneurship was not the idea it has grown into now, despite the fact that her family had been exporting home accessories to the likes of Bloomingdale’s, Pottery Barn and Harrods, for two generations. “It’s difficult to sit at home and do lunches and teas after you’re exposed to working,” she says, of her year-long internship at Ralph Lauren, New York. Back in India, she set up her interior design business, and went on to have clients like Lalit Suri, Kokila Ambani, and the Jindals. Alongside, she also launched stores by the brand name Renaisaance Homez, across five cities, importing home décor items. “I’ve seen the evolution of the space and the industry,” she says, talking of how people in 1997 were willing to buy imported sofas for Rs. 5 lakh and a metre of cloth for Rs. 10,000. It’s not the same today, and that’s not just because of the pandemic. “Then duties were as high as 150% and people were willing to pay that. Today, people are price shopping, despite duties falling to between 22% and 25%. They know what is available all over the world, and are looking for the best deal,” she says, adding that the same industrial family is sometimes willing to spend only half of what they did a decade ago. The pandemic brought its own woes: “The home segment was one where people felt the need to see, feel, and touch, but now, people are happy to shop online,” she says. Recognising the shift in the market, she has started a slew of services, to be accessible in the affordable luxury segment. In May this year, with on-ground retail declining overall, online purchases picking up, and only one store in Delhi remaining, she launched her online store ( Angiehomes.co ) as a one-stop destination for home furniture and accessories, with an international and a made-in-India segment (under Angie’s India). “India has old, ethnic motifs, but a dohar or blanket can show them in a contemporary way that’s not ultra modern, while keeping our culture alive,” she says, adding that there are about 1,800 products under Rs. 50,000 on the website, and over 1,500 under Rs. 25,000, sourced from across India. The most popular are tableware, followed by carpets (both wool and silk), with the aesthetic leaning towards the semi-formal and the functional rather than the purely ornamental. In terms of art, “There has been a transitional shift,” she says, with both ends of the spectrum (photographs and lithographs at the lower end and the masters and traditional art like Tanjores at the high end) becoming popular. “There’s a slump in the mid-segment.” Besides traditional interior design, she has also introduced styling services so that customers can experiment with buying furniture and home accents under the guidance of a professional, or even use their existing ones to refashion even a single room. There’s also a tie-up with Axis Bank, to help people fund their dream home interiors through an EMI. In a still nascent sector, Anjaleka has also introduced a bridal and kids’ registry, for those who want to book objects and have people who’d like to gift, pay towards them online. “We want everyone to feel welcome,” she says.  The most popular products are tableware, followed by carpets (both wool and silk), with a leaning towards the semi-formal and the functional rather than the purely ornamental.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/at-home/article33146809.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The cherry on top||It all started with a bowl of soup. The weather was a bit nippy, and we wanted to have something that was light but hot. We’d have soup for dinner, we decided, and I started surfing the Net to see where I could order from. To my great joy I found that Fa Yian was delivering to my part of town. I have old and fond memories of Fa Yian. Among all that I miss in these pandemic times are a Mumbai friend’s Delhi visits. He used to follow a pattern that we had to stick to, no questions asked. We would go for a meal to one of his favourite restaurants, and order the dishes he loved. ‘Have something else if you wish to,’ he’d say, but he looked so sad when he said this that we never went beyond the script. One of his haunts for a long spell was Fa Yian, in Connaught Place (A Block 25/5, Middle Circle; Ph: 9899358888 011-41516788). The good thing about the pandemic is that Fa Yian’s food is coming home, so we can order what we wish to, without having to contend with the friend’s sorrowful look. We’d originally thought of just ordering mixed hot and sour soup (Rs. 235), but then we decided we could do with some mixed Chinese chop suey (Rs. 415), too. And since a healthy meal calls for greens, I asked for a plate of stir-fried vegetables (Rs. 395). I had an excellent Chinese meal after a long time. The restaurant didn’t scrimp at all on ingredients. The soup, for instance, had juicy pieces of chicken and prawns, and little veggie chunks in it. It was hot and deliciously sour, and cleared up my sinuses. The stir-fried vegetable consisted of broccoli, baby corn, water chestnuts, bamboo shoots, pok choy, mushroom, Chinese cabbage, and other greens, all lightly sautéed and sauced. They were neither mushy, nor hard. I moved on to the Chinese chop suey. This has been a favourite of mine ever since I had my first taste of it at a Manali restaurant in 1980. I love the different textures in a chop suey — the crunchiness of the noodles and the juiciness of the vegetable and meat mix that you put on top. But I am afraid not every restaurant gets this right. Sometimes the sauce is too gelatinous; occasionally the noodles are too hard. Fa Yian’s mixed chop suey was just right. The noodles were freshly fried and crisp, and the accompanying dish had loads of crunchy veggies, juicy nuggets of chicken and surprisingly large prawns, nicely sweet and tender. They had sent some sauces, but the dish was good enough without added condiments. What I really liked were the strips of omelette the dish had to be garnished with. The prices are reasonable. I paid a total of Rs. 1,227 for the three dishes (including Swiggy’s delivery charges). The menu includes various kinds of soups, vegetable, lamb, chicken and fish dishes. I was also happy to see that one of our Mumbai friend’s favourite dishes — honey chicken (crispy chicken strips tossed with honey and garnished with a cherry) — is still going strong. Perhaps, the next time I order from Fa Yian, I shall toast the friend (a much awarded journalist, by the way) with some honey chicken. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-cherry-on-top/article33146812.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The wind speaks||Nature yearned for a warm embrace, but humanity had other plans. We filled land with plastic, polluted water and air, and we pretended not to see it. Now, it is about time we took responsibility, say the makers of a music video ‘It’s Me, Nature’. Written by poet and lyricist Kaithapram Damodaran Namboodiri and set to music by Deepankuran Kaithapram, the video is a tribute to “mother earth”. Featuring the five elements of Nature, the song urges people to stop and take note of the changes around them. Directed by Jomit Johny and Chaitanya Menon, the video features six artistes, including actor Aparna Balamurali, who portrays Nature. “The idea is to make people think about the way they treat the environment,” says Jomit. Shot in Cherai and Tripunithura in Ernakulam, and at Thrissur, the video was ready in a month. “We in Kerala had never borne the brunt of a natural disaster until the 2018 floods. Through this video, we want to remind people that it is not too late to act,” he adds. Jomit and Chaithanya are both ad filmmakers, who have been in the industry for over 10 years. While Aparna talks about how humans have been insensitive to Nature, Anjali Krishnadas portrays fire, Ardra Mohan plays sky, Revathy Rajkumar represents wind, Anjali Shigil acts as mother earth, and Kalyani Jen S. portrays the earth as a child.  The video is available on YouTube||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-wind-speaks/article33146614.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||GucciFest: Can the Italian luxury house’s week-long festival of film and fashion change the Fashion Show? The seven-part series, titledOuverture of Something that Never Ended,has been co-directed by Gus Van Sant and Alessandro Michele. Also, short films by designers, including Priya Ahluwalia and Shanel Campbell, and appearances by singers Harry Styles and Billie Eilish. @gucci on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/instapick/article33146777.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Thanksgiving and Black Friday: While the US may be rethinking Thanksgiving (November 26), the weekend after signals the start of Christmas shopping and hope for retailers. E-commerce giants in India are getting on board as well. Shop the deals on electronics, apparel and more on Amazon’s Global Store. Check out deals for Black Friday at Grabon.in and for Cyber Monday at Lenovo.com .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/talking-point/article33146785.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Is AI getting more human?||So you want your Artificial Intelligence to be more human? Say no more, we’ve made it more surly, snarky, shifty... Meet your new bots.  Search engine: Seriously, am I the only one who has to remember where everything is? You spend half your life searching for something — go get checked for early onset memory loss. Here, 5,77,239 results. Great, you’ve misspelt the key word ‘mammary search’? Now, we’ll have to do it all again! Phew!  Photo app: You really think that pouty duck-face is going to make your cheekbones stick out? Like 33 different selfie angles with filters will help! Ha! Excuse me! Do not call me rude. Just having a bad hair day. Not you. Me! Like everything is about you.  Food delivery app: Gorgeous profile pic, but your face looks sooo thin! Your cheeks are all sucked in. Must be those stupid diets. Come on now, order extra cheese, fries and fudge brownies. Yay, that’s better!  Shopping website: Not judging, but you really think you’ll get into that M size? After all that you ordered on the food app last night. Yes, of course, we talk about you behind your back. What were you thinking ordering fudge? But lucky for you, we go up to XXXL sizes — just saying. Aren’t you feeling better already?  Messaging service: Pssst, haven’t you been messaging this number a little too often lately? Anything we should know about? Or that your spouse should know about? Not that we will mention it of course, we have the strictest security protocols for gossip, erm, information…  Internet banking: Sorry, but refreshing your page every 10 minutes won’t magically change your bank balance. Remember that online buying frenzy? And how will you pay for a medical emergency? With skinny jeans? Wait, let us send some insurance guys your way. Don’t worry,, sweet chaps.  Insurance ad: OMG, you haven’t insured against X,Y or Z? You are totally going to die! *Only of X,Y or Z! And then what will your poor dependents do? Don’t you love them? Don’t cry,, we’ve already mailed you the relevant forms. We’re sweet chaps that way.  Fitness app: I know you cheated last night. Extra fries! How do you think that makes me feel? Come back later when you’re done flirting with those other apps and are serious about me.  Job portal: Not our fault we couldn’t find you a job. We’ve been working hard at it day and night, but we’re only human. We will not only get you a job, but plan for your retirement too. We’ll send our partners, the insurance guys, over. Sweet chaps!  Digital advertising: We see you’re buried in something important, so here are a few pop-ups just to annoy you. The most alarming diseases you may not know you have!!! With gross pictures! Go on, click. Now, here are five glamorous filmstars caught in private moments. Gotcha! If you liked that, you will like… Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/is-ai-getting-more-human/article33147041.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Busan from my blue sofa||It has been a funny old year, though you may have gathered that by now. By now, I should have been at the Film Bazaar and IFFI, Goa, after concluding the Mumbai, Busan and Kolkata film festivals. Ideally, I would be looking ahead to the Singapore and Macau festivals, with the delicious possibility of the International Film Festival of Kerala lurking. However, an invisible virus put paid to those and any other travel plans. Being at home — on my blue sofa — during Busan had a curious fringe benefit. In the Korean city, between all the back-to-back journalistic endeavours and the frantic film parties, actually watching movies is usually a bonus. This year, from home, I managed to watch a lot more. The Indian films at the fest will be well covered in these pages eventually, and so too world cinema. The most affecting film that I watched was perhaps Bing Zhou’s humane Hong Kong Moments , which documents the huge protests against draconian new rules from Beijing. The film follows people from different walks of life — a young cop, a protester, a pro-democracy politician, a taxi driver, a paramedic and a teahouse owner — and uses them to paint a portrait of the situation. The most electric film of the festival, and 2020’s answer to Fatih Akin’s Head-On (2004), is Ismael El Iraki’s Zanka Contact , a giddy, Casablanca-set tale that details the tempestuous relationship between a has-been rocker and a street-smart diva that pops with colour, energy and pizazz. The energy is also high in Philippe Lacote’s The Night of the Kings, where a young man arrives in prison in the middle of an Ivory Coast jungle and madness ensues. The film is Ivory Coast’s entry to the Oscars. After the class conflicts so masterfully explored in Bong Joon Ho’s Parasite , two films carry the theme forward in different ways. Javier Fuentes-León’s Peru/Columbia production, The Best Families, opens in the middle of a massive celebration that is rocked to its core when an old secret is revealed. The film is a delicious new entry into the ‘upstairs/downstairs’ genre that Parasite re-popularised. Also concerned with class is Pietro Castellitto’s beautifully-constructed The Predators that follows two different family groups, one ultra-affluent, and the other not so. The screenplay continually wrong foots you to the point where you don’t know who to root for any more, then realise that rooting for one or the other is so 2019, and sit back and enjoy being emotionally toyed with. The film played earlier at Venice, where it won best screenplay. As I write this, I’m pleased to see that several vaccines have been tested and are on the verge of being mass-produced. Hopefully bursting with one of these I will set off on my physical festival journeys to the far corners of the Earth soon. Until then, I will navigate the world of cinema from my trusty blue sofa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/busan-from-my-blue-sofa/article33147039.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||These kids are alright||A couple of years ago, when Anamika Khanna was unwell and separated from her twin sons, Viraj and Vishesh, who were then studying at the University of Southern California, they developed a code. Drawing from NASA’s “A-OK”, the boys made it their own love language by adding their mother’s initials, resulting in AK-OK. This touching narrative also lends its name to a new pret/RTW brand from the Kolkata-based designer’s eponymous label. The first collection in 2019 included a line of lehengas designed by Anamika. However, keeping in mind the changing needs of customers in a post-pandemic world, they have now shifted focus to athleisure and an e-commerce only approach. The website was launched early this month, with a drop that included wraps, quilted skirts and sweatshirts. Actor Malaika Arora had sported one of their silk, floral-printed pyajama sets to a party recently. Although Anamika dabbled in athleisure back in 2016, Viraj says that the AK-OK aesthetic is completely different from the main label, as their mother leaves the design process to them. “I studied business, while my brother opted for economics and psychology. Our design education came from years of observing and growing up in a fashion-friendly environment,” he laughs. Though they were involved in the finance and management side of their mother’s business, this was the first time the 25-year-olds took to the drawing board. Viraj was largely involved in designing this collection, and the prints featured are collages he made during the lockdown. The site’s minimalist white background highlights these prints, and details of each outfit and pricing are displayed prominently. The brand also includes chunky necklaces and embroidered earrings. Viraj is working on a line of sculptures and painting which will be available soon. Meanwhile, Vishesh is involved in a menswear collection that is set to drop next year. “It has been quite challenging to launch a label, especially in terms of sourcing fabrics and production. We’re working at half capacity,” says Viraj. Like many design houses that had to reinvent to bring in business, AK-OK was their way of pivoting and opening the brand to a larger market. Meanwhile, speaking for the Anamika Khanna label, Viraj says they are launching a new store in Kala Ghoda, Mumbai, this week. While this was in the works before the pandemic, changes have been made to keep up with market trends. “Customers are focussing on bridal wear and accessories. So, we have moved from Indo-western silhouettes to traditional outfits. We have also been cutting costs and are not overspending on non-essentials,” he concludes.  From Rs. 8,000 on shop.akok.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/these-kids-are-alright/article33147040.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Queer eye for the lit club||When the first queer lit fest was held last December in New Delhi’s Gulmohar Park Club, there was much excitement. The two-day event drew people from across the country, age groups and identities. This year, like most other events, the team behind Rainbow Literature Festival goes online, with over 50 leading authors and poets, as well as scholars, filmmakers and business leaders. Titled Digital & One , the event takes place on December 5 and 6. The buzz has been building over the last few months — back in May, they released a short film called Breaking Notions , followed by a poetry competition in June. Festival director Sharif D Rangnekar says, “Being as young and small as we are, the digital world isn’t easy to navigate, particularly given the intersections we engage with.” The human rights activist credits partners Oxford Bookstore, British Council and others for their help in organising this edition. Similar events, like the ongoing Tata Literature Live, have opted for half-hour-long chats, while earlier in the year, Jaipur Lit Fest’s Brave New World had videos released on social media platforms. Digital & One has an interesting schedule, with Matinee, Evening and Night sessions. “I think we are all dealing with digital fatigue. Since the morning grind often ends by 10.30 am, we decided to kick things off at 11.30 am,” explains Rangnekar. The lineup this year includes author and poet Akhil Katyal, filmmaker Onir, chef Ritu Dalmia, with author and drag artist Kareem Khubhchandani (USA) and scriptwriter Amani Saeed (London). Economist Bibek Debroy and Parliamentarian Shashi Tharoor will deliver keynote addresses. There’s music by queer indie artistes as well as a puppet show, poetry recitals and stand-up comedy by Navin Naronha. Cinephiles can look forward to films like The Men Who Speak Gayle by Nathan Kennedy and Nowhere by Christopher Manning. “Last year, I choked up while introducing the people who organised India’s first pride march. This time, I think it will be the session with three queer couples — we need examples that reassure us that those who don’t have a partner or love, need not give up,” concludes Rangnekar.  Streamed on Zoom and Facebook. Details: rainbowliterature   festival.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/queer-eye-for-the-lit-club/article33147042.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||How I survived 2020||A few days ago, The New York Times shattered the rosy lens through which we’d seen designer Manish Arora. The first Indian designer to make it big in Paris, they said, “has been felled by business deals gone bad, unpaid wages lawsuits and vendor disputes that started at least three years ago, long before the coronavirus dealt the final blow”. It just capped off a year that has seen more than its share of bad news, both for the legacies and the indies. The fashion industry can be unforgiving. The closer you are to the epicentre — and in India that is Mumbai and Delhi, with its carousel of glitz, glamour, parties and keeping up appearances — the harder it is for you to change with the times. But it is a course correction that is long overdue. “Indian fashion has to get used to, and allow, professionals to manage business for them. Most live in a bubble and live their self-propogated PR life without realising it is a cooked image and not reality,” says Ramesh Menon, fashion consultant and founder of Save the Loom, a non-profit working towards reviving and restructuring our handloom industry. “The brass tacks: get the entire system organised and not be a ‘one point approval’ and management agent for your brand. Expand as per requirement and have reserves to run organisations in case of bad sales, a collection not doing well, or to face adversities.” The pandemic, however, has been a learning curve for many, especially indie designers. With smaller teams, open minds and a willingness to adapt, they are riding out the storm by recalibrating their businesses. New collabs are helping increase sales, a sense of community — where many are extending a helping hand (or e-store) to other designers — is strengthening the fraternity, and exploring new verticals like interior design is gaining them new clients. We speak with a few who’ve stayed strong, on how they changed theircourse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/how-i-survived-2020/article33147058.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘What can I do to die better? Live urgently’||Downy jasmine, in cement pots, were on either end of stone steps leading to my cottage; white flowers bloomed as quickly as they withered. Even with me in the cottage, it felt empty. This was in the early days of the lockdown, when we believed normal life was around the corner. After my 34th day in isolation — it was April then, hot, hard summer — I sat by jasmine fallen on red laterite stone steps. Because I had lived, the most vital question before me was: how must I die? The flowers, meanwhile, bud and bloom, wilt and shed, as if it were all the same thing. I live alone, in a north Goa village; I am a professional isolationist. But at lockdown, time paused, and I with it. On the days I felt like I wanted to kill myself, I thought of errands I had to run next week, the letters I had to write, weeds that needed pulling out. Like a trapeze artist, one foot came after the other. An observation of one’s despair thins it. To prevent a train from falling off the tracks, the inside of its wheel has a larger circumference than the outside. In his novel Sputnik Sweetheart , [Japanese writer] Haruki Murakami wonders, ‘Was the Earth put here just to nourish human loneliness?” Perhaps an epilogue to his question, as I discovered, was: stick around with your loneliness long enough and it begins to keep you company.   P roximity and patience   The black-throated munia made a nest in the Cycas, a plant so ancient it dates to Cretaceous times. A Russell viper on the veranda, unflappable from venomous power. The quivering tegmina of a grasshopper signalled the end of a monsoon. How silly to have forgotten the spiritual nutrition of wild things. What I might have simply found in leaves and stones, in a stream, I had looked for in museums. [Russian-French artist Marc] Chagall believed that art began where nature ended (but nature never ends). The best thing in the lockdown were my dogs, Kora and Lila. The dignity of companionship without the burden of conversation. Every single pet is an emotional support pet. Here’s the funny thing about being so bored that you think you will lose your mind: there’s a hole in the centre of your boredom and if you enter it fully, and cross over without fear, it rewards you with sentience for everything around you. [Dutch artist] Vermeer made a painting of a kitchen maid at her task, and unlike the smug nobility of Mona Lisa, her investment in her daily job paid tribute to the idea that bearing witness was high art. And that the everyday, made specially for your attentiveness of its existence, is original and holy. When I am alone, I am often visited by a loneliness that makes me pull out my hair. When I am with someone, I sometimes want to pull their hair out. The jury is out there on the virtue of annihilation by solitude versus annihilation by company. ‘My marriage is over,’ a friend said to me over the phone. ‘What do you mean?’ I asked. She said: ‘It means that I finally saw him.’ He had been cheating on her. ‘I saw him.’ Proximity involved all kinds of nakedness. The pandemic, sparing me personal betrayal, had been a gift beyond measure. Small mercies add up.  The other side of failure  With patience, that most ridiculously essential of traits, all questions are answered; patience is the under skin of prayer. In the monsoon, the paint on my bedroom walls began to slake. Beneath it, moss formed. I’d look out the window, trying not to think of the marine sound the wind made. When we wait — and wait without reward or the assurance of an answer — things solve themselves. I’d snap back into the moment — the whirring of the fan above me or a squirrel on a lintel might be triggers. Nothing had changed except that the big wins of my life now registered only as insights into my failures. In a worst-case scenario, I might be dead today; in the best, I’d be dead later. Even with a blanket of white flowers at my feet, I had been thinking about death. I don’t mean this in either a wallowing or morbid way — as the end — but as an invitation to prepare myself: to become death’s disciple. What can I do to die better? Live urgently, of course, and mindfully, but also in a way that lays vigil to the conclusion. The miracle of being alive is lost in the exhaustion of staying alive. Now I know that I want to enter my death as if it were a garden of beautiful trees, or a bench I had sat on before the sea, or a train I had boarded to a destination of no known address except that it was home, some place where I might be finally myself. I am writing this on Diwali, I am alone and unspeakably happy, with one family secret to share with you: everything is just right.  Shanghvi’s new book, Loss , launching on November 24, is a collection of essays on death, grief and unexpected pathways to recovery.   For counselling, call Sneha (044 24640050) or Aasra (9820466726).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/what-can-i-do-to-die-better-live-urgently/article33147037.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||GucciFest: Can the Italian luxury house’s week-long festival of film and fashion change the Fashion Show? The seven-part series, titledOuverture of Something that Never Ended,has been co-directed by Gus Van Sant and Alessandro Michele. Also, short films by designers, including Priya Ahluwalia and Shanel Campbell, and appearances by singers Harry Styles and Billie Eilish. @gucci on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article33147043.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Dose of funny||Known for his Telugu standup, comic Saikiran Rayaprolu takes his English show,Rolling New Jokes, virtual this weekend. On November 21 at 9.30 pm. At Rs. 249 on in.bookmyshow.com. If you’re up for some Tamil comedy, there is an hour-long special featuringComicstaan Tamilcontestants Mayandi Karunanithi and Yogesh Jaganathan. The former will talk about college life and house hunting experiences, while the latter will highlight humour in everyday experiences. Today at 7.45 pm. Tickets at Rs. 99 on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dose-of-funny/article33147044.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Drive-in concert||You might not be heading to Sunburn Goa this year — instead, drive in for a tailgate concert featuring DJ Sartek and teen house music producer duo Zephyrtone. At Four Points by Sheraton on November 29 at 3 pm. Rs. 3,000 per car (for four) on in.bookmyshow.com. Or watchsitarartiste Purbayan Chatterjee's original take on iconic Mexican-American guitarist Santana. Along with his band, he will blend Indianragaswith hits like ‘Black Magic Woman’ and ‘Game Of Love’. Today at 9 pm. Rs. 299 on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/drive-in-concert/article33147046.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The Micro Beauty Awards||Former fashion and beauty journalists Aishwarya Subramanyam and Vasudha Rai are curating a cheeky reply to the industry’s commercialised beauty awards. Micro influencers including Vandana Verma, Komal Basith and Arjun Sudhir will handpick skincare products they bought, and were not gifted. Look for an IGTV video that details recommendations and one product each hated. The bloggers will also vote for 10 best Indian skincare products. Tomorrow @otherwarya and @vasudha.rai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-micro-beauty-awards/article33147047.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Thanksgiving and Black Friday: While the US may be rethinking Thanksgiving (November 26), the weekend after signals the start of Christmas shopping and hope for retailers. E-commerce giants in India are getting on board as well. Shop the deals on electronics, apparel and more on Amazon’s Global Store. In Chennai, Phoenix MarketCity and Palladium have offers for Cyber Monday too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article33147048.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Finalists on stage||Finalists of the Good The@ter Festival 2020 are all set to perform virtually this weekend and the next. The lineup featuresA Little Bit Closer(USA /India),Emperor’s New Clothes(Finland) and more. Details: theredcurtaininternational.org. Chandan Roy Sanyal, Aarti Aney, Abhishek Saha, among others, come together for the live streaming of their play,In Between. Filmed in one single shot, it is ‘a slice-of-life, fly-on-the-wall peek into an actor’s mind and day’. On November 29 at 7.30 pm. Tickets at Rs. 199 on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/finalists-on-stage/article33147049.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Museums come home||Tour India’s museums virtually this month with The Art X Company’s second edition of Ghar Se Museum. Experience Art Walks Mumbai, DAG Museums, Piramal Museum of Art, Ashvita’s and others. Also in store are virtual walkthroughs, talks and workshops on art appreciation and archaeology. On November 27 and 28. Tickets on insider.in This weekend, AstaGuru’s annual ‘Vintage & Classic Car Auction’, presented by Favre-Leuba will be on preview at Mumbai’s High Street Phoenix. @astaguru on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/museums-come-home/article33147050.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Don’t stop feasting||Try sushi, artisanal cheeses, cold cuts and themed cocktails at Hyatt Regency’s Sunday brunch, from 12.30 pm to 3.30 pm at Focaccia. Rs. 2,200 (non-alcoholic) and Rs. 3,000 (alcoholic).9910444571. The Void is a new multi-level restobar with a co-working space attached. At 1st Avenue, Brindavan Nagar, Anna Nagar.9087918814. Order imported chocolates and candy ahead for Advent festivities on CocoCart.in. Pick from Valrohna, Godiva, Neuhaus, Lindt and Loacker, as well as Hershey’s and M&M’s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dont-stop-feasting/article33147052.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Piece of Paris||The French landmark can now take pride of place in your home. A segment of the original spiral staircase from the Eiffel Tower goes under the hammer next week. Paris auction house Artcurial is putting up a 2.6 m piece as part of their Parisian Art Deco and Design Sale. It is one of 24 existing segments. While the lot estimate is €30,000 to €40,000 (Rs. 26.5 lakh to Rs. 35.3 lakh), earlier auctions have sold at close to Rs. 2 crore. The closed-door auction takes place on December 1. Details: artcurial.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/piece-of-paris/article33147053.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Why #SaveMollem needs our amplified attention and support||Of late, Facebook groups have been flooded with posts and images of people who have or are planning to move to Goa. Some for a few months, others permanently. While a majority are looking at the vibrant beach destination as a relaxed ‘work-from-home’ option, others, primarily Delhiities, are heading to Goa to escape from rising air pollution levels. A recent post that caught my eye had a man seeking advice on whether heading to Goa for a few months with his newborn was a good idea. Many commented saying that it was a ‘no brainer’, while others spoke of how they have been doing this regularly for the past few years to escape the capital’s killer smog. I have several issues with this concept, especially during a pandemic. Unfortunately, not only does this trend highlight our government’s incompetence to tackle the snowballing air pollution crisis in North India, but it shows how a certain privileged elite class is gradually killing Goa under the garb of tourism and escape travel. Meanwhile, Goa has other problems. In April, it was declared Covid-free. However, the situation spiralled quickly once the State opened its borders and the tourists swarmed in. Ever since, Goans have taken to social media to convey their annoyance with the mindless tourists spiking up the Covid count. Reports have also highlighted the sudden real estate boom that has brought in several luxury homebuyers into the State. Clearly, the fear of the pandemic is not uppermost for these travellers and investors. And I am positive that not many of them are aware of, or even care, why Goans are up in arms against the government for over a week now. Among the over 30 environmentally dubious projects cleared virtually by the Environment Ministry this lockdown, are a slew of infrastructural projects for Goa. These are slated to pass through the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and the Mollem National Park. Thousands of agitated local people have been protesting — at railway lines in South Goa — to get the government to stall these projects: the expansion of national highway 4-A, the construction of a transmission line, and doubling the existing railway line. Protestors gathered for a candle vigil at the South Western railway line, near the road crossing at Chandor earlier this month. Oishorjyo, an independent writer based in Goa, wrote a piece for Mongabay India in August this year, highlighting how the State has seen a systematic destruction of its environment over the years. Most recently, the Supreme Court cleared the Mopa airport project, which sanctioned the felling of 55,000 trees. In the case of Mollem, Oishorjyo writes that despite the fact that the project “bifurcates the entire landscape” of a UNESCO-tagged “global biodiversity hotspot”, for the purpose of clearances, the mega grid was broken down into “piecemeal, low-impact projects” instead of assessing the project as a “cumulative” whole. She also points out that the EIA report is riddled with irregularities. For example, “the expansion of National Highway NH4A from 84 km to 153 km, for which 20,199 trees are scheduled to be felled, was approved despite the fact that of the 33 ha of land inside the Mollem National Park that is to be diverted, only 11 ha was inspected by the forest department.” Avertino Miranda, the founder of Goa Green Brigade, notes that “these big projects have caused severe negative impact on the trees and Goa’s rich biodiversity only to facilitate the cause of big corporations — the road expansion, transmission lines being built through Mollem are mainly to facilitate the movement of coal by the Adani group.” Not only are we seeing biodiversity hotspots killed to create a coal infrastructure network, but we are seeing how leaders respond to protests. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant lashed out at any protestors living abroad and insisted that the projects were going to benefit residents. Reports in the Goan publication Herald have focussed on the power of local voices and also on the State’s losing battle with the Centre. One such report states that “there is a palpable sense of powerlessness not just among the civil society groups, environmentalists but even the State legislators, whose vociferous objections to these projects have been shrugged aside, belittled and seen as going against the State’s interest”. One such legislator, from the ruling BJP, has been specifically told to refrain from making statements against the projects, the report says. So how does one continue to fight the good fight? What happens if these projects are not scrapped? And what if similar projects are announced in Goa and other eco-sensitive areas? If legislations can be overlooked and environmental laws bent to suit corporate needs, what we need are not only for laws to be implemented firmly by the judiciary, but for the flawed definition of ‘development’ to change. And we need local voices to be heard louder. Regardless of which part of the country or globe we live in, it is important to support the #SaveMollem campaign. If it’s Goa today, the country’s smallest State, it could be your home State next. If you want to head to Goa on the next low-cost flight for a break, then speak up. Unless collective dissent is amplified, India’s environment will continue to be traded to private players. Here’s hoping that better sense prevails, and Goa continues to be the green haven it has always been.   A fortnightly column on environmental sustainability   and urban issues||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/why-savemollem-needs-our-amplified-attention-and-support/article33147064.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Bengaluru leads, Chennai No.2 in office absorption||The IT hub of India, Bengaluru, witnessed a net absorption of 2.7 mn sq. ft. of office space in the third quarter of 2020 (Q3), on par with Q1 2020 levels, according to JLL Research. The city saw new supply of 4.7 mn sq. ft. as compared to almost no additions in the previous quarter. Bengaluru is likely to witness an addition of 1 mn sq.ft. of office space in the next quarter of which 70% is pre-committed. SBD (Outer Ring Road, Banerghatta Road) accounted for a two-third share of the total net absorption at 1.8 mn sq.ft. during the quarter. Leasing continued to be driven by IT/ITeS, followed by manufacturing/industrial and e-commerce sectors. “Within the city, the SBD submarket saw the highest addition of 3.2 mn sq.ft., followed by the peripheral markets of Electronic City and Whitefield. Outer Ring Road continues to be the most sought-after location with an over 60% share. It is imperative to note that prominent new supply was completely pre-committed in the previous quarters, coupled with the expected delays in construction, this could mean a supply crunch in near future,” says Rahul Arora, Managing Director (Bengaluru), JLL India. While most technology firms still continue to work from home, leasing momentum continues to strengthen with a number of new Request For Proposals (RFPs) that were released in the market in October-2020, he added. The city vacancy increased to 6.5% in Q3 2020 from 5.3% in the previous quarter due to the combined impact of higher net supply infusion into the market and significant exits by select large occupiers. Overall rents saw a marginal rise of 1% during the quarter on the back of higher occupancies. Whitefield saw the highest jump of about 2.3% in rentals, followed by SBD and Whitefield at 1.2% each. At the same time, select developers are willing to discuss and offer extended rent-free periods, discounts on parking charges and common area maintenance charges on a case to case basis. However, there are no instances of discounts on headline rents or rental waivers. Positive outlook In an attempt to rationalise operational costs and achieve an impact on the overall bottom line, an increasing number of large occupiers are looking to restructure existing leases. This trend is expected to continue into 2021, however, the silver lining is that a number of MNCs (with smaller or no footprint in India ) carrying out a similar exercise have started exploring opportunities to expand their footprint in Bengaluru. The overall outlook for the city remains positive with continued investor interest and the recent land deal by Godrej Fund Management and active scouting of office assets by Blackstone and Brookfield corroborate this view. Office absorption up The country’s office market witnessed a net absorption of 5.4 million sq.ft. in Q3 2020, an increase of 64% versus Q2 2020. This is an encouraging trend especially after net absorption dipped almost at a similar rate in the second quarter. The third quarter office rebound growth was led by Bengaluru and Hyderabad, which together accounted for nearly 80% of the net absorption in Q3 2020. The heightened activity in Bengaluru indicates a gradual resurgence in take up of spaces coupled with the translation of pent up demand from Q2 this year. While the share of IT/ITeS occupiers in gross leasing (as seen in the table) dipped to 43% in Q3 2020 from 61% in Q2 2020, e-commerce and manufacturing sectors gained significant shares during the third quarter forming 16% (negligible in Q2 2020) and 17% (5% in Q2 2020) respectively, owing to surging demand of e-commerce during COVID19. New completions New completions during Q3 2020 increased by 59% quarter-on-quarter with 9.2 mn sq ft of new stock coming to market. “With lockdown restrictions being relaxed in the third quarter in most of the markets under review, office projects in the final stages of construction or pending receipt of occupancy certificates came on-board. This resulted in an increase in the supply of office space, even surpassing 8.6 mn sq ft witnessed in Q1 2020,” says Samantak Das, Chief Economist and Head of Research & REIS, India, JLL. In sync with net absorption, Bengaluru and Hyderabad led the increase in new completions accounting for 87% of the total new completions in Q3 2020. Notably, new completions in both these markets even went past the average new completion levels witnessed in the four quarters of 2019. Vacancies and rentals Increased office space consolidation and optimisation strategies of corporate occupiers resulted in subdued net absorption levels, which could not keep pace with new completions. This resulted in overall vacancy increasing from 13.1% in Q2 2020 to 13.5% in Q3 2020. Despite the rise in vacancy levels in southern markets, Bengaluru, Chennai and Pune continued to hover in single digits. This augurs well for a strong rebound in these markets when economic and business conditions improve in the coming quarters.  JLL Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/bengaluru-leads-chennai-no2-in-office-absorption/article33147060.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The data centre boom||Analysing under-construction projects and capital invested or committed, an Anarock-Mace report titled ‘Navigating the India Data Centre Lifecycle – Trends & Perspectives’ reveals that India will see at least 28 large hyperscale data centres constructed over the next three years. These will span over 16+ mn sq. ft. with at least 1,400+ MW of IT power capacity, equalling nearly 0.6 mn sq. ft. and 50 MW per facility on an average per hyperscale data centre. The Indian data centre industry has attracted close to $977 mn in PE and strategic investments since 2008, of which nearly 40% or approx. $396 mn were infused between Jan-Sept 2020 period alone. Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Group says, “While India has been seeing a massive digital thrust since 2014, the current government’s data localisation policy has paved the way for hyperscale data centres to handle the increasing data consumption. Hyperscale facilities have clear advantages over smaller co-location centres as they can cater to the huge domestic data warehousing demand creating operating efficiencies and thus, pass on cost benefits to their customers. Smaller co-location facilities will need to reassess their competitive position and may need to re-purpose to ensure survival.”. Indians’ data consumption increased from 0.3 GB/user/month in 2014 to 10 GB/user/month in 2018; per capita consumption to hit 25GB/month by 2025 — total data traffic in the country likely to touch 21 EB (exabytes) per month. The report finds that India currently has ~126 third-party data centres (co-location or hyperscale) spanning 7.5+ mn sft, and a cumulative IT Power Capacity of 590+ MW. While 53 players own /operate these 126 third-party data centres, the capacity is highly concentrated among the top 12 players who operate ~95% of the total IT Power capacity in the country. It also tracks investments into digital infrastructure for data storage in India from exchange and MCA filings of the top 12 data centre operators, and finds that the last decade saw this industry’s net fixed assets increase 25% p.a. - from $115 mn in 2010 to $1.1 bn in 2019. Upcoming supply is expected to be concentrated amongst Mumbai and Chennai, followed by NCR and Hyderabad also getting a fair share of interest. Mumbai and Chennai together will witness ~60% of total future capacity, with NCR and Hyderabad contributing another 33%. The report also looks at two exciting capital trends emerging. Firstly, data centres as alternative real estate assets providing income to large infrastructure investors, and secondly, the creation of large platforms between operators on one hand and investors / developers on the other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-data-centre-boom/article33147070.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Splitting sale proceeds||We live in an apartment complex in Tamil Nadu that was built three decades ago. The land area measures approximately 5,300 sq.ft. There are 11 apartment owners, each with an undivided share of land (UDS) measuring 1/15th of the land parcel and two owners, each with a UDS measuring 2/15th of the land parcel. We (the owners) have decided to sell the property as a land parcel as the building component does not hold any value. What is the proportion of the sale proceeds that ought to be shared amongst the owners? Presently, the UDS is calculated differently from the way it was calculated earlier. The present calculation has a bearing on the built up area of each apartment in relation to the total built up area and the total land parcel, while three decades ago this was not the case. Will our share of the sale proceeds on the land’s sale be divided according to the present way or will it go by the registered land document for UDS that each one of us have? Murali A Chennai The sale proceeds of the land have to be divided based on the pattern of ownership as mentioned in the title documents. In your case, the two owners will be entitled 2/15th share of the sale consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/splitting-sale-proceeds/article33147066.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Colours for the season||Come winter, and all you want to do is sip on hot chocolate, snuggle into your blanket, and settle down for some serious reading or a marathon TV session. Add to this the festive season, and you’re in for a treat. We’re sure you have had your dose of Diwali décor — the earthen lamps, fairy lights and colourful flower vases. Why not try something different for the rest of the season? We bring you a list of unusual wintry colour combinations that will create the perfect ambience to wind down. Amp up the cosy element and enjoy the season! Pumpkin and bottle green This peachy shade of orange can create a cheerful tone. Accessorise with matching curtains and let the sunlight filter through them for a warm feeling. When paired with bottle green, which heightens contrast, it elevates the room to another level. Orange and beige Try this unusual colour combination for winter. Creating the right balance of these two colours can add an inviting appeal to any space. Add accessories such as lamps, table and striped curtains to enhance the look. Chocolate and cream What’s not to love about this combination? Sure you’d love it more as an ice cream, but create a winter palette by offsetting dark brown with cream accents. A pop of orange or aqua will add cheer. Red and gold Red is always associated with energy and can help bring that feel into the foreground. It can be used as the main colour along with accents of gold to add opulence to a room. Red and green If Christmas is around the corner, can red and green be far behind? Experiment with hues — bright or soft red, moss or jade green? Green adds freshness and a sense of calm, perfectly offsetting the passion of red. Amethyst and emerald Amethyst purple and emerald green come together to create a room that’s sure to be the jewel in your home’s crown. The opulent colours create a strikingly rich room. Charcoal and pink The flirtiness of pink sets off the richness of charcoal grey, creating a room that you look forward to returning to. Dove and turquoise The dullness of a stolid grey gets a bolt of vitality with turquoise accents and accessories. Moss and Ivory  Mossy green and creamy ivory — what’s not to like about this gorgeous combination? Ideal for a formal dining room or a calming bedroom. Indigo and white There’s something about crisp white linen against dark Indigo. It brings to mind an Indian summer, perfect when you’re in the midst of winter. Jade and silver Just like in jewellery, jade and silver come together perfectly in home décor. Shots of silver add sparkle and shine to the gravitas of jade. Coral and chocolate A warm chocolate brown brightened up by the vibrant tones of coral creates a wonderfully inviting ambience. Camel and orange Camel is calm and toned down, orange is fiery and attention-seeking. Together, they can work magic in any space. Greige and crimson The light hues of this new neutral are perfectly balanced by the dark undertones of crimson red. Black and White This is a pairing that never goes out of style. This classic juxtaposition of the yin and the yang can be dressed up warmly for winter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/colours-for-the-season/article33147069.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||How monetising assets can help corporate India||Monetising real estate assets can help corporate India retire its long-term debt of $341 billion, according to JLL Research. However, banks have an overhang of non-performing loans for the last few years. RBI data on India’s economic financial position in FY 2018-19 reveals that the value of land stood at $52 billion and building stood at $89 billion. This total of $141 billion is 41% of the outstanding long-term debt of $341 billion. One of the probable reasons for this situation is lower profits generated from the assets invested in. An uncertain economic scenario has forced corporate finance heads to reimagine real estate assets as sources of funds to reduce debt. The aggregate financials of approximately 2.45 lakh non-government, non-financial companies indicate that debt accounts for less than 50% of their net worth. The current pandemic has further worsened asset utilisation and profitability. Though real estate assets are required for setting up business operations, they do not contribute directly to the products and services delivered. If these assets are monetised, it can help reduce substantial debt. Land values are recorded at historical prices in the balance sheet, while their market value could be substantially higher. Similarly, the sale value of the buildings would be higher than stated in the books of accounts. Funds generated through the sale of these assets could be high enough to cover the entire debt. The sale and lease-back of these assets will result in no impact on business operations. Speaking on the development, Samantak Das, Chief Economist and Head of Research & REIS India, JLL says, “With the fall in economic activity, COVID-19 has impacted asset utilisation and profitability tremendously. In the current unprecedented circumstances, sale and lease-back of assets is likely to provide long-term, steady rental yields for funds with patient long term capital. Monetisation of these assets could reduce substantial debt, and funds generated through the sale of these assets could be high enough to cover the entire debt.” In many cases, since land is allocated under various state industrial policies, the option of sale and leaseback is not considered. However, in today’s uncertain economic environment, corporate finance heads are likely to look at options using real estate as a source of liquidity. Investors may face challenges on account of ownership titles and valuation. Such deals could take longer time to close due to documentation and taxation issues. The current pandemic has challenged our take on value, consistency, certainty and quality, which apply for investment decisions too. Investors will gain new lessons and thrive with the latest opportunities in the Indian real estate.  JLL Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/how-monetising-assets-can-help-corporate-india/article33147075.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||New range of ovens||Häfele’s latest range of Combi-ovens (34 to 77 litres) with added modes of steam or microwave are ideal for both experts and beginners. A combi steam oven blends the convection oven cooking function with steam, whereas the combi microwave oven provides a perfect balance between the conventional oven (heating outside to inside) and microwave (heating inside to outside). All combi-ovens from the brand’s premium appliances range come with an intuitive touch panel for easy control, an auto menu and multiple cooking levels. Details: hafeleindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/new-range-of-ovens/article33147072.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||FIVE YEAR FOCUS||REALTY RATES  Segment 2020 2015  (INR per sq.ft.)   Luxury 11,250 11,000 apartments  Premium 9,000 8,500 apartments   Budget 8,000 7,000 apartments  Strategic Consulting, JLL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/five-year-focus/article33147073.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Is AI getting more human?||So you want your Artificial Intelligence to be more human? Say no more, we’ve made it more surly, snarky, shifty... Meet your new bots.  Search engine: Seriously, am I the only one who has to remember where everything is? You spend half your life searching for something — go get checked for early onset memory loss. Here, 5,77,239 results. Great, you’ve misspelt the key word ‘mammary search’? Now, we’ll have to do it all again! Phew!  Photo app: You really think that pouty duck-face is going to make your cheekbones stick out? Like 33 different selfie angles with filters will help! Ha! Excuse me! Do not call me rude. Just having a bad hair day. Not you. Me! Like everything is about you.  Food delivery app: Gorgeous profile pic, but your face looks sooo thin! Your cheeks are all sucked in. Must be those stupid diets. Come on now, order extra cheese, fries and fudge brownies. Yay, that’s better!  Shopping website: Not judging, but you really think you’ll get into that M size? After all that you ordered on the food app last night. Yes, of course, we talk about you behind your back. What were you thinking ordering fudge? But lucky for you, we go up to XXXL sizes — just saying. Aren’t you feeling better already?  Messaging service: Pssst, haven’t you been messaging this number a little too often lately? Anything we should know about? Or that your spouse should know about? Not that we will mention it of course, we have the strictest security protocols for gossip, erm, information…  Internet banking: Sorry, but refreshing your page every 10 minutes won’t magically change your bank balance. Remember that online buying frenzy? And how will you pay for a medical emergency? With skinny jeans? Wait, let us send some insurance guys your way. Don’t worry,, sweet chaps.  Insurance ad: OMG, you haven’t insured against X,Y or Z? You are totally going to die! *Only of X,Y or Z! And then what will your poor dependents do? Don’t you love them? Don’t cry,, we’ve already mailed you the relevant forms. We’re sweet chaps that way.  Fitness app: I know you cheated last night. Extra fries! How do you think that makes me feel? Come back later when you’re done flirting with those other apps and are serious about me.  Job portal: Not our fault we couldn’t find you a job. We’ve been working hard at it day and night, but we’re only human. We will not only get you a job, but plan for your retirement too. We’ll send our partners, the insurance guys, over. Sweet chaps!  Digital advertising: We see you’re buried in something important, so here are a few pop-ups just to annoy you. The most alarming diseases you may not know you have!!! With gross pictures! Go on, click. Now, here are five glamorous filmstars caught in private moments. Gotcha! If you liked that, you will like… Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/is-ai-getting-more-human/article33146771.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Busan from my blue sofa||It has been a funny old year, though you may have gathered that by now. By now, I should have been at the Film Bazaar and IFFI, Goa, after concluding the Mumbai, Busan and Kolkata film festivals. Ideally, I would be looking ahead to the Singapore and Macau festivals, with the delicious possibility of the International Film Festival of Kerala lurking. However, an invisible virus put paid to those and any other travel plans. Being at home — on my blue sofa — during Busan had a curious fringe benefit. In the Korean city, between all the back-to-back journalistic endeavours and the frantic film parties, actually watching movies is usually a bonus. This year, from home, I managed to watch a lot more. The Indian films at the fest will be well covered in these pages eventually, and so too world cinema. The most affecting film that I watched was perhaps Bing Zhou’s humane Hong Kong Moments , which documents the huge protests against draconian new rules from Beijing. The film follows people from different walks of life — a young cop, a protester, a pro-democracy politician, a taxi driver, a paramedic and a teahouse owner — and uses them to paint a portrait of the situation. The most electric film of the festival, and 2020’s answer to Fatih Akin’s Head-On (2004), is Ismael El Iraki’s Zanka Contact , a giddy, Casablanca-set tale that details the tempestuous relationship between a has-been rocker and a street-smart diva that pops with colour, energy and pizazz. The energy is also high in Philippe Lacote’s The Night of the Kings, where a young man arrives in prison in the middle of an Ivory Coast jungle and madness ensues. The film is Ivory Coast’s entry to the Oscars. After the class conflicts so masterfully explored in Bong Joon Ho’s Parasite , two films carry the theme forward in different ways. Javier Fuentes-León’s Peru/Columbia production, The Best Families, opens in the middle of a massive celebration that is rocked to its core when an old secret is revealed. The film is a delicious new entry into the ‘upstairs/downstairs’ genre that Parasite re-popularised. Also concerned with class is Pietro Castellitto’s beautifully-constructed The Predators that follows two different family groups, one ultra-affluent, and the other not so. The screenplay continually wrong foots you to the point where you don’t know who to root for any more, then realise that rooting for one or the other is so 2019, and sit back and enjoy being emotionally toyed with. The film played earlier at Venice, where it won best screenplay. As I write this, I’m pleased to see that several vaccines are on the verge of being mass-produced. Hopefully bursting with one of these I will set off on my physical festival journeys to the far corners of the Earth soon. Until then, I will navigate the world of cinema from my trusty blue sofa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/busan-from-my-blue-sofa/article33146612.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||These kids are alright||A couple of years ago, when Anamika Khanna was unwell and separated from her twin sons, Viraj and Vishesh, who were then studying at the University of Southern California, they developed a code. Drawing from NASA’s “A-OK”, the boys made it their own love language by adding their mother’s initials, resulting in AK-OK. This touching narrative also lends its name to a new pret/RTW brand from the Kolkata-based designer’s eponymous label. The first collection in 2019 included a line of lehengas designed by Anamika. However, keeping in mind the changing needs of customers in a post-pandemic world, they have now shifted focus to athleisure and an e-commerce only approach. The website was launched early this month, with a drop that included wraps, quilted skirts and sweatshirts. Actor Malaika Arora had sported one of their silk, floral-printed pyajama sets to a party recently. Although Anamika dabbled in athleisure back in 2016, Viraj says that the AK-OK aesthetic is completely different from the main label, as their mother leaves the design process to them. “I studied business, while my brother opted for economics and psychology. Our design education came from years of observing and growing up in a fashion-friendly environment,” he laughs. Though they were involved in the finance and management side of their mother’s business, this was the first time the 25-year-olds took to the drawing board. Viraj was largely involved in designing this collection, and the prints featured are collages he made during the lockdown. The site’s minimalist white background highlights these prints, and details of each outfit and pricing are displayed prominently. The brand also includes chunky necklaces and embroidered earrings. Viraj is working on a line of sculptures and painting which will be available soon. Meanwhile, Vishesh is involved in a menswear collection that is set to drop next year. “It has been quite challenging to launch a label, especially in terms of sourcing fabrics and production. We’re working at half capacity,” says Viraj. Like many design houses that had to reinvent to bring in business, AK-OK was their way of pivoting and opening the brand to a larger market. Meanwhile, speaking for the Anamika Khanna label, Viraj says they are launching a new store in Kala Ghoda, Mumbai, this week. While this was in the works before the pandemic, changes have been made to keep up with market trends. “Customers are focussing on bridal wear and accessories. So, we have moved from Indo-western silhouettes to traditional outfits. We have also been cutting costs and are not overspending on non-essentials,” he concludes.  From Rs. 8,000 on shop.akok.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/these-kids-are-alright/article33146769.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Queer eye for the lit club||When the first queer lit fest was held last December in New Delhi’s Gulmohar Park Club, there was much excitement. The two-day event drew people from across the country, age groups and identities. This year, like most other events, the team behind Rainbow Literature Festival goes online, with over 50 leading authors and poets, as well as scholars, filmmakers and business leaders. Titled Digital & One , the event takes place on December 5 and 6. The buzz has been building over the last few months — back in May, they released a short film called Breaking Notions , followed by a poetry competition in June. Festival director Sharif D Rangnekar says, “Being as young and small as we are, the digital world isn’t easy to navigate, particularly given the intersections we engage with.” The human rights activist credits partners Oxford Bookstore, British Council and others for their help in organising this edition. Similar events, like the ongoing Tata Literature Live, have opted for half-hour-long chats, while earlier in the year, Jaipur Lit Fest’s Brave New World had videos released on social media platforms. Digital & One has an interesting schedule, with Matinee, Evening and Night sessions. “I think we are all dealing with digital fatigue. Since the morning grind often ends by 10.30 am, we decided to kick things off at 11.30 am,” explains Rangnekar. The lineup this year includes author and poet Akhil Katyal, filmmaker Onir, chef Ritu Dalmia, with author and drag artist Kareem Khubhchandani (USA) and scriptwriter Amani Saeed (London). Economist Bibek Debroy and Parliamentarian Shashi Tharoor will deliver keynote addresses. There’s music by queer indie artistes as well as a puppet show, poetry recitals and stand-up comedy by Navin Naronha. Cinephiles can look forward to films like The Men Who Speak Gayle by Nathan Kennedy and Nowhere by Christopher Manning. “Last year, I choked up while introducing the people who organised India’s first pride march. This time, I think it will be the session with three queer couples — we need examples that reassure us that those who don’t have a partner or love, need not give up,” concludes Rangnekar.  Streamed on Zoom and Facebook. Details: rainbowliterature   festival.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/queer-eye-for-the-lit-club/article33146775.ece
21 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Withdrawal of Majithia’s security by Centre politically motivated: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday lashed out at the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre for allegedly withdrawing the Z-plus security cover of former Punjab Minister Bikram Singh Majithia. ‘SAD condemns the arbitrary, dictatorial and politically motivated decision of the Central government to withdraw the Z-plus security cover of the former Minister and senior Akali leader,” party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said. In a statement, Mr. Cheema, also a senior SAD leader, alleged that Mr. Majithia’s security cover had been withdrawn because the party had “stood firmly with farmers” against the Centre’s farm laws and the denial of the official language status to Punjabi in Jammu and Kashmir. He said the SAD had voted against the Centre’s farm laws in Parliament besides quitting the Union Cabinet and the National Democratic Alliance over the issue. “It is clear that Mr. Majithia is a victim of political vendetta. The SAD, however, will not be cowed down by such tactics and will continue to stand with farmers and Punjabis against the Central laws as well as any other issue which weakens the federal structure or is intrinsically anti-Punjab,” Mr. Cheema said. Mr. Majithia is the brother of former Union Minister and SAD’s Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, and brother-in-law of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal. Speaking about Mr. Majithia’s security issue, the SAD leader said “Z-plus category security cover had been given to him in 2010 during the UPA rule on the basis of threat perception .The case was cleared by the then Home Minister P Chidambaram who was known to be a hard taskmaster. We would like to know what has changed suddenly that the ten-year-old cover was withdrawn on a single-line order.”  ‘Under threat’ “Mr Majithia continues to be targeted by Pakistan-based anti-national elements and gangsters who have openly threatened to eliminate him. Even Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has recently talked about increased attempts by Pakistan’s ISI to revive terrorist activity in Punjab, particularly in the Majha belt of the State which shares a border with Pakistan,” he said. Mr.Majithia is from the Majha area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/withdrawal-of-majithias-security-by-centre-politically-motivated-sad/article33146627.ece
21 November 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Robbers looted 39.5 kg of gold, claims finance firm||A day after armed robbers looted the office of India Infoline Finance Limited in Cuttack, Odisha, the company on Friday informed the police that about 39.5 kg of gold, worth around Rs. 20 crore, was found missing. However, the Cuttack police said the claim could not be ascertained as the finance company had not handed over the ledger to them. The police found 5 kg of gold left in the company’s Nayasadak branch after assessing the loss of assets. “After primary investigation, it was found that the finance company was not serious in ensuring requisite security deployment. The only security guard, who was outsourced, was not on duty for past 15 days as he had gone to see his father suffering from COVID-19,” said Sudhansu Sarangi, Commissioner of Police for Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. “The CCTV cameras were not working and the control room at the Mumbai headquarters which was supposed to receive live feed did not point out the laxity on the part of the branch,” he said. “The IIFL has a lot to answer about the weak lock system kept for safeguarding the gold. The automatic alarm system did not go off,” the police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/robbers-looted-395-kg-of-gold-claims-finance-firm/article33146629.ece
21 November 2020||JAIPUR,||March for linguistic minorities gets support||A long march, led by a government school teacher from Rajasthan’s Churu district to Dandi in Gujarat, raising the issues of linguistic minority students, has received massive support on the way. Activists, students and local community leaders have demanded that the State government protect the right to get education in the mother tongue. The recent withdrawal of a controversial order which had provided for only one “third language” teacher in the government schools has failed to satisfy the protesters. Books in Urdu, Sindhi, Punjabi and Gujarati have not been supplied to over 20,000 government schools and the teachers have not been appointed in the current academic session. Shamsher Khan, a teacher in Churu district’s Sahjusar, has led the march since November 1. He is demanding a new staffing pattern in schools, regularisation of madrasa para-teachers, implementation of the three-language formula and creation of posts of minority language teachers in various institutions. Mr. Khan is the son of former Congress MLA from Churu, Bhalu Khan. Though the march is likely to enter Gujarat on Saturday, no government representatives have met the participants so far. Several sitting and former MLAs of the Congress have written to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot requesting for a sympathetic consideration of the demands. The people in the Shekhawati region have held demonstrations in support of the march and submitted memorandums to the administration. CPI(M) State secretary Amra Ram led a demonstration in Sikar on Wednesday. The protesters alleged that the State government was gradually finishing Urdu education in Classes 6 to 10 and forcing the minority children to opt for Sanskrit as the third language. Rajasthan Urdu Shikshak Sangh president Ameen Kayamkhani said here on Friday that the government had withdrawn the September 2 order in view of the upcoming panchayat elections. Minister of State for Education Govind Singh Dotasra has affirmed that education in mother tongue would be imparted to all students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/march-for-linguistic-minorities-gets-support/article33146633.ece
21 November 2020||Guwahati,||Children pen manifesto for political parties in Assam||More than 4,000 children from 17 districts of Assam on Friday put forward their issues and recommendations for political parties to include in their manifestos ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls. Advising the parties to invest in an Assam that will be better for children, they presented a 10-point children’s manifesto. The demands include protection from violence in all forms, access to nutritious food and to quality and affordable healthcare and education, sustainable development and an end to discrimination based on class, caste, gender, religion or any other ground. “Through this manifesto we present our recommendations to political parties who are preparing manifestos for the coming elections,” said 16-year-old Kuldeep Narayan Bora from Majuli. The manifesto was an initiative of a Delhi-based NGO in association with the UNICEF, which had launched the ‘Reimagine’ campaign for building a better post-pandemic world. The organisers said the manifesto would be presented to Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Assembly Speaker Hitendra Nath Goswami and other leaders of the ruling and opposition political parties in the State. As part of the process, 40 organisations from across Assam were sensitised through a series of online workshops between June and September to issues such as child rights, climate change and sustainable development goals. CM’s Twitter Vandana Urang, an 18-year-old girl from Namroop Tea Estate in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district, took over Mr. Sonowal’s official Twitter account for two hours from 9 a.m. on Friday. This was timed with World Children’s Day. Ms. Urang shared her opinion on #Reimagining education in post-pandemic Assam during the two hours of tweeting from the Chief Minister’s account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/children-pen-manifesto-for-political-parties-in-assam/article33146628.ece
21 November 2020||Bhubaneswar,||In Odisha, riders without helmet will lose their licence||The Odisha government has directed the transport and police authorities to suspend the driving licence of two-wheeler users found riding without helmet. In 2019, 8.5 lakh people were penalised for not wearing helmet. “As per section 194 D of the Motor Vehicles Act, whoever drives a motorcycle or causes or allows a motorcycle to be driven in contravention of the provision of section 129 or the rules of regulation made thereunder shall be punishable with a fine of Rs. 1,000 and he shall be disqualified for holding license for a period of three months,” Madhu Sudan Padhi, Commerce and Transport Secretary, wrote to the Director General of Police and the Transport Commissioner. Mr. Padhi shot off the letters after a Supreme Court committee insisted on stricter enforcement of the particular provision of the MV Act. He asked the authorities to take steps for suspending the driving licence of the offenders in case of detection of violation and closely monitor its implementation. The transport authorities in the State were asked to submit district-wise suspension of the licences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-odisha-riders-without-helmet-will-lose-their-licence/article33146631.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘What can I do to die better? Live urgently’||Downy jasmine, in cement pots, were on either end of stone steps leading to my cottage; white flowers bloomed as quickly as they withered. Even with me in the cottage, it felt empty. This was in the early days of the lockdown, when we believed normal life was around the corner. After my 34th day in isolation — it was April then, hot, hard summer — I sat by jasmine fallen on red laterite stone steps. Because I had lived, the most vital question before me was: how must I die? The flowers, meanwhile, bud and bloom, wilt and shed, as if it were all the same thing. I live alone, in a north Goa village; I am a professional isolationist. But at lockdown, time paused, and I with it. On the days I felt like I wanted to kill myself, I thought of errands I had to run next week, the letters I had to write, weeds that needed pulling out. Like a trapeze artiste, one foot came after the other. An observation of one’s despair thins it. To prevent a train from falling off the tracks, the inside of its wheel has a larger circumference than the one outside. In his novel Sputnik Sweetheart , [Japanese writer] Haruki Murakami wonders, ‘Was the Earth put here just to nourish human loneliness?” Perhaps an epilogue to his question, as I discovered, was: stick around with your loneliness long enough and it begins to keep you company.   P roximity and patience   The black-throated munia made a nest in the Cycas, a plant so ancient it dates to Cretaceous times. A Russell viper on the veranda, unflappable from venomous power. The quivering tegmina of a grasshopper signalled the end of a monsoon. How silly to have forgotten the spiritual nutrition of wild things. What I might have simply found in leaves and stones, in a stream, I had looked for in museums. [Russian-French artist Marc] Chagall believed that art began where nature ended (but nature never ends). The best thing in the lockdown were my dogs, Kora and Lila. The dignity of companionship without the burden of conversation. Every single pet is an emotional support pet. Here’s the funny thing about being so bored that you think you will lose your mind: there’s a hole in the centre of your boredom and if you enter it fully, and cross over without fear, it rewards you with sentience for everything around you. [Dutch artist] Vermeer made a painting of a kitchen maid at her task, and unlike the smug nobility of Mona Lisa, her investment in her daily job paid tribute to the idea that bearing witness was high art. And that the everyday, made specially for your attentiveness of its existence, is original and holy. When I am alone, I am often visited by a loneliness that makes me pull out my hair. When I am with someone, I sometimes want to pull their hair out. The jury is out there on the virtue of annihilation by solitude versus annihilation by company. ‘My marriage is over,’ a friend said to me over the phone. ‘What do you mean?’ I asked. She said: ‘It means that I finally saw him.’ He had been cheating on her. ‘I saw him.’ Proximity involved all kinds of nakedness. The pandemic, sparing me personal betrayal, had been a gift beyond measure. Small mercies add up.  The other side of failure  With patience, that most ridiculously essential of traits, all questions are answered; patience is the under skin of prayer. In the monsoon, the paint on my bedroom walls began to slake. Beneath it, moss formed. I’d look out the window, trying not to think of the marine sound the wind made. When we wait — and wait without reward or the assurance of an answer — things solve themselves. I’d snap back into the moment — the whirring of the fan above me or a squirrel on a lintel might be triggers. Nothing had changed except that the big wins of my life now registered only as insights into my failures. In a worst-case scenario, I might be dead today; in the best, I’d be dead later. Even with a blanket of white flowers at my feet, I had been thinking about death. I don’t mean this in either a wallowing or morbid way — as the end — but as an invitation to prepare myself: to become death’s disciple. What can I do to die better? Live urgently, of course, and mindfully, but also in a way that lays vigil to the conclusion. The miracle of being alive is lost in the exhaustion of staying alive. Now I know that I want to enter my death as if it were a garden of beautiful trees, or a bench I had sat on before the sea, or a train I had boarded to a destination of no known address except that it was home, some place where I might be finally myself. I am writing this on Diwali, I am alone and unspeakably happy, with one family secret to share with you: everything is just right.  Shanghvi’s new book, Loss , launching on November 24, is a collection of essays on death, grief and unexpected pathways to recovery.   For counselling, call Sneha (044 24640050) or Aasra (9820466726).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/what-can-i-do-to-die-better-live-urgently/article33146609.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Dose of funny||Known for his Telugu standup, comic Saikiran Rayaprolu takes his English show,Rolling New Jokes, virtual this weekend. On November 21 at 9.30 pm. At Rs. 249 on in.bookmyshow.com. If you’re up for some Tamil comedy, there is an hour-long special featuringComicstaan Tamilcontestants Mayandi Karunanithi and Yogesh Jaganathan. The former will talk about college life and house hunting experiences, while the latter will highlight humour in everyday experiences. Today at 7.45 pm. Tickets at Rs. 99 on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dose-of-funny/article33146779.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Quality at 80||Kwality restaurant in Connaught Place is now 80 years old,    having been opened in 1940 by PL Lamba. Even after its relaunch two years ago, its Villeroy & Boch and Narumi bone China, silver service, live piano music, and high tea stayed. Behind the heavy velvet curtain at the entrance is a strong colonial feel, with an equestrian and polo theme running through, especially around the bar. On the walls are photographs by Madan Mahatta that span a period of 40 years. At 7, Regal Building, Parliament Street; Noon to Midnight||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/quality-at-80/article33146781.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The Micro Beauty Awards||Former fashion and beauty journalists Aishwarya Subramanyam and Vasudha Rai are curating a cheeky reply to the industry’s commercialised beauty awards. Micro influencers including Vandana Verma, Komal Basith and Arjun Sudhir will handpick skincare products they bought, and were not gifted. Look for an IGTV video that details recommendations and one product each hated. The bloggers will also vote for 10 best Indian skincare products. Tomorrow @otherwarya and @vasudha.rai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-micro-beauty-awards/article33146783.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Finalists on stage||Finalists of the Good The@ter Festival 2020 are all set to perform virtually this weekend and the next. The lineup featuresA Little Bit Closer(USA /India),Emperor’s New Clothes(Finland) and more. Details: theredcurtaininternational.org. Chandan Roy Sanyal, Aarti Aney, Abhishek Saha, among others, come together for the live streaming of their play,In Between. Filmed in one single shot, it is ‘a slice-of-life, fly-on-the-wall peek into an actor’s mind and day’. On November 29 at 7.30 pm. Tickets at Rs. 199 on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/finalists-on-stage/article33146787.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Museums come home||Tour India’s museums virtually this month with The Art X Company’s second edition of Ghar Se Museum. Experience Art Walks Mumbai, DAG Museums, Piramal Museum of Art, Ashvita’s and others. Also in store are virtual walkthroughs, talks and workshops on art appreciation and archaeology. On November 27 and 28. Tickets on insider.in This weekend, AstaGuru’s annual ‘Vintage & Classic Car Auction’, presented by Favre-Leuba will be on preview at Mumbai’s High Street Phoenix. @astaguru on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/museums-come-home/article33146789.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Home special||The Dinner Box is a new pop-up gourmet delivery service in Delhi that has chefs from across the country curate menus in their individual styles. Up first for four weeks is chef Amninder Sandhu, who in keeping with the season has warm, hearty dishes, made in traditional cooking techniques. Sample Stuffed Chicken Tangri, with cashewnut, shahi jeera , and Kalimpong cheese; and Theccha Lotus Stem, with jwala green chilies, garlic and cilantro, for instance. Wednesday to Sunday; call 9560288633 or log onto Thedinnerbox.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/home-special/article33146791.ece
21 November 2020||November 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Piece of Paris||The French landmark can now take pride of place in your home. A segment of the original spiral staircase from the Eiffel Tower goes under the hammer next week. Paris auction house Artcurial is putting up a 2.6 m piece as part of their Parisian Art Deco and Design Sale. It is one of 24 existing segments. While the lot estimate is €30,000 to €40,000 (Rs. 26.5 lakh to Rs. 35.3 lakh), earlier auctions have sold at close to Rs. 2 crore. The closed-door auction takes place on December 1. Details: artcurial.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/piece-of-paris/article33146797.ece
